 Case Number:  BC691050    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     10 Date:           12/1/2023  Case No: BC 691050  Trial Date: Jan. 22, 2024 Case Name: Steger v. CSJ Providence St. Joseph Medical Center, et al. MOTIONS TO DISMISS (2)MOTION TO AUGMENT AND SUBSTITUTE EXPERTS   Moving Party:     Motions to DismissDefendant Olympus America Inc.  Defendants John A. Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D. Motion to Augment and Substitute Plaintiff Jason Steger       Responding Party:Motions to Dismiss Plaintiff Jason Steger Motion to Augment and Substitute      Defendant Olympus America, Inc.  “Joinder” filed by Defendants John A. Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D. RELIEF REQUESTED:Motions to DismissOrder dismissing action pursuant to CCP sections 583.310 and 583.360. Motion to Augment and Substitute Order permitting plaintiff to augment and substitute list of designated experts and extend date to complete expert deposition of Dr. Tawhid Gazi pending this application and de-designation of Dr. Tawhid Gazi  FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Jason Steger alleges that in October of 2016, plaintiff was admitted to defendant CSJ Providence St. Joseph Medical Center with abdominal pain, and that defendants, various medical providers, negligently performed a colonoscopy procedure on plaintiff which perforated his colon in multiple areas.  Plaintiff alleges that after the procedure, his pain worsened and he went into septic shock.  Plaintiff alleges that he ultimately underwent a total colectomy with ileostomy and other procedures, and his entire colon was removed.  On September 6, 2019, the court heard a motion for summary judgment brought by defendant Providence St. Joseph Medical Center, which was granted on the ground that in opposition to the motion, plaintiff had failed to submit expert medical testimony to raise a triable issue of material fact.  The court denied a motion for new trial on October 25, 2019, and on January 17, 2020, heard a motion for relief under CCP § 473 (b), which was denied. The file shows that on February 4, 2020 plaintiff filed a Notice of Appeal, giving notice plaintiff was appealing the court’s orders of September 6, 2019, October 25, 2019, and January 17, 2020.On July 6, 2020, plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, substituting defendant Olympus America, Inc. as the true name of the defendant designated in the complaint as Doe 1.    The operative complaint alleges that  defendant Olympus America sells, markets and services medical products, including endoscopes such as the specific endoscopes involved in the subject incident, that the endoscopes were defective, that the Olympus defendants performed inadequate evaluation and testing of the scopes, including failing to properly determine the scope’s reprocessing protocol adequately disinfected the device for safe subsequent use in multiple endoscopic patients, and fraudulently marketed the scopes, as a result of which plaintiff suffered injuries.  The file shows that on November 15, 2021, the court of appeal filed its Remittitur in this matter, affirming the trial court judgment in favor of defendant CSJ Providence St. Joseph Medical Center based on the granting of the Hospital’s motion for summary judgment. This action was filed on January 22, 2018. On October 4, 2022, the court entered an Order Clarifying Five-Year Deadline, stating:“Based on the statement filed by Olympus on September 23, 2022, and the Ex Parte Application FOR ORDER To Continue Motion for Summary Judgment, Trial, and to Determine and Clarify Five-Year Deadline Pursuant to CCP section 583.340 Does Not Expire Until July 21, 2023 brought by Plaintiff, heard on September 12, 2022, the Court hereby Orders and clarifies that the last date to bring this Case to trial pursuant to the five-year rule of CCP section 583.340, is July 22, 2023.  This Order is without prejudice to the Plaintiff’s right to seek extensions of the five-year period, and Defendants’ right to oppose any such request.” [Order, filed 10/04/2022, p. 2].   On July 13, 2023, the matter was called for hearing for a Second Final Status Conference.  The plaintiff submitted a joint witness list showing a trial estimate of 104 hours which qualified the case for long cause.  This filing was the first time the court received a trial estimate in excess of 100 hours.  Defense counsel did not agree to this trial estimate, claiming it overstated the total trial hours.  The court ordered counsel to jointly submit a Long-Cause Package to Department 1 by 07/24/2023, and found, over defense counsel’s objection, that it was impossible, impracticable, and futile to bring the case to trial by the expiration of the five-year rule and ordered the 5-year statute extended to 09/15/2023.  [Minute Order, 07/13/2023, p. 1 of 2].  On September 29, 2023, the court heard various motions, including a motion by plaintiff to augment his expert list.   The motion was granted, and plaintiff permitted to augment his expert witness list to add two experts, Michael G. Koehler, an expert in chemistry, polymeric materials and plastics, and Alan Liptschultz, who has developed opinions regarding Olympus’ notice of problems with its scopes and the duties arising from that circumstance.   Neither of the experts added are medical doctors.  The motion to augment or substitute expert witness list brought by plaintiff was originally heard on November 17, 2023, and was continued to this date, evidently due to plaintiff representing at the hearing that one expert plaintiff had sought to add to the witness list as a new expert, Nicholas Karyotakis, M.D.  He is a gastrointestinal medical doctor, who plaintiff indicated would be offering opinions substantially conforming to those previously offered by expert witness Dr. Tahwid Gazi in this matter.  Plaintiff’s attorney indicated that Dr. Gazi was no longer a witness plaintiff intended to designate and that plaintiff would be designating another witness to give medical testimony, i.e., Dr. Karyotakis.    The court’s minute order states:“After hearing from counsel, the Court orders the hearing continued to the date indicated below at the request of plaintiff.  No additional briefing or reply is allowed except a Notice of Different Expert Designation.”[Minute Order, 11/17/2023, p. 1 of 10]. ANALYSIS:Motions to DismissDefendant Olympus and defendants Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao have filed two separate motions for dismissal of the action based on plaintiff’s failure to bring the action to trial by the 5-year deadline of July 21, 2023.   Although the parties refer at times to the deadline of July 22, 2023, that date was a Saturday, not a court day, so no trial could have commenced on that date.   The court will use the deadline date of July 21, 2023.  CCP § 583.310 provides:“An action shall be brought to trial within five years after the action is commenced against the defendant.”     Under CCP § 583.360:“(a) An action shall be dismissed by the court on its own motion or on motion of the defendant, after notice to the parties, if the action is not brought to trial within the time prescribed in this article.(b) The requirements of this article are mandatory and are not subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as expressly provided by statute.” This provision is mandatory.  Martorana v. Marlin & Saltzman (2009, 2nd Dist) 175 Cal.App.4th 685, 700.    The five-year period begins to run upon the filing of the complaint in the action.  Bosworth v. Superior Court (1956, 2nd Dist.) 143 Cal.App.2d 775, 779.   In reviewing the trial court’s dismissal of an action for failure to bring the matter to trial within five years under this statute, the appellate court applies an abuse of discretion standard.   Coe v. City of Los Angeles (1994, 2nd Dist.) 24 Cal.App.4th 88, 92. The parties all appear to agree that plaintiff was permitted an additional six months to bring the matter to trial under California Emergency Rule 10(a), which provides:“Notwithstanding any other law, including Code of Civil Procedure section 583.310, for all civil actions filed on or before April 6, 2020, the time in which to bring the action to trial is extended by six months for a total time of five years and six months.” As noted above, the parties have previously submitted an order for signature and filing of the court, with all sides taking the position that five years from the date the action was filed, on January 22, 2018, plus the six months/180 days pursuant to Emergency Rule 10(a) is July 22, 2023.  [Order, filed 10/04/2022, p. 2]. Under CCP § 583.340:“In computing the time within which an action must be brought to trial pursuant to this article, there shall be excluded the time during which any of the following conditions existed: (a) The jurisdiction of the court to try the action was suspended.(b) Prosecution or trial of the action was stayed or enjoined.(c) Bringing the action to trial, for any other reason, was impossible, impracticable, or  futile.” Plaintiff here argues that the case is scheduled for trial within the time prescribed by the Code, so it should not be dismissed.  Plaintiff argues that the court has issued multiple orders prescribing that certain days would be excluded or tolled in the calculation of the time required for trial to be brought in this case, and that the court’s analysis was correct, but even if the court was not correct, the rulings had the effect of tolling the time for bringing the case to trial.  Plaintiff in its legal argument is making four arguments concerning the extension of the five-year statute. Appeal of Court Order Granting Defendant Providence St. Joseph’s Motion for Summary JudgmentFirst, plaintiff argues that the time period during which the doctor defendants supported an argument that the days on appeal did not count toward the five-year rule must be excluded.  The opposition appears to argue that pursuant to CCP section 583.340 (b), the action was stayed from February 4, 2020, when plaintiff appealed the court’s order granting summary judgment to defendant Providence St. Joseph, through remittitur on November 15, 2021, because during that time period, plaintiff’s substantive prosecution of the case could not take place.   Plaintiff argues that the doctor defendants, Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao, took the position that the case was stayed during that period, without pointing to any specific evidence supporting that position.  There is a footnote indicating that the doctors filed writ petitions purporting to challenge the court’s order denying their motion for summary judgment, which were filed on August 30 and September 3, 2019, which petitions were denied, and jurisdiction returned to the trial court on September 20, 2019.   It is not clear how this contention supports the argument that the matter was stayed during the appeal by plaintiff of the summary judgment adverse order as to the hospital defendant, which occurred in February of 2020, many months later.  Plaintiff also does not make a clear argument that the matter was stayed during the time the writ petitions were pending.  Also, there is no order in the file indicating that either this court or the court of appeal ordered such a stay. As noted above, subdivision (b) excludes the time from the calculation when, “Prosecution or trial of the action was stayed or enjoined.”The Second District has interpreted the term “stayed” for purposes of the statute as follows:“the term appears to have a commonly understood meaning as an indefinite postponement of an act or the operation of some consequence, pending the occurrence of a designated event. Thus, in People v. Santana (1986) 182 Cal.App.3d 185, 190 [227 Cal.Rptr. 51], a case involving the stay of a sentence, the court concluded that "[a] stay is a temporary suspension of a procedure in a case until the happening of a defined contingency." Black's Law Dictionary (5th ed. 1979) page 1267 defines the term as "a suspension of the case or some designated proceedings within it."…This construction fits neatly within the evident purpose of section 583.340, which is to exclude from the mandatory dismissal provision time periods during which the case could not be brought to trial. The absence of trial court jurisdiction to try it (the contingency covered by subdivision "(a)") is one reason; a court order barring the trial (by a stay or injunction) is another. Each of these is an example of impossibility, impracticality or futility in bringing the case to trial. The final provision recognizes "any other reason" that it was impossible, impracticable or futile to bring the case to trial.  What all of these provisions have in common is the practical inability of the parties to proceed to trial. Each prevents a trial, and each is recognized as a basis to toll the running of the statutory period. (See 6 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (3d ed. 1985) Proceedings Without Trial, § 134, p. 440.)”Holland v. Dave Altman’s R.V. Center (1990)   222 Cal.App. 3d 477, 482, italics in original.In Holland, the Second District found that the trial court had prematurely dismissed an action under the statute where the matter had been subject to an order, which, while it had used the word “continue” had actually been a stay, as it put the trial over indefinitely, until the happening of a designated event, in that case, the determination of an appeal.   Id.  Plaintiff points to no stay order here during plaintiff’s appeal of the Providence St. Joseph summary judgment order, obtained from either the trial court or the court of appeal.  There is no order relied upon or included in the file pursuant to which the action was stayed until the happening of some designated event, and no designation such as to “continue” action in this matter was issued by the court.  As argued by defendants in their moving papers, the California Supreme Court has held that in connection with subdivision (b), only complete stays of an action will toll the running of the five-year period.   Bruns v. E-Commerce Exchange, Inc. (2011) 51 Cal.4th 717, 730 (“We conclude subdivision (b) of section 583.340 governs only complete stays that are used to stop the prosecution of the action altogether.” (quotation omitted); Gaines v. Fidelity National Title Ins. Co. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1081, 1094 (noting, “We held (in Bruns) that ‘the prosecution of an action is stayed under subdivision (b) only when the stay encompasses all proceedings in the action.’” (quoting Bruns, at 722, italics in the original).   Here, it is evident from the file that all proceedings in this action were not stayed during plaintiff’s appeal.  Specifically, during that period (2/6/20 through 11/16/21) plaintiff on July 6, 2020 filed an Amendment to Complaint, the court on November 6, 2020 heard a demurrer and motion for sanctions, and heard two further demurrers on December 11, 2020 and March 12, 2021, and also heard discovery motions on August 6, 2021.  On August 23, 2021, the parties, including plaintiff, defendant Olympus, and defendants Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao, filed a Stipulated Protective Order with the court, which was requested to be and was signed and entered as an order of the court.  There was clearly no stay encompassing all the proceedings in the action as required for application of subdivision (b) based on a stay of the action.   Defendants point out plaintiff’s activity in their moving papers.  [See Tomlinson Decl., Exs. B (Court Case Information, Documents Filed), L (Amendment to Complaint served 07/06/2020, O (FAC served 08/26/2020) P (SAC served 12/31/2020)].          Defendants also argue that to the extent plaintiff intends to argue that plaintiff is entitled to an exclusion under subdivision (c), plaintiff cannot show that the appeal prevented or interfered with plaintiff prosecuting his case, or that plaintiff acted with reasonable diligence, so plaintiff cannot prove the factors needed to exclude this period. Plaintiff in opposition argues briefly that subdivision (b) does not require that the prosecution of the action be “stayed” by a court order, in reliance on Cal. ex. rel. Sills v. Gharib-Danesh (2023) 88 Cal. App. 5th 824, in which the Second District held that in a qui tam case on behalf of the State of California alleging defendants engaged in medical insurance fraud, the action was subject to a stay during the time when the qui tam case had been initially filed, under seal and in camera, as was required to comply with the process permitting government entities before the existence of the complaint becomes public to investigate such  claims, and decide whether the entities would intervene and prosecute the action.  Gharib-Danesh, at 832.  The Second District noted:“While the action is under seal for these purposes, no one may serve the complaint on the defendant(s). Only when the relevant government agency notifies the court of its decision regarding whether it will intervene in the action can the seal be lifted. And only when the court lifts the seal in connection with this intervention decision can the summons and complaint be served on the defendant(s) and litigation of the action begin. Prior to that time, the qui tam plaintiff is not allowed to take any steps to prosecute the case.”Gharib-Danesh, at 832-833.The Second District found that in that case, the trial court should have excluded the days during which the case had been kept under seal and in camera based on subdivision (b) of section 583.340, providing that the time during which an action is “stayed” is to be excluded in computation of the five-year period.   Gharib-Danesh, at 833.  By contrast to a qui tam case, this situation is not a case where there was some statutory process by which plaintiff was affirmatively prevented from pursuing the action, and plaintiff here does not address the circumstance in the instant case that the matter was never subject to a stay, or some other order which would fall within the analysis for constituting a de facto stay called by some other name, as discussed above.  Plaintiff also fails to address the circumstance here that the matter was not during the appeal period under any colorable argument completely stayed, by court order or by operation of law. To the extent plaintiff vaguely argues that the doctor defendants have agreed that the period was excluded from the calculation, plaintiff does not submit any proof of such an agreement. Under CCP § 583.330: “The parties may extend the time within which an action must be brought to trial pursuant to this article by the following means: (a) By written stipulation. The stipulation need not be filed but, if it is not filed, the stipulation shall be brought to the attention of the court if relevant to a motion for dismissal. (b) By oral agreement made in open court, if entered in the minutes of the court or a transcript is made.”Plaintiff points to no proof of a stipulation to stay the matter with respect to any period of appeal.  Plaintiff seems to rely on a Declaration of Christopher Wend, counsel for the doctors, which was filed on January 3, 2023, for a January 20, 2023 hearing date.  [Lindemann Decl., Ex. 7].  That declaration explains that counsel in September of 2021 was in a serious automobile accident, was undergoing an extensive recovery period, and would be unavailable to conduct trial for another six months.   The declaration states:“Because of my current medical condition and need for additional surgeries, my surgeon recently evaluated me and indicated I will be unable to try cases for at least another 6 months. Based upon my medical condition and trial calendar, I am requesting that trials not be set before August 2023. (Attached as Exhibit “A” is a copy of the letter from my surgeon.) 7. The five-year statute of limitations in this case expires as of July 22, 2023. 8. As a result of my medical condition and need for further surgeries this year, I will be unavailable to conduct the trial until August of 2023 nor will I be available to conduct necessary expert discovery and extensive trial preparation. I am requesting that the five-year statute be slightly extended for another 30 days, to the end of August of 2023, to allow me to try this case as per the request of the clients and their insurance company.” [Lindemann Decl., Ex. 7, Wend Decl., paras. 6-8].  This declaration of counsel has nothing to do with conceding any tolling during the appeal, but at best is an implied stipulation on the part of only the doctor defendants, to a thirty-day extension of the five-year deadline, to which the other defendants did not agree.   Moreover, plaintiff also attaches a Notice of Withdrawal of the Declaration of Christopher P. Wend, Esq., in support of plaintiff’s ex part to Continue Trial and Other Dates, filed on June 15, 2023.  [Lindemann Decl., Ex. 7].  The Lindemann Declaration suggests that this notice of withdrawal was somehow ineffective, as plaintiff had already relied upon the consent being given, but this argument is not developed, and the trial at that time was not set to commence after the July 21, 2023 deadline, so it is not clear how plaintiff could have reasonably relied on the declaration after it was withdrawn.   Moreover, as the doctor defendants argue in the reply, even if the Wend Declaration could be construed as a stipulation to extend the statutory period, such a stipulation only extended the deadline to August of 2023, to which date plaintiff is now well beyond.  Hence, the plaintiff has not met his burden of establishing that subdivision (b) or some other statutory exception applies to exclude the time period of the appeal of the summary judgment order as to the hospital from the five-year calculation.Period Before Defendant Olympus Substituted as Doe Defendant  Second, plaintiff argues that pursuant to CCP section 583.340 subdivision (c), similar to the situation in Gharib-Danesh, this case could not functionally proceed as to Olympus until at the earliest, July 6, 2020.  Plaintiff does not explain the significance of that date, which was the date on which the Doe amendment was filed substituting Olympus for the fictitious defendant in this case.  [Lindemann Decl., Ex. 5].  Plaintiff argues that the case could not functionally proceed against Olympus during that time, as was the case in Gharib-Danesh, so that the period from the filing of the action on January 22, 2018 to the date of July 6, 2020 should be excluded from the five year calculation.   Plaintiff makes this argument under subdivision (c) of the statute, which, as set forth above, excludes the time during which, “Bringing the action to trial, for any other reason, was impossible, impracticable, or futile.”  As noted above, the Gharib-Danesh case involved application of subdivision (b), and the de facto equivalent of a stay, and involved the very specialized process by which government entities may respond to a qui tam complaint, which is not at issue here.  In Bruns, supra, the California Supreme Court provided the following guidelines for the trial court’s determination of whether it was “impossible, impracticable, or futile” to bring a case to trial, which is separate from the stay analysis under subdivision (b), above.  The court emphasized that the critical factors to be considered are whether plaintiff exercised reasonable diligence to bring the matter to trial, and whether the delay was due to causes beyond plaintiff’s control:“Under 583.340(c), the trial court must determine what is impossible, impracticable, or futile "in light of all the circumstances in the individual case, including the acts and conduct of the parties and the nature of the proceedings themselves. [Citations.] The critical factor in applying these exceptions to a given factual situation is whether the plaintiff exercised reasonable diligence in prosecuting his or her case." (Moran v. Superior Court (1983) 35 Cal.3d 229, 238 [197 Cal. Rptr. 546, 673 P.2d 216]; see also Tamburina v. Combined Ins. Co. of America (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 323, 326[54 Cal. Rptr. 3d 175] [trial court must determine whether plaintiff has shown a  circumstance of impossibility, impracticability, or futility, a causal connection to the failure to move the case to trial, and that he or she was "reasonably diligent in prosecuting the case at all stages of the proceedings"].) A plaintiff's reasonable diligence alone does not preclude involuntary dismissal; it is simply one factor for assessing the existing exceptions of impossibility, impracticability, or futility. (Baccus v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal. App. 3d 1526, 1532-1533 [255 Cal. Rptr. 781].) " '[E]very period of time during which the plaintiff does not have it within his power to bring the case to trial is not to be excluded in making the computation.' [Citation.]" (Sierra Nevada Memorial-Miners Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 464, 472 [266 Cal. Rptr. 50].) "Time consumed by the delay caused by ordinary incidents of proceedings, like disposition of demurrer, amendment of pleadings, and the normal time of waiting for a place on the court's calendar are not within the contemplation of these exceptions." (Baccus, at p. 1532.) Determining whether the subdivision (c) exception applies requires a fact-sensitive inquiry and depends "on the obstacles faced by the plaintiff in prosecuting the action and the plaintiff's exercise of reasonable diligence in overcoming those obstacles." (Howard v. Thrifty Drug & Discount Stores (1995) 10 Cal.4th 424, 438 [41 Cal. Rptr. 2d 362, 895 P.2d 469].) " '[I]mpracticability and futility' involve a determination of ' "excessive and unreasonable difficulty or expense," ' in light of all the circumstances of the particular case." (Brunzell Constr. Co. v. Wagner (1970) 2 Cal.3d 545, 554 [86 Cal. Rptr. 297, 468 P.2d 553].)The question of impossibility, impracticability, or futility is best resolved by the trial court, which "is in the most advantageous position to evaluate these diverse factual matters in the first instance." (Brunzell Constr. Co. v. Wagner, supra, 2 Cal.3d at p. 555.) The plaintiff bears the burden of proving that the circumstances warrant application of the section 583.340(c) exception. (Perez v. Grajales (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 580, 590 [86 Cal. Rptr. 3d 784].) " 'The "reasonable diligence" standard is an appropriate guideline for evaluating whether it was impossible, impracticable, or futile for the plaintiff to comply with [the statutory five-year constraint] due to causes beyond his or her control.' " (Wilshire Bundy Corp. v. Auerbach (1991) 228 Cal. App. 3d 1280, 1287-1288 [279 Cal. Rptr. 488].) The trial court has discretion to determine whether that exception applies, and its decision will be upheld unless the plaintiff has proved that the trial court abused its discretion. (Perez, at pp. 590-591; see also Lauriton v. Carnation Co. (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 161, 164 [263 Cal. Rptr. 476].) Although " ' " 'part of the five-year period must necessarily be consumed in service of process, disposition of demurrers,  amendment of the pleadings, if necessary, usual and reasonable time consumed in waiting for a place on the court's calendar or in securing the attendance of a jury and suchlike usual and necessary proceedings; ... the section does not contemplate that time consumed in such ordinary proceedings are to be excluded from a computation of the five-year period.' " ' " (Sierra Nevada Memorial-Miners Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 217 Cal. App. 3d 464, 472; see J.C. Penney Co. v. Superior Court (1959) 52 Cal.2d 666, 670 [343 P.2d 919].)Bruns, at 730-732, italics in original. As noted in Bruns, “[t]he plaintiff bears the burden of proving that the circumstances warrant application of the section 583.340(c) exception.”  Bruns, at 731, citing Perez v. Grajales (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 580, 590. The exception set forth in subdivision (c) requires a plaintiff to prove the following:“a circumstance of impracticability…”;“a causal connection between that circumstance and moving the case to trial…” and that plaintiff “exercised reasonable diligence in prosecuting the case.”  Tamburina v. Combined Ins. Co. of America (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 323, 336.   The court of appeal in Tamburina noted that where this final finding of reasonable diligence is not made by the trial court, any finding of impracticality and a causal connection are insufficient to support a finding of an exclusion under subdivision (c).  The court of appeal held:“Because the purpose of the five-year statute for bringing a case to trial is to prevent avoidable delay for too long a period, the “critical factor” as to whether the impracticability exception applies to a given factual situation is whether the plaintiff has exercised “reasonable diligence” in prosecuting his or her case. (Hughes, supra, 5 Cal.App.4th at p. 67, 6 Cal.Rptr.2d 616; Moran v. Superior Court (1983) 35 Cal.3d 229, 238, 197 Cal.Rptr. 546, 673 P.2d 216; Howard v. Thrifty Drug & Discount Stores (1995) 10 Cal.4th 424, 438, 41 Cal.Rptr.2d 362, 895 P.2d 469.) This duty of diligence applies “at all stages of the proceedings,” and the level of diligence required increases as the five-year deadline approaches. (Tejada v. Blas (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1335, 1340, 242 Cal.Rptr. 538; Wilshire, supra, 228 Cal.App.3d at p. 1287, 279 Cal.Rptr. 488.) The exercise of reasonable diligence includes a duty to monitor the case in the trial court to ascertain whether any filing, scheduling or calendaring errors have occurred.” (Wilshire, supra, 228 Cal.App.3d at p. 1287, 279 Cal.Rptr. 488; see 6 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (1997) Proceedings Without Trial, § 379, pp. 781–782.)As noted, the trial court did not make a finding whether Tamburina exercised reasonable diligence during all stages of the proceedings, with the twist that the level of diligence required increases as the five-year deadline approaches. We must remand for the trial court to make this finding.”Tamburina, at 336, italics in the original. Plaintiff here makes a very brief legal argument, arguing that recently discovery events and obstruction of reasonable discovery have been objected to at every turn, and that “reasonable grounds for diligence have been shown in the Declaration of Blake J. Lindemann, and impracticability has been demonstrated.”  The memorandum does not point to any particular evidence or portion of the Declaration.  Plaintiff evidently expects the court and defendants to cull through the declaration and its exhibits to determine which facts support impracticability in connection with this argument.  In any case, defendants have cited to case law pursuant to which a party named as a Doe is considered a party from the date of the original filing of the complaint.  Gray v. Firthe (1987) 194 Cal.App. 3d 202, 209 (“As to a defendant either expressly named in the original complaint or named in the original complaint by a fictitious name, the action commences on the date of the filing of the complaint.”).  The court of appeal in Gray interpreted sections 583.310 and 583.420 with respect to revisions made to the entire statutory scheme in 1984, finding that the use of the phrase, “after the action is commenced against defendant,” as consistently used in the amended current statutory language, was intended to apply to a defendant sued by a fictitious name from the time the complaint is filed, as confirmed by the Law Revision Comments to another amended section using that language, CCP section 583.210:“We observe initially that changing the operative phrase from “within five years after the plaintiff has filed his action” (former § 583, subd. (b)) to “after the action is commenced against the defendant” (new § 583.310) manifests a clear intent to change the law.The new statutory scheme uses the phrase “after the action is commenced against the defendant” throughout its provisions. New section 583.420 provides for the discretionary dismissal of actions not brought to trial within specified periods “after the action is commenced against the defendant.” Section 583.210 provides that service of the summons and complaint shall be made upon a defendant within three years “after the action is commenced against the defendant.” In commenting on new section 583.210, the Law Revision Commission stated: “Section 583.210 applies to a defendant sued by a fictitious name from the time the complaint is filed and to a defendant added by amendment of the complaint from the time the amendment is made.” (17 Cal. Law Revision Com. Rep. (June 1983) p. 931.)”Gray, at 208, footnotes omitted.  Here, there is no question that Olympus was added to this action in place of Doe 1. [Hoffman Decl., Ex. H, Lindemann Decl., Ex. 5].  In addition, defendants rely on numerous instances in this lawsuit where plaintiff successfully argued that since Olympus had been substituted in by Doe Amendment, the filing of that amendment related back to the original filing date of the complaint.  For example, in response to a demurrer Olympus filed to plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint, plaintiff in opposition filed on March 1, 2021 (erroneously directed to the First Amended Complaint), argued that all of his claims in the complaint “relate back” to the filing of the initial complaint filed on January 22, 2018.  [Hoffman Decl., Ex. S, Opposition, p. 1:3-4, and throughout, Ex P, Opposition to Demurrer to FAC, p. 1:4-6, and throughout, Ex. L, Opposition to Demurrer to Complaint and Motion for Sanctions]. Plaintiff has successfully argued based on this theory that the action against Olympus is not barred by the applicable statute of limitations in opposition to Olympus’ motion for summary judgment, the ruling on which plaintiff has submitted with the opposition papers.  [See Lindemann Decl., Ex. 6, pp. Steger 141-144]. Plaintiff submitted a detailed declaration in support of the opposition, which the court relied upon to deny the motion.  [Id.]  To the extent plaintiff seems to argue that the court previously had determined that the time before Olympus was named should be excluded as to Olympus, plaintiff evidently relies on a minute order from June 16, 2023, in which the court set forth its tentative ruling concerning a motion for summary judgment/adjudication filed by defendant Olympus, and plaintiff’s ex parte application for order to continue hearing on motion for summary judgment and relief from five year rule.     Plaintiff curiously does not submit a copy of this minute order, which can be located in the file, and which denies the motion for summary judgment/adjudication and denies the request for a continuance of the hearing on that motion as unnecessary and moot.  The court published a tentative ruling with respect to the ex parte application that the court make a finding regarding an extension of the period within which plaintiff must bring the case to trial and noted that the parties had previously stipulated that the five years from the date the action was filed, January 22, 2018, plus the six months/180 days pursuant to Emergency Rule 10(a) is July 21, 2023.  [Minute Order, 6/16/2023, p. 23 of 34].  The court was prepared to also find at that time, without full briefing from the parties, that the five-year period could be extended from when the case was reassigned by Department 1, July 11, 2028 through November 15, 2028, when department D held its first status conference in the matter, for a total of 127 days.  [Minute Order 6/16/2023, pp. 27-28 of 34].   The court was also prepared to find, again without full briefing, that as to defendant Olympus only, the period between the filing of the complaint, and the amendment naming Olympus as Doe 1 could be excluded.  [Minute Order 6/16/2023, p. 28 of 34].  However, the court’s minute order clearly reflects that the tentative ruling on these specific matters did not become the order of the court, as the ruling states:“Ex Parte Application for Order to Continue Hearing on Motion for Summary Judgment, and Relief from Five Year Rule filed by Plaintiff Jason Steger is DENIED based upon Plaintiff's counsel's request to keep the same trial date, since there is no stipulation from defense counsel.”   [Minute Order 06/16/2023, p. 34 of 34].  The minute order also states more specifically, “The Court adopts its tentative ruling and makes the ruling its final orders with the following modification,” in effect, that the ex parte application was not granted, but was denied, as the request for the ex parte relief sought was withdrawn by plaintiff’s counsel.  [Minute Order 06/16/2023, p. 1 of 34]. The court’s proposed ruling on those issues accordingly did not become the order of the court. Plaintiff does submit the transcript from the hearing on that matter, in which it was also stated that the court’s tentative ruling concerning the time calculations did not become the final ruling of the court, as plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue the trial date beyond July of 2023 was withdrawn by plaintiff.  Plaintiff evidently made this determination to keep the trial date before July 21, 2023 based on remaining concerns that there remained a real risk that failing to meet the five-year deadline as stipulated and previously calculated could result in dismissal of the action.  “THE COURT: SO THE TRIAL DATE REMAINS THE SAME. ALL RIGHT. NOW, SO THE EX-PARTE, TECHNICALLY, IS DENIED AT THIS POINT. THAT IS THE RULING.  IT'S DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE IF YOU WANTED TO BRING THE MOTION AGAIN. BUT THAT SORT OF REASONING THAT'S IN THE TENTATIVE WOULD STILL APPLY. THE COURT DOES FIND IT'S EXCLUDABLE TIME, BUT MR. LINDEMANN REACHES A DECISION ABOUT WHAT HE WANTS TO DO SO WITH THAT IN LIGHT OF THE NOW STIPULATION TO EXTEND THE FIVE-YEAR RULE.”[Lindemann Decl., Ex. 8, Reporter’s Transcript of Oral Proceedings, June 16, 2023, p. 7:19-26].The court also commented:“PLAINTIFF IS ELECTING TO GO TO TRIAL SO AS TO NOT RISK A DISMISSAL FROM THE FIVE-YEAR RULE, WHICH, YOU KNOW, SINCE THE COURT'S FINDING EXCLUDABLE TIME MOST LIKELY, YOU KNOW, NOT GRANT THAT DISMISSAL, BUT IT WILL BE IN THE RECORD. [Lindemann Decl., Ex. 8, Reporter’s Transcript of Oral Proceedings, June 16, 2023, p. 35:24-28].While the court suggested that similar findings regarding tolling would be likely, it did not enter a final order concerning such findings because the ex parte application requesting them had been withdrawn, with the trial date not continued, at plaintiff’s request. Accordingly, to the extent plaintiff seems to argue that these motions to dismiss are improper motions for reconsideration, plaintiff fails to point to any previous order by the court which defendants are improperly seeking to be reconsidered.  There has been no previous motion to dismiss the action for violation of the five-year statute, and plaintiff has failed to meet its burden to establish that the current motions challenge some previous ruling.    These motions on the issues of the tolling on these grounds are not governed by the court’s prior tentative ruling, which remained for purposes of the issues, tentative.   The issues have now been more fully briefed by the parties.  Defendant Olympus in its reply points out that the court in hearings subsequent to the June 16, 2023 hearing recognized that the issue concerning the periods of extension which plaintiff had been urging be applied had not been fully briefed or finally decided, and could not have been finally decided or even subject to thorough briefing by defendants before the issue became ripe once the five-deadline had expired and a motion to dismiss became appropriate.   The reply points out that in transcripts submitted with the moving papers, the court on June 29, 2023 stated:“THE COURT: …THE COURT PRELIMINARILY MADE FINDINGS AS TO WHETHER THE FIVE-YEAR RULE APPLIED TO OLYMPUS, WHICH WAS NEVER REALLY FULLY BRIEFED, OLYMPUS’S ARGUMENT BEING OLYMPUS WAS ADDED AS A DOE. SO THE TIMEFRAME RELATES TO WHEN THE COMPLAINT WAS FILED. AND OLYMPUS WAS NOT ADDED PURSUANT TO MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND. THAT ISSUE HAS NOT BEEN FULLY BRIEFED. WE NEVER - WE DID NOT FULLY ADDRESS IT.MR. HOFFMAN: WE AGREE, YOUR HONOR. THE COURT: OKAY. SO THAT’S OUT THERE STILL. AND THE COURT HASN’T RULED ON THAT YET. THE COURT NOTED IN THE -- FOR JUNE 16TH, THIS IS A MURKY AREA THAT HASN’T BEEN FULLY BRIEFED, IS WHAT THE COURT NOTED AT THE TIME. THE COURT THEN MADE A PRELIMINARY FINDING THAT THE CASE WAS JURISDICTIONALLY STAYED BETWEEN THE TIMEFRAME WHEN IT WAS DESIGNATED COMPLICATED IN THE HUB AND THE TIMEFRAME IT GOT HERE.· OKAY? SO THAT THE COURT MADE A PRELIMINARY – WAS MORE LIKE AN OBSERVATION AS OPPOSED TO A RULING.  SO IN OTHER WORDS, THIS ALL HAS TO BE FULLY BRIEFED, AND IT HASN’T BEEN FULLY BRIEFED. AND AT THE TIME, YOU KNOW, WHEN WE HAD YOUR HEARING ON JUNE 16TH, THERE WAS A LOT OF DISCUSSION ABOUT WHAT WAS GOING ON AND THAT WAS JUST SORT OF ALMOST LIKE ADVISORY.  IT’S NOT -- I WOULD NOT SAY IT’S LAW OF THE CASE.  SO EVERYONE WOULD BE BRIEFING THAT.… THE COURT IS NOT GOING TO SIGN AN ORDER CONTINUING THE TRIAL ON THAT BASIS UNTIL EVERYTHING’S FULLY BRIEFED. BUT NOTHING CAN BE FULLY BRIEFED UNTIL AFTER THE FIVE-YEAR RULE HAS PASSED.· BECAUSE THERE’S NO STANDING [sic] TO BRING A MOTION UNTIL AFTER, QUOTE, IT’S PASSED.”[Hoffman Decl., Ex. XX, Transcript of Proceedings, June 29, 2023, pp. 30-34].   At a hearing on July 3, 2023, the court also observed:“THE COURT: THE COURT HAS PREVIOUSLY COMMENTED, IN A PRIOR EX PARTE APPLICATION LAST WEEK, THAT A TENTATIVE RULING ON SUMMARY JUDGMENT ON JUNE 16TH, 2023, WHICH ALSO HAD AN EX PARTE APPLICATION TO CONTINUE THE TRIAL DATE FOR THE SAME DATE, DID NOT WITH FINALITY ADJUDICATE WHETHER THERE WAS 127 EXTRA DAYS OF EXCLUDABLE TIME, BASED ON THE TIME PERIOD IT TOOK, ONCE THE PI HUB DESIGNATED A CASE COMPLICATED BEFORE IT WAS SET FOR THE FIRST MATTER OR HEARING IN DEPARTMENT D, ABOUT 127 DAYS LATER. THE COURT NOTED THAT THAT COMMENT WAS ADVISORY.  THE COURT ALSO NOTED, AT THE TIME, THAT THE PLAINTIFFS WITHDREW THEIR REQUEST TO CONTINUE THE TRIAL ON THE JUNE 16TH, 2023 SUMMARY JUDGMENT HEARING DATE. SO THERE WAS TECHNICALLY NO ADJUDICATION OF THAT ISSUE.·[Hoffman Decl., Ex. BBB, Transcript of Proceedings, July 3, 2023, pp. 4:17-5:3  There is no improper motion for reconsideration brought here, and the motions are not denied on that ground. Defendants in the moving papers and reply also argue that the stipulation between the parties regarding the five-year deadline eliminated any alleged tolling periods prior to the stipulation, despite reserving the right of the parties to seek extensions after the stipulation.   Defendants cite to Dowling v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 685, in which the Second District analyzed the language of the stipulation in that case, which expressly identified two time periods prior to the stipulation when the action was stayed by the trial court, and agreed that the five year period was tolled during that period, and also stated that the parties had agreed to identify the five year period to bring the action to trial, and then stated, that:“[a]bsent any further periods wherein the Superior Court's jurisdiction to try the Farmers action is suspended under Civil Code [sic] § 583.340 and/or any further Court orders or party stipulations extending or tolling the time period to bring either action to trial, the five-year time period to bring the Farmers action to trial under Code of Civil Procedure § 583.310 does not expire until June 17, 2010.” (Italics added.)As did the trial court, we construe the word “further” as used in this context to mean “future” rather than “additional.”Dowling, at 695-696, italics in the original.    Here, the language from the order refers to the positions taken by the parties and does not include any stipulation to, or mention of, prior extensions, or expressly agree to the five-year deadline subject to past exclusions.  The order expressly states: “This Order is without prejudice as to the Plaintiff’s right to seek extensions of the five-year period, and Defendants’ right to oppose any such request.” [Order, 10/04/2022, p. 2; See Hoffman Decl., Exs. EE, FF].   The situation here does not squarely fall within Dowling, and the court does not find that the stipulation bars plaintiff from pursuing arguments concerning statutory exceptions extending the five-year deadline which occurred before the date of the order.  As discussed above, and below, however, the court finds that plaintiff has not established that such exceptions prior to October 2022 apply here.  Judicial Reassignment Third, plaintiff argues that periods of judicial reassignment must be excluded from the five-year calculation.   Plaintiff argues that the case was originally filed on January 22, 2018, was assigned to the Spring Street courthouse, and was transferred and reassigned to this Department on October 3, 2019.  The file shows the date was actually October 3, 2018.  Plaintiff argues that the period from when the case was filed to the date the case was reassigned should be excluded. Plaintiff has included among plaintiff’s exhibits a copy of the Order Transferring Personal Injury (PI) Case to Independent Calendar (IC) Court, which was filed by department 1 on July 11, 2028.  [Lindemann Decl., Ex. 1].  Plaintiff relies on Nail v. Osterholm (1970) 13 Cal.App.3d 682, 686, in which the court of appeal held that when a litigant seeks to disqualify a judge pursuant to CCP section 170.6, “the period that the trial is held in abeyance pending the assignment of another judge is to be disregarded in considering a subsequent motion to dismiss.”  Nail, at 686.  This holding was recognized as proper by the California Supreme Court in Hartman v. Santamarina (1982) 30 Cal.3d 762, 768, and applied to extend the five-year deadline in that case.  Here, this is not a case where a CCP section 170.6 challenge was made, pursuant to which the judge challenged loses any authority over the case and is affirmatively prohibited from acting in connection with the matter.  This case’s situation was instead a garden variety transfer of the case from the Personal Injury department to an Independent Calendar Court due to the complexity of the action, not to any other issue pursuant to which the new department could not act in the matter.     Defendants in their moving papers argue that this reassignment was not a circumstance of impracticability, but an “ordinary incident[] of proceeding,” such as “waiting for a place on the court’s calendar.”  Gaines v. Fidelity National Title Ins. Co. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1081, 1101, quoting Bruns, at 731.   Defendants also rely on case law in which it has been held that where a claimed circumstance of impracticability is remote in time from the running of the five-year cutoff, and did not interfere with plaintiff prosecuting his case, such circumstances would have no causal effect on the failure to bring the action to trial by the cut-off.   In Jordan v. Superstar Sandcars (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 1416, the court of appeal found the trial court had not abused its discretion in dismissing a case based on plaintiffs’ failure to try the case within five years, finding that the five-year period had not been tolled during two periods when the Riverside County Superior Court had imposed moratoriums on civil trials, where it was acknowledged by plaintiffs that the moratorium periods in 2004 and 2005 were remote in time relative to the five-year statutory cutoff on June 6, 2008.  The court of appeal reasoned:“While the two court-declared moratoriums on civil trials prevented civil cases from being tried, these moratoriums did not prevent or interfere with plaintiffs' prosecuting their case. It is apparent from the record that plaintiffs were not ready for trial at the time of the moratoriums. Therefore, as to the instant case, the two moratoriums did not make it “impossible, impracticable, or futile” to bring the action to trial. (§ 583.340, subd. (c).)”Jordan, at 1421. Defendants argue that likewise, the reassignment of this case only six months after it began, five years ago, had no causal effect on plaintiff’s failure to bring the case to trial by July 21, 2023.  In fact, it appears that during the time period referenced, this case was not only not prevented from being prosecuted but was actively pursued.    From the file, it appears that the case was being actively litigated from its filing, with the complaint being served, demurrers being filed, and jury fees deposited.  Defendants in opposition also submit evidence showing that during the period from July 11, 2018, when the court, Department 2, Judge Torres Rizk presiding, filed an Order Transferring Personal Injury (PI) Case to Independent Calendar (IC) Court, Department D, through November 15, 2018, when this Department held its Status Conference re Transfer from Central Civil Complex Personal Injury Case, the parties were exchanging discovery.  [Tomlinson Decl., para. 5-9, Exs. B, C, D; Hoffman Decl., paras. 5, 6, Exs. B, C, D].  Counsel for Olympus indicates that during the relevant period, the parties exchanged 18 sets of discovery requests or responses, with no objections asserted that the case had been stayed.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 6, Ex. C].   In fact, the file shows that at least nine discovery motions were filed during this period, and several of them were opposed.  [Docket, entries between July 11, 2018 and November 15 2018; Tomlinson Decl., Ex. B; 8/16/2018, 09/13/2018 (6 motions), 9/25/2023(2 motions); Oppositions filed 10/30/2018 (7)].  This period is not a period which would qualify as a period during which it was impracticable or futile to bring the case to trial or to pursue the matter, when in fact the case was being actively litigated.  The period of reassignment, which is a standard delay, occurring at the beginning of the litigation, when the case was not prevented from being brought to trial, is not a period which is excluded from the five-year calculation. The doctor defendants also argue in the reply that in connection with any possible exclusion of time with respect to the reassignment, the court previously was prepared to recognize a period of extension of only 127 days, so through November 25, 2023, when the case has clearly not been brought to trial by that date in any case. Plaintiff has failed to establish that the period of reassignment presents a circumstance of impracticability and has failed to make any attempt to show that such circumstance was causally related to the failure to bring the case to trial by the deadline, or to show that plaintiff acted with reasonable diligence. The court accordingly does not recognize any exclusion during the period the matter was reassigned from Department 1.  Period When Defendant Olympus not JoinedPlaintiff argues that, finally, the period during which a defendant is not joined to a case does not apply toward the five-year rule.  It is not clear how this argument is different from the second argument, above.   In any case, plaintiff relies on Alpha Media Resort Inv. Cases (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1121, Brunzell Constr. Co. v. Wagner (1970) 2 Cal.3d 545, 555-556, Dale v. ITT Life Insurance Co. (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 495, 498-99 and Maguire v. Collier (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 309. The court of appeal in Alpha Media Resort Investment Cases rejected an argument that plaintiffs had failed to use reasonable diligence in prosecuting the subject actions because plaintiffs could have obtained, but did not obtain, a default judgment against the defendant moving for dismissal under the five-year rule.  The court of appeal found that the trial court had not abused its discretion in weighing against the failure to obtain default the extenuating circumstances in that case which justified a delay in getting the cases ready for trial in a timely manner.  Alpha Media, at 1330.   There is no issue of default not being obtained against any of the defendants in this case. In Brunzell, the California Supreme Court concluded that the bare fact that a case was severable as to certain defendants does not preclude application of the “impracticable and futile exception,” under statute, as interpreted by the case law.  Brunzell, at 548. To the extent plaintiff relies on Dale v. ITT Life Ins. Corp. (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 495, 499, in that case the court of appeal held that the five-year period is tolled from the date of entry of default of a defendant, as well as the period when the default judgment remains in effect, which, in that case, extended through a successful appeal of an order denying a motion to set aside the default and default judgment.  Dale, at 499.  The court of appeal in Dale relied on Maguire v. Collier (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 309, also cited by plaintiff here:“In Maguire v. Collier (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 309 [122 Cal.Rptr. 510] the court recognized the impracticability of bringing a case to trial when the defendant is already in default. (Id., at p. 313.) Maguire held the period during which a party is in default, “as well as the period during which a default judgment is in effect,” is excluded from computation of the five-year period. (Ibid.)”Dale, at 498-499. Plaintiff argues that while in this case Olympus was never in default, much like the situation in Dale and Maguire, plaintiff could not proceed against Olympus when Olympus was not a party.  Plaintiff argues that this situation, coupled with the doctors’ opportunity and decision not to object—indeed their willingness to stipulate on this point, further supports the premise that the days between the filing of the action and the filing of the Doe amendment should toll the application of the five-year rule.  It is not clear how any conduct of the doctors in this respect would impact the time calculation as to Olympus.  There is no showing that Olympus entered into a valid stipulation to exclude the time before they were officially substituted as the true name of Doe 1, and Olympus has consistently argued that no exclusion of time applies.    It is also clear that Olympus was never in default in this matter, and it does not appear that the court was at any time deprived of jurisdiction over this party in the manner a default would operate.  Moreover, plaintiff has failed to address or distinguish the legal authorities discussed above which indicate that the date of the filing of the original complaint as to named parties and fictitiously named defendants, such as Olympus as Doe 1 here, is considered the commencement of the action for purposes of the five-year rule calculation. Plaintiff again has not met plaintiff’s burden of showing that the five-year deadline was subject to an exclusion such that it did not expire on July 21, 2023. There is no dispute that the case was not brought to trial by that date.  The motions to dismiss accordingly could be granted. Period Referred to Long-CausePlaintiff does not clearly argue that the periods following July 21, 2023, while the matter was referred to long-cause, should be excluded from the calculation.To the extent plaintiff intends to argue that the periods following July 21, 2023 were properly designated by the court as subject to subdivision (c), defendants in their moving papers argue that plaintiff cannot in connection with those extensions establish the essential elements of the subdivision (c) determination that there was a causal connection between the circumstance on which plaintiff relies and the failure to satisfy the five year requirement, or that plaintiff exercised reasonable diligence.   Defendants argue that it has been observed by the long- cause court, and it remains the situation, that this case is not ready for trial.   Defendants argue that if a case was not ready for trial when the alleged circumstances preventing trial arose, then those circumstances would have no causal effect, as such circumstances, “did not prevent or interfere with plaintiffs prosecuting their case.”  Jordan, quoted above, 182 Cal.App.4th at 1421.   Defendants argue that the court’s referral for long cause determination on July 13, 2023 did not toll the five-year deadline, arguing that this is not a period of impracticability, but, again, simply part of the ordinary incidents of proceedings.  Defendants cite to case law under which it is held that the normal time of waiting for “a place on the court’s calendar or securing a jury” are not within the contemplation of the exceptions for exclusion for a computation of the applicable period.   In Standard Oil Co. v. Superior Court (1976) 61 Cal.App.3d 852, the Second District rejected an argument that impracticability arose out of class action service and notice issues, which the Second District characterized as “plaintiff’s delay in taking certain steps necessary to ready a class action for trial,” and reversed the trial court’s order denying defendant’s motion to dismiss under the five-year rule.  Standard Oil, at 860.  Defendants also rely on Sanchez v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1262, in which the Second District conducted the causal connection analysis in finding that the trial court had not abused its discretion in dismissing a case under the five-year rule over plaintiff’s objection that there had been a period of impracticability to be excluded from the five-year period due to one of the defendant’s attorney committing suicide.   The Second District emphasized that a plaintiff has a duty to exercise reasonable diligence to ensure that a case is brought to trial within the statutory period: “The critical factor is whether the plaintiff exercised reasonable diligence in prosecuting its case. [Citation.] The statute must be liberally construed, consistent with the policy favoring trial on the merits.' [Citation.] 'Reasonable diligence places on a plaintiff the affirmative duty to make every reasonable effort to bring a case to trial within five years, even during the last month of its statutory life. [Citation.]”Sanchez, at 1270, quoting Moss v. Stockdale, Peckham & Werner (1996) 47 Cal.App. 4th 494, 502, italics added by Sanchez court. The Second District set forth the standard of review to be applied:The determination “of whether the prosecution of an action was indeed impossible, impracticable, or futile during any period of time, and hence, the determination of whether the impossibility exception to the five-year statute applies, is a matter within the trial court's discretion. Such determination will not be disturbed on appeal unless an abuse of discretion is shown. [Citations.]” (Hughes v. Kimble, supra, 5 Cal.App.4th at p. 71.)Where a trial court has discretionary power to decide an issue, we are not authorized to substitute our judgment for that of the trial court. (Gilbert v. National Corp. for Housing Partnerships (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1240, 1250 [84 Cal.Rptr.2d 204].) Reversible abuse exists only if there is no reasonable basis for the trial court's action, so that the trial court's decision exceeds the bounds of reason. (Ibid.; Tahoe Keys Property Owners' Assn. v. State Water Resources Control Bd. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1459, 1470 [28 Cal.Rptr.2d 734].)Sanchez, at 1271.  The Second District in Sanchez reviewed the case law interpreting the impracticability analysis, and conducted the following causal connection analysis in the case before it:“In the instant case, there was no causal connection between the circumstances upon which plaintiffs are relying and their failure to bring the action to trial within five years. The failure to bring the action to trial within five years was not due to the suicide of Balderrama's attorney; nor was it due to the four-month period between the date Balderrama's need for independent counsel arose and Levin's entry into the case; nor was it due to the 69-day period during which plaintiffs sought writ review of a discovery ruling. Thus, the failure to try the case within five years was not impracticable for the reasons proffered.Rather, plaintiffs' failure to bring the action to trial within five years is attributable to their counsel's lack of diligence in failing to keep apprised of the case's chronology. The record reflects plaintiffs' counsel was under the misapprehension that the five-year anniversary of the case's inception would occur sometime in June or July of 2002. Consequently, on September 25, 2001, when the trial court selected a trial date of January 29, 2002, plaintiffs' counsel failed to alert the trial court to the fact that January 10, 2002, was the five-year mark and acquiesced in the setting of a trial date beyond the five-year period.Because it was the inadequate oversight of plaintiffs' counsel, rather than Levin's death, which led to plaintiffs' failure to bring the action to trial within five years, there was no causal connection between the circumstances upon which plaintiffs rely and their failure to satisfy the five-year requirement. In short, it was not impracticable to bring the action to trial for the reasons proffered.”Sanchez, at 1273.  Defendant Olympus argues in the reply that in the Sanchez case, no tolling period was recognized for the period during which the case was being considered for long-cause designation.  The facts in Sanchez do indicate that, “On October 27, 1999, after plaintiffs submitted a witness list in support of long cause designation, with a trial estimate of 25 days, the case was transferred to Central Civil West, with a status conference for December 18, 1999.”   Sanchez, at 1266.  It was also noted in the opinion that, “The long cause trial package was not completed until May 2001,” and that the case was then, on May 22, 2001, sent to the branch court in Compton for trial, and a trial date was scheduled for September of 2001.  Sanchez, at 1287.  There is no mention of the long cause package preparation period being argued or considered as a basis for an impracticability finding or extension in the Sanchez opinion, but this court recognizes that the significant period was not mentioned as a basis for finding the trial court had improperly dismissed the action before the five-year period had fully expired.  In any case, defendants argue that similarly to the Sanchez case here, the referral of the case to long cause was not the cause of plaintiff failing to bring the case to trial within five years, the cause was plaintiff’s counsel’s delay in seeking such a referral within the appropriate time to obtain such a determination within the deadline. Defendants also argue that plaintiff’s last minute submission of the case to long-cause was not the cause of his violation of the five year deadline, because the case was not trial ready when the circumstance arose.  Defendants argue that to date plaintiff’s counsel has still not produced his most important expert in this matter, Dr. Gazi, for a full and fair deposition.  Defendants point out that even Department 1 has confirmed that the case is “not trial ready,” as of the time the case was evaluated by Department 1, which was after the five-year deadline had passed.  [Tomlinson Decl. para. 51, Ex. BBB; Lindemann Decl., Ex. 10].  Defendants further argue that because the case was not trial ready when it was sent to long cause, as a matter of law, that period had no causal effect on plaintiff’s violation of the five-year deadline, and that such a circumstance does not reflect reasonable diligence.   With respect to diligence, defendants also argue that plaintiff was not reasonably diligent when he sought to force the case to long cause with only ten days remaining before the five-year deadline, and that if plaintiff truly felt the matter should be a long cause, he should have begun that process with sufficient time left in the statutory period.  Defendants cite to Salinas v. Atchison (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1, 14, in which the court of appeal observed:“Plaintiff continues to emphasize that he filed the at-issue memorandum eighteen months before the expiration of the five-year period, an “early” filing that he expected would produce the scheduling of a trial date before the end of the five-year period. However, the record before us strongly suggests it was common knowledge among members of the legal community in Kern County that a delay of 18 months after filing the at-issue memorandum before a trial setting conference was held was not unusual. Trial counsel must be charged with knowledge of the time constraints and courtroom limitations in the particular counties in which they practice.  Under the instant circumstances, the failure of plaintiff's counsel to anticipate that he would have difficulty getting a timely trial date, absent a preferential setting, is not an adequate excuse for the overall delay.”Salinas, at 14.  In Karubian v. Security Pacific Nat. Bank (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 134, the Second District found that the trial court had not abused its discretion in denying a motion to specially set a matter for trial which had been brought only 40 days prior to the expiration of the five-year deadline, and at a time when the trial court “correctly observed that the case was not at issue.” Karubian, at 139-40.As noted above, the duty of diligence applies “at all stages of the proceedings,” and the level of diligence required increases as the five-year deadline approaches.  Tejeda v. Blas (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1335, 1340. Defendants also argue that on July 13, 2023, when plaintiff asked the court to refer the case for a long-cause determination, under the Code it was already too late to do so.  Defendants rely on CCP section 594, which provides:“(a) In superior courts either party may bring an issue to trial or to a hearing, and, in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court, for good cause, otherwise directs, may proceed with the case and take a dismissal of the action, or a verdict, or judgment, as the case may require; provided, however, if the issue to be tried is an issue of fact, proof shall first be made to the satisfaction of the court that the adverse party has had 15 days' notice of such trial or five days' notice of the trial in an unlawful detainer action as specified in subdivision (b). If the adverse party has served notice of trial upon the party seeking the dismissal, verdict, or judgment at least five days prior to the trial, the adverse party shall be deemed to have had notice.(b) The notice to the adverse party required by subdivision (a) shall be served by mail on all the parties by the clerk of the court not less than 20 days prior to the date set for trial. In an unlawful detainer action where notice is served by mail that service shall be mailed not less than 10 days prior to the date set for trial. If notice is not served by the clerk as required by this subdivision, it may be served by mail by any party on the adverse party not less than 15 days prior to the date set for trial, and in an unlawful detainer action where notice is served by mail that service shall be mailed not less than 10 days prior to the date set for trial. The time provisions of Section 1013 shall not serve to extend the notice of trial requirements under this subdivision for unlawful detainer actions. If notice is served by the clerk, proof thereof may be made by introduction into evidence of the clerk's certificate pursuant to subdivision (3) of Section 1013a or other competent evidence. If notice is served by a party, proof may be made by introduction into evidence of an affidavit or certificate pursuant to subdivision (1) or (2) of Section 1013a or other competent evidence. The provisions of this subdivision are exclusive.”Defendants also rely on Martin v. K & K Properties, Inc. (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1559, 1567, in which the Second District observed:“A trial court must comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 594, subdivision (a), which requires that an issue of fact may not be tried in the absence of an adverse party unless the latter has been given 15 days notice of the date set for trial. With only 11 days remaining before the trial deadline, appellants obviously could not meet Code of Civil Procedure section 594’s requirement of 15 days’ notice of trial to the adverse parties, and consequently the trial court was without jurisdiction to set the case for trial before the August 20, 1984 deadline.”           Martin, at 1567. Defendants argue that plaintiff’s clear lack of diligence in this matter is further highlighted by the fact that plaintiff has made minimal movement to obtain the additional discovery plaintiff has stated he needs to complete each time he has requested a trial date continuance from the court. Defendant Olympus argues, for example, that plaintiff failed to serve a discovery request to inspect the allegedly defective medical device until after the five-year deadline had passed, on August 2, 2023, which is discovery which a diligent plaintiff would have pursued among the first item of discovery to be sought.  [Hoffman Decl, para. 57].  Moreover, defendants suggest that plaintiff’s sudden interest in a long cause determination was a contrived strategic move to avoid the five-year deadline, submitting a transcript from a hearing on June 21, 2023, only weeks before the July 11, 2023 hearing, when plaintiff’s counsel stated to the court that trial would take no longer than three weeks:“THE COURT:  ANYBODY HAVE TIME ESTIMATES?MR.LINDEMANN:  FROM PLAINTIFF’S PERSPECTIVE, I THINK IT’S A THREE-WEEK TRIAL. MR. VOGEL:  I DO TOO THE COURT:  THAT EXCLUDES VOIR DIRE?MR. LINDEMANN:  I THINK IT INCLUDES VOIR DIRE.” [Hoffman Decl., Ex. GGG, Transcript of Proceedings, June 21, 2023, p. 8:16-21; Tomlinson Decl., para. 45, Ex. XX, p. 8:16-21] Despite plaintiff’s suggestion that the court initiated the argument that the matter was a long-cause case, the transcripts submitted by defendants show that the matter was raised with some enthusiasm and effort by plaintiff at the July 11, 2023 hearing on the first Final Status Conference before the July 2023 trial date. “THE COURT: WELL, RIGHT NOW WE HAVE A WITNESS LIST FROM THE PLAINTIFFS, THAT'S NOT PREPARED PROPERLY, BUT THEY'RE ESTIMATING 104 HOURS. THAT MAKES IT A LONG CAUSE CASE. I DON'T THINK THIS IS A LONG CAUSE CASE. MR. HOFFMAN:· IT'S ABSOLUTELY NOT, YOUR HONOR.  THE COURT: BUT – MR. LINDEMANN: YOUR HONOR, I WOULD JUST POINT OUT I CALLED ALL THREE LONG CAUSE DEPARTMENTS IN LA. THEY ALL HAVE TRIAL FULLY OPEN NEXT WEEK, THEY SAID. SO I THINK THAT'S WHERE THIS MIGHT END UP BEING. I CALLED THREE OF THE JUDGES ON THE LIST. SO THAT MIGHT BE A POSSIBLE LANDING PLACE FOR THIS CASE NEXT MONDAY.”[Tomlinson Decl., Ex.  WW, Transcript of Proceedings, July 11, 2023, p. 17:9-21; See also Hoffman Decl., Ex. HHH]. During that hearing, the court indicated that the court was not going to send the matter to long-cause and suggested that plaintiff apply ex parte to the long-cause court for a long-cause determination and trial date.   [Transcript of Proceedings, July 11, 2023, pp. 22:25, 24, 27]. By the time of the second final status conference on July 13, 2023, the court, faced with a significant time estimate for the trial by plaintiff, issued the following order:“The matter is called for hearing. Over defense counsel’s' objection, the Court finds pursuant to 583.340(c) it is impossible, impractical, and futile to bring the case to trial by the expiration of the 5-Year Rule. The Court orders the 5-year statute extended to 09/15/2023 for the period of time that the case is being assessed by department 1 for long-cause trial designation at Stanley Mosk Courthouse. Counsel are ordered to meet and confer re: submitting a Long-Cause Package. The Court orders counsel to jointly submit the Long-Cause Package to Department 1 by no later than noon on 07/24/2023.[Tomlinson Decl., Ex. YY, Minute Order 07/13/2023, p. 1 of 2]. The transcript of the hearing from that date reflects the following exchange:“THE COURT: OKAY. SO JUST SO YOU KNOW, WHAT'S BEING DONE HERE, IF IT GOES TO LONG CAUSE AND HOW THE RULE'S EXTENDED IS STANDARD PROCEDURE. I RESEARCHED THIS. I DIDN'T GO, WHY DON'T I DO THAT, OKAY?  I ASKED AROUND ABOUT HOW IT WORKS. I ASKED OTHER JUDGES. SO THIS IS NOT JUST SOMETHING I'M SHOOTING FROM THE HIP AND DOING. SO A MOTION LIKE THAT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE IT WOULD BE SUCCESSFUL, BUT I DON'T KNOW. YOU COULD -- BUT THAT'S WHY -- I'M DOING IT THAT WAY BECAUSE, AS I'VE RESEARCHED THIS MYSELF AND ASKED A LOT OF OTHER QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW IT WORKS, THAT'S HOW I CAME UP WITH THAT.  MR. HOFFMAN: YOUR HONOR, I THINK THE MAJOR DIFFERENCE HERE IS THAT PLAINTIFF'S COUNSEL ARE ASKING THE COURT TO EXTEND FACT DISCOVERY BEYOND -- SO THIS CASE IS -- THEY'RE TELLING THE COURT THAT THE COURT'S NOT READY FOR TRIAL. THEY WANT MORE FACT DISCOVERY. SO THEY'RE NOT READY FOR IT TO BE SENT TO TRIAL RIGHT NOW.”[Tomlinson Decl., Ex ZZ, Transcript of Proceedings, July 13, 2023, pp.16:26 through 17:17]. The key issue with respect to the delay occasioned by the long-cause determination in this case, as opposed to the usual case where a long-cause determination is sought, is the issue identified by defendants at the hearing, and again in these motions, which continues to be an issue in this case, that is, that the case was and is not ready for trial at the time the long-cause determination is being sought.  Defendant Olympus points out that on August 2, 2023, plaintiff served Olympus with additional fact discovery, including requests for additional fact depositions and additional requests for production of documents.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 57, Ex. LLL].  Plaintiff further filed discovery motions seeking to compel further responses to that discovery, such as motions to compel depositions of PMQ and production of documents, filed on August 28, 2023.    The issue remains that despite clear indicators that this case was not in fact ready for trial at the time the long-cause determination was sought, plaintiff has represented in this matter that plaintiff was at all times in fact ready to proceed to trial.  Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration states:“25. Plaintiff continues to announce trial readiness on the record in the case, even acknowledging he would prefer to have an expert lineup that could be trusted to do the job agreed notwithstanding trial readiness, which has led to substitutions. There are over 1,800 document numbers on the register of actions in this dispute. There has been no finding that Plaintiff is not trial ready, nor has he or his counsel stated in court that that the parties are not ready for trial. Based on the Court’s orders issued on July 14, 2023, August 18, 2023, and September 29, 2023, Plaintiff through counsel, has spent tens of thousands of dollars preparing for trial in reliance on these findings regarding dates excluded. Plaintiff would be prejudiced as his serious life altering injuries sustained went unaddressed. We announced to the Court on each occasion that we insisted on proceeding to trial unless an order was entered excluding dates from trial. Plaintiff has submitted all pre-trial filings, exhibits lists, motions in limine, oppositions to motion in limine and other pre-trial filings.”[Lindemann Decl., para. 25].  The issue here is whether plaintiff, despite counsel’s testimony that plaintiff was and is ready for trial, was and is in fact actually ready for trial.     Defendants cite to Tanguilig v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 313, in which the court of appeal found that the trial court had not erred in that case in failing to toll the five-year clock for the period during which an order compelling a co-plaintiff to arbitration was in effect.   The court of appeal found that failing to bring to trial within five years the claims which had been expressly permitted by the court to proceed during the arbitration warranted dismissal of those claims, and no impossibility had been shown.  Tanguilig, at 323-325.  The court of appeal emphasized the critical component in such determinations that application of subdivision (c) is limited to periods over which plaintiff has no control:““[C]ase law” under section 583.310 has “long held that ‘[f]or the tolling provision of section 583.340, subdivision [ (c) ] to apply, there must be “a period of impossibility, impracticability or futility, over which  plaintiff had no control,” ’ because the statute is designed to prevent avoidable delay.” (Gaines, supra, 62 Cal.4th at p. 1102, 199 Cal.Rptr.3d 137, 365 P.3d 904.) The fact is Tanguilig chose, apparently as tactical matter, to include within the scope of her PAGA claim and within the putative class she sought to represent, employees who had signed an arbitration agreement. Surely, she knew—at the least she should have known—the inevitable consequence: Pleading claims that encompassed signatories to an arbitration agreement was bound to draw a motion to compel arbitration and potentially entangle the rest of the case in delays arising out of that motion, which is exactly what happened. Bearing in mind the employment litigation setting before us, we view any procedural complexities and delays occasioned by the Arbitration Order as not only predictable, but more importantly, invited. If entry of the Arbitration Order staying Pinela's claims had some collateral delaying effect on the pursuit of Tanguilig's claims, we view it as avoidable delay and thus conclude it cannot justify tolling.”Tanguilig, at 328-329. Here, it appears that plaintiff has not been diligent in pursuing having the trial commence within the five-year period.  The discovery difficulties upon which plaintiff apparently relies were not matters which were not within plaintiff’s control.  Those matters were within plaintiff’s control.  Specifically, plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration acknowledges that plaintiff is encountering difficulties with his “expert lineup,” which appears to be a reference to the circumstances which have developed around the failure of plaintiff’s expert Dr. Gazi to cooperate in having his deposition completed in this matter prior to being called at trial.   It appears from the file and the moving papers that Dr. Gazi was retained as plaintiff’s expert sometime prior to July 18, 2019, well before the five-year deadline had become an issue.  Specifically, the file shows that the court has recognized that the declarations of Dr. Gazi setting forth his opinions concerning medical causation and liability in this matter were first filed with the court on July 18, 2019. [Lindemann Decl., Ex. 2].  The court’s minute order of July 26, 2019 continued the hearing on the motions for summary judgment, noting that moving defendants had filed replies indicating that the Dr. Gazi declarations were not served with the opposition papers, and were untimely served and filed on July 18, 2019.  [Minute Order, 07/26/2019].  Plaintiff has been well aware that Dr. Gazi would be required to be fully deposed before he would be permitted to testify at trial concerning his opinions in this matter.  (See CCP section 2034.300 (“...on objection of any party who has made a complete and timely compliance with Section 2034.260, the trial court shall exclude from evidence the expert opinion of any witness that is offered by any party who has unreasonably failed to do any of the following:…(d) Make that expert available for a deposition”).    A critical fact in this matter is that Dr. Gazi is the only witness which has been designated by plaintiff to testify as to medical causation with respect to plaintiff’s injuries, which is a matter which must be established by plaintiff in this medical negligence action by expert medical evidence.  Salasguevera v. Wyeth Laboratories, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 385 (“medical causation can only be determined by expert medical testimony.”) Moreover, it appears that prior to the date of the second Final Status Conference in this matter, July 13, 2023, when counsel were ordered to jointly submit a long-cause package to Department 1, Dr. Gazi was also the only expert witness identified by plaintiff as offering liability testimony concerning the scopes, the basis for liability against defendant Olympus. It appears to the court that as of the date of the expiration of the five-year deadline on July 21, 2023, Dr. Gazi was still the only expert identified on this subject matter.  As noted above, on August 4, 2023, Department 1 confirmed in a minute order that the case was “not trial ready,” for purposes of a long-cause evaluation. [Tomlinson Decl. para. 51, Ex. BBB; Lindemann Decl., Ex. 10]. Department 1 expressly stated in its minute order:“The Court has reviewed the parties’ long cause trial submission and finds the parties are not trial ready. As an initial matter, Defendant filed a motion to compel a further deposition on July 24, 2023, indicating the parties have not concluded pretrial discovery. To be trial ready for purposes of a long cause trial assignment, all discovery must be completed.”[Tomlinson Decl. para. 51, Ex. BBB; Lindemann Decl., Ex. 10, p. 1 of 4]. It was not until September 29, 2023 that the court heard and granted a motion by plaintiff to augment his expert list to add two experts which had developed opinions regarding Olympus’ notice of problems with its scopes and the duties arising from that circumstance.   Neither of the experts added are medical doctors, and neither could be relied upon to offer medical causation testimony.  As of all of the critical dates here, plaintiff could not have proceeded to trial with Dr. Gazi as an expert in medical causation or in Olympus’ liability based on the use of Olympus scopes, because plaintiff and the witness had not cooperated in having Dr. Gazi’s deposition completed. The Hoffman Declaration in support of the Olympus motion explains in detail what the court has been made repeatedly aware of with respect to Dr. Gazi’s deposition.  Specifically, counsel for defendant’s began requesting the deposition of Dr. Gazi after Olympus’ motion for summary judgment was denied, and counsel for plaintiff refused to produce Dr. Gazi in person, so that on June 20, 2023, defendant Olympus filed an ex parte application to compel the deposition in person, which was granted.  [Hoffman Decl., paras. 35-37].  Plaintiff’s counsel represented that Dr. Gazi could only appear for a remote or in-person deposition in Dubai, as he had relocated there.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 37, Ex. QQ].  The court granted the motion, ordered the deposition to take place in Dubai, but the following day plaintiff’s counsel represented that Dr. Gazi was not in Dubai, but in Abu Dhabi.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 39, Ex. SS].  While defendants agreed to proceed with a deposition in Abu Dhabi, plaintiff then stated that Dr. Gazi would not appear in person in any location.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 40, Ex. TT]. This circumstance led to the filing of a second ex parte application, seeking compliance with the court’s previous order, at which time it was represented that Dr. Gazi would be in New York from the end of June to mid-July, and the court again ordered Dr. Gazi to appear for an in-person deposition.  [Hoffman Decl., pars. 41, 43, 44, Exs. UU, WW, XX].Dr. Gazi appeared for a deposition on June 15, 2023, in Syracuse, New York.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 55].  However, the deposition was cut off after less than two hours of testimony time, under conditions created by plaintiff’s counsel and the witness which prevented the expert from being fully deposed, and defendants filed another motion to compel a further deposition of Dr. Gazi, which was granted, and monetary sanctions awarded against plaintiff. [Hoffman Decl., para. 55]. As represented in Olympus’ reply papers, as of the filing of the reply papers on November 22, 2023, Dr. Gazi has still not submitted to a further deposition as ordered.  [Supp. Hoffman Decl., paras. 5, 7].The matter accordingly now is in a posture where no medical causation expert is prepared to testify at trial, despite the case being almost six years old.  [Supp. Hoffman Decl., paras. 6, 7]. While plaintiff has sought from this court orders permitting him to augment his expert designations and has been permitted leave to augment to add two experts who are not medical doctors and been ordered to immediately make those witnesses available for depositions, they are not scheduled to be produced until December 14, 2023 and December 18, 2023.  [Supp. Hoffman Decl., para. 5, Ex. 3]. Plaintiff’s second motion to augment, which included a request to designate a new expert medical doctor to replace Dr. Gazi, a Dr. Nicholas Karyotakis, was heard on November 17, 2023, but plaintiff’s counsel requested that the hearing be continued as the new expert Dr. Karyotakis was not responding to plaintiff’s counsel.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 6, Ex. 4, Transcript of Proceedings, 11/17/2023, Minute Order 11/17/2023]. It appears that by all objective criteria, the case is not now, and has not at the periods plaintiff’s counsel claims it was, ready for trial, for reasons which were at all times within the control of plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel. Specifically, when Dr. Gazi was ordered to be deposed in person in this action, and to appear in Syracuse, New York, plaintiff’s counsel, upon being informed by the witness that the witness would be available for only two hours, needed to explain to the witness that he would be deposed for an entire day, and that he was required to make himself available.   Once the deposition was adjourned, it was within plaintiff’s counsel’s control to offer other times for the resumption of the deposition, as evidently offered by counsel for defendants, who had traveled to New York for the deposition.  If the expert witness was on sabbatical of out of the country as the trial deadline approached, counsel should have been aware of this circumstance, and taken steps to see that the expert was available within the appropriate timeframe and was fully deposed prior to then.  In the alternative, plaintiff’s counsel should have timely taken the steps he now apparently recognizes would have been available to find a new expert with trial availability, who had been deposed and was ready to testify at the trial by the deadline.  With respect to the new experts, which plaintiff evidently will rely on to provide the critical testimony on liability due to Olympus scopes, which testimony Dr. Gazi will be unable to provide due to his de-designation as an expert witness, plaintiff could have designated such “scope” experts earlier.  Plaintiff had over two years from when Olympus was first substituted into the action to designate “scope” experts.  Plaintiff successfully has argued for statute of limitations purposes that plaintiff suspected he was injured by the scopes as of the filing of this action over five years ago.  Therefore, plaintiff had plenty of time with reasonable diligence to have liability experts on the scopes ready for trial.  This result shows lack of reasonable diligence by plaintiff’s counsel. The court also has some concern that it does not appear to be fair or just to permit plaintiff under circumstances where a matter is awaiting long-cause evaluation, but is not trial ready, to use the extra time while applying for long-cause to develop and strengthen plaintiff’s case which should have been ready for trial when application was made.  In fact, it appears from the long-cause minute order that the matter will not be considered for a long-cause designation in the future until discovery is complete, that is, until it is clear to the long-cause department that the matter is trial ready.This issue, in effect, whether the case was not in fact actually trial ready by the deadline, despite plaintiff’s protestations that it was, is critical, and must be determined by this court pursuant to the defendants’ motion to dismiss under the five-year rule.   This conclusion is particularly true given that both sets of defendants in their replies point out that the issues presented in this case were addressed in the recent published decision in Oswald v. Landmark Builders, Inc. (2023)__ Cal.App.5th__, 2023 WL 7581095, filed on November 15, 2023, in which the court of appeal reiterated that need for the trial court to make a finding concerning trial readiness.  The replies rely on the following language from Oswald:“We conclude the trial court here acted well within its discretion in determining that the courtroom closure and trial continuance at issue did not make it illegally impossible or impractical for plaintiffs to commence trial in a timely fashion. Rather, plaintiffs’ failure to timely commence trial was due to a lack of reasonable diligence, i.e., they were never ready for trial during the relevant periods. (See Jordan v. Superstar Sandcars (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 1416, 107 Cal.Rptr.3d 5 [tolling under dismissal statute (§§ 583.310, 583.340(c)) not required where court-declared moratoriums on civil trials did not prevent or interfere with prosecution of case as plaintiffs were never ready for trial at time of moratoriums].)   We will not accept plaintiffs’ repeated invitation to adopt the absurd rule that time to commence trial is tolled under section 583.340(c) whenever a courtroom is not available for trial without consideration of a plaintiff's readiness for trial.”Oswald v. Landmark Builders, Inc. (2023)__Cal.App.5th__, 2023 WL 7581095, at *4, italics in original. This legal authority was filed the day before opposition was filed in this matter, so plaintiff evidently has not had the opportunity to address this legal authority or its impact on the issues now before this court.   Moreover, since the Oswald decision was filed after the moving papers were filed, defendants have not had the opportunity to thoroughly develop the factual record with respect to trial readiness and its role in the analysis of causal connection and reasonable diligence.   Specifically, the court of appeal in Oswald addressed circumstances under which plaintiffs had not made affirmative representations that the matter had been trial ready, and also where plaintiffs protested that the court had unilaterally improperly set the trial date.   Pertinent language and reasoning from that case includes the court of appeal holding: “Nor are we persuaded by plaintiffs’ argument that they were not required to object to the trial court's re-setting of the trial to January 28, 2022 because their motion alerted the court to the deadline for trial and a later date would be acceptable “only if the five-year rule was waived.” Plaintiffs cannot foist onto the court their responsibility to timely bring their case to trial. That obligation lies solely on plaintiffs, who bore the responsibility to identify any problems concerning the scheduling of the trial and seek an order rescheduling the trial date to a date within the allotted five-and-one-half years. (Gaines, supra, 62 Cal.4th at p. 1104, 199 Cal.Rptr.3d 137, 365 P.3d 904, quoting Jordan, supra, 182 Cal.App.4th at p. 1422, 107 Cal.Rptr.3d 5.) Counsel did not ask for an earlier date on the motion to continue the trial date, never did so thereafter, and has made no showing that doing so would have been futile.  (De Santiago, supra, 155 Cal.App.4th at 374, 65 Cal.Rptr.3d 882 [finding plaintiff had a duty to take whatever “measures were available to attempt to accelerate the trial of the case before the expiration of the five-year period, including bringing a motion to advance the trial”].)Oswald, at 5, italics in original.   The court of appeal also observed:“Plaintiffs never announced they were ready for trial, likely because they never were close to being ready for trial. On appeal, plaintiffs do not address their readiness for trial and instead merely repeat they were automatically entitled to tolling when the court “re-set” trial for January 28 and they were not required to object to the setting of that date….Unlike in Coe, plaintiffs here not only failed to demonstrate reasonable diligence in prosecuting their action but evidenced “active malingering” in prosecuting the action. In addition, and again unlike Coe, the trial court did not act on its own motion and in the absence of counsel in continuing the action beyond the deadline for commencement of trial. And the trial court did not fail to respond to applications for relief after the trial date was set as plaintiffs made no such applications.”Oswald, at 6. The court accordingly is required to make the requisite findings concerning trial readiness in connection with its analysis on causality and reasonable diligence, and will require further briefing on those narrow issues, and on the impact of the recent Oswald decision.   The court will also expect further briefing to include a further factual record for the reference of the court in connection with trial readiness and the factors to be considered in connection with the analysis of whether the plaintiff can establish an exception to the running of the five-year period pursuant to CCP section 583.340, subdivision (c) during the period this matter is being evaluated for long-cause status, particularly on the issues of trial readiness, causality and reasonable diligence, including timelines and the submission of further evidence.    The court does not allow further briefing on the other issues raised by the motions to dismiss and plaintiff’s opposition, which are addressed in detail above. Motion to Augment  As noted above, this action is also on calendar this date for a hearing on plaintiff’s Motion for an Order to Augment and Substitute Experts, to De-Designate and Withdraw Dr. Tawhid Gazi, which was continued from November 17, 2023 to this date at the request of plaintiff.   The court notes the matter was continued with no further briefing allowed, “except a Notice of Different Expert Designation.”  [Minute Order, 11/17/2023].  The court also notes that as of November 27, 2023, four court days prior to the continued hearing date, plaintiff has not yet filed a Notice of Different Expert Designation.     RULING:Defendant Olympus America Inc.’s Motion to Dismiss Action for Failure to Bring the Matter to Trial is CONTINUED to December 22, 2023 for further briefing on the narrow issues of whether plaintiff can meet his burden pursuant to CCP section 583.340(c) of establishing that it is impossible, impractical, and/or futile to bring the case to trial within the five-year statutory period during the time the parties are engaging in preparing and amending their long-cause package, and the matter is under evaluation for submission to long-cause.   The Court will expect further legal briefing and a further factual record limited to the issues of trial readiness, causality and the exercise of reasonable diligence in connection with the above issue, and in light of the recently filed published decision of Oswald v. Landmark Builders, Inc. (2023)__Cal.App.5th__, 2023 WL 7581095.  Supplemental Opposition is to be filed and served by no later than December 11, 2023. Supplemental Replies are to be filed and served no later than December 15, 2023.  Supplemental briefs shall not exceed fifteen pages.   Courtesy copies are to be delivered to the courtroom by 4:00 p.m. on the date of filing. Defendants John A. Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D.’s Motion to Dismiss Action for Failure to Bring the Matter to Trial is CONTINUED to December 22, 2023 for further briefing on the narrow issues of whether plaintiff can meet his burden pursuant to CCP section 583.340(c) of establishing that it is impossible, impractical, and/or futile to bring the case to trial within the five-year statutory period during the time the parties are engaging in preparing and amending their long-cause package, and the matter is under evaluation for submission to long-cause.   The Court will expect further legal briefing and a further factual record limited to the issues of trial readiness, causality and the exercise of reasonable diligence in connection with the above issue, and in light of the recently filed published decision of Oswald v. Landmark Builders, Inc. (2023)__Cal.App.5th__, 2023 WL 7581095.  Supplemental Opposition is to be filed and served by no later than December 11, 2023.  Supplemental Replies are to be filed and served no later than December 15, 2023.  Supplemental briefs shall not exceed fifteen pages.   Courtesy copies are to be delivered to the courtroom on the date of filing. Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order to Augment and Substitute Experts, to De-Designate and Withdraw Dr. Tawhid Gazi is CONTINUED TO December 22, 2023, to be heard and ruled on only if the motions to dismiss are denied.   DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 