  Case Number:  23TRCV03380    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LILLIAN
  SMITH, SR., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03380




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
DANNY
  REYES,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 16,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Danny Reyes
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Lillian Smith Sr.
(1)  
Demurrer
(2)  
Motion to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AEMND as to each of the causes of action in the
complaint.  The motion to strike is
GRANTED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the prayer for punitive damages.
BACKGROUND
            On October 17, 2023, plaintiff
Lillian Smith Sr. (self-represented) filed a complaint against Danny Reyes, in
his individual capacity. 
The
Court has been asked by Defendant to take judicial notice of an action styled
Lillian Smith Sr. v. Danny Reyes, Case No. 23IWUD02233.  The Court is not clear why it is being
requested to take judicial notice of this case. 
The request is DENIED.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant Danny Reyes demurs to the
complaint and each of the causes of action on the grounds that they fail to
state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
The complaint alleges that although
plaintiff timely paid his rent on his storage unit, defendant Danny Reyes used
company embossed letters and company time and resources “to lie and say I did
not pay my rent in full each month since by contract began.”  Defendant “made me look bad to all my
sponsors and mentors by defaming me and misleading his co-workers into
believing I did not pay.”  Reyes
intentionally manually changed the company accounting statements to reflect
payment of two days and did not reflect that plaintiff paid for the month.  Plaintiff further alleges that defendant
withheld entry to the storage space, forced entry, and removed items.
Defendant argues that the complaint
is uncertain as to what specific causes of action plaintiff is actually
alleging as the only cause of action that plaintiff attached is for “general
negligence.”  Further, defendant
contends, as to negligence, plaintiff has not alleged facts to support duty,
breach, causation, and damages, including that plaintiff’s property was sold at
a lien sale, as plaintiff alleges that it was only allegedly “scheduled.”  As to a cause of action for “intentional
tort,” defendant argues that it is uncertain and the allegations do not support
such a cause of action.  As for breach of
contract, defendant points out that plaintiff does not allege the existence of
a contract between plaintiff and defendant. 
As to causes of action for premises liability, products liability, and
gross negligence, there are no allegations to meet the elements.  As to a “cause of action” for “intentional
knowingly producing company letters” and “altering” accounting statements,
defendant asserts that there is no such cause of action.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the allegations are sufficient.
The court rules as follows:  The complaint is procedurally defective and
uncertain.  Plaintiff fails to identify
each of the causes of action by number and attach a “cause of action” as
required for each one.  See Complaint, ¶10
(“each complaint must have one or more causes of action attached).  On the complaint, plaintiff marked the boxes next
to general negligence, intentional tort, products liability, premises
liability, and other (gross negligence, falsifying company documents, breach of
contract).  Plaintiff only attaches
“general negligence.”
Further, and importantly, the allegations
are insufficient as to all the purported causes of action.  Plaintiff has not pled facts to meet the
elements of any of them, for the reasons argued by defendant.  The complaint is a long listing of “facts”
that taken as a whole and liberally construing the “facts” pleads no cause of
action.  (In reaching this determination
the Court has ignored the additional facts that Defendant has included in the
demurrer wherein the Defenant describes the relationship between Plaintiff and
the self-storage facility.)
The demurrer to the complaint and
each of the purported causes of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Strike  
Defendant requests that the court
strike plaintiff’s request for punitive damages at para. 14.a.2.
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in
College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances
that are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).  Also,
“[i]nasmuch as Civil Code section 3294 requires as a prerequisite to the recovery
of punitive damages that the defendant ‘has been guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice,’ the cases have uniformly recognized that proof of negligence, even
gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.”  Dawes v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87 (citations omitted).
The allegations are insufficient to
show oppression, fraud, or malice.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
ORDER
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the complaint and each of the purported causes
of action.
The motion to strike is SUSTAINED
WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the prayer for punitive damages.
The Court urges Plaintiff to seek
assistance in preparing his amended complaint.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.