 Case Number:  22STCV18602    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  73 09/09/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
AVERY v. BELANGER, et al. (22STCV18602)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:  Jason Stone
(Stone & Sallus, LLP)
Counsel
for Defendants/opposing party:  R. Steven
Derryberry (Derryberry & Associates LLP)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT CATHERINE BELANGER TO PROVIDE
FURTHER RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET TWO, AND REQUEST
FOR SANCTIONS (filed 03/11/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to the Request for Production of Documents,
Set Two, Nos. 50, 51 and 57 is DENIED. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 7, 2022, Plaintiff Veronica Avery filed the instant action
against Defendants Catherine Belanger (“Catherine”), Benjamin Belanger,
Kannella, Inc. dba Re/Max All-Pro (Re/Max), and Does 1-10.
 
On October 3, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging the following causes of action:
1.      Elder
Financial Abuse
2.      Breach of
Fiduciary Duty
3.      Fraud
4.      Violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200 
5.      Declaratory
Relief and Injunctive Relief
The FAC
alleges that Plaintiff is an elder with dementia and cognitive decline, and
that Plaintiff suffered damages when Defendants took her home against her will
and forged her signature to complete the sale of her home to themselves at a
discounted price. 
 
On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Defendant Catherine
Belanger’s (“Defendant” or “Catherine”) Further Responses to Request for
Production of Documents, Set Two, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to Request
Nos. 50, 51 and 57.
·      
Defendant’s responses do not properly specify whether the
documents ever existed or not. Further, Defendant’s response does not identify
the party who may have the requested items. For example, if Defendant did have
insurance, then she needs to identify the insurance company and the other
parties who would have information regarding the policies. Defendant must
provide code compliant responses and produce any withheld documents.
·      
Plaintiff requests sanctions against Defendant and/or its counsel
in the amount of $3,212.50.
 
Defendant
filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Defendant’s responses are code compliant. 
o  
Plaintiff’s basis for the subject motion is that Defendant’s
responses to the three enumerated items were improper because they did not
specify “whether the documents ever existed or not.” This misstates the
requirements of § 2031.230. Defendant’s original response properly stated that
the requested documents “are not in Responding Party’s custody or control, and
in fact such documents, if they ever existed, [iv] have never been in
Responding Party’s custody or control.” As such there is nothing in the
Defendant’s original response which is improper. Further, Defendant’s
supplemented response to item 57 clearly stated that the “documents/items do
not exist.”
·      
Plaintiff failed to properly meet and confer
·      
Sanctions should not be imposed
 
Plaintiff
filed a reply, arguing:
·       Defendant’s counsel failed to respond to Plaintiff’s prior meet and
confer correspondence before this motion was filed because she told Plaintiff’s
counsel that she did not see the prior meet and confer correspondence because
she was out of town and that it was “her bad.” (Carpinelli Declaration ¶ 4).
·       In Defendant’s further response to RFP 51, Defendant says that her
insurance information is possessed by her broker, RE/MAX, but Defendant is
still working as an agent under RE/MAX and did not obtain the requested
insurance documentation from them.
·       Plaintiff does not dispute that Defendant’s further responses to RFP 50
and 57 are code compliant, but Plaintiff asserts it was untimely submitted
after Plaintiff had already filed this motion. Therefore, Defendant is subject
to monetary sanctions.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
A motion to compel further production must set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) It is not necessary for the
motion to show that the material sought will be admissible in evidence. “Good
cause” may be found to justify discovery where specific facts show that the
discovery is necessary for effective trial preparation or to prevent surprise
at trial. (See Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court (1967) 65
Cal.2d 583, 586-588; see also CCP §§ 2017.010, 2019.030(a)(1) (Information is
discoverable if it is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and it is not
unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source
that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive.); Lipton v.
Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611-1612 (noting a party may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence).) 
 
A motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or
production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion to compel a further response to a request for production
must be noticed within 45 days of the service of the response, or any
supplemental response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing. 
Otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel further response to
the inspection demand. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c); see also Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1409; Vidal Sassoon, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)  The motion must
also be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of any issue presented by it. (See
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).) Finally, a motion to compel
further responses to inspection demands must be accompanied by a separate
document that sets forth each item to which further response is requested and
the factual and legal reasons for compelling it. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a).)  
 
B.     
Meet and Confer
 
Plaintiff’s counsel states they sent a detailed meet and confer
letter to Defendant's counsel regarding the discovery responses at issue and a
deadline to provide further responses. (Carpinelli Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.) However, Defendant did not
provide further responses by the deadline. Defendant asserts that Plaintiff
failed to properly meet and confer because counsel’s letter did not give proper
consideration to Defendant’s supplemented responses. 
 
Nevertheless, the Court will consider the merits of the motion.
 
C.     
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to Request
Nos. 50, 51, and 57.
 
Plaintiff asserts that on or about November 21, 2023, Plaintiff
served her second set of Request for Production of Documents to Defendant Catherine.
(Carpinelli Declaration ¶ 4, Exhibit A.) Catherine served her responses to the
Request for Production of Documents, Set Two on or about December 22, 2023.
Upon Plaintiff’s review, these responses are deficient. (Carpinelli Declaration
¶ 5, Exhibit B.) On or about January 22, 2024, Plaintiff served her meet and
confer letter to Catherine. (Carpinelli Declaration ¶ 6, Exhibit C.) On or
about February 9, 2024, Catherine served her response to the meet and confer
letter. (Carpinelli Declaration ¶ 7, Exhibit D.) Catherine also served her
supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s second set of Request for Production of
Documents. (Carpinelli Declaration ¶ 8, Exhibit E.) 
 
Plaintiff served her second meet and confer letter on February 23,
2024. The letter provided a deadline for Catherine to provide further responses
by March 1, 2024. (Carpinelli Declaration ¶ 9, Exhibit F.)
 
On August 8, 2024, Catherine served further responses.
(Rose-McCaslin Decl., ¶ 5, Exhibit A.)
 
a.       Request No.
50
 
Request No. 50 states “Please produce all DOCUMENTS RELATED to
errors and omissions insurance that YOU had at the time of the SUBJECT TRANSACTION.”
 
Defendant’s further response states “Responding Party has made a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry for the documents/items but is unable
to comply with the demand because the documents/items never existed.”
 
The Court finds Defendant’s response is code compliant. In
Plaintiff’s reply separate statement, Plaintiff concedes that Defendant’s
further response is code compliant.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
Request No. 50.
 
b.      Request No.
51
 
Request No. 51 states “Please produce all DOCUMENTS RELATED to any
insurance policies that may provide YOU with coverage for the SUBJECT
TRANSACTION.”
 
Defendant’s further response states “Responding Party has made a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry for the documents/items but is unable
to comply with the demand because the documents/items, to the extent they ever
existed, are not in Responding Party’s custody or control, and in fact such
documents, if they ever existed, have never been in Responding Party’s custody
or control. 
If the
documents exist they would be in the possession of: 
KANNELLA,
INC. DBA RE/MAX ALL-PRO 
c/o Cheyanne
Terracciano 
43832 20th
Street West Lancaster, California 93534 
Phone: (661)
945-9461.”
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant has not made a diligent and good
faith inquiry into obtaining the sought information because Defendant still
works for RE/MAX. (Reply, Ex. G.) 
 
However, the Court finds Defendant’s response is code compliant.
Defendant provided the name and address of the possible location of the
requested documents. 
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
Request No. 51.
 
c.       Request No.
57
 
Request No. 57 states “Please produce any and all COMMUNICATIONS
related to title for the PROPERTY being placed only in BENJAMIN BELANGERS name
as his sole and separate property.”
 
Defendant’s further response states “Responding Party has made a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry for the documents/items but is unable
to comply with the demand because the documents/items do not exist.”
 
The Court finds Defendant’s response is code compliant. In
Plaintiff’s reply separate statement, Plaintiff concedes that Defendant’s
further response is code compliant. 
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
Request No. 57.
 
d.      Sanctions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310(h), monetary sanctions
shall be imposed where a party unsuccessfully opposes a motion to compel
further responses unless the Court finds the party acted with substantial
justification or other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.
 
Here, the Court will not impose sanctions. Defendant served
further responses and as discussed above, the further responses are code
compliant. 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
 
DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to the Request for Production of Documents,
Set Two, Nos. 50, 51 and 57 is DENIED. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
is DENIED.