 Case Number:  22STCV02685    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  73 09/09/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
DOMINGUEZ HILLS ESTATES v. WILLIAM J.
BEVERLY, et al. (23STCV02685)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:  John Manzano
(Tacsis Law APC); Jack Henningsen (Turner Henningsen Wolf & Vandenburg LLP)
Counsel
for Defendants:  Stephen Goldberg (Spierer,
Woodward, Corbalis & Goldberg)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO CONTINUE THE FINAL STATUS CONFERENCE, TRIAL
AND ALL APPLICABLE DISCOVERY AND MOTION CUTOFF DATES (filed 05/24/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Continue the Final Status Conference,
Trial, and all Applicable Discovery and Motion Cutoff Dates is GRANTED.
 
The new Trial Date is set for March 17, 2025,
at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued to March 3, 2025,
at 10:00 a.m. All case-related deadlines are to follow the new trial date.
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 7,
2023, Plaintiff Dominguez Hills Estates (“DHE”) filed this action against
Defendants William J. Beverly, William J. Beverly, as Trustee under Declaration
of Trust by William Mertz and Joelene Mertz, William J. Beverly dba Mertz
Management Company, Mertz Management Company, form of entity unknown, and Does
1 through 50. 
 
Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint on April 14, 2023, alleging the following
causes of action:
1.      Breach of
Contract;
2.      Breach of
Fiduciary Duty;
3.      Constructive
Fraud; and 
4.      Conversion.
 
The FAC
alleges the following. William J. Beverly is a former General Partner of DHE in
his capacity as Trustee under a Declaration of Trust by William Mertz and
Joelene Mertz. William J. Beverly also was doing business under the fictitious
business name of Mertz Management. Defendant William J. Beverly is
sued in both his capacity as trustee and individually. Beverly was prohibited,
under the express terms of the partnership agreement, from receiving
compensation for the management of the partnership affairs. In breach and
violation of the express terms of the partnership agreement, Beverly collected
a management fee from the operation of the partnership and concealed this fact
from the partnership and the other partners. Furthermore, Beverly conducted
himself as the managing general partner against the interest of the partnership
and in his own self-interest in such a manner that DHE was prevented from
receiving the benefits under the contract. By doing so, Beverly did not act
fairly and in good faith.
 
On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Continue the Final Status Conference,
Trial, and all Applicable Discovery and Motion Cutoff Dates.
 
No opposition
was filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
A
party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial must make the request for
a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.¿
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(b).)¿ The request for continuance may be
granted on an affirmative showing of good cause.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332.)¿
 
The
Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial
continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there
was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the
continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the
problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial. (See generally, Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subd. (d)(1)-(11).) Additionally, factors for the Court to consider
include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; the proximity of the trial
date; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact
or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), (d).)
 
B.     
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves for an order continuing the September 9, 2024 Final
Status Conference, the September 23, 2024 Trial, and all applicable discovery
and motion cutoff dates for a period of 180 days or any date thereafter.
 
Plaintiff asserts that the parties are “engaging in good faith settlement
discussions to resolve both this Action as well as its sister matter, Los
Angeles County Superior Court case number 22STCV32334.” (Manzano Decl., ¶ 4.) Thus,
due to the complexity of the contemplated settlement, additional time is needed
to both negotiate settlement terms as well as set up the financial aspects that
will very likely be needed in order to facilitate any such settlement, and
alternatively, to prepare for trial in the event that settlement is not consummated. (Manzano Decl., ¶ 4.) Further,
Plaintiff asserts that a new party—Defendant CHARLES GIOVINO aka CHUCK GIOVINO,
individually and as Trustee under Declaration of Trust by William Mertz and
Jolene Mertz (hereinafter, “Giovino”)—was recently added to the Action, and
additional time will also be needed in order to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial, should settlement not be consummated.
 
The Court
finds there is good cause to continue trial. The addition of a new party to the
action, the fact that there has only been one previous trial continuance and
the relatively short length of the requested continuance all weigh in favor of
a trial continuance. Further, Plaintiff asserts that the complex nature of the
contemplated settlement leaves no alternative means to address the need for a
continuance. Moreover, no opposition has been filed alleging prejudice.
Plaintiff asserts that all parties have stipulated to a continuance. Thus, the Court
finds the interests of justice are best served by a trial continuance. 
 
Accordingly, the
Court GRANTS the Motion to Continue the
Final Status Conference, Trial, and all Applicable Discovery and Motion Cutoff
Dates.
 
DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Continue the Final Status Conference,
Trial, and all Applicable Discovery and Motion Cutoff Dates is GRANTED.
 
The new Trial Date is set for March 17, 2025,
at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued to March 3, 2025,
at 10:00 a.m. All case-related deadlines are to follow the new trial date.