  Case Number:  20STCV34229    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  73 09/09/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND RESCUE LEAGUE,
INC., et al. v. GINOR, et al. (20STCV34229)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:  Bryan Pease
(Pease Law, APC); David Tenenbaum (Law Offices of G. David Tenenbaum); John
Maher (Law Offices of John Maher)
 
Counsel
for Defendants/opposing party:  Michael
Tenenbaum (The Office of Michael Tenenbaum); Thomas Rickeman (Brown Neri Smith
& Khan LLP)
 
(1)   DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STAY AND QUASH DEPOSITION NOTICES AND
SUBPOENAS AND FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER ENFORCING DISCOVERY CUT-OFF (filed 02/13/2024)
(2)   PLAINTIFFS’ Motion to COMPEL (filed 03/19/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Defendants’
Motion to Stay and Quash Deposition Notices and Subpoenas and for Protective
Order Enforcing Discovery Cut-Off is GRANTED and DENIED in part. Defendants’
request to stay and quash all third-party notices of deposition and
deposition subpoenas served after the June 26, 2023, discovery cut-off is
GRANTED. Defendants’ request for a Protective Order enforcing the discovery
cut-off and request for monetary sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel is DENIED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On September
4, 2020, Plaintiffs Animal Protection and Rescue League, Inc. (“APRL”), and
Dina Kourda (“Kourda”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint.  The
operative pleading is the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) which alleges causes
of action for (1) Consumer Legal Remedies Act, (2) unfair business practices,
and (3) declaratory relief against Defendants Michael Ginor, Izzy Yanay, HVFG
LLC, D’Artagnan, Inc., D’Artagnan, LLC, Ariane Daguin, Andy Wertheim, Bella
Bella Gourmet Foods LLC, La Belle Farm, Inc., Herman Lee, French Laundry
Partners, L.P., Thomas Keller, Michael’s Gourmet Pantry, Inc.,  MGP
Specialty Foods, J. Michael Stamm, and Cathy Stamm, Tyler Charman, Brian
Redzikowski, Matthew Spencer, Kettner House LP, SDCM Inc., and Petrossian, Inc. 
 
Plaintiffs
filed the instant lawsuit to enjoin the sale of foie gras, i.e., fattened duck
liver, which is obtained from force-fed duck and geese, and which violates
Health & Safety Code section 25982.  Plaintiffs also seek to enjoin
false and misleading statements made by Defendants regarding the foie
gras.  
 
On June 28, 2024, the Court continued
Plaintiff APRL’s Motion to Compel Discovery for failure to meet and confer.  
 
On September 6, 2024, APRL filed a notice of compliance with order to
adequately meet and confer. 
 
On February
13, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion to Stay and Quash Deposition
Notices and Subpoenas and for Protective Order Enforcing Discovery Cut-Off,
arguing:
·      
Defendants ask that the Court: (1) stay and quash all third-party
notices of deposition and deposition subpoenas served after the June 26, 2023,
discovery cut-off; (2) issue a protective order enforcing the cut-off by
directing that APRL not take any further discovery in this matter in violation
of the Code of Civil Procedure, and directing that APRL immediately provide to
Defendants copies of all deposition subpoenas and that APRL promptly notify all
subpoena recipients of the Court’s order; and (3) award monetary sanctions to
Defendants in an amount, to be determined in a separate motion, sufficient to
compensate Defendants and deter APRL’s continuing violations.
·      
Discovery in this case closed last summer, on June 26, 2023 —
i.e., 30 days before this case was set for trial. Cal. Civ. Proc. Code §
2024.020.
·      
The Court’s order of January 9, 2024, setting trial for July 31,
2024, expressly states, “Absent stipulation of the parties and a further court
order, no other dates or deadlines are continued or revived.”
·      
On February 2, 2024, APRL served Defendants with both a Notice of
Deposition of J.W. Strauss, LLC, D/B/A Pamplemousse Grille and a Notice of
Deposition of La Bastide, Inc., D/B/A Bistro du Marche, each with a deposition
date of February 13, 2024. (Declaration of Michael Tenenbaum (“Tenenbaum
Decl.”), Exs. 1 and 2.)
 
In
opposition, APRL argues:
·      
The parties and the Court discussed the issue of the discovery
cutoff as it relates to subpoenas at the March 7, 2024 hearing on Plaintiff’s
motion to enforce a prior discovery order.
·      
Given the Court’s position on the discovery cutoff, Plaintiff has
stated it is not taking any action to enforce the subpoenas.
·      
As there is no pending dispute regarding the subpoenas that were
issued, the motion should be denied if Defendants do not take it off calendar.
 
In reply,
Defendants argue:
·      
Without a protective order from the Court, Defendants have no
assurance that APRL will not continue to coerce Defendants’ customers into
providing documents via threats of lawsuits.
·      
The relief Defendants seek has been necessary, this motion should
be granted, and the Court should award Defendants’ attorney’s fees as monetary
sanctions against APRL for its discovery abuses in an amount to be determined
by separate motion or submission.
 
APRL filed a
response to Defendants’ reply, arguing:
·      
Defendants’ reply contained new arguments and misstated evidence.
Nevertheless, APRL asserts Defendants’ motion is moot since March 7, 2024 when
the Court confirmed discovery was closed. 
 
On March 19,
2024, Plaintiff APRL filed the Motion to Compel, arguing: 
·       APRL moves
for an order compelling production of documents and further deposition of HVFG,
LLC vice president Marcus Henley regarding those document, and for HVFG, LLC to
be required to pay the cost of the continued deposition
·       Discovery is
open as to this deposition by agreement of the parties
o   As stated in
the February 13, 2024 Declaration of Michael Tenenbaum, paragraph 8: “the
parties agreed that these party depositions — as well as depositions of
identified representatives of Defendants — would proceed after the cut-off.”
(Declaration of Attorney Bryan Pease (“Pease Decl.”), ¶6, Ex. 5.)
o   discovery is
still open as to this particular deposition, which was noticed prior to the
discovery cutoff and continued by agreement of the parties.
·       The motion is timely
·       Defendants did not serve valid objections to the document request
o   Defendants served an objection to the original deposition notice, but not
to the second amended deposition notice.
·       There is good
cause to require production of documents
 
In opposition, Defendants argue that:
·       APRL Failed
to Meet-and-Confer with Defendants
·       APRL’s Motion
is Time-Barred
o   APRL’s Motion
was Filed more than 60 Days After the Completion of the Record of Mr. Henley’s
Deposition
o   APRL’s Motion
was Filed After the Discovery Motion Cutoff
o   APRL Fails to
Show Good Cause for the Production of Documents
o   HVFG’s
Objections Are Meritorious
o   APRL Should
Be Ordered to Pay Sanctions
In reply, APRL maintains that the Court should grant the instant motion.

 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Defendants’ Motion to Stay and Quash Deposition Notices and Subpoenas
and for Protective Order Enforcing Discovery Cut-Off
 
Defendants request that the Court: (1) stay and quash all
third-party notices of deposition and deposition subpoenas served after the
June 26, 2023, discovery cut-off; (2) issue a protective order enforcing the
cut-off by directing that APRL not take any further discovery in this matter in
violation of the Code of Civil Procedure, and directing that APRL immediately
provide to Defendants copies of all deposition subpoenas and that APRL promptly
notify all subpoena recipients of the Court’s order; and (3) award monetary
sanctions to Defendants in an amount, to be determined in a separate motion,
sufficient to compensate Defendants and deter APRL’s continuing violations.
 
Discovery in this matter closed on June 26, 2023, 30 days before
this case was set for trial. (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 2024.020.) By order dated
January 9, 2024, the Court ruled: “Absent stipulation of the parties and a
further court order, no other dates or deadlines are continued or revived.”
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020, subdivision (a), “any
party shall be entitled . . . to have motions concerning discovery heard on or
before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the
action.”
 
Defendants bring this instant motion to stay and quash the
third-party Notice of Deposition of J.W. Strauss, LLC, D/B/A Pamplemousse
Grille, the third-party Notice of Deposition of La Bastide, Inc., D/B/A Bistro
du Marche, and all other deposition subpoenas, including but not limited to
deposition subpoenas for the production of business records, that Plaintiff
Animal Protection and Rescue League, Inc. (“APRL”), has served on other third
parties since June 26, 2023.
 
APRL asserts that Defendants’ motion is moot. APRL states that the
parties discussed the issue of the discovery cutoff at the March 7, 2024
hearing. In the Court’s March 7, 2024 order, the Court reiterated that the
discovery deadline has passed. Thus, APRL contends it has not taken any action
to enforce the subpoenas. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Defendants’ request to stay and quash all
third-party notices of deposition and deposition subpoenas served after the
June 26, 2023, discovery cut-off. Since APRL states it is not seeking to
enforce the outstanding subpoenas nor issue any new ones, the Court is not
inclined to grant Defendants’ request for a protective order or monetary
sanctions. 
 
B.     
Plaintiff APRL’s Motion to Compel 
 
a.       Legal
Standard
 
If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or
an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.230,
fails to appear for examination, to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, without having served a valid objection
under Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.410, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.450(a).)
 
b.      Meet and
Confer
 
“The
Discovery Act requires that, prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the
moving party declare that he or she has made a serious attempt to obtain
'an informal resolution of each issue.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western
Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016 (internal quotations and
citations omitted) (emphasis added).) 
 
On September 6, 2024, APRL filed a notice of compliance with order to
adequately meet and confer. APRL’s counsel states that on September 5, 2024, the
parties discussed the motion by telephone and the parties were unable to
resolve their differences. 
 
The Court finds the moving party satisfied its meet and confer
obligation. 
 
c.       Discussion
 
APRL moves to compel production of documents and further
deposition of HVFG, LLC vice president Marcus Henley regarding documents that
were not produced at his deposition. 
 
APRL states that although the discovery deadline has passed, the
parties had agreed that depositions of identified representatives of Defendants
would proceed after the discovery cut-off. (Pease Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 5.) APRL contends
that pursuant to Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 2016.030, “unless the court orders
otherwise, the parties may by written stipulation modify the procedures
provided by this title for any method of discovery permitted under Section
2019.010.”
 
As discussed above, discovery in this matter closed on June 26,
2023, 30 days before this case was set for trial. (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code §
2024.020.) By order dated January 9, 2024, the Court ruled: “Absent stipulation
of the parties and a further court order, no other dates or deadlines
are continued or revived.” (emphasis added.) Further, on March 7, 2024, the
Court denied APRL’s Motion to Enforce Prior Discovery Order, citing its January
9th order requiring Court approval for any further discovery motions and noting
that APRL had failed to receive such approval. (Court’s 3/7/24 Minute Order
[“[The deadline for discovery motions] has long passed in this action. There is
no order allowing this motion to be heard. Accordingly, the court will not
entertain the motion.”].)
 
Here, APRL
has not moved to reopen discovery nor has the Court issued an order reopening
discovery. Thus, APRL’s motion to compel is denied. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendants’
Motion to Stay and Quash Deposition Notices and Subpoenas and for Protective
Order Enforcing Discovery Cut-Off is GRANTED and DENIED in part. Defendants’
request to stay and quash all third-party notices of deposition and
deposition subpoenas served after the June 26, 2023, discovery cut-off is
GRANTED. Defendants’ request for a Protective Order enforcing the discovery
cut-off and request for monetary sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel is DENIED. 