 Case Number:  22STCV36219    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SUZANNE CARNEY,
  an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, a California
  municipal corporation, and DOES 1 through 50 inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV36219
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE
  FIRST AMENDED AND SUPPLEMENTAL COMPLAINT
 
Date: March 15, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Suzanne Carney
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant City of Los Angeles
 
The
Court has considered the moving papers. Plaintiff’s Motion For Leave To File
First Amended And Supplemental Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND        
Procedural History
            Suzanne Carney
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on November 16, 2022, alleging three causes of
action: (1) nuisance, (2) trespass, and (3) inverse condemnation against the
City of Los Angeles (the City) after the City allegedly caused damage to
Plaintiff’s property while attempting to repair a sewage line. The motion
before the Court now is Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File a First Amended
and Supplemental Complaint (Motions). The Motion is unopposed. 
 
Factual Background
            Plaintiff owns 2298
Ronda Vista Drive, Los Angeles, California, 90027 (the Property). In
anticipation of selling the property, Plaintiff hired a contractor to conduct a
sewer inspection. (Complaint, ¶¶ 5-6.) At the recommendation of the
contractor, Plaintiff contacted the City after the contractor’s inspection
revealed that the sewer pipes were decaying. (Complaint, ¶ 7.) Plaintiff then
alleges that in the City’s attempts at repairing the sewer pipes, the City
cause more damage including digging a large hole in a portion of the Property, exposing
bedding planes on the hillside, and leaving the hillside where the Property was
located vulnerable to landslides. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 9 and 18.) Plaintiff then
filed suit. 
          
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
            A party may amend its pleading once
without leave of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion
to strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before
the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and
served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or
motion to strike. A party may amend the pleading after the date for filing an
opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike, upon stipulation by the
parties. The time for responding to an amended pleading shall be computed from
the date of service of the amended pleading. (Ca. Civ. Proc. Code § 472(a).)
 


 
Analysis
            Plaintiff files for leave to amend
because further discovery has unearthed facts that were nor previously
available to Plaintiff. Plaintiff seeks to add, among other things, a contract
claim, however the grounds for this claim were not made known to Plaintiff
until December 6. Then Plaintiff, pursuant to the Government Claims Act, was
obligated to file a Government Claim, receive a denial, then file with this
Court. Plaintiff has done so.  
 
            The Court notes that the Motion was
filed well after the answer. However, as Plaintiff points out, delay alone is
not grounds for denial, prejudice must be shown too. ((Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564. [“Where no prejudice is shown to adverse party,
liberal rule of allowance prevails to permit amendment to a pleading in
furtherance of justice.”]) The City has not shown prejudice, and the Court sees
none. 
 
CONCLUSION
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion
For Leave To File First Amended And Supplemental Complaint is GRANTED.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 15th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 