 Case Number:  21STCV10195    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DOE WILLIAMS,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV10195
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date: 
  March 15, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Doe Williams
 
The Court has considered the moving papers.  No opposition papers were filed.  Any opposition papers were required to have
been filed and served at least nine court days before the hearing under California
Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b). 
 
BACKGROUND
            On March 15, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Complaint.
 On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”). The FAC asserts 52 causes of action
arising out of a physical altercation with another inmate at LASD Men’s Central
Jail while Plaintiff sat in his wheelchair as he is mobility impaired. 
 
On January 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion for leave to file a second amended complaint. 
 
DISCUSSION
CCP §473(a)(1) states: “The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  
 
Judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, the
courts have held that “there is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance
of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268)
[“Trial courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting
amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and
including trial where the adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].) 
 
Pursuant to CRC 3.1324(a), a
motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered; and (2) state what allegations are
proposed to be deleted from or added to the previous pleading and where, by
page, paragraph, and line number, such allegations are located.  CRC 3.1324(b) requires a separate declaration
that accompanies the motion, stating: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
 
Plaintiff has not complied
with the procedural requirements of CRC 3.1324. Plaintiff does not identify where,
by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations that are to be deleted and
added are located as required by subdivision (a). Plaintiff also does not
provide an adequate declaration stating what is required by subdivision (b).
Lastly, Plaintiff has not filed a proof of service on any parties, and none
have opposed the motion.
 
The Motion is therefore DENIED without prejudice. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
 
  Dated
this 15th day of March 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 