 Case Number:  23STCV30401    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MAUD CHAIRA, an
  individual 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CITIGUARD, INC.; and DOES 1-100; 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV30401
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date: March 15, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Citiguard, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Maud Chaira
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. Defendant’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED
in its entirety. The Motion to Strike is DENIED as moot.
Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend. 
 
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
Procedural History
             Maud Chaira (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on December
13, 2023, against their[1]
former employer Citiguard Inc. (Defendant) for the following five causes of
action:
1.     Wrongful
Termination
2.     Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
3.     Retaliation –
Labor Code §§ 98.6, 1102.5
4.     Failure to Pay
Wages
5.     Waiting Time
Penalties
 
            The motions now before the Court are
Defendant’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike. Defendant demurs to all five causes
of action. Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Demurrer, and Defendant filed a
reply. The Motion to Strike is unopposed. 
 
Factual Background
            Plaintiff was hired to
work for Defendant as a Shift leader in 2019. (Complaint, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff was
paid $17.00 per hour, worked 40-hur weeks, but alleges that there was some
period of time for which they were not paid. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff’s job
consisted of making sure all guards had a handheld transceiver, that phones
were in the tower, that guards were at their post, and that nurses were
provided with security guards when nurses requested them. (Complaint, ¶ 13.)
Additionally, Plaintiff was to assist with transporting the bodies of hospital
patients who had recently passed to either the morgue or an outside freezer.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 13-14.) However, on occasion, Plaintiff noticed that the
freezers were not cold enough, and that blood and other bodily fluids from the
bodies would seep out of the body bags holding the bodies. (Complaint, ¶ 15.)
 
            Plaintiff reported these
issues to his supervisor and to the head supervisor for the nurses, and other
nurses, at the hospital Plaintiff was stationed at. (Complaint, ¶ 18.) Several
of the bodies moved were infected with COVID-19. (Compliant, ¶ 15.) On December
27, 2021, Plaintiff was instructed by the hospital’s director to (1) open the
body bags containing persons who died with COVID, (2) change the body bags, and
(3) label or relabel the persons on the new body bag. (Complaint, ¶ 24. )
Plaintiff mad multiple complaints about unsafe exposure to COVID-19 but alleges
that Defendant threatened their job if they did not do as instructed.
(Complaint, ¶ 26.) In 2022, without explanation, Plaintiff was terminated.  
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             “Before filing a demurrer…the demurring party
shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an
agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the
demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a); see also CCP § 435.5 (imposing similar
requirements for a motion to strike).) Defendant presents the Declaration of
Daniel M. Josephson (Josephson Decl.) which states that the parties conferred
on January 5, 2024 telephonically and via email. (Josephson Decl., ¶ 3.)
Although no agreement was reached, the requirements of 430.41(a) and 435.5 are
satisfied. The Court now turns its attention to the Demurrer and Motion to
Strike. 
 


 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard for
Demurrer
            “[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury
Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court
may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or
documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of
ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true,
but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2
Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Analysis for
Demurrer
A.    Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy
            “The
elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in violation of public policy are
(1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer terminated the
plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was substantially motivated by a
violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm. It
is well established that a termination premised on an employee’s refusal to
violate either a statute or an administrative regulation may support a claim
for wrongful termination in violation of public policy.” (Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical Center (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234, citation omitted.)
 
            This
cause of action fails because the Complaint fails to demonstrate that the
termination was substantially motivated by a violation of public policy.
Plaintiff alleges an employer-employee relationship (Complaint, ¶ 11) and that
the employer terminated them (Complaint, ¶ 27.) However, it is unclear in the
Complaint that the termination was substantially motivated by a violation of
public policy -- even the Complaint concedes Plaintiff was terminated without
explanation. (Id.) Additionally, it is unclear that transferring corpses
was part of the duties assigned to Plaintiff by Defendant. Moreover, per the
Complaint, the instructions to open the body bags containing persons who died
with COVID, change the body bags, and relabel them came from the Director of
the hospital, not Defendant. (Complaint, ¶ 24.) Finally, Plaintiff argues that
their termination was motivated by Plaintiff’s gender, disability, medical
condition, and their engagement in protected activity, however the Complaint
fails to make clear how this is so. No facts in the Complaint demonstrate
animus towards any of Plaintiff’s identified protected categories nor what
protected activity was being punished. Without the third element properly
alleged, this cause of action fails.     
 
B.    Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED)
              “The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community.” (Wilson v.
Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.) 
 
            Generally,
and with limited exceptions,
California's Workers' Compensation Act (WCA) is the exclusive
remedy for injuries arising out of and in the course of employment. (Claxton
v. Waters (2004) 34 Cal.4th 367, 372-373.) This typically bars
any suit from moving forward because of the rule that the WCA is the exclusive
remedy. Plaintiff argues however, that the cause of action for IIED is not
barred by the WCA because the conduct exceeded the normal boundaries of the
employment relationship, citing Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1 (“Shoemaker”).
However, the Complaint contains no facts substantiating that claim. The Court
agrees that moving corpses that are infected with COVID-19, without proper
personal protection equipment (PPE) is dangerous, there is no indication that
Plaintiff was instructed to do so by Defendant. The Complaint merely indicates
that “Since Mr. Chaira [Plaintiff] had keys to the elevator, morgue, and
outside freezer, Mr. Chaira was to assist in transporting patients who recently
passed to either the morgue or the outside freezer. Sometimes he would transfer
COVID patients without proper safety gear.” (Complaint, ¶ 13.) As
aforementioned, the Complaint fails to make clear whether this was a part of
Plaintiff’s job duties, or a task requested by the hospital Plaintiff was
providing security for. Without proper allegations that Defendant was
instructing Plaintiff to complete extreme and outrageous conduct, the cause of
action fails.    
   
C.    Retaliation –
Labor Codes §§ 98.6 and 1102.5
            Both Labor Codes §§ 98.6 and 1102.5
are provisions of California’s Labor Code which prevent retaliation for
employees conducting protected activity, including reporting or disclosing
information to a government or law enforcement agency. Defendant challenges the
Complaint on two grounds here: (1) the allegations in the Complaint are
contradictory and (2) the cause of action fails because it is uncertain. The
Court agrees with both. 
 
            First, the Complaint does not allege
what protected activity was being punished. There is no fact alleging Plaintiff
informed any outside agency regarding the leaking body bags, dysfunctional
freezer, or general unsafe working conditions. These were reported to either a
supervisor or the hospital staff. Second, the Complaint never indicates the
reason behind Plaintiff’s termination. Here, the cause of action fails because
the facts as alleged are insufficient to sustain a cause of action for
retaliation. 
D.    Failure to Pay
Wages and Waiting Time Penalties
            Willful failure to pay an employee
who is discharged or quits subjects the employer to a penalty in the
amount of the wages, until payment is made, or an action is commenced, but
that penalty may not continue for more than 30 days. (LAB § 203(a).)
Here, however, the Complaint fails to indicate the day or month Plaintiff was
terminated. Therefore, it is unclear when Plaintiff ceased to work with
Defendant and how much is owed to Plaintiff. 
 
Motion to Strike
            Because the Demurrer has been
sustained in its entirety, the Motion to Strike is denied as moot. 
 
Leave to Amend
            Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without
leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be
cured by amendment”]. As there is reasonably possibility of successful
amendment, the Court grants Plaintiff 20 days leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety. The Motion to Strike is DENIED
as moot. Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend. 
 
 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 15th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






