  Case Number:  23TRCV03390    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative  Ruling    HEARING DATE:                 November 13, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV03390  CASE NAME:                        Rashamid Mateen, et al. v. Ho Chung, et al.    MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Lyft, Inc.   RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs, Rashamid Mateen, Arielle Staley, and Christopher  Moreneau   TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.   MOTION:                              (1) Motion to Compel Arbitration      Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED as to Lyft, ARGUE as to Lyft’s co-defendant Chung Oh.  If the Notice of Related Case in the  earlier-filed case pending is Torrance is corrected and re-filed, Judge Tanaka  will rule on, and if he grants the NORC he will manage the issue of potentially  conflicting rulings.  The Court will set  an arbitration status conference approximately 9 months out.                                                       Does Lyft’s co-defendant Chung Oh take a  position on this motion?  Does Plaintiff  seek to have the case against Chung Oh stayed or to proceed on parallel tracks  against the two separate defendants?                                                     I. BACKGROUND¿  ¿  A. Factual¿  ¿¿              On October 12, 2023, Plaintiffs, Rashamid Mateen, Arielle Staley, and  Christopher Moreneau (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a  complaint against Defendants, Ho Chung, Lyft, Inc., and DOES 1 through 100. The  complaint alleges one cause of action for: (1) Negligence/ Negligence Per Se.                Defendant, Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”) now  files a Motion to Compel Arbitration.    B. Procedural     On  October 11, 2024, Defendant Lyft filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration. On  November 1, 20234, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. On November 5, 2024,  Lyft filed a reply brief.    II. ANALYSIS ¿  ¿  A.     Legal Standard  The Federal Arbitration  Act (“FAA”) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing  a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy  thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid,  irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in  equity for the revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) California law incorporates  many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act,  including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente  Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) California law states  that “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the  existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to  the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the  petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines  that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, §  1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the  existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears  the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle  Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55  Cal.4th 223, 236.) Pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to  compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either  (1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel  arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;  or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or  create conflicting¿rulings on common issues.    When seeking to compel  arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the  existence of a valid arbitration agreement by preponderance of evidence.   (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa  v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It  is sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of the arbitration  agreement or set forth the agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa, 72  Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The burden then shifts to the opposing party to  prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract  or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,  72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  Subsequently, the moving party must  establish with the preponderance of admissible evidence a valid arbitration  agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then  weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion to make a final  determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law],  reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close  judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific  Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.)    If the court orders  arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is  completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)    B.      Discussion    Defendant Lyft submits evidence of each Plaintiff having a  history of consenting on the Lyft platform. For example, Lyft’s evidence  includes the following consents of Plaintiff Stanley: (1) September 10, 2021;  and (2) January 8, 2023. Lyft’s evidence also includes the following consents  of Plaintiff Mateen: (1) December 19, 2016; (2) December 25, 2017; (3) August  15, 2018; (4) May 2, 2023. Lastly, Lyft’s evidence includes the following  consents from Plaintiff Morneau: (1) October 18, 2016; (2) November 21, 2019;  (3) January 6, 2021; and (4) January 8, 2023.     Defendant Lyft also  includes the Arbitration Agreement it argues has been accepted by the  Plaintiffs several times through updates to the Terms and Services. Lyft states  that introduction on the very first page of the Terms of Service alerted  Plaintiffs to the arbitration agreement, conspicuously and unambiguously  sating:     PLEASE BE ADVISED: THIS AGREEMENT  CONTAINS PROVISIONS THAT GOVERN HOW CLAIMS BETWEEN YOU AND LYFT CAN BE BROUGHT  (SEE SECTION 17 BELOW). THESE PROVISIONS WILL, WITH LIMITED EXCEPTION, REQUIRE  YOU TO SUBMIT CLAIMS YOU HAVE AGAINST LYFT TO BINDING AND FINAL ARBITRATION…    By entering into this Agreement,  and/or by using or accessing the Lyft platform you expressly acknowledge that  you understand this Agreement (including the dispute resolution and arbitration  provisions in Section 17) and accept all of its terms. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO  BE BOUND BY THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MAY NOT USE OR  ACCESS THE LYFT PLATFORM…   (Lyft’s  Compendium of Exhibits (“COE”), Exhibit 3.)               Per Lyft, the “SEE SECTION 17 BELOW”  is a blue hyperlink that takes the reader directly to the full arbitration  provision within the Terms of Service. The arbitration provision itself, under  the bolded heading “DISPUTE RESOLUTION AND ARBITRATION AGREEMENT,” states  in capital letters: “YOU AND LYFT MUTUALLY AGREE TO WAIVE OUR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS  TO RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES IN A COURT OF LAW BY A JUDGE OR JURY AND AGREE TO  RESOLVE ANY DISPUTE BY ARBITRATION,…” (COE, Exhibit 3, ¶ 17(a).) Further, the  scope of the agreement states it covers “any dispute, claim or controversy,  whether based on past, present, or future events, arising out of or relating  to…the Lyft Platform, the Rideshare Services…and all other federal and state  statutory and common law claims.” (COE, Exhibit 3, ¶ 17(a).)               In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that  this court should deny the motion because the arbitration provision is  inapplicable to Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendant Chung Ho and that the  provision does not contemplate motor vehicle accidents being submitted to  arbitration. First, as for the issue regarding Defendant, Chung Ho, Plaintiffs  assert that they are not contractually bound to arbitrate their motor vehicle  personal injury claims against Defendant Ho and thus, the motion must be denied  due to the real possibility of inconsistent rulings and cumulative and  duplicative use of judicial resources. Plaintiffs rely on Code of Civil  Procedure section 1281.2. However, Plaintiffs also do not dispute that the  Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies. Therefore, Code of Civil Procedure  section 1281.2 is preempted, and the third-party litigation exception under  California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.2(c) is preempted [Dias v.  Burberry Ltd. (S.D. Cal. June 9, 2021) 2021 WL 2349730, at *18 (holding  that Section 1281.2 was inapplicable because FAA governs the Agreement)].                Next, as to the issue of whether the  arbitration provision contemplated motor vehicle injury claims against  Defendant Chung Oh.   Plaintiffs argue they lacked constructive  notice that a motor vehicle accident would be subject to arbitration because  Lyft lists a number of specific claims despite arguing “all claims” are subject  to arbitration. Thus, Plaintiffs contend the “all claims: language is ambiguous  because: (1) it does not give notice of motor vehicles specifically being  subject to this arbitration provision even though it lists over 50 specific  types of claims subject to arbitration; and (2) the “all claims” language is  misleading because there are other sections of the arbitration provision that  also discuss claims not being subject to all claim’s verbiage. Because of this,  Plaintiff states there was no knowing waiver of their rights to a jury trial.                The Court requests oral argument as  to whether Chung Oh consents to arbitrate plaintiff’s claims against him or  opposes arbitration.  The Court assumes  that as a Lyft driver, Chung Oh agreed to arbitrate any disputes he might have  with Lyft, including any cross-complaint that Lyft might bring against him for  indemnity or contribution.  The claims  against Lyft may be separate or wholly interrelated with the claims against  Chung Oh.  Having piecemeal litigation as  between parties to the arbitration agreement and parties who are  non-signatories was contemplated by Congress in the FAA and has been addressed  by caselaw.  As noted in Lyft’s Reply  Brief, the manner of handling non-signatories as third parties is to stay the  litigation against them while the arbitration proceeds, or to have the cases  proceed separately.  Given the potentially  related case pending in Torrance, the Court seeks oral argument as to whether  to stay Plaintiff’s case against co-defendant Chung Oh or to have parallel  proceedings progress.                      III.   CONCLUSION               Based on the foregoing, Defendant  Lyft’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.   Lyft is ordered to give notice. 