 Case Number:  23STCV26327    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for  Sanctions Pursuant to CCP § 128.7   Moving Party: Plaintiff  Vrezh Hovhannisyan Resp. Party:    Defendants Soraya Moazaam and Faro Optometry  Inc.     The Motion for  Sanctions Re: Demurrer is DENIED.   BACKGROUND:   On October  27, 2023, Plaintiffs Vrezh Hovhanissyan and Leo Gonzalez filed their Complaint against  Defendants Soraya Moazaam, Faro Optometry Inc., and Faro Management, LLC. The  causes of action arise from an alleged business relationship gone awry.    On December  14, 2023, the First Amended Complaint (FAC) was filed, which omitted Leo  Gonzalez as a plaintiff and added a cause of action.    On December  21, 2023, Plaintiff Vrezh Hovhanissyan (“Plaintiff”) filed Notice of Errata Re  First Amended Complaint.    On March 27,  2024, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office entered default on Defendant  Faro Management, LLC.            On April 11, 2024, the  Court denied the anti-SLAPP Motion filed by Defendants Soraya Moazaam and Faro  Optometry Inc. (“Defendants”).           On April 16, 2024,  Plaintiff filed his Motion for Sanctions Pursuant to CCP § 128.7 (“Motion for Sanctions  Re: Demurrer”). In support of his Motion for Sanctions Re: Demurrer, Plaintiff  filed: (1) Declaration of Luke Manzo; and (2) Proposed Order.            On April 17, 2024, the  Court overruled the Demurrer to the FAC filed by Defendants.           On May 1, 2024, Defendants  filed their Opposition to the Motion for Sanctions Re: Demurrer. In support of  their Opposition, Defendants filed their Request for Judicial Notice.            On May 2, 2024,  Defendants filed their Notice of Errata to their Opposition.            On May 7, 2024,  Plaintiff filed his Reply in support of the Motion for Sanctions Re: Demurrer.      ANALYSIS:   I.           Request for Judicial Notice   Defendants request that the Court take  judicial notice of a petition filed as Case No. 22STPB12611 before the Superior  Court of California, County of Los Angeles.    The Court DENIES as irrelevant judicial notice to  this item. “Although a court may judicially notice a variety of matters (Evid.  Code, § 450 et seq.), only relevant material may be noticed.” (Am.  Cemwood Corp. v. Am. Home Assurance Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 431, 441, fn.  7, quotation omitted, italics in original.)   II.        Legal Standard   “By presenting to the  court, whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading,  petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or  unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge,  information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the  circumstances, all of the following conditions are met:   “(1) It is not being presented primarily  for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or  needless increase in the cost of litigation.   “(2) The claims, defenses, and other  legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous  argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the  establishment of new law.   “(3) The allegations and other factual  contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are  likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further  investigation or discovery.   “(4) The denials of factual contentions  are warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably  based on a lack of information or belief.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b).)   “If, after notice and  a reasonable opportunity to respond, the court determines that subdivision (b)  has been violated, the court may, subject to the conditions stated below,  impose an appropriate sanction upon the attorneys, law firms, or parties that  have violated subdivision (b) or are responsible for the violation. In  determining what sanctions, if any, should be ordered, the court shall consider  whether a party seeking sanctions has exercised due diligence.   “(1) A motion for sanctions under this  section shall be made separately from other motions or requests and shall  describe the specific conduct alleged to violate subdivision (b). Notice of  motion shall be served as provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed with  or presented to the court unless, within 21 days after service of the motion,  or any other period as the court may prescribe, the challenged paper, claim,  defense, contention, allegation, or denial is not withdrawn or appropriately  corrected. If warranted, the court may award to the party prevailing on the  motion the reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees incurred in presenting or  opposing the motion. Absent exceptional circumstances, a law firm shall be held  jointly responsible for violations committed by its partners, associates, and  employees.   “(2) On its own motion, the court may  enter an order describing the specific conduct that appears to violate  subdivision (b) and directing an attorney, law firm, or party to show cause why  it has not violated subdivision (b), unless, within 21 days of service of the  order to show cause, the challenged paper, claim, defense, contention,  allegation, or denial is withdrawn or appropriately corrected.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (c).)   III.      Discussion   Plaintiff moves the Court to issue monetary  sanctions on Defendants for filing and maintaining the Demurrer, arguing: (1)  that it lacked any legal support; and (2) that it was filed primarily for an  improper purpose. (Motion for Sanctions Re: Demurrer, pp. 5:27–28, 6:1–2,  6:19–20, 8:1–3.)   Defendants disagree, arguing: (1) that the  papers served were not the same as those filed with the Court; (2) that the  Demurrer was not filed for an improper purpose; and (3) that the request for  sanction is unreasonable. (Opposition, pp. 4:17–18, 5:17–18, 7:22.)   In his Reply, Plaintiff argues: (1) that  Defendants do not rebut Plaintiff’s demonstration that the Demurrer was  frivolous and filed for an improper purpose; (2) that Defendants do not make a  meritorious argument regarding compliance with the Court’s Local Rules; and (3)  that Defendants repeat the same arguments that precipitated the instant motion.  (Reply, pp. 2:25–26, 4:13–14, 5:26–27.)   Plaintiff has not met its burden to show that  the Demurrer was filed primarily for an improper purpose. Unsuccessful  demurrers are regularly filed in matters before the Court; successful motions for  sanctions are rare.    IV.       Conclusion    The Motion for Sanctions Re:  Demurrer is DENIED