  Case Number:  23NWCV03408    Hearing Date:   August 26, 2024    Dept:  C KIM MCMULLEN et
al. v. ALL TIME TRANSPORTATION et al.
CASE NO.: 23NWCV03408
HEARING:  8/26/24 @ 10:30
A.M. 
 
#8
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant Kaiser
Permanente Inc.’s Motion to Stay Action Pending Binding Arbitration is GRANTED.  All proceedings in this case are stayed
pending completion of arbitration.  
 
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Background
 
In a Complaint filed October 23, 2023,
Plaintiff KIM MCMULLEN alleges that on or about November 1, 2022, Defendants KAISER
PERMANENTE, INC., PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP, INC., KASIER FOUNDATION HOSPITALS,
KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN, INC. (“Kaiser”) and Defendant ALL TIME
TRANSPORTATION INC. (“All Time”) were transporting McMullen to a Kaiser medical
appointment when she was “caused to fall and drop” and sustained injuries.  Plaintiff TRINA MAGEE, who was accompanying
McMullen on the trip, was also injured  Plaintiffs
sue for negligence and professional negligence.
 
On February 1, 2024, Kaiser filed the instant
Motion to Stay Action Pending Binding Arbitration pursuant to CCP §
1281.4.  Kaiser contends that a stay of
the entire action is required because binding arbitration is currently pending
between McMullen and Kaiser pursuant to McMullen’s arbitration agreement as a
Kaiser member.  Both this lawsuit and the
arbitration arise out of the same incident.
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP § 1281.4 states in relevant part, “If a
court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.”
 
Discussion
 
 
The issue presented here is whether the entire
litigation should be stayed while some, but not all, of the parties are proceeding
with binding arbitration of their claims.
 
On August 6, 2024, pursuant to a stipulation
between McMullen and Kaiser, the Court signed an Order to Stay State Court
Matter between McMullen and the Kaiser entities only.  The stipulation does not apply to McMullen’s
claims against the other defendants, including All Time, and it does not apply
Plaintiff Trina Magee.  
 
In opposition to the motion, Plaintiff Trina
Magee argues the stay should not be granted because Magee is not a Kaiser
member; Plaintiffs and All Time have no arbitration agreement; Magee would be
prejudiced by waiving her right to a jury trial based on an arbitration
agreement she did not sign; it is more efficient to allow the parties to
conduct discovery in the civil case and then determine whether parts of the
case should be adjudicated through arbitration.
 
As Kaiser points out, the instant motion does
not seek to compel Magee to arbitrate her claims; it seeks only to stay her
claims pending arbitration between McMullen and Kaiser.  The Court determines that the requirements
for mandatory stay under CCP § 1281.4 are satisfied in this case.  The issue in the arbitration – whether and to
what extent Kaiser is liable for injuries sustained by McCullen on November 1,
2022 – is an issue in the present litigation, and Kaiser, a party in both
matters, has requested a stay of the present litigation pending completion of
the arbitration.  Under the terms of the
statute, nothing more is required to stay this lawsuit. (Heritage Provider
Network, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1146,
1153 (“A single overlapping issue is sufficient to require imposition of a stay
[under CCP § 1281.4]”.) 
 
This conclusion is consistent with the purpose
of the statute.  “The purpose of the
statutory stay pending arbitration is to protect the jurisdiction of the
arbitrator by preserving the status quo until arbitration is resolved.” (Aronow
v. Superior Court (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 865, 873.) 
 
Accordingly, the motion to stay the entire
action pending completion of arbitration is GRANTED.  
 
 