 Case Number:  22STCV04853    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Velveth Milena Ibarra
Orozco (“Orozco”) and Oscar Canales Jule (“Jule”) filed this action against
Defendants Samuel Fernando Baliez and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and
general negligence. 
On
May 18, 2022, Defendant Samuel Vallez (erroneously sued as Samuel Fernandez
Baliez) (“Defendant”) filed an answer. 
On May
10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel Defendant’s deposition and for
sanctions, to be heard on June 7, 2024. On June 21, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition. The Court granted Defendant’s ex parte application to continue the
hearing to July 5, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 10, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to order Defendant to appear for a deposition. Plaintiffs also ask
the Court to impose sanctions on Defendant. 
Defendant
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
* * *
 “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g)(1).) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiffs
have served several notices for Defendant’s deposition.  Defendant served objections to some of the
deposition notices.  On April 12, 2024,
Defendant did not appear for his noticed deposition.  Plaintiffs move to compel Defendant’s
deposition and for sanctions. 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (b)(2), requires a motion
to compel a party’s deposition to “be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  Plaintiffs have not provided the required declaration. 
In addition,
Defendant’s counsel report that Defendant is incarcerated.  Defendant’s counsel informed Plaintiffs’
counsel about Defendant’s incarceration on May 16, 2024 and June 5, 2024.  The Court will not compel Defendant’s
deposition without additional information about Plaintiffs’ compliance with any
requirements or procedures for conducting a deposition in what
appears to be a Los Angeles County jail facility. 
The
Court denies Plaintiffs’ motion and request for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion filed by Plaintiffs Velveth Milena Ibarra Orozco and
Oscar Canales Jule to compel Defendant Samuel
Vallez’s deposition and for sanctions. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 