 Case Number:  21STCV13117    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the petitioning papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 6, 2021, Plaintiffs Jazeer Keyes (“Keyes”), Tanya Davis (“Davis”), Jae’yon
Wagner (“Jae’yon Wagner”), and Tamila Wagner (“Tamila Wagner”) filed this
action against Defendants Lenita Sinna Dee Lewis (“Defendant”) and Does 1-100
for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
April 27, 2021, the Court appointed Tamila Wagner to serve as Jae’yon Wagner’s
guardian ad litem. 
On June
12, 2024, (1) Davis filed a petition for approval of the compromise of Keyes’s action and (2) Tamila Wagner filed a petition for approval of the compromise of
Jae’yon Wagner’s action. 
PETITIONERS’ REQUESTS 
Petitioner
Tamila Wagner asks the Court to approve the compromise of the pending action of
minor Plaintiff Jae’yon Wagner. 
Petitioner
Tanya Davis asks the Court to approve the compromise of the pending action of minor
Plaintiff Jazeer Keyes. 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Davis’s petition to approve the compromise of Keyes’s
action 
The
Court denied Davis’s application to be appointed Keyes’s guardian ad litem,
stating that a minor who (like Keyes) is 14 or older must submit the
application for appointment of a guardian ad litem.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 373, subd. (a).)  Keyes did not submit an application.  Davis has not shown that her status as
Keyes’s parent authorizes her to settle Keyes’s claims.  Davis should provide the factual and legal
basis (if any) for her authority to compromise the action on Keyes’s
behalf.  (See, e.g., Prob. Code, § 3500,
subd. (a).) 
In Section 18a of the petition, Petitioner states that
“[t]here is a guardianship of the estate of the minor” in this case.  The statement appears to be incorrect.  If a guardianship of Keyes’s estate exists,
Petitioner should specify the case in which a court created or oversees the
guardianship of the estate. 
Petitioner has not provided a copy of the final Medi-Cal
demand letter or letter agreement as Section 12b(4) of the petition requires. 
Petitioner has not provided an attachment with information about the financial institution into which the
net settlement proceeds will be deposited as Section 18 of the petition requires. 
Counsel’s declaration states that the retainer agreement
is attached to the declaration but it is not attached. 
B.   Petition to approve the compromise of Plaintiff Jae’yon
Wagner’s action 
Section
11b(5) of the petition lists Jae’yon Wagner as an “other”
plaintiff or claimant who is receiving settlement funds.  Petitioner presumably
meant to list Keyes here. 
In
Section 18a of the petition, Petitioner states that “[t]here is a guardianship
of the estate of the minor” in this case. 
The statement appears to be incorrect. 
If a guardianship of Jae’yon Wagner’s estate exists, Petitioner should
specify the case in which a court created or oversees the guardianship of the
estate. 
Petitioner
has not provided an attachment with information about the financial
institution into which the net settlement proceeds will be deposited as Section 18 of the petition requires. 
Counsel’s
declaration states that the retainer agreement is attached to the declaration
but it is not attached. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the petition to approve the
compromise of minor Plaintiff Jazeer Keyes’s action filed by Petitioner Tanya
Davis on June 12, 2024. 

The
Court DENIES the petition to approve the compromise of minor Plaintiff Jae’yon
Wagner’s action filed by Petitioner Tamila Wagner on June 12, 2024. 
Petitioners are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Petitioners are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.