  Case Number:  20STCV27050    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  July 20, 2020, Plaintiff Bridgette Stoval (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority,  City of Los Angeles (“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), and Does 1-50  for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence.  On  December 24, 2020, the County filed an answer.  On  January 21, 2021, Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation  Authority dba Metro (erroneously sued and served as Los Angeles County  Metropolitan Transportation Authority) (“Metro”) filed an answer.  On  January 29, 2021, the Court dismissed the City without prejudice at Plaintiff’s  request.  On  March 17, 2021, the Court dismissed the County without prejudice at Plaintiff’s  request.  On  May 31, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel Khashayar Eshraghi, Esq., filed a motion to  be relieved as counsel, to be heard on July 5, 2024.  Trial  is currently scheduled for September 4, 2024.  COUNSEL’S REQUEST  Plaintiffs’ counsel Khashayar Eshraghi, Esq., asks to be relieved as counsel.  LEGAL STANDARD  California  Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides:  “(a) Notice  “A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as  counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the  client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as  Counsel-Civil (form MC-051).  “(b) Memorandum  “Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no  memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as  counsel.  “(c) Declaration  “The motion to be relieved as counsel must be  accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion  to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in  general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the  attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section  284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure  section 284(1).  “(d) Service  “The notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and  the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who  have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service, electronic  service, or mail.  “(1) If the notice is served on the client by mail  under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a  declaration stating facts showing that either:  “(A) The service address is the current residence or  business address of the client; or  “(B) The service address is the last known residence  or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a  more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days  before the filing of the motion to be relieved.  “(2) If the notice is served on the client by  electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251,  it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service  address is the client's current electronic service address.  “As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the  address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be  relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last  known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message  was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is  current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)  applies.  “(e) Order  “The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared  on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form  MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order  must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including  the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the  court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,  a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that  have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order  relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the  client has been filed with the court.”  (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.)  DISCUSSION  Plaintiff's counsel
has completed, filed, and served the paperwork required to support the request
to be relieved as counsel.  Although the proofs of service appear to show service only on Plaintiff, Metro's counsel appeared at the hearing and confirmed receipt of the moving papers.  The Court
grants the motion. CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS Khashayar Eshraghi, Esq.’s motion to be relieved  as counsel for Plaintiff Bridgette Stoval. Counsel
will be relieved upon filing proof of service on Plaintiff Bridgette Stoval of the Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council
form MC-053). Counsel  is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Counsel  is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within  five days.