 Case Number:  21STCV38506    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 19, 2021, Plaintiff Angela Park (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Erick Jarquin (“Defendant”) and Does 1-25 for motor vehicle tort. 
On
April 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed a proof of service showing substituted service
on Defendant of the summons, complaint, statement of damages, and other
documents on December 1, 2021. 
On
June 24, 2022, the clerk entered Defendant’s default. 
On
April 3, 2023, Defendant filed a statement of damages dated October 19, 2021. 
On
April 4, 2023, the Court dismissed the Doe defendants without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
September 13, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s application for default
judgment against Defendant and entered judgment for Plaintiff for $50,506.50. 
On
May 21, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to set aside default judgment and
default, to be heard on July 5, 2024.  On
June 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
On July 1, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
No
trial date is currently set. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to set aside the default judgment and default. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
DEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE: 
 Denied
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d),
provides: 
“The court may, upon motion of the injured party, or
its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered,
so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of
either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or
order.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (d).) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 provides: 
“(a) When service of a summons has not resulted in
actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default
judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve
and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and
for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed
within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two
years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days
after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or default
judgment has been entered. 
“(b) A notice of motion to set aside a default or
default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time
for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and
it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s
lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file
with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be
filed in the action. 
“(c) Upon a finding by the court that the motion was
made within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of
actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or
default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend
the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Defendant’s motion under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (d)   
Defendant
contends the default is void and the Court must set it aside because the Court
did not have proof that Plaintiff personally served a statement of damages on
Defendant before entry of the default. 
On
April 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed a proof of service showing substituted service
on Defendant of the statement of damages (and other documents) on December 1, 2021.  The proof of service included a declaration
of due diligence.  Defendant has not
identified any deficiency in the proof of service.  Instead, Defendant appears to argue that a statement
of damages must be served “personally.” 
“If
a party has not appeared in the action, the statement [of damages] shall be
served in the same manner as a summons.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.11, subd. (d)(1).)  A summons may be served by substituted
service.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20.)  Therefore, Plaintiff properly served the statement
of damages on Defendant before the clerk entered Defendant’s default. 
B.   Defendant’s motion under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473.5 
Defendant
has stated no facts supporting a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
473.5. 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Erick Jarquin’s motion to set aside the default entered
on June 24, 2022 and the default judgment entered on September 13, 2023. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.