 Case Number:  23AHCV02132    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOSE RODRIGUEZ, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
FORD
   MOTOR COMPANY,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02132
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August 7,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On September 14, 2023, plaintiff Jose
Rodriguez filed this action against defendants Ford Motor Company (“Defendant”).
On June 27, 2024, Defendant filed this motion requesting the Court enter a
protective order governing the production of confidential materials during
discovery. The protective order is largely based on the Los Angeles Superior
Court’s Model Order (“LASC Model Order”) with several revisions to Paragraphs
7, 8, and 21 to further restrict the individuals who have access to any
confidential information, impose further obligations on those who have access
to those confidential materials, and require the return of all confidential
documents at the conclusion of the case. 
On July 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
On August 1, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply brief. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“[T]he burden is on the party seeking
the protective order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.
[Citation.]” (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.) “The state has two substantial interests in regulating pretrial
discovery. The first is to facilitate the search for truth and promote justice.
The second is to protect the legitimate privacy interests of the litigants and
third parties. The interest in truth and justice is promoted by allowing
liberal discovery of information in the possession of the opposing party. The
interest in privacy is promoted by restricting the procurement or dissemination
of information from the opposing party upon a showing of ‘good cause.’ The
trial court is in the best position to weigh fairly the competing needs and
interests of parties affected by discovery.” (Stadish v. Superior Court
(1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1130, 1145 [internal citations omitted].) A trial court
must balance the various interests in deciding “whether dissemination of the
documents should be restricted.” (Id. at p. 1146, 84 Cal.Rptr.2d 350.) Even
where a motion for a protective order is denied in whole or in part, the trial
court may still impose “terms and conditions that are just.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2025.420, subd. (g), 2031.060, subd. (g).)
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Timing
As an initial matter, Plaintiff argues
that Defendant’s motion is untimely because the confidential documents were
sought in February 2024 and Defendant did not file this motion until June 27,
2024. The Court disagrees. In a letter dated May 15, 2024, Plaintiff requested Defendant
send a proposed protective order. The parties did not agree on the proposed
revisions, thus necessitating the filing of this motion in June.  
B.  
Material
Subject to the Protective Order
Defendant specifically identifies three
categories of documents which it seeks to protect through this proposed
protective order: (1) Warranty Policy & Procedure Manuals (“Warranty
Manuals”), (2) Customer Relationship Center (“CRC”) Policies and Procedures,
and (3) Reacquired Vehicle (“RAV”) Policy and Procedures Manuals. (Declaration
of Jacob Doss, ¶ 6.) Defendant submits the declaration of its employee, Jacob
Doss, who explains that these documents are proprietary because they reveal
Defendant’s policies and practices which are developed over time, including “processes
and methodologies to identify, document, assess, and resolve customer or
product concerns.” (See, e.g., Doss Decl., ¶ 9.) Doss states that disclosure of
these documents would benefit Defendant’s competitors who are training their
own employees and/or developing their processes for warranty claims, customer
service, and repurchasing vehicles, without the need to invest the same time
and resources expended by Defendant. (Doss Decl., ¶¶ 10-12.) Defendants have
therefore demonstrated “good cause” for a protective order. 
C.  
Terms
of the Protective Order 
The parties do not dispute the
propriety of a secrecy agreement but cannot agree upon its parameters.
Therefore, the motion requests the Court enter a protective order based on the
LASC Model Order with modifications made to three separate paragraphs. The
Court addresses these proposed modifications in turn. 
First, Defendant argues that Paragraph
7 of the Model Order should be modified so that any confidential information
produced may be accessed by attorneys who are “[a]ttorneys of record in the
Proceedings and their affiliated attorneys in the same firm.” Defendant also
demands that all employees and non-lawyers within the firm sign a certification
before accessing any confidential information acknowledging the terms and restrictions
of the protective order. The Model Order only requires the certification be signed
by officers, directors, partners, members, employees and agents of the party
receiving the documents, as well as outside experts and consultants. In
addition, Defendant wishes to: (1) preclude mock jurors from accessing the
confidential documents, (2) include videographers, litigation support
companies, and non-attorney consultants as categories of individuals who are explicitly
subject to the protective order, and (3) confirm that no confidential materials
will be shown to experts or consultants who are currently employed by an
automobile manufacturer competitor of Ford.
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
these proposed modifications are unwarranted and burdensome. First, Plaintiff
claims that requiring attorneys be part of the same firm before being provided
access to confidential materials “could conceivably prevent Plaintiffs’ counsel
from disclosing the documents to any other attorneys that serve as Plaintiffs’
co-counsel” or trial counsel if they are from a different firm. (Opp., pp.
4-5.) The Court does not see such an obstacle as the protective order also
allows any attorney of record to the proceeding to access the confidential
information. Therefore, if Plaintiff is indeed associating co-counsel or trial
counsel, they would be included in that category of persons with access. Accordingly,
this proposed modification is reasonable. 
Plaintiff also argues that requiring
all non-lawyer employees to separately execute a certification before being
“given access” to those confidential documents would be unduly burdensome
because there are over 100 employees within the firm who have access to case
files. Plaintiff argues that this would be an onerous undertaking for every
single litigation brought against Defendant. This argument lacks merit because
the protective order at issue governs this particular action. Also, it is
possible for Plaintiff’s attorneys to limit an individual employee’s access to
a case file if that individual has not executed a certification and Plaintiff
submits no evidence that implementing such restrictions would be unduly
burdensome. Therefore, Defendant’s proposed modification which requires
non-lawyers to sign a certification is reasonable. 
As for Defendant’s proposed prohibition
on the dissemination of confidential material to mock jury participants, the
Court finds that adopting this proposal would cause undue burden on Plaintiff’s
ability to prepare for trial. The Model Order allows disclosure upon securing
the participants’ signature on the certification. Although Defendant argues
that it has “no ability to confirm the identity of such persons or to track or
trace their access if [Defendant]’s documents were to become public,” the
identities of those individuals can be recorded on the certification. (Motion,
p. 9.) The modification prohibiting disclosure of confidential information to
mock jury participants is rejected. 
Second, Defendant wishes to modify
Paragraph 8 of the Model Order to explicitly prohibit posting the confidential
information to any website accessible to anyone other than the persons listed
in the protective order and or selling, offering to sell, advertising, or
publicizing the confidential information or the fact that the person has
obtained the confidential information. 
Plaintiff argues that this modification
is unnecessary because Paragraph 8 of the Model Order already requires that
“Confidential Materials shall be used by the persons receiving them only for
the purposes of preparing for, conducting, participating in the conduct of,
and/or prosecuting and/or defending the Proceeding, and not for any business or
other purpose whatsoever. The Court does not see how Defendant’s proposed
modification would cause any undue burden to Plaintiff especially when, as
Plaintiff points out, the effect is the same. Therefore, the proposed
modification to paragraph 8 of the Model Order is reasonable. 
Third, Defendant seeks to modify
Paragraph 21 of the Model Order to require Plaintiff’s counsel to return or
destroy all confidential documents at the conclusion of the case. Notably,
Defendant removes language from the Model Order allowing counsel for each party
to maintain all work product, one copy of each pleading filed with the Court,
and one copy of each deposition together with the exhibits marked at the
deposition. Defendant argues that it would not be able to track the location
and use of confidential information over time if Plaintiff’s counsel were
allowed to keep a copy of documents “in perpetuity.” (Reply, p. 5.) However, Defendant’s
proposed requirement would prevent Plaintiff’s counsel from keeping a complete
copy of its files which, under the Model Order, would still be kept “in
continuing compliance” with the terms of the protective order. Additionally, pursuant
to Defendant’s modifications to Paragraph 7, the only attorneys who may access
the information are those affiliated in the same firm as the attorneys of
record, and they (along with their employees) are bound not to use the
confidential information for any other purpose other than this action.
Therefore, this modification is unwarranted and rejected.  
IV.       
CONCLUSION
 
In light of the foregoing, the Court grants Defendant’s motion in part.
Defendant is to submit a proposed order incorporating the Court’s ruling as
expressed above into the LASC Model Order.
 
Dated
this 7th
day of August, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 