 Case Number:  23AHCV00560    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



EBF HOLDINGS, LLC dba EVEREST BUSINESS FUNDING, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CORINTHIAN
   HOSPICE, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00560
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY REQUESTS; MOTION
   TO DEEM ADMITTED
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August
  7, 2024



 
Plaintiff EBF Holdings, LLC dba Everest
Business Funding (“Plaintiff”) moves for: (1) an order deeming admitted the
genuineness of documents and truth of matters specified in its First Set of Requests
for Admission served on defendant Corinthian Hospice, Inc. (“Corinthian”) on October
16, 2023, (2) orders compelling Corinthian to serve responses to Form
Interrogatories (Set One) and Requests for Production (Set One), and (3) an
order compelling defendant Abegail Alma Cook (“Cook”) to serve responses to
Form Interrogatories (Set One). The motions are unopposed. 
 
Deem Admitted – Corinthian 
Where a party fails to timely respond
to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The
court shall grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it
finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Where
a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this
motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (c).)
          The motion is
unopposed and there is no dispute that Corinthian failed to serve responses to
Plaintiff’s discovery requests. It also does not appear that Corinthian has
served substantially compliant proposed responses. Accordingly, the motion is
GRANTED. 
Sanctions are imposed against Corinthian
in the reduced amount of $385, consisting of .5 hours
at Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate and a $60 filing fee, payable within 10
days of the date of this Order. 
Compel Responses
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300; Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A
party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the
request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work
product. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).)  
The Court notes that neither Cook nor
Corinthian filed any opposition briefs and it is undisputed that they have not
served discovery responses. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motions are GRANTED.
Corinthian is ordered to serve verified responses, without objections, to Form
Interrogatories – Set One and Requests for Production of Documents – Set One
within 10 days of the date of this Order. Cook is ordered to serve verified
responses, without objections, to Form Interrogatories – Set One within 10 days
of the date of this Order. 
Corinthian is sanctioned in the amount
of $770, consisting of 1 hour at Plaintiffs counsel’s hourly rate and $120 in
filing fees. Cook is sanctioned in the amount of $385, consisting of .5 hours
at Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate and a $60 filing fee. Sanctions are to be
paid within 10 days of the date of this Order. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 7th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 