  Case Number:  23PSCV01036    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  McKesson Medical Surgical, Inc.
v. ‘Matias’ Clinical Laboratory, Inc., a California Corporation dba Health Care
Providers Laboratory 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Terminating Sanctions Against ‘Matias’ Clinical Laboratory, Inc., a
California Corporation dba Health Care Providers Laboratory 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions. The
answer of Defendant ‘Matias’ Clinical
Laboratory, Inc., a California Corporation dba Health Care Providers Laboratory,
filed on July 6, 2023, is hereby STRICKEN. The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request
for entry of judgment in its favor. The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for
monetary sanctions and attorney’s fees. The Court will set a status conference
regarding entry of default judgment. 
              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a payment dispute. On April 10, 2023, plaintiff McKesson
Medical Surgical, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendant ‘Matias’ Clinical Laboratory, Inc., a California
Corporation dba Health Care Providers Laboratory (Defendant), and Does 1 to 20,
alleging causes of action for breach of contract and common counts. 
On February 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for terminating
sanctions. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD           
The court is
authorized, after notice and an opportunity for hearing, to impose the
following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process: monetary sanctions, issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, terminating
sanctions, and contempt. (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2023.030, subds. (a)-(e).) A terminating
sanction may be imposed by an order striking the pleadings of any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. (Id., § 2023.030, subd.
(d)(1).)   
“The
discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions,
starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of
termination. [Citation.]” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.¿(2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992; see J.W. v. Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of
New York, Inc.¿(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1142, 1169.) If a lesser sanction
fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted. (Doppes, supra, 174
Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) “Discovery sanctions ‘should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not
exceed what is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but
denied discovery.’” (Id.) “But where a violation is willful, preceded by
a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in
imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Id., quoting Mileikowsky v. Tenet
Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262,
279–280); Creed-21 v. City of Wildomar¿(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702,
quoting Doppes and Mileikowsky.)   
The court
should consider the totality of the circumstances, including conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful, the determent to the
propounding party, and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain
discovery. (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)
Terminating sanctions should not be ordered lightly, but are justified where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and there is evidence
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules. (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) 
Before any
sanctions may be imposed the court must make an express finding that there has
been a willful failure of the party to serve the required discovery responses.
(Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1966) 246
Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) The party who failed to comply with discovery obligations
has the burden of showing that the failure was not willful. (Deyo v.
Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 788; Cornwall v. Santa Monica Dairy
Co. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 250, 252-253.)  
Code of Civil
Procedure, section 2023.010, subdivisions (d) and (f) provide that a misuse of
the discovery process includes, but is not limited to, “[f]ailing to respond or
to submit to an authorized method of discovery” and “[m]aking
an evasive response to discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d),
(f).) 
DISCUSSION           
            Plaintiff asks the
Court to impose terminating sanctions against Defendant based on Defendant’s:
(1) failure to respond to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and
Request for Admissions, Set One; (2) failure to comply with the Court’s December
20, 2023 order granting Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses to those
written discovery requests; and (3) continued failure to participate in
discovery. Plaintiff asks the Court to either enter judgment in favor of
Plaintiff, or, alternatively, to strike Defendant’s answer, impose further
monetary sanctions against Defendant, and award attorney’s fees to Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff states that the Court already
established Defendant’s failure to respond to Plaintiff’s written discovery.
(Hettena Decl., Ex. A.)  Plaintiff also
contends that Defendant has failed to respond to discovery/and or pay monetary
sanctions, that Defendant has refused to participate in discovery, and that
Defendant has willfully disobeyed this Court’s orders. (Hettena Decl., ¶¶ 11-13.)
Plaintiff even notes that Defendant’s counsel stated unequivocally in a phone
call on January 19, 2024, that Defendant would not be complying with the
Court’s orders. (Hettena Decl., ¶ 13.) 
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s motion to be well taken. Defendant has exhibited a consistent
pattern of not participating in this action and not complying with discovery
obligations. Defendant did not respond to Plaintiff’s written discovery
requests, which led to Plaintiff’s filing of the motions to compel and motion
to deem matters admitted. (Order re Tentative Ruling (12/20/23).) Defendant did
not oppose those motions, and the Court granted them on December 20, 2023. (Id.)
Defendant also did not oppose this motion for terminating sanctions, which the
Court construes as a tacit admission from Defendant that it is meritorious. (Holden
v. City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C.
Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) Defendant therefore has also
necessarily failed to demonstrate that its noncompliance was not willful. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has failed
and refused to comply with its discovery obligations, and that its failure to
comply was willful. (See Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) Given
Defendant’s failures to comply with its discovery obligations and disobedience
to the Court’s December 20, 2023 order, the Court finds that imposing lesser
sanctions would not produce compliance. Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
motion for terminating sanctions by striking Defendant’s Answer filed on July
6, 2023. The Court will further set a status conference regarding entry of
default judgment. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for the Court to enter
judgment in Plaintiff’s favor at this stage, as Plaintiff has not submitted any
terms of a proposed judgment for the Court to enter. Also, given the Court’s
decision to grant terminating sanctions, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests
for monetary sanctions and attorney’s fees. While the Court does not deny
Defendant misused the discovery process by failing to respond to discovery
requests and comply with the Court’s order, the Court exercises its discretion
to not impose monetary sanctions or attorney’s fees.[1] (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions. The
answer of Defendant ‘Matias’ Clinical
Laboratory, Inc., a California Corporation dba Health Care Providers Laboratory,
filed on July 6, 2023, is hereby STRICKEN. The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request
for entry of judgment in its favor. The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for
monetary sanctions and attorney’s fees. The Court will further set a
status conference regarding entry of default judgment. 
              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.

