 Case Number:  23STCV10613    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  68 Motion to Compel Arbitration
Maribel Martinez vs. Infosys Limited, 23STCV10613
Moving Party: Defendant Infosys Limited

Opposing Party: Plaintiff
Maribel Martinez

Motion
Defendant Infosys Limited (Defendant)
filed this motion to compel arbitration based on an arbitration agreement
between the parties. Defendant requests that Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims
be compelled to arbitration and her representative/non-individual PAGA claims
be stayed pending the arbitration. Plaintiff Maribel Martinez (Plaintiff) does
not dispute that the agreement exists or that the arbitration agreement is
enforceable. Instead, Plaintiff’s opposition hinges on whether a particular
clause in the arbitration agreement would require both the individual and
non-individual PAGA claims to be heard in court. Defendant disagrees with
Plaintiff’s interpretation of the agreement.
            The
following is the section of the agreement at issue:
(b) REPRESENTATIVE ACTION WAIVER.
Infosys and Signer also hereby waive any right for any dispute to be brought,
heard, decided, or arbitrated as a PRIVATE ATTORNEY GENERAL REPRESENTATIVE
ACTION (“Representative Action Waiver”). Nor shall the Arbitrator have any
authority to hear or arbitrate any such dispute. 
The Representative Action Waiver
does not apply to any claim that Signer brings in arbitration as a private
attorney general solely on his/her own behalf and not on behalf of or regarding
others. The Representative Action Waiver shall be severable from this Agreement
in any case in which there is a final judicial determination that the
Representative Action Waiver is invalid, unenforceable, unconscionable, void or
voidable. In such instances and where the claim is brought as a private
attorney general, such private attorney general claim must be litigated in a
civil court of competent jurisdiction.
(Polanowski Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff argues that the Representative
Action Waiver is invalid because a Plaintiff’s right to bring a representative/non-individual
PAGA action is not waivable. (Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles LLC
(2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 383.) Because this is not waivable, Plaintiff argues
that this section is severable and she may bring a representative/non-individual
PAGA claim in court, not in arbitration. However, Plaintiff goes one step
further and argues that this section also means that her individual PAGA claim
must also be heard in Court rather than in arbitration. Her argument is based
on the idea that severing the waiver section would mean excising the entire
section.
            Defendant disagrees
with Plaintiff’s interpretation. This section of the agreement has a sentence
that states “The Representative Action Waiver does not apply to any claim that
Signer brings in arbitration as a private attorney general solely on his/her
own behalf and not on behalf of or regarding others.” Defendant argues that
this statement means that the severability part of this section would only
apply to Plaintiff’s representative claims, meaning that only those claims
would be litigated in court, and Plaintiff’s individual claims would proceed in
arbitration.
            The Court
agrees with Defendant’s interpretation of the Representative Action Waiver
section. The section includes a clear statement that the section does not apply
to individual PAGA claims. Because the waiver provision must be severed
pursuant to Iskanian, that means that Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims
would proceed in arbitration and her representative/non-individual PAGA claims
would be stayed pending arbitration and would be heard in court. 
This outcome is allowable because
of a recent California Supreme Court decision. Adolph v. Uber Techs., Inc. (2023)
14 Cal.5th 1104 held that when a Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims are
compelled to arbitration, the Plaintiff’s representative/non-individual PAGA
claims may still be stayed pending arbitration and litigated in court. Arbitrating
the individual claims does not strip a plaintiff of standing to litigate
non-individual claims in court.
Order
            Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims to arbitration is granted.
Litigation of Plaintiff’s representative/non-individual PAGA claims is stayed
pending arbitration.