  Case Number:  22STCV17687    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
EVELEN MARTINEZ, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL OF LOS ANGELES, et
  al., 
                        
                        Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  22STCV17687
  Hearing Date:  April 10, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion for summary judgment 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 27, 2022, Plaintiffs filed
this medical malpractice action on behalf of their deceased son, who died after
several MRI scans. Plaintiffs allege that Decedent was improperly exposed to
the chemical gadolinium throughout the course of the MRIs, resulting in severe
burns, health complications, and eventually death. Plaintiffs allege that
Decedent had a history of hypersensitivity to gadolinium and that Defendants
were put on notice of Decedent’s condition and should have been aware of the
risks of gadolinium exposure in children. The complaint alleges causes of
action for (1) medical malpractice, (2) medical malpractice-lack of informed
consent, (3) medical battery, and (4) a survival action. 
            On December 27, 2023, Defendants
Nathan Robinson, MD; Tom Davidson, MD; and Diana Moke, MD filed the instant
motion for summary judgment. Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition.  
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
DISCUSSION
I.
Medical Malpractice
“The elements of a cause of action for
medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence
as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach
of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct
and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Lattimore v. Dickey
(2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.) “The first element, standard of care, is the
key issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by expert testimony,
unless the circumstances are such that the required conduct is within the
layperson's common knowledge.” (Ibid.) 
Here, defense expert Brian King, MD avers
in his declaration that none of the moving defendants breached the standard of
care in ordering an MRI of Decedent. (King Decl. ¶ 13(a).) Dr. King’s
uncontested declaration establishes the following facts. Gadolinium MRIs are
standard for brain imaging. (Ibid.) “Gadolinium Deposition Disease” is
not a recognized condition in pediatrics. (Id., ¶ 13(b).) The duty to
provide informed consent lies with the radiology department of the hospital,
not with the treating physicians. (Ibid.) Neurooncologists are not
trained to detect contraindication involving gadolinium. (Id., ¶ 13(d).)
None of the moving defendants administered gadolinium to Decedent, and none of
their actions contributed to Decedent’s harm. (Ibid.) Additionally,
Decedent’s death certificate indicates the cause of death as malignant brain
stem cancer. (Def.’s Ex. C.) There is no mention of gadolinium. (Ibid.) 
Defendants have satisfied their initial
burden of establishing that they did not breach their duty of care and did not
cause Decedent’s injuries. Plaintiff does not oppose the motion and has
presented no evidence raising a dispute of material fact. Therefore, the
medical malpractice claims fail as a matter of law. 
 
 
II.
Battery
            “The essential elements of a cause
of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff
to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did
not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by
defendant's conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff's position would
have been offended by the touching.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th
652, 669.) “A medical battery occurs where ‘a doctor obtains consent of the
patient to perform one type of treatment and subsequently performs a
substantially different treatment for which consent was not obtained.’” (Ibid.)

            The evidence discussed above
establishes that the moving defendants did not “touch” Decedent because they
did not administer the MRIs. Furthermore, the moving defendants were not the
ones responsible for providing informed consent. Therefore, as a matter of law,
the defendants could not have committed battery or medical battery. 
CONCLUSION
            The motion for summary judgment
filed by Defendants Robinson, Davidson, and Moke is GRANTED. 
 