 Case Number:  23STCV29780    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
EDWARD CASILLAS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LIBERTY LIFE NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
  et al., 
                        
                        Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  23STCV29780
  Hearing Date:  April 10, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant Liberty life national
  insurance company’s motion to compel arbitration




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 6, 2023, Plaintiff
Edward Casillas filed this employment discrimination action against Defendants
Liberty Life National Insurance Company, Globe Life and Accident Insurance
Company, Globe Life Liberty National Division, and The Green Agencies. Plaintiff
has since passed away, and his mother (Terry Casillas) currently pursues the
action as Plaintiff’s successor-in-interest.  
            On January 8, 2024, Defendant Liberty
Life National Insurance Company filed the instant motion to compel arbitration.
Plaintiff filed his opposition on March 27, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on
April 3, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            Plaintiff’s objections are
overruled. 
DISCUSSION
I.
Proving an Agreement to Arbitrate
“As to the existence of an agreement, [the
moving party bears] the ultimate burden of proof, but the court [is] obliged to
resolve the dispute using a three-step burden-shifting process.” (Iyere v.
Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755.)   
a. Defendant’s Initial Burden
“The moving party ‘can meet its initial
burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.) “At this step,
a movant need not ‘follow the normal procedures of document authentication’ and
need only ‘allege the existence of an agreement and support the allegation.’” (Iyere,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.)  
Here, Plaintiff signed an Independent
Agent’s Contract with Defendant on August 22, 2023. (Gilliam Decl., Ex. A.) The
contract contains an arbitration provision covering “[a]ll disputes, claims,
questions and controversies of any kind or nature arising out of or relating to
this Contract,” including “any alleged violation of any state or federal
statute, regulation, law or order of any kind” and “claims for
misclassification, wrongful termination, discrimination, wage-and-hour
violations, or any other claim based on an alleged employment relationship.” (Ibid.)
The claims asserted in the complaint clearly fall under this broad coverage.
Plaintiff’s signature appears at the bottom of the contract. Therefore,
Defendant has satisfied its initial burden of proving that Plaintiff agreed to
arbitrate the claims at issue.  
b. Plaintiff’s Burden to Raise a Factual
Dispute
“If the movant bears its initial burden,
the burden shifts to the party opposing arbitration to identify a factual
dispute as to the agreement's existence—in this instance, by disputing the
authenticity of their signatures. To bear this burden, the arbitration
opponent must offer admissible evidence creating a factual dispute as to the
authenticity of their signatures. The opponent need not prove that
his or her purported signature is not authentic, but must submit sufficient
evidence to create a factual dispute and shift the burden back to the
arbitration proponent, who retains the ultimate burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the authenticity of the signature.” (Iyere,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.) 
 Plaintiff
argues that Defendant has not properly authenticated his signature. However,
Defendant’s initial burden does not require authentication of the document. (Iyere,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.) “[A] petitioner is not required to
authenticate an opposing party's signature on an arbitration agreement as
a preliminary matter in moving for arbitration or in
the event the authenticity of the signature is not challenged.” (Ruiz v.
Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 846, emphasis in
original.) Plaintiff does not deny that the signature is his, nor does he deny
signing the agreement. In fact, Plaintiff includes no evidence at all as part
of his opposition. Therefore, Plaintiff has failed to meet his burden to “offer
admissible evidence creating a factual dispute as to the authenticity of [his]
signature[].” (See Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.) 
Because the authenticity of the agreement
has not been challenged, the Court finds that an agreement to arbitrate exists
regardless of whether Defendant has authenticated the document. (See Molecular
Analytical Systems v. Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th
696, 710 [“as a preliminary matter the court is only required to make a finding
of the agreement's existence, not an evidentiary determination of its validity”];
Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [“although no evidence
was ever introduced to verify the signature's authenticity, it was never
challenged”].)  
            c. Defendant’s Ultimate Burden
Even if Plaintiff raised a factual
dispute, Defendant satisfies its ultimate burden because it has presented
sufficient evidence to authenticate the agreement. “All that is required to
authenticate a writing is that there be ‘evidence sufficient to sustain a
finding that it is the writing that the proponent of the evidence claims it is.’”
(Landale-Cameron Court, Inc. v. Ahonen (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1409;
Evid. Code, § 1400.) “A qualified witness need not be the custodian, the person
who created the record, or one with personal knowledge in order for a business
record to be admissible under the hearsay exception.” (Unifund CCR, LLC v.
Dear (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th Supp. 1, 8.) A “witness need not have been
present at every transaction to establish the business records exception; he or
she need only be familiar with the procedures followed.” (Jazayeri v. Mao
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 301, 325.)
In this case, Defendant relies on the
declaration of its Senior Vice President of Sales, who has experience supervising
the onboarding process and is familiar with the records maintained by Defendant
relating to agent applications and contracts. (Gilliam Decl. ¶ 1.) Mr. Gilliam
personally reviewed the file maintained by Defendant in the usual course of
business pertaining to Plaintiff. (Ibid.) This sufficiently lays a
foundation for Mr. Gilliam’s knowledge even if he did not personally observe
Plaintiff signing the agreement. Mr. Gilliam avers that Exhibit A is a true and
correct copy of the Agent Contract between Plaintiff and Defendant. (Id.,
¶ 4.) Plaintiff does not dispute this. Therefore, Defendant has satisfied its
ultimate burden of proving an agreement to arbitrate by a preponderance of the
evidence.  
 
 
II.
Successor-in-Interest
            “A person who acts as a decedent's
successor in interest, ‘step[s] into [the decedent's] position,’ as to a
particular action.” (Exarhos v. Exarhos (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 898, 905.)
“Thus, where [a decedent's successor in interest] asserts a claim on behalf of
the estate, he or she must also abide by the terms of any valid agreement,
including an arbitration agreement, entered into by the decedent.” (Thomas
v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 613, fn. 5.) Therefore, Plaintiff’s
mother, acting as his successor-in-interest, is equally bound by the
arbitration agreement. 
III.
Unconscionability 
Unconscionability has both a procedural
and a substantive element. (Aron v. U-Haul Co. of California (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 796, 808.) Both elements must be present for a court to invalidate
a contract or clause. (Ibid.) However, the two elements need not be
present in the same degree; courts use a sliding scale approach in assessing
the two elements. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227,
242.)
a. Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability “focuses on
two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an
inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484, internal citations
omitted.) 
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because he had to sign it as a condition of
employment and had no opportunity to negotiate its terms or opt out of the
arbitration provision. First, Plaintiff has no evidence to support any of these
assertions, thus failing to satisfy his burden of proving unconscionability.
(See Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.) Moreover, an adhesion
contract, by itself, presents only a minimal degree of procedural
unconscionability. (Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc.
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.) 
Plaintiff next argues that the arbitration
provision is buried in an eight-page employment contract with many terms
unrelated to arbitration. The Court disagrees. The arbitration provision is not
“buried,” but is instead clearly labeled on the sixth page of the contract. At
eight pages long, the contract is hardly dense or difficult to read, and
includes a standard number of provisions. The agreement is not “visually
impenetrable,” nor does it “challenge the limits of legibility.” (See OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 128.) Ultimately, Plaintiff signed the
agreement and is responsible for reading it. (See 24 Hour Fitness, Inc. v.
Superior Ct. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1199, 1215 [“A party cannot use his own
lack of diligence to avoid an arbitration agreement”].)   
Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the
agreement fails to attach the arbitration rules. However, the arbitration
provision clearly states that the arbitration is “to be administered by the
American Arbitration Association (‘AAA’) in accordance with its Commercial
Rules then in effect.” (Gilliam Decl., Ex. A.) “[T]he failure to attach the
[arbitration] rules, standing alone, is insufficient grounds to support a
finding of procedural unconscionability.” (Peng v. First Republic Bank
(2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472.) The failure to attach the rules to the
agreement does not make the agreement unconscionable unless the rules
themselves are arguably unconscionable or result in surprise. (See Baltazar
v. Forever 21 (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246; Lane v. Francis
Capital Mgmt. LLC
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 691-92.) Plaintiff does not contend that AAA rules
are unconscionable or surprising, nor does he contend that he is unable to
access the rules.  
In sum, the Court finds no procedural
unconscionability. 
 
b. Substantive Unconscionability
Substantive unconscionability focuses on
the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly
harsh or one-sided results as to shock the conscience. (Suh v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515.) An agreement “lacks basic
fairness and mutuality if it requires one contracting party, but not the other,
to arbitrate all claims arising out of the same transaction or occurrence or
series of transactions or occurrences.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 120.)
Plaintiff argues that the agreement lacks
mutuality because it exempts Defendant from arbitrating the claims it is most
likely to bring against employees, while forcing employees to arbitrate the
claims they are most likely to bring against Defendant. (See Mercuro v.
Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 167, 176.) However, the arbitration
provision does no such thing. Instead, the provision clearly applies to “all”
claims or disputes “regardless of whether they are brought by or against the
Company or Independent Agent.” (Gilliam Decl., Ex. A.) Therefore, both parties
are equally bound to arbitration. The arbitration provision does not exempt any
claims brought by Defendant. To the extent Plaintiff is contending that other
portions of the employment contract are unlawful, that constitutes a dispute “arising
out of or relating to this Contract,” which is itself subject to arbitration
under the plain terms of the arbitration provision. (See Gilliam Decl., Ex. A; Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 29-30.) As specified in Moncharsh,
only the enforceability of the arbitration provision is at issue on a motion to
compel arbitration. 
Plaintiff next argues that the agreement
unlawfully seeks to waive representative PAGA claims. The agreement provides
that “[a]rbitration shall be on an individual basis, and not a class,
collective, representative, or private attorney general basis.” (Gilliam Decl.,
Ex. A.) This is not a waiver of representative PAGA claims because it does not
preclude Plaintiff from bringing such claims. The provision merely governs the
forum in which individual and representative claims are brought. Specifically, representative
claims “must proceed in court, and must be stayed while any remaining claims
are arbitrated on an individual basis.” (Ibid.) The U.S. Supreme Court
has expressly held that individual PAGA claims may be compelled to arbitration
apart from the representative claims. (Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana
(2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906.)  
Plaintiff also argues that the agreement
fails to provide for discovery rules. However, as discussed above, the
arbitration provision clearly identifies the AAA Commercial Rules, which
provide for discovery. The agreement does not violate Armendariz merely
because it does not spell out the discovery rules in the agreement itself. (See
Ramos v.
Superior Court
(2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1042, 1062 [“we do not conclude the lack of express
language in the arbitration provision regarding discovery renders the agreement
unconscionable”].) Plaintiff does not contend that the AAA rules provide for
inadequate discovery.  
In sum, the Court finds no substantial
unconscionability. With no procedural or substantive unconscionability, the
arbitration provision remains valid and enforceable. 
III.
Stay
            “If a court . . . has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court . . . the court in which such action or
proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) “[T]he trial court may exercise its
discretion to stay . . . claims pending the outcome of the arbitration.” (Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123.) “Because the
issues subject to litigation . . . might overlap those that are subject to
arbitration . . ., the trial court must order an appropriate stay of trial
court proceedings.” (Franco v. Arakelian Enterprises, Inc. (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 947, 966.) “The stay's purpose is to preserve the status quo until
the arbitration is resolved, preventing any continuing trial court
proceedings from disrupting and rendering ineffective the arbitrator's
jurisdiction to decide the issues that are subject to arbitration.” (Ibid.)
            Plaintiff argues that the case
cannot be stayed because the other defendants are non-signatories who cannot
enforce the arbitration agreement. However, those other defendants have not
moved to compel arbitration, thus their ability to enforce the agreement is not
at issue. The Court retains discretion to stay the case for the sake of
judicial economy regardless of whether the other defendants can enforce the
arbitration agreement. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Liberty Life National
Insurance Company’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The case is stayed
in its entirety pending the outcome of arbitration. 


 
EDWARD CASILLAS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LIBERTY LIFE NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
  et al., 
                        
                        Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  23STCV29780
  Hearing Date:  April 10, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant globe life and accident
  insurance company’s motion to quash service of summons 




 


 


BACKGROUND            On December 6, 2023, Plaintiff
Edward Casillas filed this employment discrimination action against Defendants
Liberty Life National Insurance Company, Globe Life and Accident Insurance
Company, Globe Life Liberty National Division, and The Green Agencies.             On January 8, 2024, Defendant Globe
Life and Accident Insurance Company filed the instant motion to quash service
of summons. Plaintiff filed his opposition on March 27, 2024. Defendant filed
its reply on April 3, 2024.LEGAL STANDARD“[T]he court in which an action is pending
has jurisdiction over a party from the time summons is served on him as
provided by Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 413.10).” (Code Civ. Proc, §
410.50(a).) “[A] court acquires jurisdiction over a party by proper service of
process or by that party's general appearance.” (In re Jennifer O.
(2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 539, 547.) Actual notice of a lawsuit is not a
substitute for proper service of process. (Abers v. Rohrs (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 1199, 1206.) Additionally, when the defendant is a nonresident, the
following legal principles apply. “Due process permits the exercise of
personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant in the following four
situations: (1) where the defendant is domiciled in the forum state when the
lawsuit is commenced; (2) where the defendant is personally served with process
while he or she is physically present in the forum state; (3) where the
defendant consents to jurisdiction; and (4) where the defendant has sufficient ‘minimum
contacts’ with the forum state, such that the exercise of jurisdiction would
not offend ‘traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.’” (Muckle
v. Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 218, 226.) A defendant may establish sufficient
minimum contacts with the forum state in one of two ways. For a court to
exercise general jurisdiction, the defendant must have contact with the forum
state that is substantial, continuous, and systematic. (Vons Companies, Inc.
v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) In such a case, the
cause of action need not be related to the defendant’s contact with the forum
state. (Id. at p. 446.) For a court to exercise specific jurisdiction,
the following elements must be met: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed
themselves of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out
of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal
jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice. (Snowney
v. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062.)When personal jurisdiction is challenged
by a nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to
demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that minimum contacts exist
between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal
jurisdiction. (Mihlon v. Sup. Ct. (1985) 169 Cal. App. 3d 703, 710.)
Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established, it
becomes the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction
would be unreasonable. (Vons, supra, 14 Cal. 4th at p. 447.)REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE            Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice
is granted as to Exhibit A and denied as to Exhibits B and C. (Evid. Code, §§
451-453.) DISCUSSION            “For a corporation, its domicile,
place of incorporation, and principal place of business within a state
constitute the paradigm bases for establishing general jurisdiction.” (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.) Defendant Globe Life and Accident Insurance Company is a Nebraska company
with its principal place of business in Texas. (Harvey Decl. ¶ 2.) Therefore,
there is no basis for general jurisdiction. Defendant’s evidence also shows that: (i)
Defendant does not control and is not controlled by Liberty Life National
Insurance Company; and (ii) Defendant did not employ, contract with, or have
any relationship with Plaintiff. (Harvey Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) Therefore, Defendant
did not purposefully avail itself of California for purposes of specific
jurisdiction.            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
this Court has jurisdiction over Defendant because Defendant is affiliated with
California entities and has an agent for service of process in California.
However, courts have expressly rejected both of these as bases for
jurisdiction. First, “neither ownership nor control of a subsidiary corporation
by a foreign parent corporation, without more, subjects the parent to the
jurisdiction of the state where the subsidiary does business.” (DVI, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1080, 1092.) “[N]or does jurisdiction
over a parent corporation automatically establish jurisdiction over a wholly
owned subsidiary.” (Keeton v. Hustler Magazine, Inc. (1984) 465 U.S.
770, 781, fn. 13.) Second, “designation of an agent for service of process and
qualification to do business in California alone are insufficient to permit
general jurisdiction.” (Thomson v. Anderson (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 258,
267.)             Plaintiff has failed to satisfy her
burden of presenting evidence that Defendant has minimum contacts with
California. (See Strasner, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at p. 222.) Therefore,
the Court lacks personal jurisdiction over Defendant. CONCLUSION            Defendant Globe Life and Accident
Insurance Company’s motion to quash service of summons is GRANTED.  
