 Case Number:  BC648304    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
SPEEDY
  FUEL, INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
GILBARCO, INC., et al.,
  
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  BC648304
  Hearing Date:  April 10, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants wells fargo’s and chase’s
  motion for summary judgment 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            This action was initiated in January
2017 by Plaintiff Speedy Fuel, Inc., and it arises from losses Plaintiff
suffered due to unpaid fuel. Defendant Gilbarco, Inc. allegedly distributed
faulty merchant software that caused payments to be rejected, resulting in no
payment from customers. In August 2018, trial was separated in the following
order: (1) the individual customers were to be tried first; (2) then Gilbarco;
(3) then the payment processors (BAMS defendants); and (4) lastly, the
customers’ banks. Plaintiff’s claims against the individual customers were
tried in March 2019. Plaintiff’s claims against Gilbarco were tried in March
2022. 
            The March 2022 trial resulted in a
verdict in favor of Speedy, Cross-Defendant FH International Service Station
Maintenance, Inc. (FHI), and Cross-Defendant L&S Maintenance (L&S). On
July 25, 2022, the Court entered judgment in favor of Speedy against Gilbarco
in the amount of $1.3 million. Additionally, FHI was awarded $42,875 against
Gilbarco, and L&S was awarded $52,030.55 against Gilbarco. 
            Gilbarco appealed the judgment. The
BAMS Defendants and Bank of America settled with Plaintiff in December 2022. On
June 26, 2023, Plaintiff, Gilbarco, FHI, and L&S entered into a settlement
agreement whereby Gilbarco agreed to pay $1 million to Speedy, $42,875 to FHI,
and $52,030.55 to L&S in exchange for dismissing its appeal. (Hedrick
Decl., Ex. A.) 
On August 30, 2023, Defendants Wells Fargo
and Chase (the customer banks) filed the instant motion for summary judgment or
adjudication in the alternative. Plaintiff filed its opposition on March 26,
2024. Defendants filed their reply on April 4, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s
Objections to Defendants’ Evidence

Plaintiff’s objections are
     overruled. 

Defendants’
Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence

Declaration of Grigor
     Terrmendjian

The following objections are
      sustained: 2-4, 7-10.
The following objections are
      overruled: 1, 5-6.

Compendium of Exhibits

Defendants’ objection to
      Exhibits F and G is overruled. 


DISCUSSION
I.
Breach of Contract
To establish
breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the contract existed, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff. (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) The formation of a contract
requires mutual assent, or a meeting of the minds. (Civ. Code, § 1550.) “Consent
is not mutual, unless the parties all agree upon the same thing in the same sense.”
(Id., § 1580.) 
Plaintiff’s FAC
alleges that between September 1, 2014 and July 9, 2015, Plaintiff entered into
6,696 separate contracts with each of the customers, banks, and BAMS. (FAC ¶
43.) The contracts allegedly consisted of an oral offer by each customer to
purchase certain goods and services (fuel) in exchange for payment using a
debit card. (Id., ¶ 43(A).) Plaintiff allegedly accepted each offer
conditioned upon BAMS and the banks approving the transaction and agreeing to
pay the purchase price. (Id., ¶ 43(B).) Such agreement was allegedly
memorialized in electronic transmissions. (Id., ¶ 43(C).) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants breached the agreement by failing to pay the purchase
price for the debit card transactions. (Id., ¶ 47.) 
Defendants Wells
Fargo and Chase argue that they never entered into an agreement to pay the
purchase price for each transaction. According to Defendants’ evidence, the
Visa transaction process begins with a “pre-authorization” for a certain amount
when a customer swipes their debit card. (Def.’s Undisputed Facts (UF) 4.) This
pre-authorization is sent to the issuing bank (Wells Fargo and Chase) and
merely confirms that the customer has sufficient funds in their account. (Ibid.)
The bank sends back either an approval or rejection of the pre-authorization.
If the bank issues an approval, the transaction is still not complete until the
point-of-sale (POS) system issues a “completion message.” (UF 5.) If the
completion message specifies an amount equal to or less than the pre-authorized
amount, the completion message is sent to the bank, which then debits the
customer’s account and authorizes the delivery of funds. If the bank does not
receive a completion message, no funds are debited. Any hold on the funds is released,
and any previously approved pre-authorization is deemed expired. (UF 9.) 
Defendants
contend that for the transactions at issue, Gilbarco’s faulty software
generated completion messages with amounts exceeding the pre-authorized
amounts, leading First Data (the payment processor) to reject the transactions.
(UF 6-7.) Defendants never received the requisite completion messages from
First Data and therefore did not transmit any funds. (UF 8.) This resulted in
Plaintiff not being paid for the transactions, but Defendants attribute that to
Gilbarco’s software and First Data’s rejection. Defendants argue that their
approval of pre-authorizations merely confirmed that the customers had
sufficient funds in their accounts but did not constitute Defendants’ consent
to actually pay the transaction amounts. Defendants did not communicate in
writing or orally with Plaintiff regarding the transactions. (UF 3.) There were
only electronic transmissions through the Visa payment processing system. (Ibid.)    
The Court of
Appeal in Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93
Cal.App.5th 1214 dealt with similar facts in the medical insurance context. In Aton,
a health care provider sought payment from the insurance company to cover
underpayment for substance abuse treatment provided to various patients. (Id.
at pp. 1218-19.) The provider alleged that “the insurer entered into binding
payment agreements during verification of benefits and authorization calls with
the provider.” (Id. at p. 1219.) The insurer participated in
verification calls with providers to confirm an individual patient’s benefits,
copayments, and deductible. (Ibid.) The court affirmed summary judgment
for the insurer on the grounds that the insurer’s verification did not manifest
a promise to pay. (Id. at pp. 1236.) 
 
Like the
verification calls in Aton, the pre-authorization approvals here did not
“objectively manifest[] contractual offers or promises of payment.” (Aton,
supra, 93 Cal.App.5th at p. 1236.) Verifying that a customer had a certain
amount of funds in their account is not an objective manifestation of assent to
pay for the final amount owed. Defendants “did not know at the verification
stage what services would ultimately be provided or the rates the provider
would charge for those services.” (Id. at p. 1231.) At the
pre-authorization stage, the banks do “not agree to pay at a specific
reimbursement rate or promise to pay a certain amount, nor does [Plaintiff]
learn how much it will be paid for a particular [fueling session].” (Ibid.)
Defendants’ evidence shows that Defendants were not obligated to disperse any
funds until the POS issued a completion message for an amount not exceeding the
pre-authorized amount. The evidence also shows that there were no offers,
acceptances, or negotiations between Plaintiff and Defendants. Therefore, Defendants
have satisfied their initial burden of establishing that there was no mutual
assent for Defendants to pay for the affected transactions.  
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants received the requisite completion messages
through their “agent,” First Data. “Agency exists when a principal engages an
agent to act on the principal's behalf and subject to its control.” (Church
Mutual Ins. Co., S.I. v. GuideOne Specialty Mutual Ins. Co. (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 1042, 1062.) “The essential elements necessary to establish an
agency relationship are manifestation of consent by one person to another that
the other shall act on his or her behalf and subject to his or her control, and
consent by the other so to act.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff cites no evidence
demonstrating that First Data acted as Defendants’ agent in processing
payments. Plaintiff’s conclusory statements do not raise a factual
dispute.     
Plaintiff also
argues that it was not bound by the Interlink Rules and Protocols (the Rules)
which set forth the pre-authorization and completion message standards.
Plaintiff argues that it was not required to submit a completion message as a
prerequisite to receiving payment. However, whether Plaintiff was required to
follow the Rules does not affect the reality of how the Visa transaction system
operates. It does not change the fact that a pre-authorization merely confirms
the existence of a certain amount in a customer’s account and is not an
objective manifestation of assent to pay. Plaintiff has no evidence that a
pre-authorization means anything more than a confirmation of a certain amount
of funds in a customer’s account. 
Plaintiff simply
concludes, through the declaration of its CEO, that the pre-authorization
approvals constitute agreements to pay for the fuel purchases. (See, e.g.,
Terrmendjian Decl. ¶ 13.) Plaintiff argues that it “expected that if it
received approval from Wells and Chase and thereafter provided the goods to the
customer, it would be paid.” (Opp. 8:14-16.) However, Plaintiff’s subjective
belief in the existence of a contract is immaterial because mutual assent is an
objective standard. (Chicago Title Ins. Co. v. AMZ Ins. Services, Inc.
(2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 401, 422.) Plaintiff does not cite any authority or
evidence supporting its theory that the automated electronic pre-authorizations
constitute an objective manifestation of assent to pay. Therefore, Plaintiff
fails to raise a triable dispute of material fact. This warrants summary
adjudication of the breach of contract claim. 
II. Goods Sold and
Delivered
“To recover on a
claim for the reasonable value of services under a quantum meruit theory, a
plaintiff must establish both that he or she was acting pursuant to either an
express or implied request for services from the defendant and that the
services rendered were intended to and did benefit the defendant.” (Ochs v.
PacifiCare of California (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 782, 794.) “When a common
count is used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery demanded in a
specific cause of action, and is based on the same facts, the common count is
demurrable if the cause of action is demurrable.” (McBride v. Boughton
(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 394.) 
Here,
Plaintiff’s claim for goods sold and delivered is based on the same 6,696
transactions underlying its breach of contract claim. (FAC ¶ 51.) Plaintiff
seeks the same recovery—payment for the transactions. (Id., ¶ 52.) As
discussed above, the contract claim fails. Therefore, the derivative common
count fails as well. (See McBride, supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at p.
394.)   
CONCLUSION
            Defendants
Wells Fargo’s and Chase’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
 