  Case Number:  22CHCV01220    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 11-5-24
Case #22CHCV01220 , Circle A Medical vs. Davit Hakobyan
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR ORDER TO AMEND JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Circle A Medical
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff is
requesting that the Court enter an order amending the judgment to add North
Hollywood Hospice Inc. as an additional judgment debtor
 
RULING: Motion
for order to amend the judgment is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On February 17,
2023, this Court entered default judgment in favor of Plaintiff Circle A
Medical (Plaintiff) and against Defendant Davit Hakobyan dba Sweet Touch
Hospice in the amount of $50,110.41. According to Plaintiff, the judgment
remains wholly unsatisfied.
 
In April 2024,
Sweet Touch Hospice attempted to open a new account with Plaintiff and
represented that it is a dba for North Hollywood Hospice Inc. In May 2024,
Plaintiff obtained a certified copy of the Fictitious Business Name Statement
for Sweet Touch Hospice, confirming that it is owned by an entity called North
Hollywood Hospice Inc. The Statement was signed by the current judgment debtor
Davit Hakobyan and is attached to Plaintiff’s motion as Exhibit A. Plaintiff
has also attached the Statement of Information filed with the California
Secretary of State as Exhibit B. It shows that David Hakobyan is the CEO, CFO,
and secretary of North Hollywood Hospice, Inc. Plaintiff claims that Hakobyan
never disclosed to Plaintiff that North Hollywood Hospice Inc. was the true
owner of Sweet Touch Hospice.
 
Plaintiff
argues in his motion, filed on August 16, 2024, that North Hollywood Hospice
Inc. is the true Defendant and is jointly liable to Plaintiff for the judgment
amount. No opposition has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
CCP § 473(a)(1)
state that the Court “may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may
be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding…by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect.”
 
“Judgments may
be amended to add additional judgment debtors on the ground that a person or
entity is the alter ego of the original judgment debtor.” (Hall, Goodhue,
Haisley & Baker, Inc. v. Marconi Conf. Center Bd. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th
1551, 1555.) “‘Amendment of a judgment to add an alter ego is an equitable
procedure based on the theory that the court is not amending the judgment to
add a new defendant but is merely inserting the correct name of the real
defendant. Such a procedure is an appropriate and complete method by which to
bind new ... defendants where it can be demonstrated that in their capacity as
alter ego of the corporation they in fact had control of the previous
litigation, and thus were virtually represented in the lawsuit.’” (Id.
(quoting Carr v. Barnabey’s Hotel Corp. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 14, 21-22).)
 
Plaintiff has
presented evidence that Sweet Touch Hospice was a Fictitious Business Name, and
therefore an alter ego, for North Hollywood Hospice Inc. (Omrani Decl., Ex. A.)
Accordingly, it is appropriate to amend the judgment to add North Hollywood
Hospice Inc. as a judgment debtor. 
 
Plaintiff has
also argued that it would be appropriate to add North Hollywood Hospice Inc. as
a successor judgment debtor and/or joint enterprise of judgment debtor.
However, it appears that it was simply an alter ego, not a successor judgment
debtor, so it is unnecessary to address these arguments.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to amend the judgment is add North Hollywood Hospice Inc. as a judgment
debtor is granted.
 
Moving party to
give notice.