 Case Number:  23AVCV00585    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a wrongful death action.
Plaintiffs Tykese Davis, as an individual and as a success in interest of Anna
Cotton (“Tykese”[1]),
and Eric Terell Davis, as an individual and as a successor in interest of Anna
Cotton (“Eric” and collectively “Plaintiffs”), allege that Anna Cotton
(“Decedent”) stayed at Defendant Lancaster Inn, located at 43530 17th St W,
Lancaster, CA 93534, on a date not specified and, while there, Defendants
Lancaster Inn, and Ajay H. Patel and Jagruti A. Patel as trustees of the
Shivrani Trust (collectively in their capacities as trustees as “Shivrani
Trust”), owed a duty to exercise reasonable care to keep Lancaster Inn’s
premises in a reasonable safe condition; and to take reasonable action to
eliminate, cure and/or give adequate notice of any dangerous conditions at
Lancaster Inn’s premises so as to avoid subjecting guests and/or customers,
including Decedent, to a foreseeable risk of harm. Plaintiffs further allege
that there was a breach of this duty through numerous separate and distinct
conditions including, but not limited to, a structure fire at Lancaster Inn
that spread throughout Decedent’s hotel room and the premises not properly
maintained, cleaned, and/or protected which led to Decedent’s untimely death.  
 
On May 31, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
their Complaint alleging one cause of action for Wrongful Death –
Negligence/Premises Liability.
 
On February 28, 2024, Shivrani
Trust filed its Answer and a Cross-Complaint.
 
On May 17, 2024, Shvrani Trust
filed its First Amended Cross Complaint (“FACC”) alleging three causes of
action for (1) Express Written Indemnity, (2) Full or partial Equitable
Indemnification, (3) Declaratory Relief, and (4) Breach of Contract against
Cross-Defendant Chamunda LLC (“Chamunda”).
 
On June 14, 2024, Chamunda filed
its Demurrer to the FACC.
 
On July 25, 2024, Shivrani Trust
filed its Opposition.
 
On July 30, 2024, Chamunda filed
its Reply.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept.
of Water and Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by
proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF
Farms v. Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.¿¿(Id.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th
at 747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the
truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged
pleading, regardless of possible difficulties of proof. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.) Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken. (Vance
v. Villa Park Mobilehome Estates (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.) A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice. (Blank, supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ.
Proc.¿§430.10(e), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may object
by demurrer to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion
to sustain a demurrer¿ 
if there is a reasonable
probability that the defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City
of Los Angeles¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23,
2003).)¿¿¿
 
------
 
Meet and
Confer Requirement¿– Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.¿ (Cal. Code Civ.¿Proc. §430.41 and
§435.5.)¿ The Court notes that this requirement has been met. (See Danielle M.
Boyd ¶¶ 4-6.)¿ 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – As an
initial matter, Chamundi argues that the Court should disregard Shivrani
Trust’s Opposition as it was due July 24, 2024. “All papers opposing a motion
so noticed shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at
least nine court days. . .before the hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
1005(b).) “Section 1013, which extends the time within which a right may be
exercised or an act may be done, does not apply to a notice of motion, papers
opposing a motion, or reply papers governed by this section.” (Ibid.)
The hearing is set for August 06, 2024. Monday, July 22, 2024, was deemed a
Court holiday due to the recent Ransomware attack on the Court. Accordingly,
the Opposition was due on July 24, 2024. The Opposition was filed on July 25,
2024. “No paper may be rejected for filing on the ground that it was untimely
submitted for filing. If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a
late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1300.) Chamunda filed a Reply on the merits. As such, the Court
considers the untimely Opposition. 
 
Chamunda demurs to the first
three causes of action in the FACC.
 
i.       
First Cause of Action (Express Written
Indemnity) and Second Cause of Action (Full or Partial Indemnity)
 
Chamunda argues that the
allegations in the FACC for the First Cause of Action are vague – the agreement
was made at an unknown time; the Premises is not defined; the allegations do
not state whether the contract was for Lancaster Inn; there is no date regarding
whether Chamunda performed the tortious actions; and there are no facts as to
the what, when, who, or where in regard to the unknown dangerous condition and
the express contract. Chamunda contends that the same argument, lack of facts
pled, affects the Second Cause of Action, and that the Second Cause of Action
is premised on legal conclusions. 
 
The Shivrani Trust presents that
there is no challenge to the sufficiency of the Fourth Cause of Action (Breach
of Contract) which sets forth the lease agreement; that the fire occurred at
the subject premises, caused by a dangerous condition; that Chamunda was
operating the subject premises at the time with a duty to maintain it in a safe
condition; and, under California’s fair notice pleading standards do not
require that Cross-Complainants identify the specific negligent act that
Cross-Defendant committed, when it was committed, or by whom. The Shivrani
Trust argues that the Second Cause of Action clearly sets forth Chamunda’s Lease
Agreement for the subject premises where the fire that allegedly led to
Decedent’s untimely death and Chamunda’s obligations arise from the Lease
Agreement and its use of the subject premises. 
 
Chamunda’s Reply emphasizes that
the FACC does not, in the relevant paragraphs, show where the alleged lease
defines the contractual term “Premises;” the Opposition does not clarify where
in the FACC the fire is alleged to be the dangerous condition, and this
position is not supported by the face of the operative pleading because there
are no factual allegations as to how, what actions, or what inactions are
attributed to Chamunda that resulted in the fire; and the FACC does not contain
the dates that Chamunda performed the unknown actions or inactions. Chamunda
argues that when a complaint fails to state what
the defendant did wrong and the
nature of the relationship between the defendant’s act and the injuries
suffered by the plaintiff a demurrer should be sustained and the current FACC
lack of facts renders the FACC too vague to provide sufficient notice about
this cause of action. Chamunda further argues that the Second Cause of Action
is premised on legal conclusions. 
 
“In general, indemnity refers to
‘the obligation resting on one party to makegood a loss or damage another party
has incurred.’ Historically, the obligation of indemnity took three forms: (1)
indemnity expressly provided for by contract (express indemnity); (2) indemnity
implied from a contract not specifically mentioning indemnity (implied
contractual indemnity); and (3) indemnity arising from the equities of
particular circumstances (traditional equitable indemnity). [¶] Although the
foregoing categories of indemnity were once regarded as distinct, we now
recognize there are only two basic types of indemnity: express indemnity and
equitable indemnity. Though not extinguished, implied contractual indemnity is
now viewed simply as ‘a form of equitable indemnity.’ ” (Prince v. Pacific
Gas & Electric Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151, 1157.)
 
The subject premises in the FACC
is “43530 17th St. W, Lancaster, CA 93534.” (FACC ¶ 5.) This is the same
location as in the Complaint. (See Complaint ¶ 8.) The FACC also states: “At
the time of the subject incident which led to Plaintiffs’ decedent’s death,
Cross- Defendant CHAMUNDA, LLC was operating a motel called the Lancaster Inn.
The fire that occurred at the Lancaster Inn arose from Cross-Defendant’s use of
the subject property.” (FACC ¶7.) 
 
Chamunda’s argument regarding whether
the contract was for Lancaster Inn is refuted by the allegations within the
FACC. 
 
The First and Second Causes of
action are premised on an alleged contract which states. The pleading reads in
relevant part:
 
Prior to the
incident that is the basis of the Plaintiffs’ Complaint, Cross-Complainants
entered into a lease agreement with Cross-Defendant CHAMUNDA, LLC wherein
Cross-Defendant agreed to defend and indemnify Cross-Complainant “from and
against any and all liabilities, responsibilities or claims arising from (a)
Lessee’s use and occupancy of the Premises; or (b) the conduct of Lessee’s
business; or (c) from any activity, work or thing done, permitted or suffered
by Lessee in or about the Premises, or (d) any breach or default in the
performance of any obligation to be performed by Lessee under the terms of this
Lease or arising from any act, neglect, fault or omission of Lessee or Lessee’s
Representatives…”
 
(FACC ¶ 6.)
 
The Fourth Cause of Action
(Breach of Contract) pleads the contract at issue. It reads, in relevant part:
 
Specifically, Par.
18 of the Lease Agreement states: “Lessee [CHAMUNDA, LLC] shall indemnify,
defend, and hold Lessor and Lessor’s Representatives harmless from any and all
liabilities, responsibilities, or claims arising from (a) Lessee’s use and
occupancy of the Premises; or (b) the conduct of Lessee’s business, or (c) from
any activity, work or thing done, permitted or suffered by Lessee in or about
the Premises…” 22. Further, Par. 6 of the Lease Agreement requires
Cross-Defendant CHAMUNDA, LLC to maintain the premises in good repair.
 
A. Land. The Lessee
[CHAMUNDA, LLC] must keep the Land in good order and condition and ensure that
it is good order and condition when this Lease ends. Lessee must maintain the
overall appearance of the Land, including but limited to [sic] landscaping,
parking lot, fencing and pedestrian access, in an attractive condition so as to
enhance the general appearance of the Premises.
 
B. Building. The
Lessee must keep the interior and exterior of the Building clean and in good
repair and condition and ensure they are clean and in good repair and condition
when this Lease ends. Without limiting Lessee’s obligation under this clause,
the Lessee must when necessary clean down and repaint all parts of the exterior
and interior of the Building in good and workman like manner…
 
E. Lessee shall
immediately maintain and repair, at its sole cost and expense, the Premises…”
 
(FACC ¶¶21-22.) 
 
There appears to be a contract;
however, there are no dates related to the contract to sow that the contract
covered the date of the alleged incident in Plaintiffs’ Complaint, and
Chamunda’s name is written in brackets, suggesting that the wording of the
contract does not include Chamunda’s name at those relevant sections. 
 
There are no facts alleged as to
what led to the fire that caused Decedent’s untimely death other than “a
dangerous condition.”
 
“California law emphasizes
ultimate fact pleading (with some exceptions, notably for fraud and related
torts) ‘in ordinary and concise language,’ and the test for adequacy is not
absolute but "whether the pleading as a whole apprises the adversary of
the factual basis of the claim. [Citations.]” (Lim v. The.TV Corp. Internat.
(2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 684, 690.)
 
While the facts pled allege a
contract with an indemnity clause, it noticeable apparent that the facts pled
lack facts which show that the contract applies to the date specified in the
action and, most importantly, a showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor.
(See Bailey v. Safeway, Inc. (2011) 199Cal.App.4th 206, 217 [“The
elements of a cause of action for indemnity are (1) a showing of fault on the
part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the indemnitee for which the
indemnitor is . . . equitably responsible”].) Rather, the facts pled simply
admit that a fire broke out at Lancaster Inn during Chamunda’s use and a
contract covering an unknown period includes an indemnity clause. There is no
notice to Chamunda of what it did wrong or what the dangerous condition was
that could lead to fault on its part. While this ambiguity may stem from the
Complaint itself, it is the FACC that is at issue for this Demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
First and Second Causes of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
ii.      Third
Cause of Action (Declaratory Relief)
 
Chamunda argues that the Third
Cause of Action incorporates the first two causes of action and, as such, is
not viable for the same reasons. 
 
The Shivrani Trust argues that
the Third Cause of Action is sufficiently pled for the same reasons as the
First and Second Causes of Action.
 
Chamunda, in reply, reiterates
its moving paper arguments.
 
As the arguments presented turn
fully on the arguments for the First and Second Causes of Action, the Court
incorporates its analysis, ante, for this cause of action.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer for the
Third Cause of Action (Declaratory Relief) is SUSTAINED.
 
-----
 
Leave to Amend
 
Chamunda requests that the Court deny leave to amend.
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave to
amend is liberally granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all
probability, amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co.
(1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿¿¿¿¿
 
Here, it is clear that an amendment
may rectify the deficiencies with the FACC as the amendment may include more
factual allegations (e.g., incorporation of the contract itself which would
include the date, more facts to provide notice as to what the dangerous
condition was).
 
Accordingly, the Court allows
leave to amend. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Cross-Defendant Chamunda, LLC’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Ajay Patel and Jaruti
Patel, Trustees of the Shirvrani Trust, Dated July 9, 2018 are to file an
amended cross-complaint within 30 days of this Court Order.


