 Case Number:  24AVCV00221    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is
a motor vehicle – personal injury action. Plaintiffs Kasandra Cordova
(“Kasandra”[1]);
Jasmine Cordova (“Jasmine”); Samantha Cordova (“Samantha”); Priscilla Cordova,
by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Kasandra Cordova (“Priscilla”); Anaie
Cordova, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Kasandra Cordova
(“Anaie”); and the Estate of Juan Cordova (“The Estate” and collectively
“Plaintiffs”) allege that (1) on or about February 25, 20234 at approximately
8:45 pm, Juan Cordova (“Decedent”) was driving his vehicle with a passenger northbound
on Division Street, north of Avenue G-12 approaching Division Street in the
City of Lancaster, County of Los Angeles, California in the general area of
Avenue G12 (“Subject Property”) where water was pooling from the western dirt
embankment over an asphalt shoulder and covered the southbound lane and, (2)
simultaneously, Defendant Giovanni Antonacci (“Antonacci”) was proceeding
southbound on Division Street approaching the Subject Property in his vehicle
when (3) Antonacci’s vehicle hydroplaned due to the accumulation of water,
causing the vehicle to cross over the center line, enter the northbound lane,
and collide with Decedent’s vehicle. Plaintiffs further allege that this
incident proximately and legally caused personal injury, and ultimately the
wrongful death, of Decedent.
 
On February 23, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint alleging four causes of action for: (1) Statutory
Liability/Dangerous Condition of Public Property against Defendants City of
Lancaster (“Lancaster”), County of Los Angeles (“COLA”), and State of California
(“California”); (2) Negligence against Defendants Antonacci, 46205 Division
Realty LLC (“Division Realty”), and Michael Avila; (3) Premises Liability
against Division Realty; and (4) Survival Action against all defendants.
 
On May 06, 2024, (1) The People
of the State of California, acting by and through the Department of
Transportation, erroneously sued as the State of California filed their Answer;
(2) COLA filed its Answer; (3) COLA filed its Cross-Complaint for Implied
Indemnity, Contribution, and Declaratory Relief.
 
On May 08, 2024, Lancaster filed
its Answer. 
 
On June 14, 2024, Division Realty
filed its Answer.
 
On June 17, 2024, Division Realty
filed this Application of Paul D. Root to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice.
 
On June 15, 2024, Division Realty
filed a document titled “Notice of Approval by State of Pro Hac Vice
Application of Paul D. Root.” 
 
No Opposition has been filed. 
 
-----
 
Analysis
 
Standard for Pro Hac Vice Application – An attorney who is a
member in good standing of the bar of another state, who has been retained to
appear in a particular cause pending before a court of this state may, “in the
discretion of such court” be permitted to appear as counsel pro hac vice.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a).) No person is eligible to appear pro hac
vice if the person is a California resident, regularly employed in
California, or regularly engaged in substantial business in California. (Ibid.)  
 
The
attorney seeking to appear pro hac vice must then file an application
with the Court indicating: 
 
(1)
the applicant's residence and office address; 
(2)
the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission; 
(3)
that the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts; 
(4)
that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; 
(5)
the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and 
(6)
the name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar
of California who is attorney of record. 
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(d).) 
 
Lastly,
in addition to serving the application and notice of hearing on the State Bar
(see Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 9.40(c)), the applicant must remit an application
fee to the State Bar. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(e).) 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – As an
initial matter, it appears that Division Realty is presenting to the Court that
The State Bar of California approved Paul D. Root’s pro hac vice
application. This presentation is not accurate. For clarity, the Court takes
judicial notice of The State Bar of California’s information provided on pro
hac vice applications under Cal. Evid. Code § 452(h) as “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” The Court provides each party sufficient notice of the
request through its tentative to enable the parties to prepare and meet the
request. (See Cal. Evid. Code § 453.) The State Bar of California provides an
FAQ page to attorneys such as Paul D. Root (“Root”) which reads, in relevant
part:
 
Who approves
my application for PHV?
The court must
approve your application in order for you to appear as PHV in a case. While the
State Bar's Applicant Portal may show that your PHV case is
"approved," this refers to the internal processing of your
application and should not be taken as the court's approval of your appearance
as PHV.
 
(The State Bar of California,
“Pro Hac Vice FAQs” (2023) <
https://www.calbar.ca.gov/Portals/0/documents/admissions/PHV-FAQ.pdf> [as of
Jun. 26 2024].) 
 
From the filing presented by
Division Realty, the State Bar of California did not approve Root’s
application, but rather the internal processes of Root’s pro hac vice
application only. The Court must approve Root’s pro hac vice
application. 
 
Root has filed an application
with a declaration that includes his residence address; office address; courts
to which he has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission (see Exh.
A); a statement that she is in good standing in the aforementioned courts
(Decl. Root ¶ 5); a statement that he is not currently disbarred or suspended
in the aforementioned courts (see ibid.) and a statement that he is
neither regularly employed nor regularly engaged in substantial business,
professional, or other activities in the State of California (id. at ¶
10). Root states that in the last two years, he has not appeared as counsel pro
hac vice in California. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Root has listed the name,
address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of
California who is attorney of record. (Id. at ¶ 1.)
 
The application includes a
declaration from counsel of record, Christopher C. McNatt, Jr. (“McNatt, Jr.”) in
which he states that he supports Root’s application, served the State Bar of
California with this application, and paid the sum of $50.00 to the State Bar
of California as required by California Rule of Court 9.40(e) upon filing this
application. 
 
The Court notes that Root himself
states that he paid the $50.00 to the State Bar with a copy of this
Application.
 
The Court inquires for clarity as
to who paid the fee. (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(e) [“An applicant for
permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule must pay a
reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of California with the copy
of the application and the notice of hearing that is served on the State Bar.”]
 
Based on the presentation to the
Court, the Court is inclined to GRANT the application. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant 46205 Division Realty LLC’s Application of
Paul D. Root to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.


