  Case Number:  21AVCV00772    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a medical malpractice action.
Plaintiffs Michael Balam (“Michael”[1])
and Jennifer Balam (“Jennifer” and collectively “Plaintiffs”) allege that on or
about April 15, 2020, Michael was experiencing a serious emergency event that
required immediate and emergency medical care; 911 was called; Michael was
transported via emergency ambulance requested by 911/the first responders to
what Plaintiff is informed and believes was the nearest available emergency
center available at the time, Defendant Palmdale Regional Medical
Center(“PRMC”); Michael was admitted to PRMC for coughing up blood and for
serious problems with his throat and respiratory tract; Michael was initially
seen by Defendant Scott Carter (“Carter”); Michael’s care continued with Naveen
Reddy (“Reddy”), Defendants PRMC, Carter, and Reddy dismissed Michael’s claims
and concluded that Michael was suffering from esophagitis; Michael was
discharged. Plaintiffs present that after discharge, Michael’s health did not
improve and on or about April 20, 2020, Michael presented to Antelope Valley
Hospital (“AVH”) where it was determined through testing that Michael had a
tear which was causing the bleeding in his esophagus. 
 
On September 30, 2021, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint alleging two causes of action for: (1) Negligence, and
(2) Loss of Consortium. 
 
On October 24, 2023, Reddy filed
his Answer.
 
On October 30, 2023, Carter filed
his Answer.
 
On November 27, 2023, Defendant
Lancaster Hospital Corporation (“Lancaster Hospital”) filed a Motion to Strike.

 
On January 24, 2024, Lancaster
Hospital filed a Motion to Dismiss.
 
On February 16, 2024, Lancaster
Hospital withdrew its Motion to Dismiss. 
 
On February 20, 2024, the Court
granted Lancaster Hospital’s Motion to Strike.
 
On May 01, 2024, Lancaster
Hospital filed its Answer. 
 
On April 04, 2024, Carter filed
this Motion for Summary Judgment.
 
On July 23, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their Opposition
 
On August 01, 2024, Carter filed
his Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Summary Judgment – The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Cal. Code Civ. Proc.¿§437c(c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion for
summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67 (“Juge”), citing¿FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint,
the party moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(Cal.¿Code Civ.¿Proc.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf¿v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿¿¿¿
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Evidentiary Objections – The Court does not rule on Plaintiffs’
evidentiary objections as they are not determinative to this motion. (See Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(q).) 
 
Application – Carter
presents that his treatment of Michael adhered to the standard of care at all
times. To support this position, Carter has provided the opinion of an expert,
William Park, M.D. (“Dr. Park”). Dr. Park opines that he is a board certified
emergency medical physician, licensed in the state of California, and has
completed his medical degree and worked at Hoag Hospital since 1999. (See Decl.
Dr. Park ¶¶ 1-4.) Dr. Park lists his areas of expertise and states that he is
“familiar with the standard of care for emergency medicine physicians in the
community of Southern California at all times relevant to this litigation,
including 2020.” (Id. at ¶¶ 5, 7.) Based on his review of Michael’s
medical records, Dr. Park opines, in relevant part: 
 
·        
The emergency care and treatment provided to
claimant by Dr. Carter at Palmdale Regional Medical Center on April 15, 2020,
complied with the standard of care at all times (id. at 3);
·        
The emergency care included blood-work and CT
imaging of the chest and neck complied with the standard of care as “blood-work
was appropriate to determine whether a blood transfusion was required, and a CT
of the neck and chest was appropriate to determine whether a complete tear was
present at that time[]” (ibid.);
·        
The standard of care did not require Dr. Carter
to order an endoscopy at the time of his evaluation because plaintiff’s
symptoms of coughing up blood had resolved, so there was no need to identify
the source of the bleeding, and there was no indication that plaintiff had any
food stuck in his throat at that time moreover consultation with
gastroenterology was not indicated prior to the results of the CT scans (ibid.);
and
·        
It was within the standard of care for Carter to
pass Michael’s care to another emergency physician after his evaluation and
orders because Carter was at the end of his shift and plaintiff’s presentation
did not indicate need for continuous care from one particular emergency
physician (ibid.).
 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for
medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence
as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach
of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct
and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Lattimore v. Dickey
(2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.) “Both the standard of care and defendants’
breach must normally be established by expert testimony in a medical
malpractice case.”¿¿Avivi¿v. Centro Medico¿Urgente¿Medical Center¿(2008)
159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.¿¿ 
¿ 
Thus, in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen
a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.”¿(Munro v. Regents of University of California¿(1989)
215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 984-985 [citations omitted].) An expert declaration, if
uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and
the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care provider.¿(Starr
v.¿Mooslin¿(1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 988, 999.) 
 
Carter has met his initial burden
of proof for the First Cause of Action
(Negligence) by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense via Dr. Park’s declaration. However, Carter does not
address the Second Cause of Action (Loss of Consortium). Carter has requested
only summary judgment, not summary adjudication. (See MSJ, Notice.) Despite
this, Carter has only addressed one cause of action. That is, there is no
notice as to the Second Cause of Action, and no argument in the Memorandum of
Points and Authorities or in the Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts as to the Second Cause of Action. (See MSJ [Notice discussing only First
Cause of Action (Negligence), Introduction stating that Jennifer brings a claim
for loss of consortium, Decl. of Stone stating that Jennifer brings a claim for
loss of consortium, and Exh. A showing that the Complaint contains a loss of
consortium cause of action].) Thus, while Carter has met his initial
burden of proof for the First Cause of
Action (Negligence), Carter has not addressed the Second Cause of Action, the
burden does not shift as Carter has not met his initial burden of proof for
both causes of action, and summary judgment cannot be granted. 
 
The Court has reviewed the pertinent filings to this Motion for Summary
Judgment. The Court notes the following relevant information: (1) Plaintiffs’
Opposition does not address the notice issue as to the Second Cause of Action
nor provides arguments for the Second Cause of Action (see Opp. [generally]),
and (2) the Reply does not address the notice issue or the Second Cause of
Action (see Reply [mentioning that Jennifer has brought a claim for loss of
consortium in the Introduction, but providing no argument related to the claim
or notice]). As such, the Court’s analysis remains unchanged. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Scott Carter, M.D.’s Motion to for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.


