  Case Number:  23PSCV01850    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  K Defendant Health Net
of California, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The case is ordered stayed, pending
completion of the arbitration.
Background[1]  
Plaintiff Ning Sun (“Plaintiff”) alleges that his health
care insurer, Health Net of California, Inc. (“Defendant”), wrongfully delayed
and denied his cancer treatment.
On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Defendant for:
1.                 
Bad
Faith—Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
2.                 
Breach
of Contract
3.                 
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
4.                 
Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress
A Trial Setting
Conference is set for February 29, 2024.
Legal Standard
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2, subds. (a) and (b).)
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence. (Hotels Nevada v. L.A.
Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761.) The burden then
shifts to the opposing party to prove by a preponderance of the evidence a
defense to enforcement (e.g., fraud, unconscionability, etc.) (Id.) “In these summary proceedings, the
trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the
court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 972.)
“If a court of competent jurisdiction. . . has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4).
Discussion
Defendant moves the court for orders compelling arbitration
of Plaintiff’s claims and staying all further judicial proceedings in this
action pending completion of arbitration.
Notice of Remand
At the outset, the court notes that on August 9, 2023,
Defendant filed a “Notice of Filing of Notice of Removal” (“Notice”), advising
therein that Defendant had removed this action to the United States District
Court for the Central District of California by filing a Notice of Removal in
that Court.
On August 11, 2023, the court acknowledged receipt of the
Notice, vacated the Case Management Conference and Order to Show Cause Re:
Failure to File Proof of Service scheduled for November 28, 2023 and scheduled
a Status Conference Re: Removal to Federal Court for December 11, 2023.
Defendant represents that the case was remanded on October
22, 2023. (Reply, 2:25-26). The instant motion was filed on November 17, 2023.
On December 11, 2023, a Status Conference Re: Removal to Federal Court was
held; the minute order from that date reflects that Defendant’s counsel
informed the court that the matter had been demanded back to the court from
Federal Court. Defendant’s counsel was instructed to file the Notice of Remand.
There is no indication that Defendant’s counsel has filed
the Notice of Remand, as instructed (i.e., as of February 23, 2024, 9:18 a.m.)
Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1446(d), the court may proceed no further unless and
until this case is remanded.
Accordingly, the following ruling is contingent upon
Defendant’s counsel first filing the Notice of Remand at or before the time of
the hearing:
Merits
1.                 
Existence of
a Valid Arbitration Agreement 
Defendant submits that, throughout
2018 and 2019, Plaintiff was enrolled in three separate Health Net HMO plans (i.e.,
Silver 94 CommunityCare HMO 552508, Silver 87 CommunityCare HMO 552507 and
Silver 70 CommunityCare HMO 552504, respectively) and that each plan contract
contained an identical arbitration clause reading, in relevant part, as follows:
Binding Arbitration 
Sometimes disputes or disagreement
may arise between you (including your
enrolled Family Members, heirs or
personal representatives) and Health Net 
regarding the construction,
interpretation, performance or breach of this Plan 
Contract or regarding other matters
relating to or arising out of your Health 
Net membership. Typically such
disputes are handled and resolved through 
the Health Net Grievance, Appeal
and Independent Medical Review process 
described above. However, in the
event that a dispute is not resolved in that 
process, Health Net uses binding
arbitration as the final method for resolving 
all such disputes, whether stated
in tort, contract or otherwise and whether or 
not other parties such as employer
groups, health care providers or their agents 
or employees, are also involved. In
addition, disputes with Health Net involving 
alleged professional liability or
medical malpractice (that is, whether any 
medical services rendered were
unnecessary or unauthorized or were 
improperly, negligently or
incompetently rendered) also must be submitted to 
binding arbitration.
 
As a condition to becoming a Health
Net Member, you agree to submit all 
disputes you may have with Health
Net, except those described below, to final 
and binding arbitration. Likewise,
Health Net agrees to arbitrate all such 
disputes. This mutual agreement to
arbitrate disputes means that both you and 
Health Net are bound to use binding
arbitration as the final means of resolving 
disputes that may arise between the
parties and thereby the parties agree to forego 
any right they may have to a jury
trial on such disputes. However, no remedies 
that otherwise would be available
to either party in a court of law will be forfeited 
by virtue of this agreement to use
and be bound by Health Net’s binding 
arbitration process. This agreement
to arbitrate shall be enforced even if a party to 
the arbitration is also involved in
another action or proceeding with a third party 
arising out of the same matter. . .

 
(Grigoryan Decl., ¶ 3, Exhs. A-1, p. 111, A-2, p. 111 and A-3,
pp. 111-112). 
Plaintiff does not dispute the
existence and validity of the above arbitration provisions.
Further, the above arbitration clause encompasses the claims
in this action. Plaintiff’s complaint filed June 22, 2023 asserts causes of
action for Bad Faith—Breach of the
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Breach of Contract, Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress and Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.[2]
Plaintiff has alleged that he enrolled in the Covered California health program
in 2018 and 2019, that he was subsequently enrolled in his wife’s employer
group health plans “[f]rom 06/2019” and in Medi-Cal “[f]rom 01/2022 to now” and
that Defendant “is the only insurance company from which plaintiff ha[s] chosen
his health plan.” (Complaint, 1:25-2:2). Plaintiff’s claims arise from alleged
improper provider referrals under his Health Net plans and a resulting delay in
medical treatment. (Id., pp. 2-3). Plaintiff alleges that, beginning in
2018, he repeatedly submitted requests for Photo-chemo-therapy (“PUVA”)
treatment to Allied Pacific of California IPA (“APC”), which was assigned to
Plaintiff by Defendant to provide medical referrals and other related services,
but that APC did not provide him with the treatment or find him a qualified
provider. (Complaint, p. 2). Plaintiff alleges that he finally began receiving
PUVA treatment October 2021 to December 2021, but that APC then failed to
provide proper documentation which delayed the treatment again until July 2022.
(Id., p. 4).
Plaintiff does not
dispute Defendant’s assertion that his claims pertaining to conduct occurring
in 2018 and 2019 arise under the above arbitration provisions.
2.                 
Waiver 
Plaintiff, however, contends that Defendant’s request for
arbitration should nevertheless be denied on the basis of waiver. “[T]he party
seeking to establish a waiver bears a heavy burden of proof.” (St. Agnes
Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1195). “State law, like
the FAA, reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires
close judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.” (Id.) “In determining waiver, a
court can consider (1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the
right to arbitrate; (2) whether the litigation machinery has been substantially
invoked and the parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit before the
party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a
party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or
delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant
seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the
proceedings; (5) whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of
judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place;
and (6) whether the delay affected, misled, or prejudiced the opposing party.”
(Id. at 1196 [quotations and citations omitted].)
As an initial matter, Plaintiff has provided no legal
support for his contention that any prelitigation conduct can act as a
waiver of arbitration.
Plaintiff argues that Defendant actively participated in
litigation inconsistent with its right to arbitrate by removing the case to
federal court. However, “[a] defendant's removal of a case filed in state court to
federal court does not by itself constitute an implicit waiver of the right to
compel arbitration” (Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co. (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 1193, 1204). The court notes that neither Plaintiff’s opposition
nor Defendant’s reply are supported by declaration; further, the court is not
privy to the proceedings in federal court. With that said, it appears
undisputed that Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration in federal
court on August 29, 2023, shortly after filing its “Notice of Removal” on
August 8, 2023. (Opp., 4:20-23 and 6:10; Reply, 2:18-19 and 6:25-26). It also
appears undisputed that on September 11, 2023 Plaintiff concurrently filed an
Amended and Supplemental Complaint and a Motion to Remand in federal court and
that on September 25, 2023 Defendant filed a response to Plaintiff’s Motion to
Remand, consenting to remand on the basis that “Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint (‘FAC’) no longer seeks any relief, damages, or remedies arising out
of the period governed by his employer’s ERISA plan.” (Opp., 4:24-25 and 5:1-10;
Reply, 7:14).
The above information and timeline belies Plaintiff’s
assertion that Defendant’s removal of the case to federal court constituted bad
faith, an intent to delay proceedings or was otherwise inconsistent with the
right to arbitrate.
Conclusion
The motion is granted. The case is stayed, pending
completion of the arbitration.


