 Case Number:  21STCV08164    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production (Set Three)
Tentative
The motion is granted in part and denied in part.
Background
This case arises
out of an alleged vehicle accident on March 7, 2019, near Los Angeles International
Airport Terminal 6. Plaintiff Uyanga Tserenchimed ("Plaintiff") filed
the complaint in this action on March 2, 2021, asserting causes of action for
motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against Defendants Christophe
Harbonville, Rasier LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC, and Does 1 through 50.
On June 7, 2021,
Defendants Christopher Harbonville (erroneously sued as Christophe Harbonville),
Rasier LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC each filed an answer.
On May 18, 2022,
James River Insurance Company (“JRIC”), the insurer for Defendant Christopher
Harbonville, filed a complaint in intervention. 
Defendant
Harbonville has died.  On December 6,
2023, Plaintiff amended her complaint to name “The Estate of Christopher
Harbonville” as Doe 1.
Regarding the
matter before the Court and set for hearing on April 2, 2024, Defendant Rasier,
LLC (“Defendant”) served discovery on Plaintiff on August 31, 2023, including
Requests for Production (Set Three).  (Notice
of Errata, Exh. A.)  Plaintiff served
verified written responses on October 13, 2023. 
(Id., Exh. B.)  Defendant contends
that the responses are not code compliant, but correspondence between counsel
did not resolve the dispute. (Herme Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)  At an Informal Discovery Conference, Plaintiff
discussed provided further response, but no further response were provided.
Defendant filed
this motion on February 23, 2024, seeking further responses and sanctions.  Plaintiff filed her opposition on March
19.  Defendant filed an errata on March
21 and a reply on March 22.
 Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
“[I]f a party then
fails to obey an order compelling further response, the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 ….  In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction,
the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 ….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(i).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
As a threshold matter, the Court finds that Defendant has
shown that it engaged in an adequate meet-and-confer process before filing this
motion.
Defendant seeks further written responses to Requests for
Production Nos. 50-59 and 61.  The Court
will address each in turn. 
RFP Nos. 50-51
Defendant requests all contracts or agreements between
Plaintiff and her medical treatment providers (No. 50) and all contracts or
agreements between Plaintiff’s counsel and Plaintiff’s medical treatment
providers (No. 51).
After stating various objections, Plaintiff states
unequivocally and under oath the following: “Plaintiff produces all documents
in her possession, custody and/or control.” 

That is a code complaint response.  There is no further response to compel.
Accordingly, the motion to compel is DENIED.
RFP No. 52
Defendant requests communications between Plaintiff’s legal
counsel and anyone employed by Plaintiff’s legal counsel and Plaintiff’s
medical treatment providers. 
Plaintiff objects on the ground that the request is vague,
ambiguous, and unintelligible as phrased. 
The Court SUSTAINS this objection: as phrased, the request appears to
seeks communications involving three parties: legal counsel, anyone employed by
legal counsel, and the treatment providers. 
It is unclear to the Court what Defendant is seeking.  (If for example, Defendant is seeking
communications between legal counsel and treatment providers, why the “and”
reference to “anyone employed by Plaintiff’s legal counsel.”)
The request, as phrased, is also overly broad, as it would
include communication unrelated to Plaintiff’s medical treatment, and could
well implicate the privacy rights of third parties.  The Court SUSTAINS these objections as well.
Accordingly, the motion to compel is DENIED.
RFP Nos. 53-54
Defendant requests documents relating to payments for Plaintiff’s
medical treatment made by Plaintiff herself (No. 53) or her counsel (No. 54).
Based upon Defendant’s definition of terms, the Court
understands these requests to seek documents relating to payments for medical
treatment relating to the accident at issue in this litigation.
As so understood, Plaintiff’s objections are all overruled.  The request seeks discoverable materials.  The request is not vague or ambiguous or
unduly burdensome.  Plaintiff has not
show how or why the requested documents are covered by the attorney-client
privilege or work product doctrine.  The
documents are not protected from discovery on the basis of Plaintiff’s right to
privacy or the collateral source rule.
Defendant has shown good cause.
The motion to compel is GRANTED.
RFP No. 55
Defendant seeks all writings or communications regarding
payment for Plaintiff’s medical treatment that are secured by a lien on an anticipated
recovery from the litigation.
After stating various objections, Plaintiff states under oath
the following: “Plaintiff will produce any lien agreements with her medical
providers that are in her custody, possession, and/or control.”
To the extent that Defendant is seeking something beyond the
lien agreements themselves, the Court SUSTAINS Plaintiff’s objections on the
ground that the request is vague, ambiguous, and unintelligible.
To the extent that Defendant is seeking the lien agreements,
Plaintiff has provided a code complaint response.  There is no further response to compel.
The motion to compel is DENIED.
RFP Nos. 56-57
Defendant requests all writings and communications discussing
compensation provided by treaters for the provision of medical treatment on a
lien (No. 56) and all writings and communications evidencing compensation
accepted by a treater in satisfaction of any lien for any treater (No. 57).
Plaintiff objects on the ground that the requests are vague,
ambiguous, and unintelligible as phrased. 
Plaintiff also objects on the ground that the requests seek information
that is not within the scope of proper discovery.  The Court SUSTAINS each of these objection:
as phrased, it is unclear what category of documents Defendant is seeking and
it appears that the scope of the requests include treatment of individuals
other than Plaintiff.
The motion to compel is DENIED.
RFP No. 58
Defendant requests documents regarding payment of bills
received from any treater.
Based upon Defendant’s definition of terms, the Court
understands this request to seek documents relating to payments for medical
treatment relating to the accident at issue in this litigation.
As so understood, Plaintiff’s objections are all overruled.  The request seeks discoverable materials.  The request is not vague or ambiguous or
unduly burdensome.  Plaintiff has not
show how or why the requested documents are covered by the attorney-client
privilege or work product doctrine.  The
documents are not protected from discovery on the basis of Plaintiff’s right to
privacy or the collateral source rule.
Defendant has shown good cause.
The motion to compel is GRANTED.
RFP No. 59
Defendant requests communications between any treater (or the
treater’s billing company) and Plaintiff’s counsel.
Based upon Defendant’s definition of terms, the Court
understands this request to seek documents relating to communication regarding treatment
for the accident at issue in this litigation.
As so understood, Plaintiff’s objections are all overruled.  The request seeks discoverable materials.  The request is not vague or ambiguous or
unduly burdensome.  Plaintiff has not
show how or why the requested documents are covered by the attorney-client
privilege or work product doctrine.  The
documents are not protected from discovery on the basis of Plaintiff’s right to
privacy or the collateral source rule.
Defendant has shown good cause.
The motion to compel is GRANTED.
RFP No. 61
Defendant requests communications relating to any
recommendation for surgery and treatment sent to a treater by Plaintiff or
Plaintiff’s counsel. 
Plaintiff’s objections are all overruled.  The request seeks discoverable materials.  The request is not vague or ambiguous or
unduly burdensome.  Plaintiff has not
show how or why the requested documents are covered by the attorney-client
privilege or work product doctrine.  
Defendant has shown good cause.
The motion to compel is GRANTED.
Sanctions
Defendant’s request for sanctions is denied.  Defendant’s motion is denied in part, and as
to the portions of the motions as to which it is granted, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has acted with substantial justification. 
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part the motion to
compel further responses.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to provide verified, written,
code-compliant responses, without objection, to Defendants’ Requests for
Production Nos. 53, 54, 58, 59, and 61, within 21 days of notice of this
ruling.
The Court otherwise DENIES the relief requested in Defendant’s
motion.
Defendant is ordered to give notice.