 Case Number:  23STCV00561    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Motions to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiffs’
Counsel Gerald L. Marcus as to all five Plaintiffs.
 
Tentative
The motions are granted in part and denied in
part.
Background
On January 10, 2023, the complaint in this
action was filed.  There are five
plaintiffs.  Three are adults: Lasha
Andrews, Johnishia Shepard, and Bre’Ann Brinson.  Two are minor children: Jay’Lonii Williams
and De’Shawn Walker.  All plaintiffs allege
injuries arising out of a motor vehicle accident on February 1, 2021.  The action is brought against Defendants Efrain
Bermudez Rodriguez, Domino’s Pizza, MS&R Pizza, Inc., and Does 1 through 100.
On February 26, 2024, Gerald L. Marcus filed motions
to be relieved as counsel for all five Plaintiffs. No opposition has been
filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
Counsel has
filed the requisite forms pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1362 for Plaintiffs Lasha
Andrews, Johnisha Shepard, Bre’Ann Brinson, Jay’Lonii Williams, and De’Shawn
Walker.
Counsel declares
that the attorney-client relationship between all Plaintiffs and counsel has
broken down non-existent. (MC-052, no. 2.)  Counsel has served all Plaintiffs by mail, and
confirmed addresses within 30 days of the motion by telephone. Both the
declaration and order have all future hearing dates. Moving documents have been
served on all parties in this matter.
The Court finds
Counsel has established good cause to be relieved as counsel due to the
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. 
All substantive and procedural requirements are satisfied.
However, both
Plaintiffs Jay’Lonii Williams and De’Shawn Walker are minors, and are parties
to this matter by and through the Guardian Ad Litem, Lasha Andrews. An attorney
must appear on behalf of the minor or person lacking legal capacity to make
decisions. A non-attorney appointed as guardian ad litem cannot act in pro per
as doing so would constitute the unauthorized practice of law (Bus. & Professions
Code § 6125; see  J.W. v. Superior
Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 958, 965.)
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED for Plaintiffs Lasha Andrews, Johnishia Shepard, Bre’Ann
Brinson. The motion is DENIED as to Plaintiffs Jay’Lonii Williams and De’Shawn
Walker; as to those plaintiffs, counsel will continue to represent those plaintiffs
until another attorney substitutes es in or the claims are dismissed or
resolved.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
the motions to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs Lasha Andrews, Johnishia
Shepard, and Bre’Ann Brinson.
The order is
effective upon filing with the Court of a proof of service showing service of
the signed order (not the minute order) on the Plaintiffs.
The Court DENIES
the motions as to Plaintiffs Jay’Lonii Williams and De’Shawn Walker.
Moving counsel
to give notice. 