  Case Number:  20STCV38778    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendant's motion for summary judgment.TentativeThe Court will hear from counsel. In addition to other arguments, the Court would like to hear from counsel on the following issues:
First, Plaintiff’s response to Defendant’s
separate statement, and Plaintiff’s statement of additional facts, do not
comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, in a critical and
substantive way: Plaintiff does not cite supporting evidence. Instead,
Plaintiff cites her “declaration” (without specifying which paragraph or page
and line), the declaration of Defendant’s expert (without specifying which
paragraph or page and line), and “photographs” (without specifying which ones).
Plaintiff must cite to evidence, not ask the Court to guess which evidence
Plaintiff may be referencing. Plaintiff must be prepared to cite specific evidence, and not vaguely describe documents in which evidence may be located, during argument.
Second, it is unclear to the Court where Plaintiff
fell (even approximately). The Court understands that Plaintiff may not recall
the exact location of her fall, but she states in her declaration that she “can
estimate” it. (Huezo Decl., ¶ 4.) What is her estimate?
Third, it is unclear to the Court what Plaintiff
contends was the allegedly dangerous condition. A curb that slopes down to
accommodate a ramp for customers with mobility issues does not seem to be, in
and of itself, a dangerous condition. In her declaration she refers to the curb
as being “uneven” (Huezo Decl., ¶ 3), but it is unclear to the Court what she
is contending – is she referring to the general, designed slope of the curb or
some other defect? If the latter, is there any evidence in the record of such a
defect? 
Fourth, Plaintiff also says that the curb “is
an unusual height as it is not a step and not a standard sidewalk” (Huezo
Decl., ¶ 11.) What does that mean?
Fifth, Plaintiff says that the red paint “caused
the cracks and grooves in the sidewalk to be camouflaged.” (Huezo Decl., ¶ 13.)
What “cracks and grooves” is Plaintiff referencing?
Sixth, in Defendant’s evidence at the end
of Exhibit C (Plaintiff’s response to request for production), there are six
photographs. Have any of these photographs been authenticated?