 Case Number:  20STCV43568    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiffs’ Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On November 12, 2020, Julia Jimenez Gomez, Julissa Genesis Jimenez, a minor by
and through her Guardian Ad Litem Julia Jimenez Gomez, and Nazareth Yukari
Jimenez, a minor by and through her Guardian Ad Litem Julia Jimenez Gomez
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Lorenzo Francisco Robles,
David Arzate, and Does 1 through 20 for the cause of action of motor vehicle negligence
and general negligence causes of action arising from an automobile accident
occurring on August 26, 2020.
On June 14, 2023, when Plaintiff failed to
appear at a hearing on an OSC re dismissal for failure to file a proof of
service, the case was dismissed. 
On December 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this
motion to set aside the dismissal.
No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…” (Code Civ. Pro., §473, subd. (b).) 
To qualify for relief under section 473,
the moving party must act diligently in seeking relief and must submit
affidavits or testimony demonstrating a reasonable cause for the
default. (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 234.) 
“In a motion under section 473 the initial
burden is on the moving party to prove excusable neglect by a “preponderance of
the evidence. [Citations]”” (Kendall v. Barker (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d
619, 624.) “The moving party has a double burden: He must show a satisfactory
excuse for his default, and he must show diligence in making the motion after
discovery of the default.” (Id. at 625.)
Discussion
Plaintiffs’ counsel
Kelly Lawrence Casado states that the June 14, 2023 hearing was not properly
calendared which led to counsel’s nonappearance. (Casado Decl., ¶2.) This
motion was filed within 6 months of the dismissal.
 
No opposition
has been filed.
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff has established the dismissal occurred due to counsel’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or neglect due to the miscalendaring of the June 14,
2023 hearing causing counsel’s nonappearance and leading to the Court’s order
dismissing the case.
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside the dismissal is
GRANTED.   
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside the dismissal.
 
The Court SETS ASIDE the dismissal order entered on June
14, 2023.
 
The Court SETS an OSC re dismissal for failure to file
proof of service in approximately 30 days. 
Any response to the OSC must be by written declaration filed at least five
calendar days before the hearing on the OSC.
                                                                                             
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  