 Case Number:  22NWCV00621    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  C CC Wellness v. virahealth 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00621
HEARING:   9/27/23 @ 10:30 AM
#5
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Defendant’s Motions to
Compel are DENIED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff CCW Wellness, Inc. and Defendant
Virahealth Medical Wholesale move for orders to compel further discovery
responses.  
Background
Plaintiff
filed a Complaint for Conversion, Negligent Interference, Violation of Business
and Professional Code § 17200, and Unjust Enrichment against Defendant for the
alleged unauthorized sale of its products. Plaintiff alleges that a shipment of
its products went missing in May 2022. 
Plaintiff later discovered that Defendant was selling the missing
products through its own Amazon Storefront. 

Legal
Standard
CCP
§ 2031.310 allows a party to file a motion compelling further answers to
document requests if it finds that the response is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive, or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  The motion shall be accompanied with a meet
and confer declaration.  (CCP §
2031.310(b).)  
Discussion

Plaintiff seeks further responses to its
Requests for Production Nos. 3-5, 7, 9, 10, and 25. Defendant stated in its
responses that it does not have any responsive documents and maintains through
the additional meet and confer efforts that it does not have any documents.
Plaintiff argues that it does not believe that Defendant is truthfully
responding, however, the Court has no evidence that Defendant is withholding
documents. Thus, the Court cannot compel further responses to Requests Nos.
3-5, 7, 9, 10, and 25.
Plaintiff seeks further responses to Requests
Nos. 16 and 17 which seek financial statements for the previous five years.
These requests are overbroad because the claims relate to a missing shipment
from May 2022. Further, Plaintiff argues that the requests are relevant to
discovery of how much Defendant generated from the sale of products from the
missing shipment. Thus, the requests will be limited to statements related to
sales of products from the missing shipment from May 2022 to present. Therefore,
Defendant is ordered to provide further responses to Requests Nos. 16 and 17
with the above limitation.
Plaintiff seeks further responses to Request
No. 29 which seeks the identities of Defendant’s officers, managers, and
members. Defendant objected on the grounds that the requests should have been
made in an interrogatory or deposition. However, Plaintiff is entitled to
choose the discovery method it wishes to use and its request only seeks
documents sufficient to identify Defendant’s officers, managers, and members
and not all documents. Thus, the request is not unduly burdensome. Therefore,
Defendant is ordered to provide a further response to Request No. 29.
Defendant seeks to compel further responses to
its Requests for Production Nos. 13 and 14 and Form Interrogatory 8.4 which
seek Plaintiff’s lost revenues and goodwill. Plaintiff objected on the grounds
that its financial information is proprietary and that Plaintiff is only
seeking damages for Defendant’s “ill-gotten gains” from the sale of products
from the missing shipment. Plaintiff argues that it does not intend to use
evidence of diminished profits at trial. Thus, Defendant’s request to compel
further responses to Requests Nos. 13 and 14 and Form Interrogatory No. 8.4 are
denied, however, Defendant may file a motion in limine regarding this issue. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Defendant is ordered to
provide further responses within 20 days of this Order. Defendant’s Motions to
Compel are DENIED.
 
 