 Case Number:  21STCV03216    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  C Macedo v. Portillo
CASE NO.:  21STCV03216
HEARING:   9/27/23 @ 9:30 AM
#2
 
Plaintiff
Omar Macedo’s Motion for Order that the Evangelista
Declaration Failed to Sustain its Burden is DENIED.
Plaintiff to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff Omar Macedo moves for an order finding
that the Evangelista Declaration failed to sustain Defendant’s burden of showing
the Evangelista Report was covered by the attorney-client privilege.
Background
This
personal injury (motor vehicle) action was filed on January 27, 2021. Plaintiff
moves to compel Defendants Charter Communications, Inc.’s (Defendant) further
responses to Requests for Production.
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff’s
objections Nos. 1-6 are overruled. 
Legal
Standard
With
certain exceptions not applicable here, a client “has a privilege to refuse to
disclose, and to prevent another from disclosing, a confidential communication
between client and lawyer.” (Evidence Code, § 954.) “The party claiming
privilege carries the burden of showing that the evidence which it seeks to
suppress is within the terms of the statute.” (D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1964) 60 Cal.2d 723, 729.)
Discussion

Plaintiff contends that the Evangelista
Declaration (the Declaration) fails to sustain Defendant’s burden of showing
that a statement made by Defendant Portillo to Evangelista was covered by the
attorney-client privilege.  The statement
was contained in a report written by Evangelista and delivered to an
attorney.  “To make the communication
privileged the dominant purpose must be for transmittal to an attorney ‘in the
course of professional employment’.” The Declaration provides that Evangelista
prepared a report as one of his job duties, he is Portillo’s direct supervisor,
the report was created to assist Defendant’s counsel, and the report was
labelled as confidential.  (Evangelista
Decl., ¶¶3, 5, and 8.)  In addition, the
Declaration provides that “Mr. Portillo’s oral and written statements to [Mr.
Evangalista], related to the Subject Incident, were a part of [Mr. Portillo’s]
job duties as Field Technician IV for Charter. In addition, as [Mr. Portillo’s]
direct supervisor, [Mr. Evangelista] directed Mr. Portillo to provide [Mr.
Evangelista] with the oral and written statement related to the Subject
Incident, which were incorporated into [Mr. Evangelista’s] Supervisor
Investigation Report.” (Evangelista Decl., ¶5.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
Evangelista obtained Portillo’s statement with the intention of transmitting it
to an attorney to defend against potential claims, and this was done in the
course of their employment.  Thus, the statement
is covered by the attorney-client privilege. 
Soltani-Rastegar v. Superior Court (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 424.  
Pointing to the facts in D.I. Chadbourne,
Plaintiff argues that Portillo’s statement is not privileged.  In D.I. Chadbourne, the issue was
whether a written statement obtained by a representative of an insurance
company and delivered to its attorney was privileged as a matter of law.  The statement was made by an independent
witness who performed work on the sidewalk where the injury occurred.  Under the facts of the case, the court
determined that the statement by the non-party witness was not privileged.  Here, unlike D.I. Chadbourne, the
statement at issue was made by a party to the lawsuit, not an independent
witness.  Moreover, Potillo’s job duties
required him to provide a statement to his supervisor, Evangelista, who then
delivered his report to an attorney.  Under
these circumstances, the statement made by Portillo to Evengelista is
privileged.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion for Order that the Evangelista Declaration Failed to Sustain its Burden is
DENIED.
 
 