  Case Number:  18STCV03371    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  C Giselle, Et al. v. Los Angeles Unified School District, et al.
CASE NO.:  18STCV03371
HEARING:   9/20/23 @ 8:30 AM and 10:30 AM
#1
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel is GRANTED and her request for sanctions is DENIED.  The court will hear from Defendant’s counsel
regarding his Motion to be Relieved.  
Gutierrez, Preciado & House, LLP to give
NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff
Jane Doe (Plaintiff) moves for an order compelling further responses to her
Requests for Production (set four) and monetary sanctions. Plaintiff’s Motion
is joined by Plaintiffs Giselle, Belgyn, and Kiani.
Defendant’s
counsel, Arthur Preciado and Kristina Stephenson-Cheang of Gutierrez, Preciado
& House, LLP, moves to be relieved as counsel for
Defendant, Los Angeles Unified School District (Defendant).
Background
This
is a sexual abuse of a minor case against Defendant’s former employee,
Defendant Hector Rodriguez. Plaintiffs, Jane Doe, Giselle, Belgyn, and Kiani,
allege that Mr. Rodriguez abused Plaintiffs while he was teaching at Orchard
Academy and Defendant knew or should have known about the abuse but failed to
prevent the abuse.
Meet
and Confer
The
parties have adequately met and conferred.
Legal
Standard
CCP
§ 2031.310 allows a party to file a motion compelling further answers to
document requests if it finds that the response is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive, or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  The motion shall be accompanied with a meet
and confer declaration.  (CCP §
2031.310(b).)  
Discussion
Plaintiff
seeks to compel a further response to Request for Production No. 63. Request
No. 63 seeks “[a]ll class rosters of all classes taught by HECTOR RODRIGUEZ,
during his employment at Orchard Academy.”
Defendant
is ordered to provide a further response to Request No. 63 because it must
provide class rosters with students’ last names and dates of birth for Mr.
Rodriguez’s classes from 2011 to 2017. Defendant produced class rosters for
2013, Fall 2014, Spring 2015, Fall 2016, and Spring 2017. Student’s birth dates
and last names were redacted (last initials were not redacted) from the class
rosters. Plaintiff seeks to compel production of the remaining class rosters for
Mr. Rodriguez from 2011 to 2017 and production of class rosters with students’
last names and dates of birth. As to whether the remaining class rosters should
be produced, Plaintiff argues that they may contain the identities of other
students who were abused which would support Plaintiff’s contention that
Defendant knew of their inadequate supervision of Mr. Rodriguez. There is an
important interest in the parent and child’s privacy, however, there is an even
more important need in Plaintiff’s discovery rights and inability to obtain
such evidence by other means. Thus, the privacy rights are overcome in this
case and discovery is compelled. Therefore, Plaintiff’s request to compel a
further response to Request No. 63 is granted and Defendant must produce Mr.
Rodriguez’s class rosters from 2011 to 2017 including the students’ last names
and dates of birth.
Sanctions
The court shall impose
a monetary sanction against the party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further responses to interrogatories or demand for production
of documents unless the party subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h), 2033.290, subd. (d).) 
The
Court finds that Defendant acted with substantial justification as there are
important privacy interests at issue regarding the demanded documents. Thus,
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied.
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel

Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may withdraw based on any
of the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon presenting a claim or defense
that is not warranted under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith
argument for an extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, or (b)
seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct, or (c) insists that the member
pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or that is prohibited under these
rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other conduct renders it unreasonably
difficult for the member to carry out the employment effectively, or (e)
insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal, that the member engage in
conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice of the member but not
prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f) breaches an agreement
or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees. (2) The continued
employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or of the State
Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best
interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; or (4) The member's
mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the member to carry out
the employment effectively; or (5) The client knowingly and freely assents to
termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in good faith, in a
proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will find the existence
of other good cause for withdrawal. An attorney may request to withdraw from representation of a
corporate client. (Thomas G. Ferruzzo, Inc. v. Superior Court (1980) 104
Cal.App.3d 501, 504.)
 
In the Declaration in Support of Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved,
Counsel states there has been “an irrevocable breakdown in attorney-client
communication.” (Preciado Decl., ¶2.) 
Defendant LAUSD indicates the motion “comes as a surprise to them” and
they have “made every effort to maintain the attorney-client relationship with
Counsel.”  (Opposition to Motion, p.
2.)  Defendant LAUSD argues that it will
be irreparably harmed if counsel is relieved without continuing the trial date,
which is currently set for November 27, 2023. 
The court notes that this lawsuit was filed in 2018.  Plaintiff takes no position on the Motion to
be Relieved.  Given the age of the case,
however, Plaintiff opposes a continuance. 

 
The Court is unable to determine whether good cause exists based
upon the current declaration. The court will hear from Counsel for Defendant
regarding his motion to be relieved.  Counsel
for Defendant may provide a supplemental declaration ex parte or under seal.
 