  Case Number:  23VECP00666    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




  Paul Pinckard, 
 
           Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Gina Belsito, et al.,
 
         
  Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    23VECP00666                  107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE: 
DEMURRER
 



[THE
FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
Sustained in part with leave
to amend; overruled in part.
 
I. BACKGROUND
On November 27,
2023, plaintiff Paul Pinckard (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint (the “Complaint”)
against defendants Gina Belsito (“Gina”), Joe Belsito (“Joe”), and Gladys
Geraldino (“Gladys” and, together with Gina and Joe, “Defendants” and
Defendants, together with Plaintiff, “Parties”) alleging a cause of action for fraud.
We refer to parties by first name for clarity, not out of familiarity or
disrespect. (See In re Marriage of Schaffer (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 801,
803, fn. 2.)
 
Gina is
Plaintiff’s sister, Joe is Gina’s husband and therefore Plaintiff’s
brother-in-law, and Gladys is Plaintiff’s aunt. (Motion p. 4.) Plaintiff
alleges that the day after his and Gina’s mother passed away, Gina arrived at
the apartment Plaintiff and his mother shared and screamed at Plaintiff until
he left. (Complaint p. 5.) The police escorted Defendants from the premises,
but Defendants had already taken Plaintiff’s or his and Gina’s mother’s personal
property from the apartment. (Ibid.) Gina also tried to have the
apartment’s locks changed and told lies about Plaintiff to his work
acquaintances and others. (Id. at pp. 5–6.)
 
On February 28,
2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer (the “Demurrer”). On March 22,
2024, Defendants filed a non-opposition to the Demurrer, observing that no
opposition was timely filed. On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition
(the “Opposition”), which is also titled as an amended complaint.
 
II. PARTIES’ POSITIONS
 
A. The Demurrer
 
Defendants demur
to the Complaint and to its sole cause of action on the grounds that the
Complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against them and on the grounds that the Complaint is uncertain and ambiguous.
(Notice Demurrer pp. 1–2.)
 
Defendants contend
that Plaintiff fails to plead fraud “because Plaintiff has not even alleged a
single false misrepresentation by any of the Defendants in this case, let alone
any specifics required to plead fraud.” (Motion p. 7.) “In the absence of a
showing by the Plaintiff that he can factually and specifically allege any
false statements, concealments, or false promises by any of the Defendants upon
which he relied to his detriment, this Court should not provide Plaintiff with leave
to amend to state a claim for Fraud.” (Ibid.) Defendants argue that
Plaintiff lacks standing to assert claims for the taking of items and cash that
belonged to his and Gina’s mother. (Id. at p. 8.) Further, Plaintiff has
not properly alleged either conversion or trespass to chattels. (Ibid.)
Additionally, Defendant observes that the “specifics of any defamatory
statements have not been alleged whatsoever.” (Id. at p. 9.)
 
B. The Opposition
Plaintiff alleges
that on December 4, 2024, Defendants came to his and his mother’s residence and
removed its contents, including “the confidential and personal items of
[Plaintiff]” until they were escorted off the premises by the police.
(Opposition p. 1.) Defendants also “knowing they misrepresented the truth or
concealment of material facts to induce another act to their detriment.” (Ibid.)
“They also lied and deprived [Plaintiff] of the personal belongings, property,
and monies in the property that was both [Plaintiff’s] and [Plaintiff’s
mother’s].” (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges that he would give his mother cash
to hold onto. (Ibid.) “Gina also stole the Christmas card from
[Plaintiff’s mother] and [Plaintiff] that had $500.00 per Landi Papazian.” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants committed fraud by stealing his and his
mother’s items. (Id. at p. 2.) He alleges they took specifically named
items of his. (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges that when he received his checks
from “Vilma the Maid” that had been mailed to his post office box, the checks
had already been opened. (Ibid.) Plaintiff and his mother had
approximately $5,000.00 in the apartment and Plaintiff’s mother had withdrawn
$12,000 from the bank, which was stolen. (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s karate belts
and certificates were stolen along with jewelry purchased by Plaintiff’s
father, which Gina refuses to return unless Plaintiff proves his sobriety. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges that Gina has slandered and defamed him by telling people on
Facebook that Plaintiff is unstable and needs mental help, that Plaintiff does
not have a job, and that Plaintiff is an alcoholic and abuses drugs. (Ibid.)
“Gina has made threats to [Plaintiff] as well.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff
alleges that Gina “has continued to harass [him].” (Ibid.) Plaintiff
alleges that Gina denies possession of items when Plaintiff requests their
return, but certain items have been returned to him. (Id. at pp. 2–3.)
Plaintiff alleges that Gina’s possession of his passports, one of which was
returned to him, constitutes identity theft because she “in the past had
obtained a fraudulent passport and tried to have Adan Rojo transported back
from Mexico by paying the Armenians $6,000.00 and Adan lost his rights to cross
the border, due to Gina’s bright idea.” (Id. at p. 3.) Plaintiff alleges
that Gina committed elder abuse and financial extortion by “ha[ving] Adan Rojo
sign away his rights to the trust.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges that he
was unable to receive his W-2s because Gina “closed the post office box.” (Ibid.)
Gina also tried to have Plaintiff locked out of the apartment in retaliation,
but the manager allowed Plaintiff to stay. (Ibid.) “Gina, throughout the
years has always put [Plaintiff] down and tell him he is a loser.” (Ibid.)
“Threats to call his work and other business associates.” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff contends that he spoke with Defendants’ counsel over the phone but
that Defendants’ counsel insulted him then and outside the courthouse on March
27, 2024. (Ibid.) “Now Jared Paul Papazian made threats of bodily harm
to [Plaintiff] if he doesn’t leave Gina alone. Jared also stated that he would
cause Paul trouble with his career and future. This is witness intimidation.
TRO was issued.” (Id. at p. 4.)
 
III. PROCEDURAL MATTERS 
 
A. The Meet and Confer Requirement
 
California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in
good faith before the filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the
objections raised in the demurrer. Defendants submit with the Demurrer a
declaration of their counsel stating that he spoke with Plaintiff over the
phone regarding the Complaint and Defendants’ grounds for the Demurrer before
filing it. (Humes Decl. ¶ 5.) The declaration attaches copies of e-mails
exchanged between Parties confirming efforts to meet and confer and confirming
their phone conversation. (Id. at pp. 13–20.) We are therefore satisfied
that this requirement has been met.
 
B. Timeliness of Filings
 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure section¿430.40,
subdivision (a), a demurrer to a complaint should be filed within 30 days after
service of the complaint. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.40(a).) However, “any
right or duty to do any act or make any response within any period or on a date
certain after service of the document, which time period or date is prescribed
by statute or rule of court, shall be extended five calendar days, upon service
by mail, if the place of address and the place of mailing is within the State
of California [or] 10 calendar days if either the place of mailing or the place
of address is outside the State of California but within the United States.” (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. §¿1013.) “If the parties are not able to meet and confer at
least five days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring
party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to
file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on
which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury
that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the
reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§¿430.41(a)(2).) Per Cal. C. Civ. Proc. §¿1005(b), moving papers should be
filed at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing, oppositions
thereto should be filed at least nine court days before the set hearing, and
replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five court days before the
set hearing. (Cal. C. Civ. Proc. §¿1005(b).) Judges have discretion as to
whether to consider or strike an untimely demurrer or pleading.  (McAllister
v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 281; Tuck v. Thuesen
(1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 193, 196 (disapproved on other grounds by Neel v.
Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6 Cal.3d 176).) It
is within a court’s discretion, for example, to consider a demurrer filed 38
days after the complaint when the demurrer’s late filing did not affect the
plaintiff’s “substantial rights” and “where plaintiff did not take steps to
obtain a default judgment or demonstrate the delay prejudiced her.” (Jackson
v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 749–50.)
 
A party may amend its complaint once
without leave of the court before a demurrer is filed, or after a demurrer is
filed but before the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer. (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §¿472, subd. (a).) A party may amend the pleading after the date for
filing an opposition to the demurrer only upon stipulation by the
parties. (Ibid.) A court does not have discretion to consider or
strike an untimely amended complaint when no proper notice of the amendment has
been provided to defendants. (See Harlan v. Department of Transportation
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 868, 874.) “After expiration of the time in which a
pleading can be amended as a matter of course, the pleading can only be amended
by obtaining the permission of the court” by filing a noticed motion for leave.
(Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603,
613.) “Assuming proper notice, the trial court has wide discretion in
determining whether to allow the amendment.” (Ibid., emphasis added.)
 
No proof of service for the Complaint has
been filed. Defendants’ counsel filed a declaration on January 29, 2024 that
states that his client was improperly served by certified mail on December 19,
2023. (Humes Decl. ¶ 4.) Because service of notice of the Complaint was
made by mail, Defendants’ 30-day deadline to demur or otherwise respond to the
Complaint was extended by five days. Defendants’ deadline was further extended
by 30 days pursuant to Per California Code of Civil Procedure section¿430.41,
subdivision (a)(2) because Defendants’ counsel submitted a declaration signed
under penalty of perjury he had attempted in good faith to meet and confer with
Plaintiff but had yet been unable to. (Humes Decl. ¶ 3.) Sixty-five days
after December 19, 2023 was February 22, 2024. The Demurrer was filed on
February 28, 2024 and is therefore late. Because the six-day delay in the
filing of the demurrer does not affect Plaintiff’s substantial rights, because
Plaintiff did not, in that time, take any steps to obtain default judgment, and
because Plaintiff does not argue that the Demurrer is untimely or that he is
prejudiced by the delay, we exercise our discretion to consider the Demurrer
and decline to strike it.
 
Nine court days before April 3, 2024 was
March 20, 2024. The Opposition was filed on March 27, 2024, four court days
before the hearing, and is therefore late whether it is considered an
opposition to the Demurrer or an amended complaint. 
 
This court has discretion to consider the
Opposition as an opposition to the Demurrer. Because the Opposition raises no
new arguments related to the facts alleged in the Complaint, we do not believe
that Defendants will be prejudiced by its consideration as an opposition. We
therefore decline to strike the Opposition as an opposition to the Demurrer.
 
There is no indication that parties
stipulated to a late-filed amended complaint after the expiration of the
deadline for filing an opposition to the Demurrer. As the amended complaint
does not follow proper prior notice to Defendants that an amended complaint may
be filed, this court is without discretion to consider the Opposition as an
amended complaint. Although Plaintiff filed a proof of service for the
Opposition showing that the Opposition was mailed to Defendants’ counsel, this
notice follows his filing of the Opposition and does not provide the
proper prior notice that is required. Accordingly, this court strikes
the words “and amended complaint” from the Opposition.
 
C. New Facts Alleged in the Opposition
 
“[T]he pleadings set the
boundaries of the issues to be resolved at summary judgment. A plaintiff cannot
bring up new, unpleaded issues in his or her opposing papers.” (Oakland
Raiders v. National Football League (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 621, 648
(internal citations and quote marks omitted).) The same is true of pleadings
subject to a demurrer. “Because¿a¿demurrer¿challenges¿defects¿on the¿face¿of
the complaint, it can only refer to matters¿outside¿the¿pleading¿that¿are¿subject¿to¿judicial¿notice.”
(Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471,
482.)
 
Here, Plaintiff attempts
to plead new factual allegations in the Opposition that are not in the
Complaint. He may not do so. The scopes of the Demurrer and of the Opposition
in response to the Demurrer are limited by the factual allegations and legal
theories raised and properly pled in the Complaint. We therefore do not
consider any new factual allegations, legal theories, or causes of action in
the Opposition that replaces or supplements the factual allegations, legal
theories, or causes of action in the Complaint.
//
//
 
IV. ANALYSIS
 
A. Demurrers and Causes of Action
Generally
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (See Schultz v. Harney (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th
1611, 1622, as modified on denial of reh’g (Sept. 29, 1994).)
A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard,
a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550.) Like complaints generally, an official form complaint also must contain
ultimate facts. (People ex rel. Dep't of Transportation v. Sup. Ct.
(1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1484.) “Because a demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of a complaint, the plaintiff must show the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of
each cause of action. If the complaint fails to plead, or if
the defendant negates, any essential element of a particular cause of action,
this court should affirm the sustaining of a demurrer.” (Rakestraw v.
California Physicians’ Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
As to “[e]ach separately
stated cause of action,” pleaders must specify the number (e.g., “first cause
of action”), the nature (e.g., “fraud”), the party or parties asserting it, and
the party or parties to whom it is directed. (Cal. Rules Court Rule 2.112.)
However, “a judgment will not be reversed for technical defects in the
pleadings.” (Starkweather v. Eddy (1927) 87 Cal.App. 92, 96.)
 
In ruling upon demurrers,
courts consider whether any cause of action has been alleged sufficiently,
notwithstanding that a cause of action is labeled otherwise. (See Arce ex
rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471,
482; Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525; McBride v.
Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387; Lovejoy v. AT&T Corp.
(2001) 92 Cal. App. 4th 85, 98.) “[T]he allegations in the body of the
complaint, not the caption, constitute the cause of action against the
defendant.” (Davaloo v. State Farm Ins. Co. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 409, 418;
see Elder v. Pacific Bell Telephone Co. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 841,
855–56 (“In evaluating a demurrer, the complaint will be held good,
although the facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a
statement of other facts irrelevant to
the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff may
demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged,” internal
quotations omitted); see also Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co.
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38 (“If the complaint states a cause of action under any
theory, regardless of the title under which the factual basis for relief is
stated, that aspect of the complaint is good against a demurrer.”).) However, complaints
must state causes of action that have been recognized under California law and
cannot invent new ones. (Mobley v. L.A. Unified Sch. Dist. (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 1221, 1239–40.) The failure to identify claims and parties by
labeling causes of action may render a complaint uncertain, except where the
complaint contains allegations sufficiently apprising defendants of the issues,
in which case a demurrer should be overruled. (Williams v. Beechnut
Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139.)
Demurrers “for uncertainty are
disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a
defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency,
Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848, fn. 3, internal quotations omitted;
accord Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Chen v. Berenjian
(2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822, quoting Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
“Ordinarily, a
general demurrer does not lie as to a portion of
a cause of action, and if any part of a cause of action is
properly pleaded, the demurrer will be overruled.” (Fire Ins.
Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)
 
B. Cause of Action for Fraud
 
“[I]n California, fraud
must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.
Thus the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect. This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 993.)
 
“The elements of fraud,
which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.)
 
The Complaint makes
general allegations that Gina has told lies about Plaintiff to others or that
lies were told, but it does not specify any false representations,
concealments, or nondisclosures that any of Defendants made to Plaintiff or
others. (Complaint p. 6.) The Complaint includes a few allegations regarding
statements or falsehoods: “spreading rumors about [Plaintiff]’; “lies to people
about debts owed. Velma, Gladys, and Gina”; “constantly telling [Plaintiff] he
is not well and needs help”; “[c]alls [Plaintiff] a liar to other people”;
“[r]eached out to Jim Thomas, threats to call Cynthia Rothrock, and Leo Fong
when he was alive. Called all friends to do an intervention tarnishing
[Plaintiff’s] reputation”; and “Gina has told people [Plaintiff] does not work,
even though he has been employed by CBS or affiliates for 19 years.” (Ibid.)
In each of these cases, it is unclear either who made the statement, to whom
the statement was made, or what the statement was. None of these allegations
make clear how the statement was made, or when. Thus, they each fall short of
the particular pleading standard for fraud. Although Plaintiff checks boxes for
“intentional or negligent misrepresentation,” “concealment,” and “promise
without intent to perform” on the Judicial Council form complaint, the
explanations that follow each are all about things that Plaintiff alleges Gina
took from their mother’s apartment. (Id. at pp. 3–4.) Additionally,
Plaintiff does not make any allegations about any of Defendants’ knowledge of
the falsity of any misrepresentations, their intentions in making any
misrepresentations, or Plaintiff’s reliance on any misrepresentations. The
Complaint describes Plaintiff’s damages as “lost personal items and cost
[Plaintiff] his job,” but it is unclear exactly what actions of Defendants
resulted in what damages or how any fraudulent misrepresentations of Defendants
caused these damages. (Complaint p. 4.) Thus, because the Complaint fails to
allege any of the elements of a cause of action for fraud, the Complaint fails
to state a cause of action for fraud.
 
Accordingly, this court
SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the Complaint’s cause of action for fraud.
 
C. Cause of Action for
Conversion
 
“Conversion is the
wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements of a
conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of
the property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition
of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202, 208.) “Money may be the subject of conversion if
the claim involves a specific, identifiable sum; it is not necessary that each
coin or bill be earmarked.” (Id. at 209.) “[T]he value of the property
converted at the time and place of conversion with interest from that time, is
generally considered to be the appropriate measure of damages in a conversion
action.” (Myers v. Stephens (1965) 233 Cal.App.2d 104, 116.) “[W]here the
determination on the basis of value at the time of conversion would be
manifestly unjust,” damages for conversion may be determined as “fair
compensation for the time and money properly expended in pursuit of the
property.” (Ibid.)
 
“[W]hen a party lacks standing,
it means the party does not have an actual and substantial interest in, or would not be benefited or harmed by,
the ultimate outcome of an action.” (In re Marriage of
Marshall (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 477, 485.)
 
Although the Complaint does
not specifically name any cause of action for conversion, it alleges that
Defendants wrongfully took from the apartment that Plaintiff shared with his
mother belongings of Plaintiff and of his mother. (Complaint p. 5.) Elsewhere,
it alleges that Gina directed the other Defendants to “assist in stealing all
personal property of [Plaintiff]” and that Gina “took all documents from the
apartment that were not hers.” (Id. at p. 3, emphasis removed.) He
alleges that Gina retains possession of the jewelry and “many items” and “will
not give [the jewelry] to him stating what he needs to do prior to her giving
back this item.” (Id. at p. 4.) The Complaint specifically identifies
the belongings Plaintiff alleges Gina took: “[Plaintiff] paychecks, W2, SSN
card, debit cards, passport, birth certificate, schooling information, bank
statements, court documents, 2 sets of different mailbox keys, car keys, all of
[Plaintiff’s] karate belts and certificates from a child and adult, SAG AFTRA cards,
laptop computer, clothes, jackets and other schooling or completed courses. [¶]
Gina stole $12,000. That was withdrawn days before [Plaintiff’s and Gina’s
mother’s] passing. She also took jewelry that was purchased by [Plaintiff] late
father. Rings, earrings, necklaces, and bracelets.” (Id. at p. 5.)
Later, the Complaint again apparently lists some of the belongings Plaintiff
alleges was taken: “passport (s) even my expired ones. Bank card, bank
documents, school documents, SSN”; “2 sets of mailbox keys to 2 different
boxes. W2 that were mailed to the P.O. box”; “Stolen Documents – all karate
belts, car keys, house keys, school records, bank statements, court records.
Important papers that were in mother’s room for safe keeping”; “Stolen property
– rings, bracelets and necklaces of Mother’s that were bought from Father”; and
“[Plaintiff’s and Gina’s mother] took out 12,000.00 the week she passed away;
Gina took that as well.” (Id. at p. 6.) The Complaint alleges that
“[b]ank withdrawals over time from [Plaintiff’s and Gina’s mother] and
[Plaintiff] were all against [Plaintiff’s] inheritance, not the whole estate.”
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff lacks standing
to sue for the conversion of the belongings of another. The Complaint refers to
jewelry that it alleges belong to Plaintiff’s and Gina’s mother, not to
Plaintiff. Plaintiff lacks standing to sue for the conversion thereof. That
Plaintiff’s and Gina’s mother is now deceased does not change this outcome, as all
her assets now belong to her estate and Plaintiff does not assert any interest
in or right to control her estate other than a vague reference to an
inheritance. However, “[t]he first element of that cause of action [for
conversion] is his ownership or right to possession of
the property at the time of the conversion.” (Cerra v.
Blackstone (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 604, 609, emphasis removed and added.) An
inheritance is not a present interest in property nor would it necessarily
entitle Plaintiff to the entire estate or even any particular piece of an
estate. The same is true of the $12,000 in cash that Plaintiff alleges his and
Gina’s mother withdrew from a bank the week of her passing and that he alleges
Gina took from the apartment. Plaintiff seems to allege that because he has a
future inheritance interest in his and Gina’s mother’s money, the $12,000 in
cash belonged to him, but as explained earlier in this paragraph, this does not
entitle him to a present interest in the cash and it does not give him standing
to sue for its conversion. While money may be the subject of a cause of action
for conversion, the right to sue therefor belongs to Plaintiff’s and Gina’s
mother’s estate, not to Plaintiff. Thus, Plaintiff has standing to bring a
cause of action for only those belongings that the Complaint alleges belong to
Plaintiff.
 
For much of the personal
property Plaintiff lists as having been wrongfully taken by Defendants, it is
unclear to whom Plaintiff alleges such property belongs. For example, although
Plaintiff expressly describes the “karate belts and certificates from a child
and adult” as belonging to him, he does not expressly allege ownership of the
laptop computer or the car, the keys of which he alleges were converted. (Complaint
p. 5.)
 
Although the Complaint
repeatedly alleges that only Gina converted specific property, it also alleges generally
that all Defendants participated at Gina’s direction in removing property from
his and his mother’s apartment without his consent and retaining possession of
such property although Plaintiff wants it returned to him. We consider the
context of the entire Complaint in ruling on the Demurrer and therefore
understand that Plaintiff alleges that all Defendants participated in the
conversion by wrongful act of all of Plaintiff’s converted property.
 
While some of the
personal property that Plaintiff alleges was converted by Defendants has value
for damages purposes, other property does not have obvious value. Damages for
the laptop and clothes, including jackets, if those belong to Plaintiff, would
be calculated according to the value of the laptop and clothes at the time
Defendants took them. But, the expired passport, court and tax documents, and
SAG AFTRA card, for example, do not have obvious value for damages purposes. For
all of Plaintiff’s personal property that he alleges was converted by
Defendants other than the laptop and clothes, including jackets, the better
measure of damages is the fair compensation for money and time spent recovering
or replacing such property.
 
The only personal
property that Plaintiff expressly alleges ownership of are (1) paychecks, (2)
karate belts and certificates, and (3) passports, including expired passports.
Plaintiff correctly alleges that Defendants wrongfully took these items from
his apartment without his consent. And, the damages may be calculated according
to any money and time spent recovering or replacing such property. The
Complaint therefore allege all the elements of a cause of action for conversion
and therefore states a cause of action for conversion as to only the (1)
paychecks, (2) karate belts and certificates, and (3) passports, including
expired passports.
 
Accordingly, this court
OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the Complaint’s cause of action for conversion.
 
            D. Cause of Action for Trespass to Chattels 
 
“[T]respass to chattels lies
where an intentional interference with the possession of personal property has
proximately caused injury, but the interference is not sufficiently important
to be classed as conversion.” (Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th
1258, 1271.) To bring a cause of action for trespass to chattels, the property
that the plaintiff alleges interference with by the defendant must belong to
the plaintiff or be rightfully in plaintiff’s possession. (Fresno Air
Service v. Wood (1965) 232 Cal.App.2d 801, 805.) “[T]he defendant's
interference must, to be actionable, have caused some injury to
the chattel or to the plaintiff's rights in it.” (Intel Corp. v.
Hamidi (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1342, 1350.) And, the plaintiff must show a causal
connection between the defendant’s interference and the plaintiff’s harm. (Itano
v. Colonial Yacht Anchorage (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 84, 90 (“An essential
element… is that there be some reasonable connection between the act or
omission of the defendant and the damage which the plaintiff has suffered.”).) “A trespass to
a chattel may be committed by intentionally dispossessing another of
the chattel…. A dispossession may be committed by intentionally barring
the possessor's access to a chattel.” (Jamgotchian v. Slender
(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1401, quoting The Restatement 2nd Torts sections
217 and 221.) 
 
Among the items that
Plaintiff pleads in the Complaint that were taken by Defendants are keys to two
mailboxes and car keys. He thus attempts to plead a cause of action for
trespass to chattels for the contents of the mailboxes and the car to which
those keys belong because although he does not allege that Defendants converted
them, he does impliedly allege that he was denied access to or use of them.
However, as explained above, Plaintiff does not expressly plead any ownership
or possessory right to the contents of the mailboxes or to the car. Thus,
Plaintiff fails to allege all the elements of a cause of action for trespass to
chattels and therefore fails to allege a cause of action for trespass to
chattels.
 
Accordingly, this court
SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the Complaint’s cause of action for trespass to
chattels.
 
E. Cause of Action for Defamation
 
“Defamation is an
invasion of the interest in reputation.” (Smith v. Maldonado (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 637, 645.) “Slander is a species of defamation.” (Nguyen-Lam v.
Cao (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 858, 867.) “Defamation is a false and
unprivileged publication that exposes the plaintiff ‘to hatred, contempt,
ridicule, or obloquy, or which causes him to be shunned or avoided, or which
has a tendency to injure him in his occupation.’” (Dickinson v. Cosby
(2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 655, 685.) “The question whether a statement
is defamatory can be reached on a demurrer as a matter of
law.” (Polygram Records, Inc. v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d
543, 551.)
 
“Defamation requires the
intentional publication of a false statement of fact that has a natural
tendency to injure the plaintiff's reputation or that causes special damage.” (J-M
Manufacturing Co., Inc. v. Phillips & Cohen LLP (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th
87, 97.) “The elements of a defamation claim are (1) a publication that is (2)
false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to
injure or causes special damages. The defamatory statement must specifically
refer to, or be of and concerning, the plaintiff.” (John Doe 2 v. Superior
Court (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312.) To plead a cause of action for
defamation, a party “must set forth ‘either the specific words or the substance
of’ the allegedly defamatory statements.” (Comstock v. Aber (2012) 212
Cal.App.4th 931, 948.) “The general rule is that the words constituting an
alleged libel must be specifically identified, if not pleaded verbatim, in the
complaint.” (Gilbert v. Sykes (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 13, 31.) “Publication
means communication to some third person who understands
the defamatory meaning of the statement and its application to the
person to whom reference is made.” (Smith v. Maldonado, supra at
645.) A statement is defamatory when it charges any person with a crime,
imputes in a person the present existence of a disease, tends “directly to
injure [a person] in respect to his office, profession, trade or business,
either by imputing to him general disqualification in those respects which the
office or other occupation peculiarly requires, or by imputing something with
reference to his office, trade, profession, or business that has a natural
tendency to lessen its profits,” imputes in a person impotence or want of
chastity, or which, by natural consequence, causes actual damage. (Civ. Code.
§ 46.) “Statements that contain such a charge directly, and without the
need for explanatory matter, are libelous per se. A statement can also be
libelous per se if it contains a charge by implication from the language
employed by the speaker and a listener could understand the defamatory meaning
without the necessity of knowing extrinsic explanatory matter. However, if the
listener would not recognize the defamatory meaning without ‘knowledge
of specific facts and circumstances, extrinsic to the publication, which
are not matters of common knowledge rationally attributable to all reasonable
persons’ the matter is deemed defamatory per quod and requires pleading
and proof of special damages.” (McGarry v. University of San Diego
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 112, internal citations omitted.) “An innuendo…
cannot ascribe a meaning to assertedly defamatory matter other or broader than
the words themselves naturally bear; it cannot add to, enlarge, or change the
sense of the published words.” (Emde v. San Joaquin County Central Labor
Council (1943) 23 Cal.2d 146, 159–60.)
 
As noted above, the
Complaint includes a few allegations regarding statements or falsehoods: “Defamation
of Character – spreading rumors about [Plaintiff]’; “Slander – lies to people
about debts owed. Velma, Gladys, and Gina”; “constantly telling [Plaintiff] he
is not well and needs help”; “[c]alls [Plaintiff] a liar to other people”; “[t]hreats
to Intervenes with work and business acquaints. Reached out to Jim Thomas,
threats to call Cynthia Rothrock, and Leo Fong when he was alive. Called all
friends to do an intervention tarnishing [Plaintiff’s] reputation”; and “Gina
has told people [Plaintiff] does not work, even though he has been employed by
CBS or affiliates for 19 years.” (Complaint p. 6.) Of these allegations, the
only one that makes clear who made the allegedly defaming statement is the last
one: “Gina has told people [Plaintiff] does not work, even though he has been
employed by CBS or affiliates for 19 years.” For example, for the allegation
“Slander – lies to people about debts owed. Velma, Gladys, and Gina,” it is not
clear if Velma, Gladys, and Gina were told lies by other people or told
lies to other people. For most of the other alleged statements, it is
unclear if Plaintiff is alleging that Gina made these statements or that all
Defendants made these statements.
 
For the one statement
that Plaintiff clearly alleges was made by a particular defendant, Gina—that he
does not work—Plaintiff fails to establish that the statement was intentionally
made, is defamatory, or tends to injure or cause special damages. He clearly
alleges that the statement is untrue because he has been employed by CBS or its
affiliates for 19 years. He also alleges that the statement was published by
alleging that it was told to people, although the recipients of the publication
are not identified. However, Plaintiff fails to allege that the allegedly
slanderous publication was intentional, how the statement is defamatory, or
that it has a natural tendency to injure or cause special damages. The
statement that one is unemployed does not have an inherently or obvious
defamatory meaning. While Plaintiff may object to some defamatory implication
of the allegation that he is unemployed about his character or financial
status, we do not believe such an implication could be understood without
extrinsic explanatory matter. Neither the bare statement that he is unemployed
nor any implication derived from it constitutes a charge that he has committed
a crime, imputes in him the presence of any disease, tends to injure him in his
office, profession, trade, or business, imputes in him impotence or want of
chastity, or, by natural consequence, causes actual damage. Thus, the statement
is not defamatory per se. And, because Plaintiff has not pled or proved any
special damages that actually resulted from the statement, it is also not
defamatory per quod. Thus, the Complaint fails to allege all the elements of a
cause of action for defamation against Gina or any of the Defendants, and
therefore, the Complaint fails to state a cause of action for defamation.
 
Accordingly, this court
SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the Complaint’s cause of action for defamation.
 
            F. Leave to Amend
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) “If there is
any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action,
it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v.
Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.) “If the plaintiff has
not had an opportunity to amend the complaint in response to the demurrer,
leave to amend is liberally allowed as a matter of fairness, unless the
complaint shows on its face that it is incapable of amendment.” (City of
Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 730, 747.) Courts generally
allow at least one time to amend a complaint, after sustaining a demurrer, even
without any request for leave to amend. (McDonald v. Superior Court
(1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 297, 303.) 
 
This being the first time a demurrer is
sustained against any part of the Complaint and believing that it is possible
for Plaintiff to amend the Complaint to plead additional facts that could
establish all the elements of the causes of action against which Defendants’
Demurrer is now sustained, this court GRANTS Plaintiff leave to amend the
Complaint.
 
 
Dated:              April
3, 2024                                        _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge of
the Superior Court