  Case Number:  23STCV09956    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE DEMURRER
            Plaintiffs
Jennifer Mager and John Mandracchia filed this case on May 3, 2023 alleging Defendant
Revlon Consumer Products Corporation exposed Jennifer Mager to
asbestos-containing products.  On
December 28, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer contending the claims against it
are barred by the bankruptcy court’s confirmation of Defendant’s plan of
reorganization entered on April 3, 2023. 
Plaintiffs contend they did not have adequate notice of the bankruptcy
to be barred.
            The
court grants the request for judicial notice of the bankruptcy court orders
attached to Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice.
            For a
Chapter 11 corporate debtor, the confirmation of a plan discharges the debtor
from any debt that arose before the date of such confirmation even if no claim
was filed.  (11 U.S.C. § 1141(d)(1)(A).)  “If potential future tort claimants have not
filed claims because they are unaware of their injuries, they might challenge
the effectiveness of any purported notice of the claims bar date.  Discharge of such claims without providing
adequate notice raises questions under the Fourteenth Amendment.”  (In Re Grossman’s Inc. (3rd Cir. 2010)
607 F.3d 114, 122.)  “Any application of
the test to be applied cannot be divorced from fundamental principles of due
process.  Notice is ‘[a]n elementary and
fundamental requirement of due process in any proceeding which is to be
accorded finality.  . . .’  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at pp. 125-126.) 
“Inadequate notice therefore ‘precludes discharge of a claim in
bankruptcy.’  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 126.)  Among other factors to consider in
determining whether an asbestos plaintiff’s claims have been discharged by a
plan of reorganization are “the circumstances of the initial exposure to
asbestos, whether and/or when the claimants were aware of their vulnerability
to asbestos, whether the notice of the claims bar date came to their attention,
whether the claimants were known or unknown creditors, whether the claimants
had a colorable claim at the time of the bar date, and other circumstances
specific to the parties, including whether it was reasonable or possible for
the debtor to establish a trust for future claimants as provided by §
524(g).”  (Id. at pp. 127-128.)
            Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs received adequate notice because Defendant was not
aware of their existence and their identities were not reasonably ascertainable
by Defendant.  (Demurrer at p. 7.)  To support this assertion, Defendant cites a
Declaration of Erich Gleber.  Defendant
does not explain how the court can consider the contents of the declaration on
a demurrer.  The contents of the
declaration are not part of the complaint and are not judicially
noticeable.  Defendant also attaches
numerous other documents to the declaration of Anatolii Trembach that are not
part of the complaint and the contents of which are not judicially noticeable.
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED because it is based on matters outside the
complaint.  The parties are ordered to
meet and confer in person or by videoconference about how they plan to resolve
this threshold issue of whether the order confirming the plan bars the claims
against Defendant.  
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 