 Case Number:  23STCV16061    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASH (COSMETIC)
Plaintiff Maria Lozano
filed this action alleging she developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure
to asbestos in Defendant Cosmetic Specialties, Inc.’s products.  Defendant filed a motion to quash service of
summons for lack of personal jurisdiction. 
The court continued the hearing on the motion several months to allow
jurisdictional discovery.  The parties
filed supplemental briefs.  In Plaintiff’s
supplemental brief, Plaintiff stated she needed yet more time because depositions
scheduled for December would be relevant to the motion, so the court continued
the hearing again.  The parties then filed
more supplemental briefs.
A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over the
defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice
the complaint in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant
to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581,
subd. (h).)  “A court of this state may exercise
jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or
of the United States.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause protects
an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments of
a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  
When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Saimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.) 
This test does not require a “causal relationship between the
defendant’s in-state activity and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial
District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks about
causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend actions ‘based on’ products
causing injury there.”  (Id. at p.
1027.)  
Defendant provided
evidence that it is incorporated in New Jersey and has its principal place of
business in New Jersey.  (Motion at p. 4;
Katerndahl Decl., Exs. C, D.)  This
evidence establishes California has no general jurisdiction over Defendant, and
Plaintiff does not argue otherwise.
In the original motion, Defendant
argued it had not done business in California related to Plaintiff’s
claims.  (Motion at p. 10.)  Plaintiff contended, without much evidence,
that Defendant supplied talc to Mary Kay, Revlon, Max Factor, and Johnson &
Johnson, and then Plaintiff used their products.  (Opposition at pp. 1, 2.)  
In her supplemental
brief, Plaintiff argues that Defendant distributed talc for IMI Fabi, including
to California, and that the contract between IMI Fabi and Defendant lists
California as one of the states where Defendant was to distributed IMI Fabi’s
talc.  (Supp. Opposition at p. 3, and
evidence cited there.)  Plaintiff argued
Defendant failed to search for documents relevant to jurisdictional discovery
and that it needs yet another continuance. 
Defendant argue Plaintiff has not shown that IMI Fabi talc distributed
by Defendant was used in cosmetic products used by Plaintiff.
The court continues the
hearing to April 18, 2024 at 9 a.m.  If
Plaintiff is going to file a motion to compel jurisdictional discovery, it must
file the motion forthwith.  The parties
may file supplemental briefs according to the statutory schedule.
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 