

This is a
breach of contract action. Rhonda
Rothstein (Rothstein) and her company, Cal First Responders Insurance Agency,
Inc. (CFR) (jointly, Plaintiffs) sued Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
(MetLife or MLIC), Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company,
MetLife Legal Plans, Inc. (MetLaw or MLP), County of Los Angeles Fire Museum
Association (CLAFMA), Winston Financial Services, Inc. (Winston), Jeffrey
Kaliher, Paul Oyler, and Paul Schneider for breach of contract, breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, fraud, conversion, unfair
business practices, and promissory estoppel.
Rothstein alleged that she developed a group
insurance plan for Los Angeles County firefighters. She then reportedly entered
into numerous contracts with the various Defendants to provide and administer
the insurance. The Third Amended Complaint (TAC) principally alleges the
existence of the following agreements:
• January 28, 2019: contract between Rothstein,
through her company RRIA, with Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance
Company. This contract was later assigned by RRIA to CFR. The agreement
governed Rothstein's commissions as to personal lines of property and casualty
insurance.
• January/February 2019: contract between
Plaintiffs and MetLaw allegedly providing Plaintiffs 10% commission of total
annual premiums for new enrollments of firefighters in the MetLaw plan relating
to legal coverage.
• Two contracts between Rothstein, through CFR, and
MetLife that were executed on May 16, 2019 (First MetLife Non-Standard
Commission Agreement) and June 10, 2019 (Second MetLife Non-Standard Commission
Agreement). These agreements allegedly established Plaintiffs’ entitlement to
commissions as to optional life, optional accidental death & dismemberment,
dependent optional life, dependent optional accidental death &
dismemberment, and voluntary short-term disability coverage.
• May 16, 2019: contract between Rothstein, through
CFR, and MetLife (MetLife Enrollment Vesting Based Commission Agreement). This
agreement governed Plaintiffs' commission structure as to critical illness
insurance, hospital indemnity insurance, and accident with hospital coverage
insurance.
The Pleadings allege that by July 2019, Rothstein
was entitled to at least $533,611.62 in commissions, but has only received
$19,900. In addition, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants colluded with each
other to remove Rothstein from the agreements and divert her commissions to
CLAFMA. 
As one example, Plaintiffs allege that MetLife Defendants
pressured Plaintiffs into making Winston Financial Services (Winston) the a
third-party benefits administrator to administer its group insurance plan;
however, Winston was allegedly inept, and Rothstein frequently had to step in
and provide guidance to any firefighters that had enrollment questions or
inquiries. Rothstein further alleges that, as part of this fraudulent plan,
CLAFMA terminated Plaintiffs as its insurance broker, using Winston’s ineptitude
as pretext for the termination.
On August 11, 2023, Defendants County of Los Angeles
Fire Museum Association (CLAFMA), Paul Oyler (Oyler), and Paul Schneider
(Schneider) (collectively, CLAFMA Defendants) demurred to the fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth causes of
action in Third Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs filed an opposition and
Defendants filed a reply. On September 27, 2023, the Court sustained the
demurrer as to each cause of action without leave to amend. 
On August 11, 2023, Defendants MetLife and MetLaw
(collectively, MetLife Defendants) demurred to the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, sixteenth and seventeenth
causes of action in the Third Amended Complaint. MetLife Defendants also
moved to strike the request for punitive damages and attorney fees. Plaintiffs
filed an opposition and Defendants filed a reply. On September 27, 2023, the Court
sustained the demurrer without leave
to amend as to the fifth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, sixteenth and seventeenth causes
of action and overruled as to the sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action.
The Court also granted the motion to strike in full without leave to amend. 
On September 11, 2023, Defendant, Farmers Property and Casualty Insurance
Company, Successor in Interest to Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance
Company, (Farmers Insurance) demurred to the sixteenth and seventeenth causes
of action in the Third Amended Complaint. Defendant Farmers Insurance also
moved to strike the request for punitive damages. Plaintiffs filed an
opposition and Defendant filed a reply.
On September 28, 2023, Defendant Jeffrey Kaliher
filed a joinder to Defendant Farmers Insurance’s demurrer. 
The demurrer by Farmers Insurance is to the
sixteenth and seventeenth causes of action is sustained without leave. The
motion to strike is granted without leave to amend. Defendant Kaliher’s joinder
to Farmers Insurance’s demurrer is denied. 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Sixteenth Cause of Action for Conversion
 
            Farmers Insurance demurs to the
conversion cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to state a
claim. 
 
“Conversion
is generally described as the wrongful exercise of dominion over the personal
property of another. [Citation.] The basic elements of the tort are (1) the
plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) the
defendant's disposition of the property in a manner that is inconsistent with
the plaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages.” (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
“The tort of conversion is derived from the common law action of trover. The
gravamen of the tort is the defendant's hostile act of dominion or control over
a specific chattel to which the plaintiff has the right of immediate
possession.” (PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil
& Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395.) 
 
Thus, to
establish a viable cause of action for conversion, Plaintiffs must establish an
actual interference with their ownership or right of possession of property. (Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 610.)
To do that they must have “either ownership and the right of possession or
actual possession [of the property] at the time of the alleged conversion
thereof.” (General Motors Acceptance Corp. v. Dallas (1926) 198 Cal.
365, 370.) 
 
Here, on demurrer, Farmers Insurance
argues that Plaintiffs’ cause of action for conversion improperly “lumps” all
three Metlife Defendants together in alleging that they (MetLife, MPCIC,[1]
and MetLaw) converted Plaintiff’s broker’s license, and used the license number
and office address to divert funds rightfully belonging to Plaintiffs. (TAC ¶
246, see also ¶¶ 242-250.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Plaintiffs’ conversion claim is based upon
their allegation that the MetLife Defendants, including MPCIC, “took, used, and
possessed Plaintiffs’ insurance licenses, insurance license numbers, and the
names and addresses associated with Plaintiffs’ insurance licenses . . . and
exercised dominion or control over the same in a manner that was inconsistent
with Plaintiffs’ rights and property interest.” (TAC ¶ 245.) That is, the claim
is not solely based on the converted commissions but also on “MetLife
Defendants’” use of Plaintiffs’ insurance licenses to continue selling and
servicing the group insurance plans.
 
The Court previously interpreted this
cause of action to mean that Defendants misappropriated Plaintiff Rothstein’s
brokerage license and number to improperly divert funds, resulting in the
conversion of funds – rather than a conversion of her license itself. (2/8/23
Court’s Ruling, p. 8.) The Court determined that “because Plaintiffs group all Defendants
together, they do not sufficiently specify any dollar amounts that are
traceable to the allegedly converted funds with the use of her brokerage
license or numbers.” (Id.)
 
With respect
to the converted funds allegations, Plaintiffs do not clarify this misappropriation allegation
in the TAC, relying on the same allegations.
 
It is
well-established that “a mere contractual right of payment, without more, will
not suffice” to support a claim for conversion. (Farmers Ins. Exchange v.
Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 452.) Moreover, “[m]oney
cannot be the subject of a cause of action for conversion unless there is a
specific, identifiable sum involved, such as where an agent accepts a sum of
money to be paid to another and fails to make the payment.” (Sanowicz v.
Bacal (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1027, 1042 [italics in original]; see also Vu v. California Commerce Club, Inc. (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 229, 235 [A “generalized claim for money [is] not actionable as
conversion.”].)
 
            Based on the foregoing legal
authority and the Court’s prior rulings, the demurrer to the conversion claim
arising from the misappropriated funds is well taken.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs cite G.S.
Rasmussen & Assocs. v. Kalitta Flying Servs. (9th Cir. 1992) 958 F.2d
896, for the proposition that California courts have recognized that the
wrongful use of another’s license can support a conversion claim. (Id.
at 906-07.) 
 
            The Court
previously did not distinguish between the conversion of the license and the
use of the license to convert funds. On the TAC, the Court reconsiders this
analysis and finds that the conversion of the license is itself a sufficient
basis for the cause of action. 
 
However, as the Reply notes, Plaintiffs
have not alleged any resulting damages from the converted license. (See, e.g.,
Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1150-1151 [among other essential
elements conversion requires resulting damages]; Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1342, 1351 [“In
modern American law generally, ‘[t]respass [to chattels] remains as an
occasional remedy for minor interferences, resulting in some damage, but
not sufficiently serious or sufficiently important to amount to the greater
tort’ of conversion”]; Zaslow v. Kroenert (1946) 29 Cal.2d 541, 551
[“Where the conduct complained of ... consists of intermeddling with or use of
or damages to the personal property, the owner has a cause of action for
trespass ... and may recover only the actual damages suffered by reason of the
impairment of the property or the loss of its use.”].) That is, specific
unpaid commissions amounts are damages resulting from the breach of contract
claims and not damages resulting from the conversion of the license. In
order to allege resulting damages from the conversion of the license, the damages
must flow from the use of the license. Here, the use of the license is
irrelevant to Plaintiffs’ entitlement to the unpaid commissions, which would
exist as claim irrespective of the alleged license conversion.[2] 
 
Thus, the TAC fails to state a claim
for conversion against Farmers Insurance. The demurrer to the sixteenth cause
of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Seventeenth Cause of Action for Promissory
Estoppel
 
            Farmers Insurance also contends Plaintiffs
have failed to state a claim for promissory estoppel. 
 
In demurring to this claim, Farmers Insurance first
argues “the allegations with respect to MPCIC specifically are vague, such that
it is unclear exactly what MPCIC is alleged to have done, who from MPCIC was
involved, and what the terms were of the alleged agreement were.” (Dem.
8:12-14.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs
argue that the TAC alleged a joint plan by the MetLife, MPCIC, MLP, Winston,
and others to pay Plaintiffs 12 months’ worth of the commissions that
Plaintiffs would have earned under the various contracts pled in the TAC. (TAC
¶¶ 252; 36-49, 53-56, 57-66, 67-74.) The joint plan was communicated
principally by Oyler[3]
and Schneider, on behalf of MetLife, MPCIC, MLP, and Winston, and consisted of
(1) Oyler telling Rothstein on August 6, 2019, that MetLife, MPCIC, MLP, and
Winston had agreed to a joint plan, (2) Schneider telling Plaintiffs that on
August 12, 2019, that he, the MetLife Defendants, and Winston were collectively
working together to ensure that Plaintiffs would be paid 12 months’ worth of
commissions, and (3) Gerli, on behalf of MetLife, MLP, and MPCIC , on August
15, 2019, and Tanya Gappy, of Winston, on August 19, 2019, confirming the
respective contributions of Winston MetLife, MLP, and MPCIC, towards this joint
plan. (TAC ¶¶ 7, 92, 93, 96, 251, 253.) Plaintiffs allege that they understood
these communications as “representing a collective plan and promise by CLAFMA,
Winston, and MetLife, MPCIC, and MLP, to pay her 12 months’ worth of
commissions in total.” (TAC ¶¶ 96, 251.)
 
Plaintiffs
have not alleged reasonable, detrimental reliance from a clear promise. First, Plaintiffs
do not identify any specific Farmers Insurance/MPCIC agent who made any representations.
Instead, Plaintiffs alleged:
 
“At
all times relevant herein, the agents, employees, and representatives of
MetLife acted on behalf of MetLife, and with the actual and apparent authority
of MPCIC and MLP, with respect to Plaintiffs dealings with the MetLife
Defendants. Specifically, the MetLife Defendants had in common the fact that
Kelly Gerli, an account executive at MetLife, Scott Nawrocki, Brandi Bollick,
Karolyn Dell, and other MetLife employees, acted as agents not only for MetLife
but also for MLP and MPCIC with respect to their dealings with Ms. Rothstein .
. ..” (TAC ¶ 7.) 
 
            Plaintiffs essentially rely on conflating
the identities of all the parties and representations from different parties to
cobble together a single promise to pay Plaintiffs that Plaintiffs thereafter
allege is enforceable as to all parties. However, even assuming Plaintiffs can
rely on these conclusory agency allegations, there is no clear promise or any reasonable
detrimental reliance. 
 
“
‘[A] promise is an indispensable element of the doctrine of promissory
estoppel. The cases are uniform in holding that this doctrine cannot be invoked
and must be held inapplicable in the absence of a showing that a promise had
been made upon which the complaining party relied to his prejudice....’
[Citation.] The promise must, in addition, be ‘clear and unambiguous in its
terms.’ [Citation.]” (Garcia v. World Savings, FSB (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1031, 1044.) For a promise to be enforceable, it need only be “
‘definite enough that a court can determine the scope of the duty[,] and the
limits of performance must be sufficiently defined to provide a rational basis
for the assessment of damages.’ [Citations.]” (Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc.
(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 199, 209.)
 
Here,
the promises are not “ ‘definite enough’ ” for the Court to determine “ ‘the
scope of the duty’ ” imposed by them. (Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc.,
supra, 141 Cal.App.4th at p. 209.) Thus,
Plaintiffs’ decision to rely on these vague promises also weighs against the
reasonableness of Plaintiff’s reliance. (Granadino v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 411, 418 [“A mere ‘hopeful
expectation[ ] cannot be equated with the necessary justifiable reliance.’ ”].)
 
None of the representations clearly
and affirmatively assert that Farmers Insurance/MPCIC would pay Plaintiffs.  Nor do they affirmatively assert that they
would – or even could – make any other Defendant pay the commissions
purportedly owed under the MetLife contracts. Thus, the TAC does not allege a
clear promise from Farmers Insurance/MPCIC purporting to pay the commission
payments.
 
Nor are there allegations
in the TAC demonstrating reasonable detrimental reliance. 
 
Generally,
reasonable detrimental reliance cannot be resolved as a matter of law. However,
“‘whether a party's reliance was justified may be decided as a matter
of law if reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion based on
the facts.’ ” (Alliance Mortgage Co. v. Rothwell (1995) 10 Cal.4th
1226, 1239.) Further, a “plaintiff's
reliance is not reasonable when he ‘ “ ‘put[s] faith in representations ...
which are shown by facts within his observation to be so patently and obviously
false that he must have closed his eyes to avoid discovery of the truth....’
[Citation.]” [Citation.]’ [Citation].” (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 1039, 1067.)[4]

 
Here, Plaintiffs allege
they rejected a proposal from Kaliher, on behalf of Winston, purporting to
offer a deal “ensur[ing] she received the monies or commissions promised or
owed to her.” (TAC ¶ 97.) Notably, this representation was made with the
knowledge of all other parties – MetLife Defendants, MPCIC, Winston, and CLAFMA
– the same parties that Plaintiffs claim also collectively made promises of
payment to her that she relied on.[5]
(TAC ¶ 98.) The TAC indicates that these parties made no objection to this
email – even though this Kaliher email apparently repudiated (to some extent)
the purported promises made to Plaintiffs by Defendants to receive all twelve
months of commissions owed. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, it was unreasonable to rely on vague promises allegedly made by Farmers
Insurance/MPCIC, which consisted of a promise to “work toward a goal of”
getting Plaintiff paid and/or Defendant would have “rethink” its relationship
with MetLife Defendants. (TAC ¶¶ 93, 255.) Thus, Plaintiffs
rejected Kaliher/Winston’s deal based on the ambiguous representations
from numerous persons representing different entities who only purported to
offer to help Plaintiffs resolve this matter. This was objectively
unreasonable. 
 
The demurrer to the
seventeenth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.[6]

 
Defendant
Kaliher’s Joinder
On September 28, 2023, Defendant Jeffrey Kaliher
filed a joinder to Defendant Farmers Insurance’s demurrer. This joinder was
filed after Plaintiffs’ filed their opposition to Farmers Insurance’s demurrer.  
The
notice of joinder did not comply with the timing requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b). As such, the joinder is procedurally
defective. (Cf.  Frazee v.
Seely (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 627, 637 [explaining that when
a party files a joinder to
a summary judgment motion with a separate statement,
the joinder must comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 437c and
be filed at least 75 days before the hearing date].)
 
The
joinder is denied. 
 
Farmers Insurance’s Motion to Strike
 
            Farmers Insurance also moves to
strike the request for punitive damages. Specifically, Farmers Insurance moves
to strike the punitive damages request on the grounds that Plaintiffs have
failed to allege facts supporting malice, fraud, or oppression. The motion to
strike is well taken.  
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code § 3294.) “Something more than
the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There
must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
Here, the TAC contains a fraud cause of
action against Farmers Insurance, which may support a request for
punitive damages. However, “[s]omething more than the mere commission of a tort
is always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of
aggravation or outrage, such as spite or “malice,” or a fraudulent or evil
motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate
disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or
wanton.’ [Citation.]” (Taylor v. Superior Court of Los Angeles (1979) 24
Cal.3d 890, 894–895.) 
 
In this case, the TAC does not contain
allegations demonstrating willful, wanton or malicious conduct. Moreover, when punitive
damages are sought against a corporate employer, the pleadings must show “the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.” (Ibid.) Here, the punitive damages
request is based on statements made by “Kelly Gerli, an
account executive for MetLife who also acted on behalf of and with the actual
and apparent authority of MLP.” (TAC ¶¶ 185-197.) However, these alleged
statements by Gerli do not demonstrate fraud and they do not demonstrate the ratification
of any fraudulent conduct by any other party. (TAC ¶ 14 [providing only conclusory
allegations of “ratification, knowledge, permission, encouragement,
authorization and consent”].)
 
Farmers Insurance’s motion to strike
is granted without leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Farmers Insurance’s demurrer to the Sixteenth and Seventeenth
Causes of Action is sustained without leave to amend. Defendant Kaliher’s
joinder to the demurrer is denied. The motion to strike is granted
without leave to amend.


