 Case Number:  22NWCV00827    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  C kaizou group v. pan,
et al.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00827
HEARING:   1/24/24 @ 9:30 AM
#1
 
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File their
Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendants Sang “Tony” Pan and Julie Pan
(collectively Defendants) move for leave to file a cross-complaint.
Background
On
September 13, 2022, Plaintiff Kaizou Group, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint
against Defendants alleging Breach of Contract and Common Counts related to
allegedly unpaid invoices in the amount of $703,484.00 for goods provided to
Defendants by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to make
payments from November 24, 2021 to June 2, 2022. Plaintiff attached the
invoices to its Complaint.
Legal
Standard
A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. (CCP § 428.50(a).) Any other
cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for
trial. (CCP § 428.50(b).) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the
course of the action. (CCP § 428.50(c).) Where the proposed cross-complaint
arises out of the same transaction as plaintiff’s claim, the court must grant
leave to file the cross-complaint so long as defendant is acting in good faith.
(CCP § 426.50.)
Discussion

Defendants seek leave to file a cross-complaint
against Plaintiff and Shang Yang Zhao for:
1.   
Common
Counts – Money Had and Received
2.   
Common
Counts – Open Book Account
3.   
Conversion
4.   
Accounting
5.   
Unjust
Enrichment
6.   
Declaratory
Relief
Defendants allege in their Cross-Complaint that
they overpaid for the goods they received from Plaintiff.  Defendants’ claims arise from the same
transaction as Plaintiff’s Complaint and leave to file the Cross-Complaint must
be granted if Defendants acted in good faith.  The court finds that Defendants acted in good
faith because they discovered the evidence for their claims while responding to
discovery propounded by Plaintiff in this action. (Pan Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) Thus,
Defendants must be granted leave to file their Cross-Complaint.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
Motion for Leave to File their Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Defendants are to
file the attached Cross-Complaint within 5 days of this Order.
 
 