 Case Number:  23GDCV02696    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
aurora mojica, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
ford motor
  company, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23GDCV02696
 
Hearing
  Date:  September 20, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel further responses
 



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument is requested and any party seeking argument
should notify all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day
before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling
of the court if no argument is received.  

 
Notice may be
given either by email at BurDeptB@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8422.
 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Aurora Mojica and Misael Leyva
Galvez (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on March 20, 2022, Plaintiffs entered into a
warranty contact with Defendant Ford Motor Company (“FMC”) regarding the
purchase of a 2021 Ford F-150 vehicle. 
Plaintiffs allege that the vehicle was delivered with serious defects
and nonconformities to the warranty and developed serious defects and
nonconformities to the warranty, including but not limited to, engine, electrical,
structural, transmission, and emission system defects.  Plaintiffs
seek to revoke acceptance of the sales contract. 
Plaintiffs
allege that they delivered the vehicle or repairs in December 2022, September
2023, and October 2023 to Defendant Galpin Motors Inc., dba Galpin Ford (“Galpin”)
for repairs, but Galpin failed to use ordinary
care and skill to properly store, prepare, and repair the subject vehicle.  
The complaint, filed December 29, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Song Beverly Act – breach of
express warranty; (2) violation of Song Beverly Act – breach of implied
warranty; (3) violation of Song Beverly § 1793.2; and (4) negligent repair. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On June 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
motion to compel Defendant FMC’s further responses to Requests for Production,
set one (“RPD”).  
On July 24, 2024, FMC filed an untimely opposition
brief. 
On July 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff moves to compel FMC’s
further responses to RPD Nos. 1-31.  RPD
Nos. 1-14 seek document related to Plaintiffs’ own vehicle; Nos. 15-22 seek policies
and procedures for handling Song-Beverly cases; Nos. 23-29 seek documents
related to FMC’s warranty policy and procedure for handling Song-Beverly cases;
and Nos. 30-31 relate to FMC’s knowledge of the same or similar defects in
other vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle. 
            RPD Nos. 1-14 seek: 
·        
RPD No. 1 seeks
all documents regarding the subject vehicle that are within FMC’s Customer
Relations Center (“CRC”).  
·        
RPD No. 2 seeks
all documents which evidence, support, refer, or relate to each of the
affirmative defenses as set forth in FMC’s Answer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint.
·        
RPD No.3 seeks all
documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any inspection of the subject
vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 4 seeks
all documents that refer or relate to all repair orders pertaining to the subject
vehicle in FMC’s possession, custody or control.
·        
RPD No. 5 seeks
all documents, including manuals, and express warranty booklets provided to
consumers with respect to the purchase or lease of the subject vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 6 seeks
all documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any Retail
Installment Sale Contracts and/or Lease Agreements, including any associated
documents reflecting OEM or aftermarket installed parts, service contracts, and
any other writings signed by the Plaintiffs, in connection with the subject
vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 7 seeks
all documents that refer or relate to all diagnostic trouble codes that are electronically
stored by FMC or its authorized repair facility as result of any inspections or
repairs conducted on the subject vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 8 seeks
all documents, including recalls, technical service bulletins, and dealer
advisories that were issued for the subject vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 9 seeks
that refer to or relate to any contact or communications between FMC
and its authorized repair facility
regarding the subject vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 10 seeks
all documents that refer to or relate to any summaries of all warranty repairs
performed on the subject vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 11 seeks
all documents that refer to or relate to any summaries of all amounts paid by FMC
for warranty repairs performed on the
subject vehicle
·        
RPD No. 12 seeks all
photographs or videotapes of the subject vehicle taken by FMC or its authorized
repair facility.
·        
RPD No. 13 seeks all documents which
evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any contact or communications between FMC
and Plaintiffs.  
·        
RPD No. 14 seeks all documents which
evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any contact or communications with any third
parties relating to the subject vehicle. 

FMC responded to
Nos. 1, 3-11, and 13-14 that it would produce all or some of the following
documents: communications between FMC and the individual(s) contacting FMC received
through its Global Contact Center Technology ("GCCT") application regarding
the subject pickup truck, communications regarding the subject pickup truck
contained in records from FMC’s Global Common Quality Indicator System
("GCQIS”), and Reacquired Vehicle (“RAV”) materials for the subject pickup
truck.  FMC objected that it would not
comply further with the RPDs as they were overly broad and sought irrelevant
documents.  These RPDs are not overly
broad or vague as asked, but seek documents related to the subject vehicle at
issue in this action.  The objections are
overruled.  If FMC is withholding
documents related to the subject vehicle (VIN No. 1FTFW1E56MFC82196), such
documents should be produced.  If FMC
believes they are privileged, FMC should produce documents subject to the
protective order, or a privilege log should be produced.  Documents created by defense attorneys or
direct communications to and from defense attorneys are excluded from this
requirement.  The motion is granted as to
RPD Nos. 1, 3-11, and 13-14.  
            With respect to
No. 2, FMC responded that it generally denied every allegation and raised
affirmative defenses to preserve its rights. 
FMC responded that while the documents supporting its affirmative
defenses were not fully known, it would produce the factory invoice for the
subject truck, Owner's Manual, Scheduled Maintenance Guide and Warranty Guide
for the 2021 Ford F-150, Vehicle Information Report, information regarding the
subject pickup truck from OASIS, communications between FMC and the
individual(s) contacting FMC received through its GCCT application regarding
the subject pickup truck, communications regarding the subject pickup truck
contained in records from FMC’s GCQIS, list of TSBs/special service
messages/general service bulletins applicable to the subject vehicle, Field
Service Action (“FSA”) applicable to the truck, repair and service-related
information for the subject truck from FMC’s Global System for Analytics and
Reporting (“GSAR”), information from its Unified Database (“UDB”) regarding
repairs or services performed on the subject truck, service/repair records in FMC’s
possession, representative showroom brochure for the subject truck, exemplar
copy of the pre-delivery service record, and RAV materials for the subject
pickup truck.  It appears that FMC
has made a thorough production of the documents within its possession, and it
is unclear what documents Plaintiffs are claiming are missing.  However, to the extent that documents have
been withheld based on FMC’s lack of knowledge of what documents are
responsive, its objections, or claimed privileges, the Court will order
documents to be produced subject to a protective order or that a privilege log be
produced.  Documents created by defense
attorneys or direct communications to and from defense attorneys are excluded
from this requirement.  The
motion is granted as to RPD No. 2.   
            FMC
responded to No. 12 that it would comply with the request in full and that
after a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, it has not located any
photographs or videotapes of the subject pickup truck to date.  It also objected that the documents may be in
the possession of FMC’s dealerships or third parties, the request requires the
premature disclosure of expert information, and seeks documents protected by
the attorney-client privileged and work product doctrine.  It is unclear how photographs or video tapes
of the subject vehicle constitute attorney-client communications, attorney work
product, or expert opinions, such that these objections have not been
substantiated and are overruled. 
Further, the response is partially compliant with CCP §
2031.230, which states: “A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” 
However, the response does not state whether the document never existed,
was misplaced, has never been in its possession, etc., nor does the response
provide the name and address of the organization believed by FMC to have the
documents requested.  As such, a further
response will be required for RPD No. 12. 

            RPD
No. 15 seeks all documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to FMC’s
rules, policies, or procedures since 2020 concerning the issuance of refunds to
buyers or providing replacement vehicles to buyers in the State of California
under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
RPD No. 16 seeks all documents which evidence, describe, refer,
or relate to FMC’s Call Center Policies and Procedures for escalating customer
complaints relating to any defects present in their vehicle.  RPD No. 18 seeks all documents which
evidence, describe, refer, or relate to its Policies and Procedures for
determining whether a vehicle should be repurchased or replaced under the
Act.  RPD No. 19 seeks all
documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any flow charts used by
FMC for the purpose of escalating customer complaints.  RPD No. 20 seeks all documents which
evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any flow charts used by FMC for the
purpose of evaluating whether a vehicle qualifies for repurchase or replacement
under the Act.  RPD No. 21 seeks
all documents evidencing and/or describing FMC’s training materials related to
its policy regarding how to calculate a repurchase. RPD No. 22 seeks all
documents referencing, evidencing, and/or relating to any policies or
procedures followed by its CRC to advise customers to deliver their vehicles to
its authorized repair facilities for further diagnosis or repair instead of
offering a repurchase or replacement of the vehicle under the Act. 
FMC objected,
but responded by referring Plaintiffs to the Owner’s Manual, Scheduled
Maintenance Guide and New Vehicle Limited Warranty Guide for the 2021 Ford
F-150 truck and information regarding California law.  It also responded that it would produce,
subject to a protective order, its Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual,
policies and procedures for FMC’s CRC, and its RAV Policy & Procedure
Manual, applicable to 2023 (the year Plaintiffs filed suit against FMC for the
subject vehicle).  The Court will limit
the RPDs to the time period from 2021 to the present (which is the year of the
subject vehicle), and will limit the geographical location of the documents, as
least in the first round of discovery, to the Los Angeles area.  The discovery shall also be limited to only
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle (2021 Ford F-150
vehicle) and the defects shall be limited to engine, electrical, structural,
transmission, and emission system defects.  
With these limitations, the motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 15-16 and
18-22. 
            RPD
No. 17 seeks all documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to FMC’s
Call Center Policies and Procedures for creating a Service Activity in response
to customer complaints relating to any defects present in their vehicle.  FMC objected to the RPD and responded that it
would produce documents related to its CRC applicable to 2023 subject to a
protective order.  The Court grants the
motion to RPD No. 17, as the parties entered into a protective order in August
2024.  However, the production of
documents shall be limited on the same basis as above.  
            RPD
No. 23 seeks any document that refers or relate to FMC’s Warranty Policy
and Procedure Manuals provided to its authorized repair facilities with respect
to how to determine whether repairs should be covered under warranty from 2020
to the present.  RPD No. 24 seeks
any document which refers or relate to FMC’s Warranty Policy and Procedure
Manuals provided to its authorized repair facilities with respect to whether
repairs should be covered under warranty as “goodwill” from 2020 to the
present.  RPD No. 25 seeks any
document which refers or relate to FMC’s Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals
provided to its authorized repair facilities with respect to repeated repair
visits for similar complaints by the consumer from 2020 to the present.  RPD No. 26 seeks any document which refers
or relate to FMC’s Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals provided to its
authorized repair facilities on what type of repairs require approval by FMC in
order to cover the repair under warranty from 2020 to the present.  RPD No. 27 seeks any document which
refers or relate to FMC’s Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals provided to its
authorized repair facilities on the length for test drives on certain customer
complaints to be covered under warranty from 2020 to the present.  RPD No. 28 seeks any document which
refers or relate to FMC’s Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals provided to its
authorized repair facilities on what type of repairs will not be reimbursed by FMC
as warranty repairs from 2020 to the present. 
RPD No. 29 seeks any document which refers or relate to FMC’s Warranty
Policy and Procedure Manuals provided to its authorized repair facilities on
how to handle customer concerns that are not duplicated at the time of the
repair visit from 2020 to the present.
FMC
objected to Nos. 23-29, but responded by referring Plaintiffs to the Owner’s
Manual, Scheduled Maintenance Guide. and New Vehicle Limited Warranty Guide for
the 2021 Ford F-150 truck.  It also
responded that it would produce, subject to a protective order, its Warranty
Policy and Procedure Manual, applicable to 2023 (the year Plaintiffs filed suit
against FMC for the subject vehicle). 
The Court will limit the RPDs to the time period from 2021 to the
present (which is the year of the subject vehicle), and will limit the
geographical location of the documents, as least in the first round of
discovery, to the Los Angeles area.  The
discovery shall also be limited to only vehicles of the same year, make, and
model as the subject vehicle (2021 Ford F-150 vehicle) and the
repairs/defects/customer complaints shall be limited to engine, electrical,
structural, transmission, and emission system defects.  With these limitations, the motion is granted
as to RPD Nos. 23-29.
            RPD
No. 30 seeks all documents in the form of a list or compilation, of
other Customer Complaints in FMC’s electronically stored information of
database(s) that are substantially similar to complaints made by Plaintiff with
respect to the subject vehicle in other 2021 Ford F-150 vehicles.  (“Substantially similar” is defined by
Plaintiffs to mean similar customer complaint that would be the same nature of
the reported system, malfunction, trouble code, TSB Recommendation, dashboard
indicator light, or other manifestation of a repair problem, as description
listed in any warranty summary or repair order for the subject vehicle.)  While the RPD seeks documents regarding the 2021
Ford F-150 vehicles, the RPD is not limited in geographical location, time, and
scope (i.e., specifically the engine, electrical, structural, transmission, and
emission system defects, which should be more specifically
described).  Rather, the RPD seeks
documents regarding any type of complaint that is “similar” to Plaintiffs’
complaints.  As currently worded, the
motion to compel FMC’s further response to RPD No. 30 is denied as it is
overbroad in scope and not properly defined. 
The parties should meet and confer to find appropriate limitations for
this RPD.  
RPD No. 31 seeks all documents that refer to, reflect, or relate to any Field
Service Action (“FSA”) issued, or in the process of being issued, in response
to complaints experienced by Plaintiffs as described in FMC’s warranty
history/summary and within the line items of the repair orders created at its
authorized repair facility.  FMC objected
to the RPD, but responded that it would produce all responsive documents that
are located following a reasonable and diligent search and to which no
objection is made. Specifically, FMC responded that it would produce the FSA history
for the subject truck, including exemplar customer letter(s) and Dealer
Bulletin(s) for FSA 21S56, FSA 22S15, FSA 22S17, FSA 22S71, and FSA 23S35,
which were performed on the subject pickup truck. It also directed Plaintiffs
to the NHTSA website for public recalls. 
The RPD is limited to documents related to Plaintiffs’ complaints
regarding the subject vehicle, such that it is limited in scope.  It is unclear what other documents are being
withheld in FMC’s responses.  If any
documents are being withheld on the basis of the objections and privileges, the
documents should be produced as the parties have now entered into a protective
order, or at least a privilege log should be produced.  If no further documents are responsive, FMC
may state as such in a supplemental response. 
The
motion is granted in this limited respect as to RPD No. 31.  
No sanctions were requested.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
             Plaintiffs Aurora Mojica and Misael Leyva
Galvez’s motion to compel Defendant Ford Motor Company’s further responses to
RPD Nos. 1-29 and 31 is granted, but subject to the limitation stated in the
Court’s written order.  The motion is
denied as to RPD No. 30.  Defendant is
ordered to provide further responses within 20 days of notice of this
order.  
Plaintiffs shall
provide notice of this order.  
 
DATED:
September 20, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                                          Los
Angeles Superior Court
 
 