 Case Number:  24BBCV00136    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
Vagan sardariani, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
rolan markarian, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case No.:  24BBCV00136
 
Hearing
  Date: September 20, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE] order RE:
demurrers 
 



NOTICE:
 
The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter. 
The Court is guided by California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
whereby notice of intent to appear is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument is requested and any party seeking argument
should notify all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day
before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling
of the court if no argument is received.  

 
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptB@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8422.
 
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Vigan Sardariani (“Sardariani”) and V&S Complete Auto
Repairs, Inc. (“V&S”) allege that this action involves a 22-year-old lease
relationship between Sardariani and Defendant Roland Markarian (“Markarian”)
concerning real property located at 7139 Foothill Blvd., Tujunga, CA 91042 (the
“Foothill Property”).  The Court will
call this the “Fraud Action” in its subsequent discussion, based on the Court’s
review of its nine causes of action. 
In the Fraud Action, Plaintiffs allege that Markarian rented the Foothill
Property in Tujunga on May 1, 2002 subject to the lease agreement with
Sardariani.  Plaintiffs allege that
Markarian sued Plaintiffs on May 11, 2022 in Pasadena Case No. 22PDUD00815, Markarian
v. Sardariani.  Plaintiffs alleged
that on June 8, 2016, Markarian, without notice to Plaintiffs, transferred
ownership of the leased property to Defendant RRRM Holding Company, LLC
(“RRRM”).  Plaintiffs allege that Markarian
and RRRM persuaded Plaintiffs’ sublessor, Defendants Ara Ahanjanyan and Arman
Artunyan, to breach their sublease with Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs allege that on December 29, 2023,
RRRM initiated an unlawful detainer action in Burbank Case No. 23BBCV03087, RRRM
Holding Company, LLC v. Sardariani. 
Plaintiffs allege that RRRM has made false representations that it
leased property to Sardariani, that rent had increased (without proper notice),
and that RRRM performed all terms and conditions on the lease when it had
not.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed March 14, 2024, alleges causes
of action for: (1) fraud; (2) intentional concealment; (3) negligent
misrepresentation; (4) breach of duty of good faith and fair dealing; (5)
breach of contract; (6) tortious interference with prospective economic
advantage; (7) negligent interference with prospective economic advantage; (8)
intentional interference with contractual relations; and (9) inducing breach of
contract. 
On July 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an Amendment to Complaint Naming Doe
No. 1, naming Rejina Mehdian as Doe 1. 
B.    
Demurrers on Calendar 
There are 4 demurrers on calendar.  On August 16, 2024, Defendants Roland
Markarian, RRRM Holding Company, LLC, Ara Ohanjanyan, and Arman Arutyunyan
(“Defendants”) filed 4 demurrers to Plaintiffs’ FAC.  
On September 9, 2024, Plaintiffs Sardariani and V&S filed a single
opposition to the demurrers.  
On September 13, 2024, Defendants filed a reply brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            Defendants filed 4
demurrers to the FAC.  The 4 demurrers
are identical in content, such that the Court will consider the 4 demurrers
together.  Defendants demur to the 1st,
2nd, and 3rd causes of action for fraud, intentional
concealment, and negligent misrepresentation. 

A.    1st cause of action for Fraud by Sardariani against Markarian
To allege a cause
of action for fraud, the requisite elements are: (1) a representation, usually of fact, which is
false; (2) knowledge of its falsity; (3) intent to defraud; (4) justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation;
and (5) damage resulting from that justifiable reliance.  (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal. App. 3d 59, 72-73.)  This cause of
action is a tort of deceit and the facts constituting each element must be
alleged with particularity; the claim cannot be saved by referring to the
policy favoring liberal construction of pleadings.  (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v.
General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Since the claim
must be pleaded with particularity, the cause of action based on
misrepresentations must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the misrepresentations were tendered.  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)
In the 1st
cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that at the time of entry into the lease,
Markarian made false representations to Sardariani that harmed Sardariani,
including: (a) Markarian would abide by the terms of the lease; (b) Markarian
would provide Sardariani with a right of first refusal to purchase the
property; (c) Markarian would charge only the amount of rent at the time of the
expiration of the first lease term on a month-to-month holdover tenancy; (d) Markarian
would permit Sardariani to sublet the property; (e) the original lease
agreement between Sardariani and Markarian evidences the foregoing false
statements of Defendants that were false at the time they were made or were
made with reckless disregard for their falsity; (f) the subtenants and their site
manager were advised on behalf of Markarian by counsel Raymond Zakari to stop
paying rent to Sardariani and start issue sublease rent checks to Markarian,
and Markarian through Mr. Zakari induced the subtenants to sign a new lease
directly with Markarian or RRRM; and (g) in 2018, Markarian falsely claimed
rent for April 2018 was not paid.  (FAC,
¶20.)  Sardariani alleges that Markarian
represented to him that these facts were true, when they were actually
false.  (Id., ¶21.)  Sardariani alleges that Markarian intended
him to rely on the representations to induce him to rent the premises, and
Sardariani reasonably relied on the false representations.  (Id., ¶¶22-23.)   
            Defendants demur to the
1st cause of action, arguing that it is duplicative of the 5th
cause of action for breach of contract.  They
argue that the alleged misrepresentations are with respect to their purported
breaches under the lease.  
            The representations in
paragraph 20(a) to (d) essentially amount to allegations for breach of contract
or breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing regarding performance
of the lease agreement.  In addition,
subsections (e) to (g) do not appear to be “misrepresentations” that were made
by Markarian to Sardariani, but are rather facts regarding Markarian’s
conduct.  With respect to subsection (g),
Markarian’s statement that Sardariani did not pay rent in April 2018 occurred
after the parties entered into the lease agreement on May 1, 2002, such that it
is unclear how this particular “misrepresentation” could have been relied upon
by Sardariani to enter into the lease agreement for rental of the subject
premises.  (See FAC, ¶¶20, 22.)  
            As currently worded, the
fraud cause of action fails to allege facts regarding the misrepresentations
that were made by Markarian to Sardariani at the time the parties entered the
lease agreement.  The 1st
cause of action also fails to allege the misrepresentation(s) with the
requisite specificity.  
In opposition, Sardariani argues that
Markarian concealed the transfer of the property so that Sardariani would be
unaware that his right of first refusal had been triggered; however, this is
not an allegation for misrepresentation that was made in connection with the 1st
cause of action for fraud.   
            For these reasons, the
demurrers to the 1st cause of action are sustained with leave to
amend.  
B.     2nd cause of action for intentional concealment by Sardariani
against Markarian and RRRM
The elements
for fraudulent concealment are
the following: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material
fact; (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff; (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.  (Lovejoy
v. AT&T Corp. (2004) 119 Cal. App. 4th 151, 157-158.)  This too is a cause of action for deceit and the facts
constituting each element must be alleged with particularity; the claims cannot
be saved by referring to the policy favoring liberal construction of pleadings.
(Committee on Children's Television, Inc.
v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.) 
In the 2nd cause of action,
Sardariani alleges that Markarian and RRRM “concealed certain information as
alleged more fully hereinabove, including the unnoticed transfer of ownership
of the premises.”  (FAC, ¶27.)  Sardariani alleges that Markarian and RRRM
intentionally failed to disclose certain facts that were known only to them and
that Sardariani could not have discovered or, alternatively, they disclosed
some facts to Sardariani but intentionally failed to disclose other facts.  (Id., ¶¶28-29.)  Sardariani alleges that he did not know of
the concealed facts and that Markarian and RRRM intended to deceive Sardariani
by concealing the facts.  (Id.,
¶¶30-31.)  Sardariani alleges that had
the omitted information been disclosed, he reasonably would have behaved
differently.  (Id., ¶32.)  
Markarian and RRRM argue that Sardariani has
not alleged what “certain fact” was concealed or, alternatively, what facts
were concealed and which facts were not concealed.  (FAC, ¶¶27, 29.)  
Based on the allegations of the 2nd
cause of action, it is ambiguous as to the nature of the concealment.  While, in part, Sardariani alleges that the
concealment involved the unnoticed transfer of ownership of the premises,
Sardariani also ambiguously alleges that “some facts” were disclosed but that
Markarian and RRRM failed to disclose “other facts.”  (FAC, ¶29.) 
The nature of what facts were disclosed and what other facts were not
disclosed have not been alleged.  Thus,
the Court will sustain the demurrers with leave to amend as to the 2nd
cause of action so that Sardariani may allege additional facts to plead the
elements with the requisite specificity. 

C.    
3rd cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation by Sardariani against Markarian and RRRM
To allege a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, the
requisite elements are: (1) a
misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact; (2) without reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true; (3) with intent to induce another's
reliance on the fact misrepresented; (4) ignorance of the truth and justifiable
reliance thereon by the party to whom the misrepresentation was directed; and
(5) damages.  (B.L.M. v. Sabo & Deitsch (1997) 55 Cal. App. 4th 823,
834.)  Negligent
misrepresentation, unlike fraud, does not require knowledge of falsity.  (Apollo
Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226,
243.)  However, like fraud, “[e]ach
element in a cause of action for. . . negligent misrepresentation must be
factually and specifically alleged.”  (Cadlo v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (2004) 125
Cal.App.4th 513, 519.)
            In the 3rd
cause of action, Sardariani alleges that he was harmed because Markarian and
RRRM negligently misrepresented certain facts as alleged in the FAC.  (FAC, ¶36.) 
Sardariani alleges that they represented to Sardariani that certain facts
were true, when the representations were not true.  (Id., ¶¶37-38.)  He alleges that though Markarian and RRRM may
have honestly believed that the representations were true, they had no
reasonable grounds to believe the representations were true.  (Id., ¶39.)  Sardariani alleges that Markarian and RRRM
intended for Sardariani to rely on the representations and that Sardariani was
harmed.  (Id., ¶¶40-41.)  
            For the reasons
discussed above, the demurrers to the 3rd cause of action are
sustained with leave to amend.  Again,
the misrepresentations should be pled with the requisite specificity and the
“certain facts” Sardariani alleges in the FAC should be identified and alleged.

CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants Roland Markarian, RRRM Holding
Company, LLC, Ara Ohanjanyan, and Arman Arutunyan’s four demurrers to the FAC
are sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
The Case Management Conference is continued to November 25, 2024, at
8:30 a.m. 
Defendants shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 
DATED:  September 20, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                                          Los
Angeles Superior Court