  Case Number:  21BBCV00971    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
amy r. amira, Trustee of The
  Cynthia L. Amira Family Trust,   
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CMM, LLP, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.: 21BBCV00971
 
  Hearing Date:  September 20, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for leave to file second amended complaint 
 



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument is requested and any party seeking argument
should notify all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day
before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling
of the court if no argument is received.  

 
Notice may be
given either by email at BurDeptB@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8422.
 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Amy R.
Amira (“Ms. Amira”), Trustee of The Cynthia L. Amira Family Trust (“Plaintiff”
or “Amira Trust”) alleges that it entrusted professional business management,
financial planning, and tax services to Defendant CMM, LLP (“CMM”) and its
partner Defendant Gregory A. Mogab (“Mogab”), but that they breached the
fiduciary duty they owed to the Amira Trust by conspiring with other Defendants
to fraudulently induce the Amira Trust to enter into a limited partnership
investment controlled by Defendants as the general partner.  The deal involved the real estate development
at a property located at 6142-6144 Hazelhurst Place in North Hollywood.  According to the Hazelhurst L.P. Agreement’s
terms, Defendant Hazelhurst Place Properties, L.P. (“Hazelhurst LP”) would
acquire the property with the following limited partners: (1) $100 contribution
by Defendant OMG Construction Management, LLC (“OMG”) for 1% ownership; (2)
$100 contribution by Mogab for 20% ownership; (3) $100 contribution by
Defendant Anthony Olmedo (“Olmedo”) for 20% ownership; (4) $100 contribution by
Defendant Agustin Gonzalez (“Gonzalez”) for 20% ownership; and (5) $1,400,000
contribution by Amira Trust for 39% ownership. 

Ms. Amira
executed the Hazelhurst L.P. Agreement and the Amira Trust provided all the
capital.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants engaged in self-dealing through fraud, undue influence, and
deception, and wrongfully converted millions of dollars from the Amira Trust
for their sole financial gain.  
            The
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), filed April 14, 2022, alleges causes of action
for: (1) breach of
fiduciary duty; (2) fraud; (3) conversion; (4) negligence; (5) accounting; (6)
quiet title; (7) breach of contract; and (8) professional negligence.  The 1st, 2nd, 3rd,
and 5th causes of action are alleged against CMM, Mogab, Gonzalez,
Olmedo, OMG, HTD, and Hazelhurst LP.  The
4th cause of action is alleged against Mogab, Olmedo, Gonzalez, OMG,
HTD, and Hazelhurst LP.  The 6th cause
of action is alleged Mogab, Olmedo, Gonzalez, OMG, Ira J. Boren, and Hazelhurst
LP.  The 7th cause of action
is alleged against CMM and Mogab.  The 8th
cause of action is alleged against CMM and Mogab.
            On February 2, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed an Amendment to Complaint naming Robert L. Schreiber as Doe 1 (as to the
1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 7th
causes of action).  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On August 5,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a second amended complaint
(“SAC”).  
The Court is not
in receipt of an opposition brief. 
On September 9,
2024, CMM and Schreiber filed a notice of non-opposition to the motion, stating
they do not oppose Plaintiff’s motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
CCP § 473(a)(1) states: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  
            CRC
rule 3.1324 requires a motion seeking leave to amend to include a copy of the
proposed pleadings, to identify the amendments, and to be accompanied by a
declaration including the following facts:
            1) The effect of the amendment;
            2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; 
            3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and 
            4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.
The Court’s discretion regarding granting
leave to amend is usually exercised liberally to permit amendment of
pleadings.  (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939.)  If a motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend.  (Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
moves to file the proposed SAC.  A copy
of the proposed SAC is attached as Exhibit 1 to the motion papers.  A redlined version of the SAC is attached as
Exhibit 2.  
            In support of the motion, Plaintiff
provides the declaration of counsel Damion Robinson.  Mr. Robinson states that the purpose of the
amendment is to separately state and clarify the theories of liability that
Plaintiff asserts in this action and to clarify that they sound in both
negligent and intentional conduct. 
(Robinson Decl., ¶4.)  He states
that the SAC seeks to add the 9th through 13th causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary duty to safeguard,
breach of fiduciary duty to supervise, and negligent supervision and
retention.  (Id., ¶3.)  He states that the new counts are based on
the same general subject matter and underlying facts as the FAC.  (Id., ¶4.)  Mr. Robinson states that he was recently
retained by Plaintiff and that his firm substituted in as counsel on July 8,
2024.  (Id., ¶5.)  He states that based on a review of the file
and consultation with Plaintiff and prior counsel, he determined that it would
be prudent to amend the FAC to separately state Plaintiff’s claims for
negligent misrepresentation and negligent conduct on the part of Defendants CMM
LLP and Robert Schreiber in failing to adequately supervise Defendant Gregory
Mogab or to safeguard Plaintiff’s trust assets from misuse or inappropriate
investments solicited by Mr. Mogab.  (Id.,
¶6.)  He states that no party will be prejudiced
by the amendment because trial is scheduled for February 18, 2025, the parties
have taken modest discovery, and discovery has largely been deferred awaiting a
sale of the property.  (Id.,
¶7.)  He states that counsel for CMM LLP
and Mr. Schreiber indicated that they would not oppose the filing of the SAC,
while the other Defendants have not responded to Mr. Robinson’s emails
regarding the filing of the SAC.  (Id.,
¶8, Ex. 3.)  
            Based on the moving papers, the
Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file the proposed SAC.  Mr. Robinson’s declaration addresses the factors
under CRC Rule 3.1324.  In addition, the
Court recognizes the liberal policy in allowing amendment.  “[T]he court's discretion will usually be exercised
liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. 
The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in
which denial of leave to amend can be justified.”  (Howard
v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file the Second Amended Complaint is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to electronically file a
separate copy of the SAC following the hearing on this matter and to serve all
defendants.
Plaintiff shall provide notice of this
order.
 
 
DATED: September 20, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                                F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                                                Superior
Court of California
                                                                                                County
of Los Angeles. 