 Case Number:  24BBCV00024    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
HANI MAMMO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ABA LAW GROUP, et al.,
  
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  24BBCV00024
 
  Hearing Date:  September 20, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Demurrer



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument is requested and any party seeking argument
should notify all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day
before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling
of the court if no argument is received.  

 
Notice may be
given either by email at BurDeptB@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8422.
 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiff Hani Mammo (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that he hired and retained Defendant ABA Law Group (“ABA”) to represent him and
his businesses in several legal matters from 2021 to 2023.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Christopher
Reyes was an attorney who passed away in December 2023 and his estate is
believed to be Defendant Estate of Christopher Reyes (“Reyes”).  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Bianca
Santamaria (“Santamaria”) was Reyes’ wife and that she willfully took and
received money and property from Reyes with the intent to defraud Plaintiff and
other creditors.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
Edward Damas (“Damas”) and Kurt Fredric Zimmerman (“Zimmerman”) are attorneys
who worked on Plaintiff’s case. 
            Plaintiff
alleges that in 2021 and 2022, he hired and paid Defendants to work on the
following cases, but Defendants failed to perform legal services as follows (FAC,
¶26): 

LASC
     Case No. 22STCV35495, Sonia Recinos et al. v. Mammo et al.:
     Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to defend or engage in the
     matter, missed hearings and discovery deadlines, caused sanctions to be
     imposed against Plaintiff, and failed to report the matter to Plaintiff’s
     insurance. 
LASC
     Case No. 23CHCV00863, Monica Macias Lopez. v. Mammo Enterprises LLC et
     al.: Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were grossly negligent and
     failed to defend or engage in the matter and failed to report the matter
     to Plaintiff’s insurance.  
LASC
     Case No. 23CHCV01428, Lopez v. Mammo et al.: Plaintiff alleges that
     Defendants were grossly negligent, failed to defend or engage in the
     matter, abandoned the case which caused sanctions to be imposed against Plaintiff,
     and failed to report the matter to Plaintiff’s insurance.
LASC
     Case No. 23STCV01410, Racquel Haynes et al. v. Bushra Mammo et al.:
     Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were grossly negligent, failed to defend
     or engage in the matter, and failed to report the matter to Plaintiff’s
     insurance.
LASC
     Case No. 22CHRO00618, Lopez v. Mammo: Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
     failed to defend or file the papers necessary to terminate and expunge the
     case.  
LASC
     Case No. BC604605, Jorge Vargas v. Mammo, et al.: Plaintiff alleges
     that Defendants only appeared to a single hearing and then failed to
     attend any further hearings. 
     Plaintiff alleges that Defendants’ gross negligence caused them to
     miss several trial dates, such that judgment was entered against Plaintiff
     in excess of $600,000 in December 2022. 
     
LASC
     Case No. 20CHCV00262, Mammo v. Athas Capital Group, et al.: Plaintiff
     alleges that Defendants failed to represent or pursue this matter, such
     that the failure to prosecute resulted in a dismissal and court sanctions
     against Plaintiff.  

Plaintiff alleges that during the time
Defendants represented him, Plaintiff would regularly check in with Defendants
about the 7 active cases, and Zimmerman and Reyes repeatedly told him that they
were working on the cases and there was nothing for Plaintiff to do.  Plaintiff alleges that he found out in 2023
that he could search the court website to check the status of the cases and
discovered that there were several missed hearings and trials, sanctions, and
gross legal malpractice by Defendants.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
May 24, 2024, alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) breach of
contract; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4) legal malpractice/respondent
superior/agency; (5) fraud; (6) voidable transaction; (7) declaratory relief;
(8) creditor’s action; (9) fraudulent conveyance; and (10) conspiracy to
fraudulently convey property.   The 1st to 3rd causes of
action are alleged against ABA, Damas, Zimmerman, and Reyes.  The 4th cause of action is alleged
against ABA.  The 5th to 10th
causes of action are alleged against Reyes and Santamaria.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar
On July 17, 2024, Defendant Kurt Zimmerman
filed a demurrer to the FAC.   
On August 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
On September 13, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply brief.  
DISCUSSION 
            Zimmerman demurs
to the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd causes of action in
the FAC on the grounds that they fail to state sufficient facts.   

Statute of Limitations 

Zimmerman argues that the 1st
to 3rd causes of action fail because they are time-barred.  
The statute of
limitations period for legal malpractice claims is state in CCP § 340.6: 
(a)
An action against an attorney for a wrongful act or omission, other than for
actual fraud, arising in the performance of professional services shall be
commenced within one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of
reasonable diligence should have discovered, the facts constituting the
wrongful act or omission, or four years from the date of the wrongful act or
omission, whichever occurs first. … Except for a claim for which the plaintiff
is required to establish the plaintiff's factual innocence, the time for
commencement of legal action shall not exceed four years except that the period
shall be tolled during the time that any of the following exist:
(1) The plaintiff has not sustained actual injury.
(2)
The attorney continues to represent the plaintiff regarding the specific
subject matter in which the alleged wrongful act or omission occurred.
(3)
The attorney willfully conceals the facts constituting the wrongful act or
omission when those facts are known to the attorney, except that this
subdivision shall toll only the four-year limitation.
(4)
The plaintiff is under a legal or physical disability that restricts the
plaintiff's ability to commence legal action.
(5)
A dispute between the lawyer and client concerning fees, costs, or both is
pending resolution under Article 13 (commencing with Section 6200) of Chapter 4
of Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code. …
(b)
In an action based upon an instrument in writing, the effective date of which
depends upon some act or event of the future, the period of limitations
provided for by this section shall commence to run upon the occurrence of that
act or event.
(CCP
§ 340.6.)  
            Zimmerman argues that the FAC
alleges facts that Plaintiff was involved in several lawsuits in 2020 and 2021
and that Defendants abandoned him in 2021 and 2022.  (FAC, ¶¶24, 26.)  He argues that the only case in which he had
a meaningful connection was in Case No. 20CHCV00262, wherein Plaintiff began
representing himself in October 2021. 
(Dem. at pp.4-5.)  (The Court
notes that Zimmerman refers to a request for judicial notice, but no request
for judicial notice document was filed to accompany the demurrer to the FAC
papers.)  
However, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
collectively were involved in each of his 7 cases and that they abandoned him
or committed malpractice in each of the cases. 
Plaintiff alleges that he met with Zimmerman and Reyes several times in
2021 and 2022 and that Defendants (Zimmerman and Reyes most often) would tell
Plaintiff they were working on his cases and there was nothing Plaintiff needed
to do.  (Id., ¶¶28-29.)  Plaintiff alleges that he reasonably relied
on his legal counsel’s statements and assurances that they never missed
hearings or failed to tell him about judgments entered against him.  (Id., ¶¶30-31.)  Plaintiff also alleges facts that he learned
in late-2023 that he could search for court cases online, wherein he discovered
that there were missed trials, missed hearings, sanctions, and legal
malpractice by Defendants.  (Id.,
¶¶32-34.)  The Court also notes that
several of the cases include case numbers beginning in “23-“, which indicates
that they were filed in the year 2023.  
At the pleading stage and taking the
allegations as true, the Court finds that the FAC sufficiently alleges facts
showing that Plaintiff discovered the facts regarding Defendant’s alleged
malpractice in late 2023.  This action
was initially filed on January 3, 2024.  Further,
Plaintiff has alleged facts that Defendants concealed the status of his cases
and reassured him that his cases were being handled.  Taking the truth of the allegations at the
pleading stage, the Court finds that the allegations are sufficient to allege
claims within the statute of limitations period.  “In order for the bar of the statute of
limitations to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively
appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows
merely that the action may be barred.”  (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Services (2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315-16.)  
The demurrer on the basis of the statute
of limitations is overruled.  

1st cause of action
     for Negligence

The elements of a negligence cause of
action are “duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.”  (Carlsen
v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 892.)  In a legal malpractice action arising from a civil proceeding,
the elements are (1) the duty of the attorney to use
such skill, prudence, and diligence as a member of his or her profession
commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty;
(3) proximate causal connection between the breach and
the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or
damage resulting from the attorney's negligence.”  (Jones v. Whisenand (2017)
8 Cal.App.5th 543, 550.)  “Proof of legal
malpractice requires proof not only of negligence by the lawyer but also of
causation, a trial within a trial to establish that, but for the lawyer's
negligence, the client would have prevailed in the underlying action.”  (United Community Church v. Garcin (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 327, 334.)  
In the 1st cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges that he was Defendants’ client and that by virtue of the
attorney-client relationship, Defendants owed him a duty to act with the utmost
good faith and in his best interest.  (FAC,
¶39.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
grossly failed to meet the standards of care when representing him in the 7
underlying cases and thereby breached their duty to Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶¶40-41.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants caused the
losses and injuries by their abandonment of the cases in which they represented
Plaintiff and but-for Defendants’ failures to act, Plaintiff would not have
suffered damages in excess of $850,000. 
(Id., ¶¶42-43.)  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants’ negligence was a deviation from the regular standard of
care and their acts/omissions fell below the standard of care for comparable
attorneys who practice in the community. 
(Id., ¶¶44-45.) 
Zimmerman argues that Plaintiff has not
sufficiently alleged causation as the FAC mischaracterizes the underlying
litigation matters.  Namely, Zimmerman
argues that in the only action he was actively involved in (20CHCV00262),
Plaintiff represented himself, which caused the case to be abandoned.  As to the remaining cases, Zimmerman argues
that he was not involved in those actions, but rather Reyes was involved as
counsel.  (Dem. at pp.8-10.)  Again, these arguments rely largely in part
on Zimmerman’s request for judicial notice, but no request for judicial notice
was filed with the demurrer papers.  Even
if the Court were to take judicial notice of the documents, the Court would
only take judicial notice of the existence of the documents, but not for the
truths of the matters asserted therein. 
Thus, although Zimmerman argues that the judicially noticeable documents
may show a certain record of Plaintiff representing himself in propria persona
or that certain records show that Zimmerman’s name was not included in captions
or court orders, the Court will not take the truths of those matters asserted
in a vacuum.  These matters are better
left for the summary judgment or trial stage where such contentions and
evidence may be substantiated or opposed/disputed.  
In the prior ruling on the demurrer, the
Court sustained the demurrer to the 1st cause of action in the
complaint, stating that Plaintiff failed to allege sufficient facts regarding
causation that Plaintiff would have prevailed in the underlying actions or in
the defense of the underlying actions.  Plaintiff
has done so now with his additional “but-for” allegations in paragraph 40.  For example, Plaintiff has alleged fact that
but-for Defendants’ negligence and inaction in Case No. 23CHCV00863, Plaintiff
would have prevailed in the matter and not been forced to incur legal fees,
costs, and delay in stating and protecting his rights.  (FAC, ¶40 at 10:21-27.)  He alleges that Defendants caused his loss
and injuries by abandoning Plaintiff and that but for their failures to act, he
would not have been injured in an amount over $850,000.  (Id., ¶¶42-43.)  
The Court finds these allegations
sufficient to support negligence/legal malpractice.  The demurrer to the 1st cause of
action is overruled.  

2nd cause of action
     for Breach of Oral Contract

The essential elements of a cause of
action for breach of contract are: “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and
(4) the resulting damages to plaintiff.” 
(Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) “An oral contract may be pleaded generally as to
its effect, because it is rarely possible to allege the exact words.”  (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
Zimmerman argues that the FAC does not
allege that Plaintiff made an offer to Zimmerman to represent Plaintiff in the
underlying action, or that Zimmerman accepted the offer.  Zimmerman also argues that the FAC alleges
oral contracts or a single oral contract, as well as facts that Plaintiff
entered into the oral contract for himself and several businesses, but the
businesses have not been included as parties to the action.  
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that he
hired and retained ABA, he entered into a contract for legal services with ABA
to represent himself and several businesses he owns (Mammo Enterprises LLC and
others), and ABA assigned Reyes and Zimmerman to work as lead counsel on
Plaintiff’s cases.  (FAC, ¶¶2, 25.)  In the 2nd cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants entered into oral contracts (plural) during
in-person meetings in 2020 to represent Plaintiff in the 7 matters.  (FAC, ¶49.) 
Plaintiff alleges that the material terms of the contract (singular) were
that Defendants would legally represent Plaintiff in the pending legal matters
and Plaintiff would pay them at a rate of $400/hour billed periodically or
monthly.  (Id.)  He alleges that as new lawsuits arose, they
were added to the representation agreement/contract between the parties. (Id.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to
fulfill their contractual obligations to represent Plaintiff, and that
Plaintiff fulfilled his contractual duties by paying them.  (Id., ¶50.)  
Here, the allegations are somewhat unclear
whether there was only a single oral contract or multiple oral contracts.  In addition, the FAC does not allege whether
ABA (and its attorneys, Reyes and Zimmerman) agreed to represent Plaintiff and
his entities, or just Plaintiff himself. 
Plaintiff should allege further facts regarding the nature of the
contract(s) and the terms.  
As such, the demurrer to the 2nd
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 

3rd cause of action
     for Breach of Fiduciary Duty  

The caption of the FAC states
that the 3rd cause of action is for negligence – legal malpractice,
but the body of the FAC states that the 3rd cause of action is for
breach of fiduciary duty.  (See FAC at
pp. 1, 14.)  
To state a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiff must allege: (1) the existence of a
fiduciary relationship; (2) its breach; and (3) damage proximately caused by
that breach.  (Roberts v. Lomanto (2003) 112 Cal. App. 4th 1553, 1562.)  A fiduciary relationship is any relation
existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is in duty
bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other
party.  (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003)
106 Cal.App.4th 625, 629.)  “The relation
between attorney and client is a fiduciary relation of the very highest
character, and binds the attorney to most conscientious fidelity ....”  (Pierce v. Lyman (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th
1093, 1102.)  The basic fiduciary
obligations include undivided loyalty and confidentiality. (Id.)  Such fiduciary duty includes the obligation
to render a full and fair disclosure to the client of all facts which
materially affect his rights and interests. 
(Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971)
6 Cal.3d 176, 188-189.)  
In the 3rd cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that
all Defendants had an attorney-client relationship with Plaintiff and they each
owed him a fiduciary duty to act with the utmost good faith and in his best
interests and legal representation – a duty which they breached by failing to
represent him, abandoning his legal matters, and making false and willfully
misleading statements to Plaintiff.  (FAC, ¶53.) 
He alleges that these actions fell below the fiduciary duty owed under
the attorney-client relationship to Plaintiff. 
(Id.)  Plaintiff alleges that the attorneys and
employees of ABA failed to follow the common standards of care which a
reasonable attorney or staff member would have undertaken.  (Id., ¶54.) 

Zimmerman argues that a breach of
fiduciary duty claim in the attorney-client context will only lie where an
attorney converts his client’s business opportunities, obtains an unfair
advantage at his client’s expense, or has a conflict of interest.  (Dem. at p.14.)  He argues that Plaintiff’s allegations that
ABA and its attorneys/staff failed to follow the common standards of care that
a reasonable attorney would have undertaken (FAC, ¶54) only supports
negligence.  
There may be some overlap between
a breach of fiduciary duty and negligence claim, given the elements of each of
these causes of action, and this in itself will not render a breach of
fiduciary duty cause of action as duplicative of a negligence cause of
action.  However, here, Plaintiff has not
alleged facts that are distinct from the legal malpractice cause of
action.  The only factual difference is
that Plaintiff has alleged that he had an attorney-client relationship with Defendants
that was the basis of the fiduciary duty. 
Further facts should be alleged to support the nature of the fiduciary relationship
and how Defendants (and Zimmerman) breached that duty.   
The demurrer to the 3rd
cause of action is sustained
with leave to amend.   
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Kurt
Zimmerman’s demurrer to the FAC is overruled as to the 1st cause of
action.  The demurrer is sustained with
20 days leave to amend as to the 2nd and 3rd causes of
action. 
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: 
September 20, 2024                                   ___________________________
                                                                              F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                              Superior
Court of California
                                                                              County
of Los Angeles   
 