 Case Number:  22BBCV00498    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
Nelson
  Hernandez, et al.,

                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
To your home
  delivery, inc., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22BBCV00498
 
  Hearing Date:  September 20, 2024 (cont. from September 6,
  2024) 
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Motion to amend the dismissal or, in the
  alternative, set aside dismissal and reinstate case and motion for order for
  entry of judgment pursuant to signed stipulation of parties
 



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument is requested and any party seeking argument
should notify all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day
before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling
of the court if no argument is received.  

 
Notice may be
given either by email at BurDeptB@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8422.
 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Nelson Hernandez and Gonzalo
Perez (“Plaintiffs”) allege that Defendant To Your Home Delivery, Inc. (“Home
Delivery”) is a delivery and logistics company that is owned and/or managed by
Defendant Ena Erazo Tubbs (“Tubbs”).  Plaintiffs
allege that they were hired by Defendants as drivers and that Defendants were
subjected to policies and practices that violated their wage and hour rights
under the Labor Code and the Industrial Welfare Commission Wage Orders.   
            The complaint, filed July 8, 2022,
alleges causes of action for: (1) failure to pay overtime wages; (2) failure to
pay minimum wages; (3) failure to provide meal periods; (4) failure to provide
rest breaks; (5) failure to provide accurate itemized wage statements; (6)
failure to pay all wages at termination; (7) failure to reimburse business
expenses; (8) unfair business practices (Bus. & Profs. Code, § 17200, et
seq.); (9) retaliation in violation of Labor Code, § 1102.5; and (10) wrongful
termination.   
B.    
Relevant Background and Motion on Calendar 
On October 9,
2023, the Court entered the Stipulation and Order re Retention of Jurisdiction
pursuant to CCP § 664.6.  The parties
jointly stipulated that Plaintiffs and Defendants reached a settlement and that
they requested that the Court retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce
the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement
pursuant to CCP § 664.6, even after dismissal of the matter.  The parties signed the agreement on September
26 and 27, 2023.  The Court entered the
order on October 9, 2023.  
            On October 10, 2023, the entire
action of all parties and all causes of action was dismissed with
prejudice.  
On July 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
motion to amend the dismissal or, in the alternative to vacate the dismissal,
reinstate the case, and for entry of judgment pursuant to the signed
stipulation of the parties.  The Court is
not in receipt of an opposition brief.  
The matter initially came for hearing on
September 6, 2024.  The Court continued
the hearing to September 20, 2024 and ordered Plaintiffs to file the
declaration of John F. Litwin, including information about the balance due and
owing on the Settlement Agreement, by the end of the business day on September
9, 2024.  
On September 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the
declaration of John F. Litwin in support of the motion.  
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs move to set aside the dismissal entered on
October 10, 2023, have the case reinstated, and for entry of judgment against
Defendants pursuant to the signed Stipulation for Entry of Judgment.  
            Plaintiffs provide the parties’
Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release, which was fully executed on September
27, 2023.  (Mot., Ex. A [Settlement
Agreement].)  The Settlement Agreement
states that Defendants, jointly and severally, shall pay Plaintiffs the sum of
$40,000.12 payable in certain installments. 
(Settlement Agreement, § 2.1.)  The
parties agreed that concurrently with executing the Settlement Agreement, they
will also execute a Stipulation for Entry of Judgment in favor of Plaintiffs
and against Defendants in the amount of $60,000, plus interest at the legal
rate, less any amounts paid pursuant to paragraph 2.  (Id., §3.)  Upon default by Defendants, Plaintiffs shall
give notice of the default and to cure the default within 30 days, but if the
default is not cured, then Plaintiffs may request judgment to be entered
pursuant to the Stipulation without further notice or delay.  (Id., §4.)  The Stipulation for Entry of Judgment
(“Stipulation”) is attached as Exhibit B to the motion and is executed by the
parties.  (Mot., Ex. B [Stipulation].)
Plaintiffs provide
the declaration of counsel John F. Litwin in support of the motion.  Mr. Litwin states that Defendants failed to
make payments as agreed under the Settlement Agreement.  (Litwin Decl., ¶¶2, 4, Ex. A.)  Thus, Plaintiffs seek entry of the stipulated
judgment in the amount of $60,000.  (Id.,
¶2, Ex. B.)  Plaintiffs acknowledge that
they made a clerical error in their request for dismissal by failing to check
the “Other” box to indicate that the Court had retained jurisdiction, such that
the clerk rejected Plaintiffs’ attempt to file the stipulated judgment on March
20, 2024.  However, Plaintiffs requested
that the Court retain jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to CCP § 664.6,
which the Court entered on October 9, 2023, before the dismissal was entered on
October 10, 2024.  Thus, the Court agreed
to retain jurisdiction of this matter following dismissal and will enter the
relief requested by Plaintiffs.  
Mr. Litwin states
that based on the full execution of the Settlement Agreement, full payment of
the settlement was due on or before January 25, 2024.  (Id., ¶7.)  He states that when no payment was
forthcoming, and after giving several opportunities to Defendants to cure their
breach, he provided defense counsel with formal notice of Defendants’ breach of
the agreement and Plaintiffs’ intent to file the Stipulated Judgment.  (Id., ¶7, Ex. D.)  Mr. Litwin states that to date, Defendants
have failed to make any payments as agreed such that Plaintiffs now seek entry
of the Stipulated Judgment.  (Id.,
¶8.)  
Based on the terms
of the Settlement Agreement and Defendants’ default by failure to make any
payments pursuant to the payment schedule, the Court finds there is substantive
merit to granting the motion to enforce the Settlement Agreement and enter the
Stipulated Judgment.  
Thus, the motion
to vacate the dismissal and enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the
Stipulation is granted.
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER

Plaintiffs Nelson
Hernandez and Gonzalo Perez’s motion to set aside the dismissal and enter
judgment pursuant to the Stipulation for Entry of Judgment is granted in the
amount of $60,000.  Counsel for plaintiff
must electronically submit the judgment within 10 days.
Plaintiffs shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
DATED: September 20, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                                          Superior
Court of California
                                                                                          County
of Los Angeles   