Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23AHCV01374
Plaintiff's Name: Stephany Garcia, Victor Canales
Defendant's Name: Jesus Diaz, Jade Gardens, LLC
People-Names: Stephany Garcia, Victor Canales, Jesus Diaz
Company-Names: Jade Gardens, LLC, LBPM
Places: Alhambra, CA, 109 S. Almansor Street, Apartment 18
Dates: June 15, 2023, February 8, 2024, March 14, 2024, June 20, 2024, June 25, 2024
Events: Filing of Complaint, Filing of Answer, Motion to Strike Answer
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiffs intend to strike the Answer filed by Defendants
Facts: Plaintiffs are tenants of a residential property, and during their tenancy, they were exposed to substandard living conditions. The Complaint is verified, but the Answer is not.
Disputes: Plaintiffs dispute the sufficiency of the Answer
Acts: Filing of Complaint, Filing of Answer, Filing of Motion to Strike Answer
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code
Case Citations: Code Civ. Proc., ยง 435, subd. (b)(1), Code Civ. Proc., ยง 436, subds. (a)-(b), Code Civ. Proc., ยง 435.5, subd. (a)
Statutes: California Civil Code section 1942.4, Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq., Consumer Legal Remedies Act, California Civil Code section 1750, et seq.
Roles: Judge Joel L. Lofton, Plaintiffs, Defendants
Significant Statements: "The Motion to Strike is GRANTED, with leave to amend. Defendants Jesus Diaz and Jade Gardens, LLC are ordered to file and serve their First Amended Answer within 30 days of this ruling."
```

And here is the summary in English text:

This is a tentative ruling by Judge Joel L. Lofton in a case between Plaintiffs Stephany Garcia and Victor Canales, and Defendants Jesus Diaz and Jade Gardens, LLC. The case involves disputes over substandard living conditions in a residential property, and the Plaintiffs are seeking to strike the Answer filed by the Defendants. The Judge rules that the Motion to Strike is granted, with leave to amend, and orders the Defendants to file and serve their First Amended Answer within 30 days. The ruling is based on the fact that the Answer is not verified, and fails to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 431.30, subdivision (d).