  Case Number:  22STCV25856    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant City of Los Angeles’s Motion to
Quash Depositions of LAPD Chief Moore and Assistant Inspector General Sibley,
or in the Alternative Motion for a Protective Order
            Defendant City of Los Angeles move
to quash the depositions of (now former) Chief of Police Michel Moore and
Assistant Inspector General Django Sibley. 
In the alternative, defendant moves for a protective order prohibiting
their depositions.  
I. Apex
Witness Rule 
Defendant
relies on the “apex witness” rule.  Generally,
“ ‘agency heads and other top governmental executives are not subject to
deposition absent compelling reasons.’ 
[Citation.]  ‘The general rule is
based upon the recognition that “... an official’s time and the exigencies of
his everyday business would be severely impeded if every plaintiff filing a
complaint against an agency head, in his official capacity, were allowed to
take his oral deposition.  Such procedure
would be contrary to the public interest, plus the fact that ordinarily the
head of an agency has little or no knowledge of the facts of the case.” ’
”  (Contractors’ State License Bd. v.
Superior Court (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 125, 131 (CSLB).)  “This rule has been applied in numerous cases
involving an array of constitutional officers, board members, and agency heads.”  (Ibid.)  
This
doctrine requires a threshold showing that the deponent is a high governmental
official.  “As an initial matter, an
individual objecting to a deposition must first demonstrate he ‘is sufficiently
“high-ranking” to invoke the deposition privilege.’ ”  (Estate of Levingston v. County of Kern
(E.D. Cal. 2017) 320 F.R.D. 520, 525.)  
A. Michel
Moore
Defendant
does not show Michel Moore is a sufficiently high governmental official.  When defendant filed this motion, Moore was
the Chief of Police of the Los Angeles Police Department.  It is undisputed that he has since retired
from that position.  
Federal
district courts have reached different decisions on whether the apex witness
rule applies to former high governmental officials.  (See U.S. v. Sensient Colors, Inc. (D.N.J. 2009) 649 F.Supp.2d 309, 316-318
[discussing split authority].)  There is,
however, binding authority that the rule applies in the other direction: to
officials who ascend the ranks of government. 
“The rule prohibiting the deposition of agency heads and other highly
placed public officials is grounded on the concern that such proceedings will
consume the officials’ time and hamper them in the conduct of government
business.”  (CSLB, supra, 23
Cal.App.5th at p. 133.)  “This concern is
present whether the official gained the information sought while in his or her
present position or while serving in prior, lower ranking positions at the
agency.”  (Ibid.)  “[T]he mere fact that a party seeks
information acquired before the official assumed the position of agency head
does not render the deposition any less time-consuming or disruptive of
government business.”  (Ibid.) 
This reasoning applies equally to a former high
governmental official.  Though a witness
acquired information while serving as a high official, deposing the witness
after retirement does not disrupt government business.  The purpose underlying the apex deposition
rule does not apply to former Chief of Police Michel Moore.  Nothing in the record shows he currently has
any official duties or conducts government business.  
B. Assistant
Inspector General Django Sibley
            Defendant does not show Sibley is a sufficiently
high governmental official to invoke the apex witness rule.  He is “an Assistant Inspector General
for the Los Angeles Police Department.” 
(Sibley Decl., ¶ 1, italics added.) 
In other words, he is not the only Assistant Inspector General.  “The Inspector General of the LAPD is Mark P.
Smith.”  (Ibid.)  The “Office of the Inspector General” is not
itself a part of the LAPD, but an “independent entity” that provides “civilian
oversight.”  (Ouchi Decl., ¶ 16, Ex. 1.)  The office’s website states, “The OIG
supports the Board of Police Commissioners (BOPC) – a five-member civilian
panel that acts as the head of the” LAPD. 
(Ouchi Decl., Ex. 1.)  “The
position of Inspector General reports directly to the BOPC.”  (Ibid.)  
Sibley thus
is one of the officers at the second highest rank of an office that reports to
the Board of Police Commissioners, which acts as the head of one of the City’s
departments.  That position is not high
enough for the apex deposition rule.  Being
one of multiple Assistant Inspector Generals for the Office of the Inspector
General is a far lower position than, for example, the “State Controller and
Attorney General” (CSLB, supra, 23 Cal.App.5th at p. 131), the Director
of a State agency (ibid.), or “the ‘executive officer and secretary of
the [Contractors’ State License] board.’ ” 
(Id. at p. 132.)  Sibley’s
position is also substantially lower than a sheriff, who is “ ‘the highest
ranking peace officer agency government official in’ ” the County (Estate of
Levingston v. County of Kern, supra, 320 F.R.D. at p. 526), or a County’s
district attorney (Ross v. Superior Court of Riverside County (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 667, 680).    
II. Privilege
            Defendant also argues the court
should issue a protective order based on the deliberative process privilege or
“mental process doctrine.”  
A.
Deliberative Process Privilege
Defendant
fails to show the deliberative process privilege applies.  “ ‘Under the deliberative process privilege,
senior officials of all three branches of government enjoy a qualified, limited
privilege not to disclose or to be examined concerning not only the mental
processes by which a given decision was reached, but the substance of
conversations, discussions, debates, deliberations and like materials
reflecting advice, opinions, and recommendations by which government policy is
processed and formulated.’ ”  (Citizens
for Open Government v. City of Lodi (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 296, 305 (Citizens).)  
“ ‘Not
every disclosure which hampers the deliberative process implicates the
deliberative process privilege.  Only if
the public interest in nondisclosure clearly outweighs the public interest in
disclosure does the deliberative process privilege spring into existence.  The burden is on the [one claiming the
privilege] to establish the conditions for creation of the privilege.’ ”  (Citizens, supra, at p. 306.)  “The key question in every case is whether
the disclosure of materials would expose an agency’s decisionmaking process in
such a way as to discourage candid discussion within the agency and thereby
undermine the agency’s ability to perform its functions.”  (Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior
Court of Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1040, internal quotes
omitted.)
Defendant
does not establish that the public interest in nondisclosure clearly outweighs
the public interest in disclosure.  Rather
than addressing the public interest in disclosure, defendant argues about
plaintiff’s private interest in disclosure: “The need for maintaining the confidence of those deliberations and
discussions plainly outweigh Plaintiff’s need, which appears to be simply a
desire to question two more persons about matters covered by other witnesses
and contained in responses to discovery requests.”  (Motion, p. 11.)  Regardless of plaintiff’s need for these
depositions, the public has a substantial interest in the government’s
decisions regarding police officers’ use of force.  
As in Citizens,
defendant’s argument amounts to “simply a policy statement about why the
privilege in general is necessary.”  (Citizens,
supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at p. 307.) 
“[I]nvoking the policy is not sufficient to explain the public’s
specific interest in nondisclosure of the documents in this case.  That policy could apply to almost any
decisionmaking process.  The city
therefore failed to carry its burden to explain what the public’s specific
interest in nondisclosure was in this case.”  (Ibid.)
Moreover,
persuasive authority states, “The ‘deliberative process’ privilege, closely
related to the self-critical analysis privilege, is also inappropriate for use
in civil rights cases against police departments.  The deliberative process privilege should be
invoked only in the context of communications designed to directly contribute
to the formulation of important public policy.” 
(Soto v. City of Concord (N.D. Cal. 1995) 162 F.R.D. 603, 612.)  
B. Mental
Process
Finally, defendant
does not establish any “mental process doctrine” or “mental process privilege”
applies.  Defendant’s papers cite two
cases in support of its arguments on this subject.  First, County of Los Angeles v. Superior
Court (1975) 13 Cal.3d 721, 723 applied “a long-standing legal principle
precluding judicial inquiry into the motivation or mental processes of
legislators in enacting legislation.”  Moore
and Sibley are not legislators, and plaintiff is not inquiring into their
motive in enacting legislation.  Second,
in Times Mirror Co. v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 1325, 1343, the
California Supreme Court considered disclosure of “the Governor’s judgment and
mental processes” as part of the “intrusion into the deliberative process.”  Assuming the existence of a “mental process
doctrine” or “mental process privilege” separate from the deliberative process
privilege, defendant does not establish it applies here for the same reasons as
the deliberative process privilege.
Disposition
Defendant
City of Los Angeles’s motion to quash the depositions of (former) LAPD Chief
Moore and Assistant Inspector General Sibley, or in the alternative, motion for
a protective order, is denied.