 Case Number:  23TCV01856    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LONNIE
  LEE GIPSON, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01856




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULINGS
1.
  Demurrer, 2. Motion to Strike, and 3. Motion to be Relieved as Counsel 
 




 
TORRANCE
  CARE CENTER WEST, INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 18,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Torrance Care Center West, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Lonnie Lee Gipson and Betty Gipson
(1)  
Demurrer
(2)  
Motion to Strike
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
RULING
            The demurrer to the First, Second, and
Fourth Causes of Action in the complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.  The motion to strike is DENIED
and is moot in light of the ruling on the demurrer.
BACKGROUND
On June 13, 2023, Lonnie Lee Gipson
and Betty Gipson, ind. and as guardian ad litem of Lonnie Lee Gipson, filed a
complaint against Torrance Care Center West, Inc. for (1) statutory elder
abuse/neglect, (2) violation of Patient’s Bill of Rights and Health and Safety
Codes, (3) negligence, and (4) unfair business practices. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant Torrance Care Center
West, Inc. demurs to the First, Second and Fourth Causes of Action on the
grounds that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action and are uncertain.
First Cause of Action for elder
abuse/neglect
The complaint alleges that Lonnie
was and is an “elder” within the meaning of Welf. & Inst. Code §15610.23
and was recklessly neglected and abused by defendants.  Defendants violated Welf. & Inst. Code §15610,
et seq. by their neglect, physical abuse, and other treatment, or lack thereof,
with resulting physical harm and pain or mental suffering, and the deprivation
by a care custodian of goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical
harm or mental suffering.  Id., ¶20.  Defendants violated Welf. & Inst. Code §15610.57.  They were responsible for the care and
custody of Lonnie yet failed to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable
person in a like position would exercise, to discharge their statutory and
legal duties toward Lonnie.  The neglect,
improper treatment and lack of treatment was in violation of multiple statutes
and regulations including 22 Code of Regs. 72311, 72315, 72329, 72515(b), and
72527(a)(10).  Id., ¶21.  Defendants recklessly and oppressively
neglected and abused Lonnie, when they neglected him and otherwise deprived him
of goods or services that were necessary to avoid falls, physical harm, and
mental suffering.  Id., ¶22.  Defendants acted with recklessness,
oppression, fraud, and/or malice in the commission of this abuse.  Id., ¶23.
In order to state a cause of action
under the Elder Abuse Act, “a plaintiff must allege conduct essentially
equivalent to conduct that would support recovery of punitive damages.” Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal. 4th 771, 789.   
“[T]he facts constituting the
neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury
‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance with the pleading rules
governing statutory claims.”  Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 396, 407
(citing Covenant Care). 
“Allegations of misconduct directed against one defendant . . . do not
state a cause of action against another defendant against whom the allegations
of misconduct are not directed.”  Id.
at 410 (citation omitted).  “[W]hen a
plaintiff asserts a claim against a health care provider on a legal theory
other than professional negligence, courts must determine whether the claim is
nonetheless based on the health care provider’s professional negligence.”  Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc.
(2014) 230 Cal. App. 4th 336, 347 (citation omitted).  Citing to the content of the definition of
“neglect” in Welf. and Inst. Code §15610.57(b), the Supreme Court stated,
“[w]hat they each seem to contemplate is the existence of a robust caretaking
or custodial relationship—that is, a relationship where a certain party has
assumed a significant measure of responsibility for attending to one or more of
an elder’s basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult would
ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.”  Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc.
(2016) 63 Cal. 4th 148, 58.  “What seems
beyond doubt is that the Legislature enacted a scheme distinguishing between –
and decidedly not lumping together – claims of professional negligence and
neglect.”  Id. at 159.
Defendants argue that this
statutory claim has not been plead with the requisite specificity and particularity.  Defendant further contends that plaintiff
fails to plead facts to show recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice.  Defendant also asserts that the allegations
do not show involvement of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporate defendant.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that the allegations are sufficient.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to constitute a cause of action for elder abuse.  The allegations are conclusory and not plead
with the requisite particularity and do not support reckless neglect.  The allegations as to corporate ratification
are also insufficient. 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the First Cause of Action.
 
Second Cause of Action for
violation of Patient’s Bill of Rights and Health and Safety Codes
The complaint alleges that defendants
violated and continue to violate the resident’s bill of rights and Health and
Safety Codes “in failing to properly care for dependent elder adult [Deceased]
as detailed above.”  Complaint, ¶32.  
Defendant argues that the
allegations are conclusory and factually devoid of allegations as to any of the
26 specific rights under the Patient’s Bill of Rights.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that the allegations are sufficient.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient.  They are
conclusory and are not plead with the requisite particularity.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the Second Cause of Action.
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action for unfair business practices
The purpose of the Unfair Business
Practices Act (Bus. & Prof. Code §17000, et. seq.) is to “safeguard the
public against the creation or perpetuation of monopolies and to foster and
encourage competition, by prohibiting unfair, dishonest, deceptive,
destructive, fraudulent and discriminatory practices by which fair and honest
competition is destroyed or prevented.” 
Bus. & Prof. Code §17001.  The
Unfair Business Practices Act shall include “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business act or practice.”  Bus. &
Prof. Code §17200.  The Unfair Business
Practices Act is a tool with which to enjoin deceptive or sharp practices.  Samura v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
Inc. (1993) 17 Cal. App. 4th 1284, 1299, fn. 6.  A plaintiff alleging unfair business
practices under these statutes must state with reasonable particularity the
facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.  Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th 612, 619.   
The complaint alleges “[a]s set
forth above,” defendant engaged in unlawful and unfair business acts in
violation of the Elder Abuse Act. 
Complaint, ¶46.
The court finds that the allegations
are insufficient and conclusory, and plaintiffs have not alleged with
particularity.  Plaintiffs do not allege
sufficiently conduct that violated the UCL. 
The allegations do not show unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent conduct.  Further, this cause of action relies upon an
alleged violation of the Elder Abuse Act, but as stated under the First Cause
of Action, the allegations are insufficient to state a claim for elder abuse
and neglect.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the Fourth Cause of Action.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant requests that the court
strike the First, Second, Third and Fourth Causes of Action and paras. 16, 20,
21, 22, 25, 26, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 39, 46, 48, 49, and prayer for
attorney’s fees, punitive damages, and damages.
Confusingly, defendant refers to
the “death of plaintiff, Virginia Gipson,” who is not a party to the herein
action and to an FAC, of which one has not been filed.  Defendant also refers to a cause of action
that is not at issue (wrongful death).
As such, it appears that defense
counsel filed an opposition to a different case.
The motion is thus DENIED and is
moot in light of the ruling on the demurrer.
ORDER
The demurrer to the First Second
and Fourth Causes of Action in the complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.
The motion to strike is DENIED and
is MOOT in light of the ruling on the demurrer.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.
 
_______________________________
MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Leslie A. Blozan,
Esq., for plaintiffs Lonnie Lee Gipson and Betty Gipson
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion to be relieved as
counsel is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
There is no proof of service of the motion.
BACKGROUND
On June 13, 2023, Lonnie Lee Gipson
and Betty Gipson, ind. and as guardian ad litem of Lonnie Lee Gipson, filed a
complaint against Torrance Care Center West, Inc. for (1) statutory elder
abuse/neglect, (2) violation of Patient’s Bill of Rights and Health and Safety
Codes, (3) negligence, and (4) unfair business practices.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).