  Case Number:  23TCV00066    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ZULA
  TUCKER LIVING TRUST, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00066




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 18,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant County of Los Angeles
Responding
Party:                  None
Demurrer
 
            The court considered the moving papers.

RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
            On January 9, 2023, plaintiff Zula
Tucker Living Trust, Fred Tucker, trustee (self-represented) filed a complaint
against County of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles Board of Supervisor, and
County of Los Angeles Tax Assessor for breach of contract. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant County of Los Angeles
demurs to the First Cause of Action for breach of contract on the grounds that
it fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action, including
that plaintiff failed to allege exhaustion of the statutorily prescribed
administrative remedy or payment of taxes due prior to filing the action, is
uncertain, and that there is an adequate remedy at law in a tax refund action.
The complaint alleges that Proposition
13 requires assessment of each taxable property based on its fair market value
and limits a property owner’s general levy tax to 1% of the assessed
value.  On February 27, 2017, defendants
breached the agreement by illegally assessing and/or levying on the property
located at 1232 Via Landeta, Palos Verdes Estates, in disregard of Proposition
58 and Rev. & Tax Code §62(a)(1)(2)(b). 
Plaintiff suffered damages legally caused by defendants’ breach of the
agreement as follows:  property tax
increase in the amount of over $10,000. 
Complaint, ¶¶BC-1-BC-4. 
            Exhaustion
of administrative remedy
Defendant County argues that the
filing of the complaint is procedurally improper because plaintiff has failed
to allege that he exhausted the administrative remedy under the Revenue &
Tax Code.  
The Legislature has established a
three-step process in the Revenue & Tax Code for reducing tax assessments
and for handling challenges and refund requests:  the first step is the filing of an
application for assessment reduction under Rev. & Tax Code §1603; the
second step, which occurs after payment of the tax, is the filing of a timely
administrative refund claim under Rev. & Tax Code §5097(a); the third step
is the process of filing an action in superior court under Rev. & Tax Code §5140,
which provides that a person who paid the property tax may bring an action in
superior court “against a county . . . to recover a tax which the board of
supervisors of the county . . . has refused to refund on a claim filed pursuant
to Article 1 (commencing with Section 5096) of this chapter.”  A court action may not “be commenced or
maintained . . . unless a claim for refund has first been filed pursuant to
Article 1 (commencing with Section 5096).” Rev. & Tax Code §5142(a).  See also Williams & Fickett v. County
of Fresno (2017) 2 Cal. 5th 1258, 1271-73 (reiterating the
requirement that a party follow the steps above before filing suit.).  
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient because plaintiff has not alleged that he
exhausted his administrative remedy under the Rev. & Tax Code and is thus
barred from filing a complaint.
            First
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract 
Defendant contends that the
Legislature had determined that an action for refund filed in superior court is
the sole legal remedy for illegally assessed property taxes pursuant to Rev.
& Taxation Code §5140.  Further,
defendant argues, Proposition13, a constitutional provision, is not a contract
that the County is capable of breaching. 
Defendant also argues that Rev. & Tax Code §4807 prohibits a cause
of action for breach of contract.  That
section states:  “No injunction or writ
of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action,
or proceeding in any court against any county, municipality, or district, or
any officer thereof, to prevent or enjoin the collection of property taxes
sought to be collected.”
The court finds that for the
reasons stated by defendant, a cause of action for breach of contract is barred
as a matter of law.
Plaintiff did not file an
opposition as to how he can amend.
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
ORDER
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of ruling and shall submit a form of judgment.