  Case Number:  24TRCV01003    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
OLIVER
  GRIFFEN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
24TRCV01003




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted




 
DOTY
  BROTHERS EQUIPMENT CO.; SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GAS COMPANY; CITY OF EL SEGUNDO; COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES; STATE OF CALIFORNIA; and DOES 1 to 25,
Inclusive


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              September
26, 2024
 
Moving Parties:          Defendant Southern California Gas
Company 
 
Responding Party:      Plaintiff Oliver Griffen
 
HEARING: Motion to
Strike Punitive Damages
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 
RULING
The motion is GRANTED with leave to
amend.
 
BACKGROUND
            On March 28, 2022, Plaintiff Oliver
Griffen was driving on El Segundo Boulevard when his truck went over a loose
metal plate. The plate rose up and hit the truck's rear air brake, causing the
brakes to fail.
            On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the Complaint alleging causes of action for negligence and premises liability
against Doty Brothers Equipment Co, Southern California Gas Company, the City
of El Segundo, the County of Los Angeles, and the State of California.
             On May 1, 2024, Defendant Southern
California Gas Company filed the instant Motion to Strike
            On September 13, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the Opposition to the instant motion. 
            On September 19, 2024, Defendant
filed the Reply to the Opposition.
            
LEGAL STANDARD
            The court may, upon a
motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436 subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436 subd. (b).) The
grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or
improper matter or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
            California Civil Code
section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases
where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ.
Code § 3294 subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294 subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civ. Code § 3294 subd. (c)(2).)
“Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant
of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury. (Civ. Code § 3294 subd. (c)(3).)  
            Punitive damages thus
require more than the mere commission of a tort. (See Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95.) Specific facts must be pleaded in
support of punitive damages. (See Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148
Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92.)    
DISCUSSION 
            Defendant
requests that Plaintiff's request for punitive damages be struck from the
Complaint because Plaintiff has not alleged and cannot allege facts supporting
a claim for punitive damages. Furthermore,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to identify any representative of
Defendant who carried out, authorized, or ratified the actions leading to the
alleged oppression or malice, which is required for punitive damages to be
awarded against a corporation. (MTS p. 6; Scannell v. Riverside County, (1994)
152 Cal. App. 3d
596, 614.)
            In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that the failure to properly secure the metal plate
constitutes despicable conduct with willful disregard for the plaintiff’s
safety, warranting punitive damages. (Opposition p. 2.) Plaintiff also requests
that the instant motion be denied pending discovery as Plaintiff currently has
no facts that any managing agent of Defendant ratified wrongful conduct leading
to the incident. (Opposition p. 3.)
            In reply,  Defendant argues that Plaintiff's statement
that “Defendant’s failure with securing the metal plate constitutes despicable conduct
that willfully and consciously disregarded the safety and rights of the
Plaintiff” is conclusory. (Reply p. 1.) Furthermore, even if the above
statement were included in the Complaint, it would still not warrant punitive
damages because it is vague and conclusory. (Reply p. 2; G. D. Searle &
Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29.)
            The Court finds that
Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts showing punitive damages to survive
a motion to strike. In its opposition, Defendant points out that there are no
specific allegations in the Complaint that would warrant punitive damages, and
after reviewing the Complaint, the Court agrees. There is no specific
allegation showing that Defendant acted with malice toward Plaintiff. While
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s failure to secure the metal plate constitutes
despicable conduct
that willfully and consciously disregarded the safety and rights of Plaintiff,
the court finds that this argument is conclusory and fails to show that any
agent of Defendant ratified the conduct which led to the alleged malice. (See, G.
D. Searle & Co., Supra, 49 Cal.App.3d at p. 29; Scannell,
supra, 152 Cal. App. 3d at 614.)          Therefore, the
motion is Granted with leave to amend.
 


