  Case Number:  23STCV23593    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARCUS PORTIS
  
        
  vs.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV23593   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 26, 2024




 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to all causes of action
but the seventh cause of action. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to strike is MOOT. 
 
            On
9/28/2023, Plaintiff Marcus Portis (Plaintiff) filed suit against the City of
Los Angeles, alleging: (1) disability discrimination; (2) age discrimination;
(3) religion discrimination; (4) race discrimination; (5) harassment in
violation of FEHA; (6) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (7) failure to
prevent; (8) failure to accommodate; and (9) failure to engage in interactive
process.
 
            Now,
the City of Los Angeles (Defendant or the City) demurs to Plaintiff’s first,
second, third, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of action.
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts to state a claim as
to the first, second, third, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of
action. More specifically, Defendant contends that Plaintiff relies on
conclusory allegations which fail to show a causal connection between his
alleged adverse employment action and his various protected characteristics. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees in part.
 
            As
to the first cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that:
 
-        
 “Defendant was aware of Plaintiff’s claims for
Plaintiff’s work-related psychiatric condition which substantially
incapacitated Plaintiff’s ability to perform his usual and customary work
duties and limited his ability to perform major life activities as set forth in
this Complaint. Plaintiff advised Defendant of the difficulty in completing a
day of work when he returned to work on January 20, 2022, through the religious
exemption from the mandate. Defendant was also aware of Plaintiff’s psychiatric
condition based on Plaintiff’s workers compensation case. As a result,
Plaintiff psychiatric condition was a substantial motivating factor in
Defendant’s decision to terminate Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 34.) 
 
-        
Defendant including its managers and
supervisors, discriminated against Plaintiff and took adverse employment
actions against Plaintiff due to his actual or perceived disability(s),
including but not limited to failing to accommodate his psychiatric
disability(s) and by putting Plaintiff on administrative leave without pay.
(FAC ¶ 38.)
 
Based on
these allegations, the Court disagrees with Defendant that Plaintiff has not
alleged what the underlying disability was, or that Plaintiff does not allege
that he suffered an adverse employment action as a result of Defendant’s
conduct. Plaintiff alleges that he had a psychiatric disability that
substantially impacted his ability to perform major life activities. In his
FAC, Plaintiff alleges that he was admitted to the emergency room from work,
and was declared to be totally temporarily disabled. Then, Plaintiff was
terminated 14 months later. 
 
However,
Plaintiff does not allege any facts which fill in the intervening period—he
does not allege facts which could show that he communicated with Defendant
about his disability, or which could show that he requested accommodation, or
could, in fact, have been accommodated. 
 
Given that
this claim is based on Defendant’s decision to put Plaintiff on administrative
leave without pay (according to the FAC), the Court agrees that Plaintiff must
allege facts which could show a causal connection between this decision and his
disability. This is especially true given that elsewhere in the FAC, Plaintiff
alleges that he was placed on unpaid leave on 11/30/2021 “because he did not
get the COVID 19 vaccine”  and later
suffered a psychiatric event after he had returned to work. As such, it
is unclear how Plaintiff can allege he was placed on unpaid leave as a result
of disability, when, by his own FAC, he did not inform Defendant of his
psychiatric condition until after he had returned to work from this leave,
and his leave was related to his refusal to take the COVID vaccine. 
 
As to the
second cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that:
 
Plaintiff is
informed and believes, and thereon alleges that Plaintiff's age was a
substantial motivation for Defendants' adverse actions of mistreatment and firing
Plaintiff. Plaintiff was age 44 at the time Defendant fired him.
 
Plaintiff has
been an employee for Defendant for over 18 years as a fire fighter/paramedic.
The harassment and discrimination that Plaintiff suffered such as not
addressing Plaintiff’s psychiatric disability, not providing accommodations for
Plaintiff’s disability, shunning Plaintiff, and placing Plaintiff on unpaid
administrative leave were all intentional misconduct intended upon getting
Plaintiff to quit or leave his job because of his age and seniority.
 
            (FAC
¶¶ 47, 49.)
 
            Plaintiff
has not alleged any facts which could show a causal connection between his age
and any adverse employment action or any adverse treatment of him. The FAC does
not allege any facts which could connect his termination or administrative
leave to his age, does not allege any facts which could support the assertion
that Defendant hired and favored younger employees, and does not cite any
specific facts showing Defendant’s alleged animus towards Plaintiff’s age. Rather,
Plaintiff’s allegation that he is informed and believed that his age was
substantial motivating factor must be supported by information that leads him
to believe that the allegations are true. 
(Pridonoff v. Balokovich (1951) 36 Cal.2d 788, 792.)
 
            As
to the third cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that: 
 
Despite
Plaintiff communicating his discomfort in taking the vaccine for COVID19,
Defendant was insistent on putting Plaintiff on unpaid administrative leave and
eventually firing Plaintiff. Although Plaintiff returned to work on a religion
exemption, Plaintiff received a cold reception when he returned to work. The
whole station shunned him. In doing this, Defendant ignored Plaintiff’s right
to exercise his religion and seemed make him pay for his stance against the
mandate when he returned to the station. Plaintiff’s stance for not taking the
vaccine because of his religious beliefs resulted in Plaintiff not being paid
which exacerbated a severe psychiatric condition that was engendered on stress
and worry and further exacerbated by Plaintiff being wrongfully terminated from
his job.
 
            (FAC
¶ 59.) 
 
            However,
first, as mentioned above, Plaintiff himself alleges he was placed on unpaid
leave “because he did not get the COVID 19 vaccine,” not because of his
religious convictions. Moreover, Defendant enacted a religious accommodation
scheme that allowed an employee with a sincerely held religious belief to be
exempt from the COVID-19 vaccination requirement, which, in Plaintiff’s case, was
granted. (FAC ¶ 21.)  While Plaintiff
alleges that he was “shunned,” Plaintiff does not allege facts which could
causally connect this to his termination over 14 months later. 
 
            As for the fourth
cause of action. Defendant did not demur to this cause of action for racial
discrimination. While this appears to be an oversight (“As such, Plaintiff’s
Cause of Action, and every Cause of Action in the FAC, must fail”), the Court
is bound by the corners of Defendant’s motion. Given that the fourth cause of
action remains operative and unchallenged, Plaintiff has necessarily alleged
facts which could show a failure to prevent discrimination. 
 
            As
to the fifth cause of action, to state a claim for harassment, a plaintiff must
show that the harassment is “sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the
conditions of the victims employment. (Beyda v. City of Los Angeles
(1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 511, 517.) Regardless of plaintiffs’ undisputed
protected status, “an employee generally cannot recover for harassment that is
occasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial; rather, the employee must show a
concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine, or a generalized
nature. [Citations.]”  (Lyle v. Warner Brothers Television Productions
(2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283-284.) 
 
            Here, Plaintiff
alleges:
 
Plaintiff has
been subjected to harassing conduct because he refused to take the vaccine,
refused submit to the constant mistreatment, bullying, and harassment by the Defendant’s
managers and supervisors, and had complained about the workplace abuses
existing at his workplace and about the treatment he had received from
Defendant’s employees, agents, supervisors, and managers.
 
            (FAC
¶ 71.)
 
            As
such, Plaintiff relies on non-descript, conclusory allegations that he was
bullied and shunned, without alleging any facts which could show this.
Moreover, while there is overlap between claims of discrimination, failure to
accommodate, and harassment, the claims are not coextensive, otherwise anyone
who had a discrimination or failure to accommodate claim would also have a
harassment claim. Here, Plaintiff may not shoehorn his claims of discrimination
and failure to accommodate into his harassment claim. Rather, Plaintiff must set
forth facts which could show that he was subjected to a concerted pattern of
harassment which would have interfered with a reasonable employee's work performance and would
have seriously affected the psychological well-being of a reasonable employee.
(Aguilar v. Avis
Rent A Car System (1999) 21 Cal.4th 121, 130-131
            
            As for the
sixth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that he “complained about the
mistreatment he received in being placed on unpaid administrative leave” but
does not allege who he complained to, or what happened as result. Moreover,
while he alleges he was placed on unpaid administrative leave for his refusal
to take the COVID-19 vaccine, he also alleges that he was able to return to
work, after he was granted a religious accommodation. As such, Plaintiff has
not alleged facts which could show he was placed on administrative leave as a
retaliatory action. While Plaintiff then alleges that he was shunned when he
returned and eventually fired, Plaintiff only returned to work after leave for
a single day. He was then terminated over 14 months later. Plaintiff does not
allege what this shunning consisted of, who the employees were, how they knew
that Plaintiff had refused the vaccine, and what protected activity he engaged
in that led to his termination.
 
            As for the
seventh cause action, this claim is based on a failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. Given that Plaintiff has not
alleged sufficient facts to support the underlying claims, Plaintiff has
necessarily failed to allege sufficient facts to support this cause of action
as well. 
 
            As for the
eighth and ninth causes of action, Plaintiff alleges that he returned to work
on 1/20/2022, and went to the emergency room that same day. (FAC ¶¶  21, 26.) He never returned to work and was
declared to be totally temporarily disabled. While Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant was put on notice of his disability when he went to the emergency
room, he does not allege that he had any communications with Defendant
regarding his disability after that date. As such, as noted by Defendant, “It
would have been impossible for defendant to have engaged in the interactive
process with Plaintiff or accommodate his allege disability when Plaintiff
never communicated with Defendant or returned to work after January 20, 2022.”
(Motion, 6: 17-18.) Plaintiff must allege facts which could show that Plaintiff
requested an accommodation, and that Plaintiff communicated with Defendant
after his admission such that Defendant had the opportunity to engage in the
interactive process, but failed to do so. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 20 days leave to
amend as to all causes of action but the fourth cause of action. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to strike is moot. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 