 Case Number:  23AHCV01043    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT FORD MOTOR COMPANY’S MOTION FOR ENTRY OF PROTECTIVE
ORDER TO GOVERN PRODUCTION OF CONFIDENTIAL MATERIALS I.        INTRODUCTION
           This is an action arising from the purchase of an
allegedly defective 2019 Ford Transit Connect (the “Subject Vehicle”). On May
9, 2023, Plaintiff Jesus Correa Morales aka Jesus Morales (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Ford Motor Company (“Defendant” or “Ford”), LAD-F,
Inc. dba Ford of Downtown L.A. (“DTLA Ford”), and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
alleging causes of action for: (1) violation of the Song-Beverly Act—breach of
express warranty, (2) violation of the Song-Beverly Act—breach of implied
warranty, (3) violation of the Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2, and (4)
negligent repair. 
           On June 14, 2023, Defendant filed its answer to the
complaint. 
           On March 13, 2024, Defendant filed and served the instant
Motion for Entry of Protective Order to Govern Production of Confidential
Materials. Defendant indicates that the parties do not disagree on the need for
a protective order, but they disagree on the form of the protective order.
(Memo. of Ps and As at p. 4:3-6.) Defendant requests the entry of a protective
order that uses the Los Angeles Superior Court Model Protective Order as an
initial working draft but incorporates additional details that are essential to
protect Defendant’s interests. (Memo. of Ps and As at p. 4:9-12.) 
           On July 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the
motion, to which Defendant replied on July 26, 2024. 
 
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD        
“[A]ny party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion
made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.)  
“The Court shall limit
the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or
intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the
information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The Court
may make this determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a
party or other affected person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020, subd.
(a).)  
“When an inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things, places, or
electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to whom the
demand has been directed . . . may promptly move for a protective order. This
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration . . . .” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may make
any order that justice requires to protect any party or other person from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (b).) Such protective order may
include a direction “[t]hat a trade secret or other confidential research,
development, or commercial information not be disclosed, or be only disclosed
only to specified persons or only in a specified way.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.060, subd. (b)(5).) 
The party seeking a
protective order has the burden “to show good cause for 
whatever order is sought.” (Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) “In law and motion practice,
factual evidence is supplied to the court by way of declarations.” (Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.) 
 
III.     ANALYSIS
 
A.  
Meet
and Confer Requirement 
The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement
has been satisfied. Counsel for Defendant, Zakaria H. Amin (“Amin”), declares
that the parties met and conferred about the protective order. (Amin Decl., ¶¶
3-6.) 
 
B.   
Evidence
in Support of the Motion 

           Mr. Amin declares the following:
Defendant Ford responded to Plaintiff’s first set of discovery, which included
27 form interrogatories, 46 requests for production, and 35 requests for
admission. (Amin Decl., ¶ 2.) In response to those requests, Defendant produced
223 pages of documents related to the Subject Vehicle. (Amin Decl., ¶ 2.) In
its responses, Defendant agreed to produce certain confidential, proprietary,
or trade secret information and materials. (Amin Decl., ¶ 2.) These documents
include: (1) Ford’s Warranty Policy & Procedure Manual, which is a document
that details the policies and procedures that Ford developed over time for use
by its dealers in the United States regarding warranty claim diagnosis,
submission, allowance, and reimbursement; (2) Ford’s Customer Relationship
Center Policies and Procedures, which are developed and used by and for Ford’s
Customer Care Team and Customer Relationship Center, which handles, assesses,
documents, categories, and resolves customer concerns that are reported to Ford
by consumers; and (3) Ford’s Reacquired Vehicle (“RAV”) Policy and Procedures
Manuals, which are documents that set forth guidelines for process vehicle
repurchase offers made to a consumer by Ford, and that were developed over time
for consideration once a decision has been made to repurchase a specific
vehicle. (Amin Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. A.) 
           The parties have been discussing a
protective order in this case for months and meet and confer attempts regarding
the proposed protective order were initiated on January 10, 2022 by Defendant’s
counsel. (Amin Decl., ¶ 3.) The parties were ordered to meet and confer
substantially about Defendant’s proposed changes to the LASC Model Protective
Order and, on October 3, 2022, the parties conducted a video meet and confer.
(Amin Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel made clear that they were not going to
agree to any modifications of the LASC Model Order and would not be
substantively participating in the meet and confer process. (Amin Decl., ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff’s counsel, Phil Thomas, stated that Plaintiff’s plan is to use
Defendant’s confidential documents “to prepare for future cases.” (Amin Decl.,
¶ 4.) Such reason is why Defendant is seeking protection of its confidential
documents. (Amin Decl., ¶ 4.) 
           On November 9, 2022, Defendant’s
counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel a copy of its proposed Modified Protective
Order in a final effort to meet and confer. (Amin Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. B.)
Plaintiff’s counsel, however, stated that it was not agreeable to the proposed
modifications to the LASC Model Order. (Amin Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. B.) Mr. Amin
states that Defendant’s proposal does not inhibit Plaintiff’s ability to
litigate this matter in any way because it continues to allow for disclosure to
counsel for use in this case and is necessary given Defendant’s interest in
protecting its confidential business and trade secret information. (Amin Decl.,
¶ 9.) A copy of the modified protective order is attached to the declaration of
Mr. Amin. (Amin Decl., ¶¶ 7-8; Exs. E and F.) 
           Jacob Doss (“Doss”) declares that
Ford’s Warranty Policy & Procedure Manuals, Customer Relationship Center
Polices and Procedures, and the RAV Policy and Procedures Manual all contain
Defendant’s sensitive, confidential, and proprietary information. (Doss Decl.,
¶¶ 6-8.) 
 
C.  
Evidence
Opposition to the Motion
In opposition to the motion, Plaintiff’s counsel,
Armando Lopez (“Lopez”), states 
that
over the past year, he has met and conferred with Defendant’s various counsel
regarding the terms of a protective order. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 2.) Despite these
efforts, the parties have been unable to reach an agreement on a protective
order. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Lopez states that he is agreeable to execute the
LASC Model Protective Order. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Lopez declares that over
the past few months, his firm and law firms for various automobile
manufacturers have agreed to execute the LASC Model Protective Order without
modifications. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
D.  
Defendant’s
Proposed Changes to the LASC Model Protective Order are Unwarranted  
Initially, the Court will address Plaintiff’s
contention that the motion should be 
denied
because Defendant failed to timely move for a protective order. The Court
rejects such contention as there is no mandate under CCP § 2031.060 that
Defendant must move promptly for a protective order. Additionally,
according to the declaration of Mr. Amin, the last meet and confer discussion
concerning the protective order occurred in January of 2024, and the instant
motion was filed in March of 2024. 
           The proposed modifications of
Defendant to the LASC Model Protective Order are as follows:
Paragraph 7: “Ford’s revisions clarify subsection
(b), confirming that the term ‘affiliated attorneys’ mean attorneys in the same
firm. Ford’s revision also provides that Plaintiff’s counsel’s office personnel
who have access to Ford’s confidential documents must sign Exhibit A. Ford
proposes a revision to sub-section (d) to include videographers and litigation
support companies (along with court reporters) who may have access to Ford’s
confidential documents by virtue of their retention in a case. Ford removed
subsection (f), which permitted mock jurors to access Ford’s confidential
documents because Ford has no ability to identify such persons or ensure (or
confirm) their compliance. Ford also revised sub-section (g) to include
non-attorneys with experts, and to provide that Ford’s confidential documents
may not be shown to competitors of Ford.” (Memo. of Ps and As at p. 7:1-11.)
Paragraph 8: “Ford’s revisions provide that the
receiving party may not post Ford’s confidential documents to any website or
advertise Ford’s documents for sale. These provisions are reasonable and
necessary to protect Ford’s documents from improper dissemination.” (Memo. of
Ps and As at p. 7:12-15.) 
Paragraph 21: “Ford’s revisions clarify the process
for Plaintiff’s counsel to return or destroy Ford’s confidential documents at
the conclusion of the case and require that all of Ford’s confidential
documents be returned or destroyed when the case is over.” (Memo. of Ps and As
at p. 7:16-19.) 
           Upon review of the declarations of Mr.
Amin and Mr. Doss in support of Defendant’s motion for a protective order, the
Court finds that Defendant has not established good cause for the proposed
modifications to the LASC Model Protective Order. The instant motion is
premised on a statement made by Plaintiff’s counsel that Plaintiff planned to
use Defendant’s documents in future cases. (Amin Decl., ¶ 4.) However, neither
the declaration of Mr. Amin nor Mr. Doss sets forth why the proposed
modifications to the LASC Model Protective Order will protect Defendant from
“unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (b).) 
           Additionally, the Court finds that
the LASC Model Protective Order sufficiently protects Defendant from any
concerns that Plaintiff’s counsel may use such materials to prepare for future
cases. The LASC Model Protective Order specifically provides that
“[c]onfidential [m]aterials shall only be used by the persons receiving them
only for the purposes of preparing for, conducting, participating in the
conduct of, and/or prosecuting and/or defending the [p]roceeding, and not
for any business or other purpose whatsoever.” (Amin Decl., Ex. E at ¶ 8,
emphasis added.) Thus, if the parties enter into the LASC Model Protective
Order, Plaintiff’s counsel will be forbidden from using any confidential
materials to prepare for future cases and must return all confidential
materials and copies thereof, upon request, to Defendant within 30 days after
settlement or termination of the proceedings. (Amin Decl., Ex. E at ¶ 21.) 
 
IV.     
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 Based on the foregoing, Defendant Ford Motor
Company’s Motion for Entry of Protective Order to Govern Production of
Confidential Materials is DENIED.
The
parties, however, may execute the LASC Model Protective Order.  
           Defendant Ford Motor Company to give notice of this order.
 
           
Dated: 8/2/24                                                             
                                                                             
         JARED D. MOSES
                                                                         JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT