 Case Number:  22AHCV00927    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENEI.        INTRODUCTION
          This case arises out of a vehicle collision that resulted
in the death of Santos Gabino Larrynega (“Decedent”). On October 27, 2022, Plaintiffs
Francisca Gutierrez, individually and as successor to Decedent, along with Raul
Lareinaga Gutierrez, and Saul Lareinaga Gutierrez filed a complaint against
Defendants Manuel Reyes, DLR Express, Inc., and Adrian De La Rosa, alleging
causes of action for survival, and wrongful death. The complaint alleges that
while Decedent’s vehicle was proceeding straight within his lane, Defendant
Reyes’ vehicle negligently and suddenly merged in front of Decedent’s vehicle,
suddenly braked and stopped without signaling, and Decedent was unable to stop,
and collided with Defendants’ vehicle. The complaint further alleges that
Defendant DLR Express was Reyes’ employer, and De La Rosa owned the vehicle
Reyes was operating.
 
          Before the Court is a motion by Insurance Company of the
West for leave to intervene. The motion is unopposed.  The motion is granted.
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure, section 387, subdivision (d)(1)
provides that the court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to
intervene in the action or proceeding if “a provision of law confers an
unconditional right to intervene,” or “[t]he person
seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction
that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the
disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect
that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one
or more of the existing parties.” Additionally, upon timely application, a
court may “permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the
person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either
of the parties, or an interest against both.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(2).)
A court will determine the timeliness of a motion to intervene based on the
date when a nonparty “knew or should have known their interests in the
litigation were not being adequately represented.” (Ziani Homeowners
Assn. v. Brookfield Ziani LLC (2015) 243
Cal.App.4th 274, 282.) 
 
Under Labor Code
section¿3852, “[a]ny¿employer
who pays, or becomes obligated to pay compensation . . . may likewise make a
claim or bring an action against the third person.¿ In the latter event the
employer may recover in the same suit, in addition to the total amount of
compensation, damage for which he or she was liable including all salary, wage,
pension, or other emolument paid to the employee or to his
or her dependents.”¿ “If the
employer is insured against workmen’s compensation liability, the insurer has
the same right of action as the employer, or is subrogated to the employer’s
right. In enforcing its cause of action the
insurer may . . . join as party plaintiff in the suit previously filed by the
employee.”¿¿(Burum¿v. State Compensation Ins. Fund¿(1947) 30 Cal.2d 575,
580-581.)¿¿
 
Further, Labor Code
section¿3853¿provides that “[i]f the action
is brought by either the employer or employee, the other may, at any time
before trial on the facts, join as party plaintiff or shall consolidate his
action, if brought independently.”¿¿ 
 
In terms of the form of the petition, Code of Civil Procedure
section 387, subdivision (c) provides that a nonparty “shall petition the court
for leave to intervene by noticed motion or by ex parte application. The
petition shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or
answer in intervention and set forth the grounds upon which intervention
rests.” 
 
          III.     DISCUSSION
 
          Proposed Intervenor Insurance Company
of the West has satisfied the filing requirements of
Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (c) by filing a noticed motion
and setting forth the grounds for intervention as well as a copy of its proposed complaint
in intervention. (Javan Decl. ¶ 2; Exh. A.)  
 
Proposed Intervenor seeks to intervene in the action under
Labor Code section 3853, arguing that Reyes’ case arises out of an industrial
injury while Reyes was in the course and scope of his employment with Proposed Intervenor’s
insured, DLR Express, and Proposed Intervenor has paid benefits to or on behalf
of its insured’s employee and is now subrogated to the rights and claims of its
insured to seek reimbursement.
 
Proposed Intervenor is entitled to intervene under Code of Civil
Procedure section 387. First, the motion
is timely because Labor Code section 3853 allows a nonparty to join as a party
plaintiff “at any time before
trial on the facts.” Second,
Labor Code section 3853 grants Proposed
Intervenor the right to
intervene under Code of Civil Procedure section 387
because Proposed Intervenor has a right of
subrogation as the insurer of Reyes’ employer and has incurred an obligation to
continue paying workers’
compensation benefits to Reyes pursuant to
his employer’s insurance policy. (Lab. Code § 3852; see also Burum, 30 Cal.2d
at 580-581.) Proposed
Intervenor may file a
complaint-in-intervention to recover for the “total amount of compensation”
paid to Reyes and related damages. (Lab. Code. § 3852.) Accordingly, Proposed
Intervenor has sufficiently claimed an interest relating to the disposition of
the action for purposes of intervention.  
 
IV.     CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
          As a result, Insurance
Company of the West’s motion for leave to intervene
is GRANTED.  
 
Insurance
Company of the West is ordered to file the proposed complaint-in-intervention
attached as Exhibit A as required under Code of Civil Procedure section 387,
subdivision (e) with the Court within 10 days of this order.  
 
Dated:  August 2, 2024                           
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT