 Case Number:  24AHCV00017    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT AS MOOTI.        INTRODUCTION
           On January 3, 2024, Plaintiffs
Geoffrey Hanes Wall and Kang Seung Lee filed a complaint against Defendants
Maria Manuela Florez and Gustavo Adolfo Florez.
On July 18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint,
alleging causes of action for Nuisance, Trespass, Violation of Ralph Civil
Rights Act, Violation of Tom Bane Civil Rights Act, Assault, Battery, Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, and Negligence. The FAC alleges that Defendant
Gustavo, who is Defendant Maria’s son, has a well- documented history of
violent and threatening behavior towards his family and neighbors,
which long predates Plaintiffs’ move into the neighborhood. He has a reputation
for using his numerous large dogs to follow, chase, threaten, and intimidate
his neighbors, who have filed multiple police reports and complained to
city representatives. 
Further, the FAC alleges that Plaintiffs moved into their
property and almost immediately observed multiple dogs residing in Defendants’
backyard. Plaintiffs claim that the dogs have excessively and constantly
barked, howled, and yelped on a daily basis, non-stop for several hours at a
time at all hours of the day. 
The FAC further alleges that animal control has visited the
Defendants’ property on several occasions and removed dogs from Defendants’
possession, because they were unlicensed or exceeded the pet limitation of four
dogs that residents are permitted to own. (L.A. County Code § 10.20.038, subd.
(A)). Despite this and Plaintiffs’ notice to Defendants, the noise coming from
Defendants’ dogs has not been abated and is ongoing. The FAC also alleges that
Defendants threw rocks and other objects at Plaintiff’s property. Moreover,
Plaintiffs’ complaint states that they are gay men, and they allege that
Defendants yell derogatory epithets at them.
In addition, Plaintiffs claim that on May 26, 2024,
Defendants pointed their hose and sprayed Plaintiff with water and yelled
“You’re not getting a dime out of me!”
Before the Court is a motion by Defendants to set aside entry
of default against them. The motion is denied as moot because Plaintiffs have
filed an amended complaint, which opens the default. 
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision (b)
provides for two distinct types of relief—commonly differentiated as
“discretionary” and “mandatory”—from certain prior actions or proceedings in
the trial court.  (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119,
1124 (Luri).)   
 
The discretionary portion of section 473, subdivision
(b) provides: “The court may, upon terms as may be just, relieve a party or his
or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
 
The mandatory portion of section 473 requires the
court to, “whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months
after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s
sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or
her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2)
resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless
the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  A timely mea culpa declaration by a
plaintiff’s attorney establishing that a dismissal was taken against her client
as a result of attorney mistake, inadvertence, or neglect deprives the court of
the discretion to deny relief.  (Tackett v. City of Huntington Beach
(1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 60, 65.)   
           III.     DISCUSSION
 
           Defendants move to set aside entry of
default against them.
           After the motion was filed, Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. “A party may amend its pleading once without leave of
the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is
filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer
or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and served no
later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to
strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 472.) The amended complaint adds causes of
action for assault and battery. After a defendant's default has been entered,
if “ ‘a complaint is amended in matter of substance as distinguished from mere
matter of form, the amendment opens the default.’” (Ostling v. Loring
(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1731, 1743; see Sass v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th
861, 880-881.) An amended complaint makes material changes when it increases
the damages sought or adds or changes a cause of action based on a different
factual or legal theory. (See Carrasco, supra, 164 Cal.App.3d at
p. 808; Leo v. Dunlap (1968) 260 Cal.App.2d 24, 27-28.) Thus, the
amended complaint, which made material changes by adding new causes of action,
opened the default against Defendants.
The
motion is therefore moot.
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
           The motion to set aside default is denied as moot.  Defendants are to answer the complaint within
30 days of this order.
           Defendants to give notice of this ruling.
           
Dated:  August 2, 2024                            
                                                                                    JARED D. MOSES
                                                                         JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT