 Case Number:  EC066784    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
13, 2023                             TRIAL DATE:  November 9, 2022
                                                           
CASE:                         TIEN KUANG LIU, an
individual; PETER Y. SHAY, as Trustee of the Shay’s family trust; CHI-JEN YU,
an individual; FRANK ZENG, an individual; PHILLIP LUC, an individual; and JACK
C. LEE, an individual, v. TIN Y. YUNG, aka TIN YUA YUNG, aka TIN YUNG YUNG, an
individual; ENTERPRISE REALTY INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT GROUP, LLC, aka ERIDG,
a California limited liability company; PASADENA OFFICOTEL ENTERPRISES, LLC,
aka POE, a California limited liability company; and DOES 1-60, inclusive.
 
CASE NO.:                 EC066784
 
Consolidated Cases:    Amancio
Mora v. Tin Y. Yung, Case No. EC068217
                                    
                                    Twen
Ma v. Tin Y. Yung, Case No. 18GDCV00183
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR APPOINTMENT OF A RECEIVER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Tien Kuang Liu, Peter Y.
Shay, Chi-Jen Yu, Frank Zeng, Phillip Luc, Jack C. Lee, Amancio Mora, Twen Ma,
Rafael Mora, and Dennis Shay
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
Tin Yung
 
SERVICE:                              Filed November 15, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed November 30, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Filed December 6, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiffs move for an order
appointing a receiver responsible for carrying out the dissolution of POE. 
 
BACKGROUND
              
            This case arises out of a real estate development project
that Plaintiffs allege to be a fraudulent scheme. Plaintiffs filed a FAC with
twelve causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Negligence; (3) Fraud;
(4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (5) Conversion; (6) Aiding and Abetting Fraud;
(7) Aiding and Abetting Conversion; (8) Civil Conspiracy; (9) Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Relations; (10) Accounting; (11)
Declarative Relief; (12) Judicial Dissolution.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiffs’ motion for the appointment of a receiver is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiffs
move for the appointment of a receiver for the dissolution of POE. 
 
            “Upon the
dissolution of any corporation, the Superior Court of the county in which the
corporation carries on its business or has its principal place of business, on
application of any creditor of the corporation, or of any stockholder or member
thereof, may appoint one or more persons to be receivers or trustees of the
corporation, to take charge of the estate and effects thereof, and to collect
the debts and property due and belonging to the corporation, and to pay the
outstanding debts thereof, and to divide the moneys and other property that
shall remain over among the stockholders or members.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 565.) “The superior court's discretion to determine the
necessity for the appointment of a receiver to dissolve a corporation is
broad.” (Gold v. Gold (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 791, 808.) 
 
            The
parties agree that the basis for dissolution of POE has been met, and this
court may appoint a receiver for purposes of dissolving POE. Plaintiffs argue
that the appointment of a receiver is proper here because Defendants have
failed to provide a proper accounting and pending issues of ownership interests
still exist.
 
            In
opposition, Defendant argues that there is no sufficient basis for the
appointment of a receiver here, relying on Medipro Medical Staffing LLC v.
Certified Nursing Registry, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 622 (“Medipro”).
Medipro is distinguishable from the present case. While the Court in Medipro
did state that the appointment of a receiver is an “extraordinary” remedy that
should be used sparingly, the Court’s analysis was applied in the context of an
order appoint a receiver for the collection of a money judgment. (Id. at
p. 628.) The applicable rule, as stated in Medipro, is that “the appointment of
a receiver to enforce a money judgment is reserved for ‘exceptional’ circumstances
where the judgment creditor's conduct makes a receiver necessary—and hence
‘proper.’ ” (Ibid.) Plaintiffs here are not seeking a receiver to
enforce a money judgment but rather for the dissolution of POE. 
 
            Defendant also argues that a
receiver is unnecessary because he, his sister, and Victor Vera have properly
managed POE and a receiver may not do as well. Defendant argues that a receiver
may render the property “no longer self-sustaining”. Defendant’s arguments are
speculative. Additionally, Defendant’s arguments go against the purpose of
dissolution in the present matter. As POE was ordered to be dissolved, the
issue is not whether POE will continue to be “self-sustaining” but rather how
to wind down POE’s operations. 
 
Section 8.3 of the operating agreement provides, in part,
that upon the occurrence of an event initiating the dissolution, POE “shall
continue solely for the purpose of winding up its affairs in an orderly manner,
liquidating its assets, disposing of and conveying its property, collecting and
diving its assets, satisfying the claims of creditors and prescribing and
defending actions by or against company in order to collect and discharge
obligations.” Section 8.4 of the operating agreement provides that the managers
in charge of the dissolution “shall take full account of the liabilities of
Company, and its assets, shall cause its assets to be liquidated as promptly as
is consistent with obtaining the fair market value thereof, and shall cause the
proceeds therefrom, to the extent sufficient therefor, to be applied and
distributed as next provided.” 
 
            Based
on the parties’ assertions in their moving papers, it appears that the parties
are still in the preliminary stages of attempting to dissolve POE. Plaintiffs
assert that Defendants have failed to obtain the information necessary to begin
dissolving POE, such as an appropriate accounting and a list of all creditors.
Defendants assert that they are still in the process of gathering the
information and no deadline has been agreed upon. Additionally, Defendant requests
that Plaintiffs bear the cost of receivership but has not provided a reason why
that should be the case. “ ‘Receivers are entitled to compensation for their own
services and the services performed by their attorneys. [Citation.] Generally,
the costs of a receivership are paid from the property in the receivership
estate.’ ” (Southern California Sunbelt Developers, Inc. v. Banyan Limited
Partnership (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 910, 922.) 
 
            Unfortunately,
the acrimonious relationship between the parties has prevented the parties from
meeting and conferring in good faith regarding the pending dissolution of POE.  The appointment of a receiver would remedy
this issue.  At the hearing the court
will discuss the scope of the receivers’ duties.  To this effect the Plaintiff has submitted a
proposed order. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiffs’ motion for the appointment of a receiver is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   December 13,
2023                                       ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court