 Case Number:  24STCV08876    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  34 

Defendants
Terry Alexander Burton and Delena Zimmerman’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs
Behzad Bandari and Narjes Kasiri’s Complaint is GRANTED with leave to amend. 

 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs
Behzad Bandari and Narjes Kasiri
(“Plaintiff”) allege that on May 6, 2023, Plaintiffs sustained injuries when
Defendant Terry Alexander Burton (“Burton”) collided with Plaintiffs’ vehicle while
driving intoxicated using Defendant Delena Zimmerman’s car (“Zimmerman”). 
 
On April
9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against
Defendants Terry Alexander Burton and Delena Zimmerman (“Defendants”) and Does 1-10
for: 
 
1.                 Motor
Vehicle; 
2.                 General
Negligence; and 
3.                 Negligence
Per Se – Violation of Vehicle Code § 23512(a). 
 
Plaintiffs
further seek Exemplary Damages. 
 
On
July 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants asserting the same causes of action. 
 
On
August 1, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer to Plaintiffs’ FAC which was overruled.
 
On September
3, 2024, Defendants filed this Motion to Strike portions of Plaintiffs’ FAC. On
September 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to Defendants’ Motion. As of
September 30, 2024, Defendants have not filed a reply to Plaintiffs’
opposition. 
 
On
September 10, 2024, Defendants filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
436, “the court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must
“appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437 [emphasis
added].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants
move to strike out the following portions of Plaintiffs’ FAC pertaining to
punitive damages: 
 
1.              
Page 3, paragraph 14(a)(2), prayer for punitive damages
on the Judicial Council form PLD-PI-001; 
2.              
Page 6, Second Cause of Action – General Negligence[1]:

                                                            
“DEFENDANT
in the state of intoxication was negligent when he made an unsafe turn to the
left, veering out of his lane of travel, colliding with PLAINTIFF’s vehicle,
causing serious physical and emotional injuries as well as property damage.” 
 
3.              
Page 7, paragraph 2, Third Cause of Action – Negligence
Per Se[2]:

 
 “DEFENDANT violated the Vehicle Code by
operating the 2022 white Kia K5 while intoxicated, impaired and under the
influence of alcohol and/or drugs.” 
 
4.              
Page 7, paragraph 4, Third Cause of Action – Negligence
Per Se[3]:

 
“DEFENDANTS
violated the Vehicle Code by operating the 2022 white Kia K5 as to cause it to
veer out of his lane of travel causing the left side of his vehicle to collide
with the right side of BANDARI’S vehicle driving northbound in the lane of
US-101.”
 
5.              
Page 7, paragraph 5, Third Cause of Action – Negligence
Per Se[4]:

 
“Plaintiff
complaint states: California Vehicle Code section 23152(a) makes it unlawful
for any person who is under the influence of any alcoholic beverage to operate
a motor vehicle Defendant BURTON violated the Vehicle Code by operating the
2022 white Kia K5 while intoxicated, impaired and under the influence of
alcohol and/ or drugs.”
 
6.              
Page 10, Exemplary Damages Attachment, EX-1 for “malice”.[5]
 
7.              
Page
10, Exemplary Damages Attachment, EX-2, entire paragraph.[6]  
 
(Motion to
Strike, 8:2-24.)
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiffs did
not plead facts to support their conclusory allegation that Burton was guilty
of malice, fraud, or oppression. (Id., 7:17-24.) Defendants contend that
Plaintiffs’ FAC does not state specific facts but merely alleges that due to
Burton’s negligence, inattention, and driving while intoxicated, Burton
collided with Plaintiffs’ vehicle and thus entitling Plaintiffs to punitive
damages which is insufficient to show oppression, fraud, or malice. (Ibid.)

 
            In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
Defendants’ Motion is untimely. (Opp., 2:16-28, 3:1-16.) Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s
motion should be denied since Defendants’ counsel failed to meet and confer
with Plaintiffs’ counsel over the issues in the Motion. (Id., 4:9-12.) Plaintiffs
also argue that Defendants’ Motion should be denied as it relies on a
declaration from Burton which should not be considered in a motion to strike. (Id.,
4:15-21.) Lastly, Plaintiffs contend that they have sufficiently pled facts to
support their request for punitive damages. (Id., 4:22-28, 5:1-17.) 
 
Timing 
 
            While the court believes that the
Motion may be untimely, the court will exercise its discretion and hear the
motion on its own motion.
 
Sufficiency
of Pleadings
 
Punitive damages may be awarded in an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract upon clear and
convincing evidence that a defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)
 
“Malice” is defined as “conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
“Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code
§ 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd.
(c)(3).)
 
Under Taylor, “…the act of
operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of “malice”
under [Civil Code] section 3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose
a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.” (See Taylor
v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892).
 
            Here, Plaintiffs alleged that on May
6, 2024, Defendants collided with Plaintiffs’ vehicle causing Plaintiffs’
injuries. (FAC, p. 9, EX-2.) Further, Plaintiffs also allege that Burton was
intoxicated and had a 0.08% blood alcohol content while driving Defendants
vehicle. (Ibid.) Subsequently, Burton was arrested for violation of
Vehicle Code Section 23152(a). (Ibid.) Lastly, Plaintiffs allege that Burton
consumed alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication knowing that Burton
would have to operate a vehicle. (Ibid.) As such, Plaintiffs allege that
Burton’s conduct amount conscious disregard to the safety of others. (Ibid.)
 
            The court finds that Plaintiffs has
not alleged sufficient facts to showcase Burton’s alleged disregard of the
probable and dangerous consequences from operating a vehicle while intoxicated.
To the extent the allegations contained in the Complaint allege Burton was arrested
for a Section 23152 violation, the court finds the allegation insufficient to
demonstrate an inference of conscious disregard. Moreover, the additional conclusory
allegation that Burton consumed alcoholic beverages to the point of
intoxication is also insufficient. Thus, Plaintiffs request for punitive
damages is stricken at this time. However, it will allow Plaintiffs to amend
their pleadings to allege additional facts that portend to demonstrate a
conscious disregard. 
 
            Defendant’s Motion is GRANTED.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendants Terry
Alexander Burton and Delena Zimmerman’s
Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs Behzad Bandari and Narjes
Kasiri’s Complaint is GRANTED.


