

 
            The
Complaint alleged that Plaintiff Anne Heiting (Plaintiff)
accessed the website of Design Holdings, Inc. (Defendant). Thereafter, Design
Holdings allegedly invaded Plaintiff’s right to privacy without her consent by
aiding a third-party company, Salesforce, to secretly eavesdrop, record, and
harvest data in real time collected from Plaintiff’s interaction with Design
Holdings’ chat box on its website. The Complaint alleges causes of action for
(1.) Violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act (CIPA), and (2.) Violations
of the California Unauthorized Access to Computer Data Act (CDAFA). 
 
On October 24, 2023, Defendant demurred
to the entire Complaint. Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer. The Court sustained the demurrer in its entirety. 
 
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a First Amended Complaint (FAC) containing a single claim for Violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act
(CIPA).
 
On March
7, 2024, Defendant demurred to the FAC. Plaintiff opposed the demurrer. 
 
             The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend. 
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Civ.
Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
. . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally construes the
complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton
v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
First
Cause of Action – Violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act (Penal
Code section 631, subdivision (a):
 
             Defendant argues the first cause of
action fails to allege facts sufficient to state a claim.
 
            Penal
Code section 631(a) provides that a person who does any of the following has
acted in violation of California’s
Invasion of Privacy Act (CIPA):
 
“Any person
who, by means of any machine, instrument, or contrivance, or in any other
manner, [i] intentionally taps, or makes any unauthorized connection, whether
physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any
telegraph or telephone wire, line, cable, or instrument, including the wire,
line, cable, or instrument of any internal telephone communication system, or
[ii] who willfully and without the consent of all parties to the communication,
or in any unauthorized manner, reads, or attempts to read, or to learn the
contents or meaning of any message, report, or communication while the same is
in transit or passing over any wire, line, or cable, or is being sent from, or
received at any place within this state; or [iii] who uses, or attempts to use,
in any manner, or for any purpose, or to communicate in any way, any information
so obtained, or [iv] who aids, agrees with, employs, or conspires with any
person or persons to unlawfully do, or permit, or cause to be done any of the
acts or things mentioned above.”
 
            Here,
the FAC alleges that Plaintiff
was browsing Defendant’s website,
www.danishdesignstore.com, and interacted with a chat box on the site. (FAC ¶ 11.) The
FAC further alleges that Defendant recorded Plaintiff’s conversation and paid a
third-party company, Salesforce.com (Salesforce), to eavesdrop in real time, harvest
Plaintiff’s personal information through her interaction with a chat box
through a data sharing agreement. (FAC ¶¶ 12-18.) Plaintiff alleges that Design
Holdings’ failure to disclose its use of Salesforce as a service provider
violates CIPA, because “Design Holdings did not obtain Plaintiff’s express or
implied consent to wiretap or allow third parties to eavesdrop on visitor
conversations.” (FAC ¶ 20.)
            
            Defendant
argues these allegations fail as matter of law. The statue has four clauses; the first three clauses are premised
on direct liability while the last is premised on derivative—or aiding and
abetting—liability. As the Court previously determined, only the fourth
clause for aiding and abetting liability possibly applies to the allegations
here. 
 
            With
respect to this fourth clause, Defendant argues the FAC fails to state a claim
for derivative liability for “aiding and abetting.” Specifically, Defendant argues
that (a) Plaintiff
fails to allege an underlying CIPA violation; (b) Plaintiff’s allegations show
that Salesforce was a third-party tool that was utilized by Design Holdings as
a mere extension of its own operations; and (c) Plaintiff fails to allege
Design Holdings knew of (or specifically intended to aid) Salesforce’s alleged
plan to violate CIPA. (Dem., 14:10-20:5.)[1]

 
            With
respect to the second argument, the allegations show that Salesforce was a third-party tool
that was utilized by Design Holdings as a mere extension of its own operations.
 
 
            As
noted in the Court’s previous ruling on demurrer, numerous courts that have held
that the statute requires plaintiffs to allege facts indicating that the third
party is recording the customers’ information “for some use or potential future
use beyond simply supplying this information back to Defendant.” (Cody v.
Boscov's, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2023) 658 F.Supp.3d 779, 782 [dismissing with
leave to amend claim for aiding wiretapping where Plaintiff's only allegation
related to the software providers was that they “harvest valuable data from
such [customer] communications for the benefit of their clients like Defendant”].)
“One is not considered a third-party eavesdropper when they merely provide a
tool that allows another party to record and analyze its own data.” (Nora
Gutierrez v. Converse Inc. (C.D. Cal., Oct. 27, 2023, No. 223CV06547RGKMAR)
2023 WL 8939221, at *3.)[2]

 
            The
FAC alleges that “Design
Holdings entered into a data sharing agreement with Salesforce to record and
mine chats. The relationship begins when Defendant installs the Salesforce
software onto its site and provides a pathway for the chats to be recorded.”
(FAC ¶ 12.) Messages sent by customers are then diverted
from Design Holdings to Sales Force with Salesforce collecting “Professional
life data,” “Personal life data,” and “Localisation data.” (FAC ¶ 14.) The FAC
alleges that Salesforce “brags about how it ‘ingests and stores real-time data
streams at scale and combines it with Salesforce transactional data and
includes built-in connectors that bring in data from every channel …and
historical data from proprietary data lakes.’” (FAC ¶ 17.) The FAC alleges that
“Defendant should not be permitted to acquire such extensive personal
information from unsuspecting consumers who visit their website merely to make
a purchase, such as buying a new coffee table.” (FAC ¶ 18.) 
 
            These allegations
again fail to show that Salesforce was recording the information for its own
benefit. In fact, the allegations in the FAC more definitively show that Design
Holdings extracts greater information for its own benefit through Salesforce.
 
            Thus, the FAC fails
to demonstrate that Defendant used third-party vendor, SalesForce, as a
“third-party eavesdropper.” Rather, the allegations show nothing more than
Defendant using SalesForce in aid of Defendant’s business and not for some
other purpose, which makes the third-party an “extension” of Defendant's
website. (Byars v. Hot Topic, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2023) 656 F.Supp.3d 1051,
1068.)
 
            The
demurrer to the CIPA cause of action is sustained.[3]
 Plaintiff did not make a specific showing of a reasonable
possibility of amending. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians’ Service
(2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43 [“The plaintiff bears the burden of proving there
is a reasonable possibility of amendment.”].) Accordingly, the Court denies
leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
            Defendant Design
Holdings’s demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.


