

 
             This
action arises from an infantile confrontation between two attorneys in the Mosk
Courthouse hallway. The Complaint alleges that Defendant Fari Bari Nejadpour
(Defendant Nejadpour) “instigated an extremely minor confrontation by
cornering, trapping, detaining and threatening” Plaintiff Larry M. Bakman
(Plaintiff Bakman) and “forcing a cellular telephone” into Plaintiff’s face and
recording Plaintiff's voice without his permission in an attempt to falsely
claim that Defendant was a victim in this confrontation. The Complaint alleges
claims for (1.) false light, (2.) assault, (3.) false imprisonment, and (4.)
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            On
June 13, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Nejadpour filed a Cross-Complaint
for (1.) assault, (2.) battery, and (3.) negligence. 
 
On July 12, 2023, Cross-Defendant Bakman moved to strike
portions of the Cross-Complaint. Cross-Complainant
Nejadpour filed an opposition. The Motion to Strike was granted in part
and denied in part.
 
Defendant F. Bari Nejadpour now
brings a special motion to strike the Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16, arguing that the claims arise from petitioning
conduct that is protected under section 425.16, subdivision (e). He further
argues that Plaintiff cannot show any likelihood of success because the claims
are barred by the litigation privilege and Plaintiff does not submit prima
facie evidence to support the claims.
 
            The special motion to strike is
granted as to the first cause of action only.
 
Defendant Nejadpour’s request for judicial
notice of facts Nos. 1-7 is denied. 
 
Defendant’s objection to Plaintiff’s
evidence is granted. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“A cause of action against a person
arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of
petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California
Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special
motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has
established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) The purpose of the statute
is to identify and dispose of lawsuits brought to chill the valid exercise of a
litigant’s constitutional right of petition or free speech. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (a); Sylmar Air
Conditioning v. Pueblo Contracting Services, Inc. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th
1049, 1055-1056.)
 
Courts employ a two-step process to
evaluate special motions to strike strategic lawsuits against public
participation (SLAPP). (Equilon
Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61.)  First, the defendant must show that the
challenged lawsuit arises from protected activity, such as an act in
furtherance of the right of petition or free speech. (Ibid.) “The moving defendant bears the burden of identifying all
allegations of protected activity, and the claims supported by them.” (Baral
v. Schmitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396.) In the second step, it “
‘is then up to the plaintiff to rebut the presumption by showing a reasonable
probability of success on the merits.’ ” (Equilon,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at p.
61.) In determining whether the plaintiff has carried this burden, the
trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2); see Soukup
v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291 (Soukup).)
 
“Analysis of an anti-SLAPP motion is
not confined to evaluating whether an entire cause of action, as pleaded by the
plaintiff, arises from protected activity or has merit. Instead, courts should
analyze each claim for relief—each act or set of acts supplying a basis for
relief, of which there may be several in a single pleaded cause of action—to
determine whether the acts are protected and, if so, whether the claim they
give rise to has the requisite degree of merit to survive the motion.” (Bonni
v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1010.) 
 
Discussion
 
I.               
Arising
from Protected Activity
 
As outlined above, in the first step
of the analysis, Defendant must demonstrate that Plaintiff’s claims arise from
one of four categories of protected activity. An “ ‘act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue’ includes: (1) any written or
oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written
or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16,
subd. (e).)
 
“As our Supreme Court has
recognized, ‘the “arising from” requirement is not always easily met.’
[Citation.] ‘[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity
took place does not mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes of
the anti-SLAPP statute. [Citation.] Moreover, that a cause of action arguably
may have been “triggered” by protected activity does not entail that it is one
arising from such.’ [Citation.] ‘A claim arises from protected activity when
that activity underlies or forms the basis for the claim. [Citations.]  Critically, “the defendant’s act underlying
the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of
the right of petition or free speech.” [Citations.]’ [Citation.] ‘[I]n ruling
on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged
claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently
form the basis for liability.’ [Citation.] Put another way, courts should first
identify ‘the allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that provides the
foundation for the claims,’ and then determine whether that conduct itself
constitutes protected activity. [Citations.]” (Callanan v. Grizzly Designs,
LLC (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 517, 526 (Callanan) [citing Park, supra,
2 Cal.5th at pp. 1062-1063].) 
 
            Here,
as noted above, the Complaint contains causes of action for (1.) false light, (2.)
assault, (3.) false imprisonment, (4.) IIED, (5.) The Complaint alleges, on April 24, 2023, Defendant
Nejadpour and Plaintiff Bakman – both appearing as counsel for their clients at
the Stanley Mosk courthouse – were waiting for a hearing to start when Defendant
Nejadpour began to stand and hover over Plaintiff “with an aggressive and
threatening demeanor, thereby invading plaintiff’s personal space.” (Compl., ¶
11.) Defendant Nejadpour refused to move away from Plaintiff and eventually “shoved
and forced a cellular telephone into Plaintiff's face and began recording
without plaintiff's permission.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges that he felt
trapped and that his safety was threatened so he “slightly” pushed Defendant
Nejadpour away from him. (Compl., ¶ 14.)
 
            Although Defendant Najadpour’s
motion appears to target the entire Complaint, only the first cause of action
arises from protected activity.
 
            The second cause of action for assault
and third cause of action for false imprisonment arise from allegations that
Defendant Nejadpour harassed and cornered Plaintiff Bakman at the courthouse, causing
Plaintiff to allegedly feel that his physical safety was threated. (Compl., ¶¶
11-14.)[1]

 
 
None
of this alleged conduct constitutes speech, including expressive conduct. (See Wilson v. Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 893 [explain that Section
425.16 applies to “expressive conduct— [such as] the burning of flags, the
wearing of armbands, and the like—that, although not a “written or oral
statement or writing” (§ 425.16, subd. (e)(1)–(3)), may similarly communicate
views regarding “matters of public significance”].) 
 
Additionally, it is not clear what conduct the
boilerplate fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress is based on. (Compl., ¶¶ 48-53.) Thus, the Court cannot find that this
cause of action arises from protected conduct.
 
Thus, the relevant allegations for the purposes of
this anti-SLAPP motion are contained in the first cause of action for false light.

 
The
Complaint alleges that Defendant Nejadpour publicized information and material,
including recordings of Plaintiff's voice, that showed plaintiff in a false
light. (Compl., ¶¶ 20-29.) Specifically, the Complaint alleges Defendant
“unlawfully altered and modified the recordings of plaintiff's voice to distort
and falsely deceive the general public concerning the true and accurate facts
of the incident[;] Defendant, then unlawfully released the recordings to the
media which released the unlawful recordings to the general public.” (Compl., ¶
17.)
 
The dissemination of a recording to the media constitutes
protected activity within the meaning of subdivision (e)(3) of section 425.16:
a “written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a
public forum in connection with an issue of public interest.” 


“To come within section 425.16, a statement must not
only be made in a ‘place open to the public or a public forum,’ it must also be
made ‘in connection with an issue of public interest.’ ... [¶] Section 425.16
does not define ‘public interest,’ but its preamble states that its provisions
‘shall be construed broadly’ to safeguard ‘the valid exercise of the
constitutional rights of freedom of speech and petition for the redress of
grievances.’ (§ 425.16, subd. (a).)” (Nygård, Inc. v. Uusi–Kerttula
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1027, 1039.) 
 
“[N]ewspapers and magazines are public fora within the
meaning of section 425.16, subdivision (e)(3).” (Nygård,
Inc. v. Uusi–Kerttula, supra, 159
Cal.App.4th at 1038.) Further,
the scope of the “public interest” requirement extends to “ ‘tabloid’ issues.”
(Nygård, Inc. v. Uusi–Kerttula, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1042.)
 
Here,
the allegations and evidence shows the dissemination of Defendant’s recording
to TMZ, a news media outlet. The online TMZ article featuring the recording
reports on the legal issues of Defendant Bakman, a purported former television
personality judge. (Bakman Decl., ¶ 7.)
The video is titled “'HOT BENCH' STAR LARRY BAKMAN CAUGHT ON AUDIO ALLEGEDLY
ATTACKING LAWYER AT COURTHOUSE.” (Bakman Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
For this reason, Plaintiff’s alleged involvement in tortious
conduct is a matter of public interest. The story thus involved an issue of
public interest for purposes of section 425.16. (Nygård, Inc. v.
Uusi–Kerttula, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 1042; see Jackson v.
Mayweather, supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1256–1259 [discussing
public's interest in lives of celebrities and those whose actions place them in
the public eye]; Hall v. Time Warner, Inc. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1337,
1347 [“public's fascination with [Marlon] Brando and widespread public interest
in his personal life made Brando's decisions concerning the distribution of his
assets a public issue or an issue of public interest”].) Therefore, the
publication claim is subject to the protection of the anti-SLAPP statute.


Accordingly,
Defendant Nejadpour has met his burden of showing that Plaintiff’s false light claim
arises from protected activity. 
 
II.            
Demonstrating Minimal Merit 
 
On the second component of the analysis, courts employ a
“summary-judgment-like” procedure, “accepting as true the evidence favorable to
the plaintiff and evaluating the defendant’s evidence only to determine whether
the defendant has defeated the plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law.” (Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein,
LLP (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 435, 444.) The Court does not assess
credibility, and the plaintiff is not required to meet the preponderance of the
evidence standard. The Court accepts as true the evidence favorable to the
plaintiff, who need only establish that his or her claim has “minimal merit” to
avoid being stricken as a SLAPP. (Soukup,
supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 291.) Plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is
both “ ‘legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of
facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the
plaintiff is credited.’ ” (Ibid.)


Here, in addressing the second prong, Defendant argues
that he made this recording to establish Plaintiff
Bakman’s violation of Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rules regarding civility
so that Defendant Nejadpour could petition the Court, to obtain relief from the
Court. He suggests that his conduct is protected by the litigation privilege. 
 
“Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b) defines what
is commonly known as the ‘litigation privilege.’ ” (Kashian v. Harriman
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 892, 912.) The privilege typically “applies to any
communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by
litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that
have some connection or logical relation to the action.” (Silberg v.
Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212.) “Thus, ‘communications with “some
relation” to judicial proceedings’ are ‘absolutely immune from tort liability’
by the litigation privilege [citation].” (Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37
Cal.4th 1048, 1057.) “Many cases have explained that [Civil Code] section 47(b)
encompasses not only testimony in court and statements made in pleadings, but
also statements made prior to the filing of a lawsuit, whether in preparation
for anticipated litigation or to investigate the feasibility of filing a
lawsuit.” (Hagberg v. California Federal Bank (2004) 32 Cal.4th 350,
361; see Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19
Cal.4th 1106, 1115 [“ ‘communications preparatory to or in anticipation of the
bringing of an action ... are within the litigation privilege’ ”].) 
 
The privilege presents “a substantive defense a
plaintiff . . . must overcome to demonstrate a probability of prevailing.” (Flatley
v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 323.)
 
Defendant’s interpretation of the litigation privilege
is overbroad and unpersuasive. The only connection between the false light
claim and the litigation privilege here is the fact that the recording conduct
occurred at the courthouse. However, importantly, the Complaint’s allegations
of misconduct arise from Defendant disseminating the recording to a news media
outlet, not its use in Court. Thus, the recording and disseminating conduct at
issue in Plaintiff’s claim is not conduct to “achieve the objects of the
litigation.” The claim is not barred by the litigation privilege. 
 
Nonetheless, Plaintiff has failed to present minimal
evidence to support the false light claim. 
 
“ ‘False light is a species of invasion of privacy,
based on publicity that places a plaintiff before the public in a false light
that would be highly offensive to a reasonable person, and where the defendant
knew or acted in reckless disregard as to the falsity of the publicized matter
and the false light in which the plaintiff would be placed.’ ” (Jackson v.
Mayweather (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1240, 1264.) “To establish a false light
claim based on a defamatory publication, a plaintiff ‘must meet the same
requirements’ as for a defamation claim.” (Balla v. Hall (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 652, 687.)
 
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant Nejadpour disseminated
an “altered and doctored version” of the recording of the incident to TMZ.
(Bakman Decl., ¶ 7.) Specifically, Plaintiff argues that the recording disseminated
to TMZ omits the portion of the altercation where Defendant “assaulted” Plaintiff
such that Plaintiff is falsely portrayed as the unprovoked aggressor in the
audio. However, as noted in Defendant’s objection to the evidence, there is no
foundation for Plaintiff’s statement that Defendant altered the audio. Thus,
Plaintiff has not submitted admissible evidence that Defendant has publicized false
information pertaining to Plaintiff. 
 
In fact, there is no evidence that the audio was
altered or otherwise doctored. When comparing the video recording and the audio
recording, there appears to be no alteration of the audio at all. (Nejadpour
Suppl. Decl. ¶¶ 4-8, Exs. C-D.)
 
Thus, with respect to the first cause of action,
Plaintiff has failed to make a minimum prima facie showing and has not met his
burden on the second prong. 
 
Conclusion
 
The special motion to strike is granted
as to the first cause of action only. 


