 Case Number:  23VECV05270    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Ani Yapunjyan, 
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
Wawanesa
  General Insurance Company
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
       23VECV05270               107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:    
(1)
  Demurrer to Complaint
(2)
  Request for Judicial Notice



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE:]
 
The Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED. The Request for Judicial Notice
is GRANTED.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
A. Factual
 
The following factual background is drawn from the Complaint (as defined
below).
 
On February 1, 2019, plaintiff Ani Yapunjyan (“Plaintiff”) was involved in
a motor vehicle collision with another driver, Maria Martinez (“Martinez”). At
the time, Plaintiff carried an automobile insurance policy issued by defendant
Wawanesa General Insurance Company (“Defendant” and, together with Plaintiff,
“Parties”). Plaintiff reported the collision to Defendant, who issued a claim
number and placed the claim under investigation. 
 
In November 2019, Defendant denied Plaintiff’s claim and notified Plaintiff
of such denial (via the “Denial Letter”).
 
In January 2021, Plaintiff litigated her personal injury claim against
Martinez, and in May 2023, Plaintiff recovered Martinez’s policy limits in
exchange for a release of her claims against Martinez and Martinez’s insurance
carrier. 
 
On May 8, 2023, Plaintiff emailed an underinsured policy limit demand to
Defendant, which was denied by Defendant on May 19, 2023.
 
 
B. Procedural
 
On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of insurance contract, (2) breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) violations of
California Insurance Code § 790.03; (4) negligence, and (5) violation of
Business & Professions Code § 17200, et seq.
 
On December 14, 2024, Parties met and conferred over the telephone, and
Plaintiff agreed to dismiss certain causes of action. (Edson Decl. ¶ 2.)
Parties agreed to extend the deadline for Defendant to file the demurrer from
January 6, 2024 to January 16, 2024 to give Plaintiff time to do so. (Id.,
¶ 3.) On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff voluntarily requested dismissal,
without prejudice, of her third, fourth, and fifth causes of action. The
dismissal was entered. Thus, the only remaining causes of action are for (1)
breach of insurance contract and (2) breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing.
 
On January 17, 2024, Defendant demurred (via the “Demurrer”) to the
Complaint in its entirety and to both remaining causes of action for failing to
state facts sufficient to constitute the causes of action against Defendant.
Concurrently, Defendant filed a Request for Judicial Notice, requesting this
court take judicial notice of the Denial Letter.
 
On February 8, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the Demurrer (via the “Opposition”).
Defendants did not file a timely reply. 
 
II. PARTY
ARGUMENTS 
            
            The Demurrer
 
Defendant demurs to both causes of action in the Complaint on the grounds
that each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action. 
 
Defendant contends that both causes of action are time barred and that
California “favors the enforcement of statutes of limitations.” (Demurrer p.
6.) Defendant argues that the statutes of limitations for all of Plaintiff’s
claims began running on November 20, 2019, the date Defendant denied her
insurance claim. (Id., 8.) Thus, the two-year statute of limitations
that Defendant applies to the “bad faith” tort cause of action expired on
November 20, 2021, and the four-year statute of limitations that Defendant
applies to the breach of contract cause of action expired on November 20, 2023,
seven days before Plaintiff filed the Complaint. (Id., 8–9.) Defendant
denies that the statutes of limitation were tolled by either Plaintiff’s May 8,
2023 demand for reconsideration or by the COVID-19 pandemic’s emergency rules.
(Id., 9–11.)
 
            The Opposition
 
Plaintiff agrees that the statutes of limitations for all of Plaintiff’s
claims began running on November 20, 2019 but rebuts that California’s
Emergency Rule 9 tolled both statutes of limitations between April 6, 2020 and
October 1, 2020, thereby extending Plaintiff’s deadline to file her claims by
178 days. (Opposition p. 3.) As both parties agree it has a four-year
statute of limitations, this extension would clearly make Plaintiff’s breach of
contract cause of action timely. Plaintiff further argues that her cause of
action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing also
has a four-year statute of limitations and is similarly timely because it
arises in contract, not tort. (Id., p. 5–6.) Finally, Plaintiff seeks
leave to amend if the demurrer is sustained. (Id., p. 6.)
 
            The Reply
 
No reply was timely filed.
 
III. ANALYSIS 
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the
plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244
Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) “If there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend.” (Youngman v.
Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.)
 
A. First Cause of
Action for Breach of Insurance Contract
 
Parties agree that a four-year statute of limitations apply to the first
cause of action for breach of insurance contract. They disagree as to when the
statute of limitations expires on this cause of action, which depends on
whether the statute of limitations was tolled by California’s Emergency Rule 9.
 
Emergency rule 9 was adopted by the Judicial Council during
the COVID-19 pandemic and, as amended, reads: “(a) Tolling statutes of
limitations over 180 days [¶] Notwithstanding any other law, the statutes of
limitations and repose for civil causes of action that exceed 180 days are
tolled from April 6, 2020, until October 1, 2020.” (People v. Financial
Casualty & Surety, Inc. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 879, 885.) “The Advisory
Committee comment explains the application of the rule: ‘Emergency rule 9 is
intended to apply broadly to toll any statute of limitations on the filing of a
pleading in court asserting a civil cause of action.’” (Ibid.) “The
Judicial Council [further] explained the background
of Emergency rule 9, and the reasons for amending it, in
a Circulating Order.” (People v. Financial Casualty & Surety,
Inc. (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 33, 39.) 
 
The Circulating Order begins with a sentence that explains that Emergency Rule
9 was adopted “[t]o protect parties who have a civil cause of action that
accrued before or during the state of emergency related to the COVID-19
pandemic.” (Circulating Order No: CO-20-09, available at https://www.alameda.courts.ca.gov/system/files?file=co-20-09.pdf
p. 1.) The Circulating Order defends the necessity of emergency rule 9 by
clarifying that it “provided parties and attorneys additional time to
investigate, gather information and evidence, and determine whether to file an
action.” (Id., p. 4.) It defends the amendment shortening the tolling
period by explaining that the California stay-at-home order was being lifted
and courts were beginning to open and accept filings. (Id., pp. 4–5.)
And, it defends the amendment’s longer tolling period for statutes of
limitations longer than 180 days by saying that “the matters with longer
statutes of limitations require investigations and information
gathering—actions difficult to complete swiftly in the current chaotic business
environment.” (Id., p. 5.) Finally, under a heading about clarifying the
scope of the rule, the Circulating Order declares that “the rule applies to all
statutory limitation periods for a civil cause of action.” (Id., p. 6.)
Thus, the Circulating Order implies that all litigants whose claims accrued
before or during the COVID-19 pandemic were harmed thereby because of their
inability to investigate or gather information about their claims before
filing, because of the stay-at-home order, and because of court closures. The
Circulating Order further clarifies that the application of Emergency Rule 9 is
not meant to be limited to only some litigants but rather that it should
“broadly apply” to all litigants who had not yet made their initial filings on
claims for which the statute of limitations was running during the COVID-19
pandemic.
 
Defendant relies on Shubin v. Universal Vacation Club to establish
that “courts determining the application of Emergency Rule 9 have considered
whether a plaintiff faced any extraordinary circumstances due to COVID-19 that
prevented the timely filing of their lawsuit.” (Shubin v. Universal Vacation
Club (2022) 622 F.Supp.3d 849, 853.) However, Shubin v. Universal
Vacation Club deals with “a diversity case in federal court,” where there
has been hesitancy to apply Emergency Rule 9, “at least in cases exercising
federal question jurisdiction,” “in part [because] Emergency Rule 9 was issued
by the California Judicial Council, and not any federal court or body.” (Ibid.)
The federal court in that case believed it to be “unclear” if Emergency Rule 9
applied specifically to federal diversity cases. (Id., n. 1.) And, even Shubin
v. Universal Vacation Club reiterates that Emergency Rule 9 clearly applies
in California state courts. (Id., 852–53.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff is not required to plead any hardship due to the COVID-19
pandemic, and we find that Emergency Rule 9 did toll the statutes of
limitations for her causes of action between April 6, 2020, until October 1,
2020, affording her 178 extra days to file her causes of action. Therefore, her
cause of action for breach of insurance contract is timely so long as it is
filed within 4 years and 178 days of November 20, 2019, or by May 16, 2024,
assuming that Plaintiff filed her claim with Defendant on the same day as the
auto collision. As Plaintiff filed the Complaint before that date, this cause
of action is timely.
 
Accordingly, because Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of insurance
contract is not time barred, this court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the first
cause of action.
 
B. Second Cause of
Action for Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Parties disagree as to what statute of limitations applies to Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing. Defendant applies a two-year statute of limitations for tort
remedies thereunder whereas Plaintiff would apply a four-year statute of
limitations for contract remedies.
 
An insurer’s breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
commonly referred to as “bad faith,” “sounds in both contract and tort.” (Crisci
v. Security Ins. Co. of New Haven, Conn. (1967) 66 Cal.2d 425, 432; Archdale
v. American Internat. Specialty Lines Ins. Co. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 449,
n. 19; Frazier v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d
90, 101.) “[W]here a case sounds both in contract and tort the plaintiff will
ordinarily have freedom of election between an action of tort and one of
contract.” (Crisci v. Security Ins. Co. of New Haven, Conn., supra
at 432.) While Defendant cites a number of cases to support its application of
a two-year statute of limitations, these cases all refer to tort actions for
bad faith and Defendant does not address contract actions for the same. “There
is a significant difference, however, in the available remedies.” (Archdale
v. American Internat. Specialty Lines Ins. Co., supra at
n. 19.) “Whether the insured's remedy will be in contract or tort will
depend on the nature of the relief or recovery sought by the insured.” (Id.,
466.) An insured’s claim brought in tort will have broader remedies available,
but a shorter statute of limitations, where the same claim brought in contract
will have a longer statute of limitations but “then recovery is limited to
those damages recoverable in contract.” (Id., n. 19.) Moreover, a
plaintiff’s election to initially proceed on a tort rather than a contract
theory does not later preclude that plaintiff from changing her election to
proceed on a contract theory. (Frazier v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., supra,
101–02.)
 
Here, Plaintiff is free to elect to proceed on her cause of action for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing on a contract
theory rather than a tort theory. This is true even though the Complaint
specifies that the cause of action is for “tortious” breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing because, following Frazier v.
Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., supra, 101–02, Plaintiff may change her
election after filing her initial pleadings. This election extends to Plaintiff
a four-year statute of limitations, though it also limits her remedies. Once we
find that the four-year statute of limitations applies, we may further find
that Emergency Rule 9 tolled the statute of limitations between April 6, 2020,
until October 1, 2020 and that this cause of action is timely brought so long
as it is filed before May 16, 2024, assuming that Plaintiff filed her claim
with Defendant on the same day as the auto collision.
 
Accordingly, because Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing is not time barred, this court OVERRULES
the Demurrer to the second cause of action.
 
C. The Request for
Judicial Notice
 
“Judicial notice is the recognition and acceptance by the court,
for use by the trier of fact or by the court, of the existence of a matter of
law or fact that is relevant to an issue in the action without requiring formal
proof of the matter.” (Unruh-Haxton v. Regents of University of California
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 343, 364.) “Judicial notice may not be taken
of any matter unless authorized or required by law.” (Cal. Evid. C.
§ 450.) Matters subject to judicial notice are listed in
Cal. Evid. C. §§ 451–452. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General
Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) “The underlying theory
of judicial notice is that the matter
being judicially noticed is a law or fact that is not
reasonably subject to dispute.” (Lockley v. Law Office of
Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882
(emphasis original).) “Although the existence of a document
may be judicially noticeable, the truth of statements contained in
the document and its proper interpretation are not subject
to judicial notice if those matters are reasonably disputable.”
(Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp., supra, 113
(emphasis original); Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of
California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 836.) 
 
Courts may take judicial notice of the existence of a document. (Unruh-Haxton
v. Regents of University of California, supra, 364–65.) Courts may
take judicial notice of the existence of a “legally operative document—like a
contract”—and of “facts that clearly derive from its legal effect.” (Scott
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 754 (emphasis
removed).) “When a court is asked to take judicial notice of a document, the
propriety of the court's action depends upon the nature of the facts of which
the court takes notice from the document.” (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 265.) “[A] court may take judicial notice
of the fact of a document's recordation, the date the document was recorded and
executed, the parties to the transaction reflected in a recorded document, and
the document's legally operative language, assuming there is no genuine dispute
regarding the document's authenticity.” (Ibid.)
 
Defendant seeks judicial notice of a document, the Denial Letter. (Request
for Judicial Notice p. 2.) First, we note that “[s]trictly speaking, a court
takes judicial notice of facts, not documents.” (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A., supra, 265.) Defendant clarifies in a footnote that it “is
not seeking judicial notice of any contents of the letter besides its calendar
date,” presumably to establish the date on which the statutes of limitations on
Plaintiff’s claims began to run. (Request for Judicial Notice p. 2.) Effectively,
Defendant asks this court to take judicial notice of the existence of the
Denial Letter, the date of the Denial Letter, the names in the Denial Letter, and
the Denial Letter’s effect, which was to deny Plaintiff’s insurance claim. This
is permissible. (See Julian Volunteer Fire Co. Assn. v. Julian-Cuyamaca Fire
Protection Dist. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 583, 600 (“In
taking judicial notice of an official document, a court may take
notice not only of the fact of the document but also facts that can be deduced,
and/or clearly derived from, its legal effect, such as the names
and dates contained in the document, and the legal consequences
of the document.”).) 
 
We note that the Denial Letter differs from the documents of which judicial
notice is taken in the above cited cases because the Denial Letter is not an
official document that has been either generated or authenticated by a
government entity nor is it a recorded document like a deed of trust. However,
we do not believe this difference prevents the Denial Letter from being
judicially noticed. Rather, these cases emphasize the official nature of the
documents because that nature creates the statutory authorization for judicial
notice to be taken thereof under Cal. Evid. C. § 452(c). Defendant relies
on a footnote in Ingram v. Flippo (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1280, n. 3 for
its assertion that “[c]ourts may also take judicial notice of any document
referred to in the complaint where that document forms the basis for
allegations set forth in the complaint.” (Request for Judicial Notice p. 2.) However,
Cal. Evid. C. § 452 also provides authorization for judicial notice to be
taken, including “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Cal. Evid. C. § 452(h).) We
believe that the existence of, date of, names on, and effect of the Denial
Letter are capable of immediate and accurate determination by looking to the
text of the Denial Letter without attempting to interpret its contents.
Moreover, these facts and propositions are not subject to dispute, as Plaintiff
does not dispute them.
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the request for judicial notice of the
existence of the Denial Letter, the date on the Denial Letter, the names in the
Denial Letter, and the effect of the Denial Letter.
 
IV. CONCLUSION
 
Overrule the Demurrer in its entirety. Grant the request for judicial
notice.
 
 
Dated:  February 21, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge of the
Superior Court