  Case Number:  23CECV01876    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Mahesh C. Sood,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   vs.
 
Teresita N.
  Sood, Trustee Service Corporation, Citibank N.A., Ally Bank, MERS, Executive
  Trustee Services, Inc., and Does 1–100, inclusive
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   23VECV01876                   107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:       
(1)  Motion to Compel Responses to Special
  Interrogatories, 
(2)  Motion to Compel Responses to Form
  Interrogatories, and 
(3)  Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for
  Production of Documents



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE:]
 
The Motions to Compel are GRANTED. Teresita’s request for sanctions against
Mahesh is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $992.00.
 
BACKGROUND
 
I.         Factual
 
The following factual background is drawn from
the Complaint (as defined below.)
 
Plaintiff Mahesh C. Sood (“Mahesh”) and defendant
Teresita N. Sood (“Teresita”) are co-owners of a certain real property (the
“Property”). The remaining named defendants (“Lenders” and, together with
Teresita, “Defendants”) are lenders or other parties who may have an interest
in the Property.
 
During his ownership of the Property, Mahesh
spent over $100,000.00 on the Property, including on maintenance, improvements,
and taxes. Mahesh has demanded Teresita pay “[her] share of such costs and
expenses paid and advanced by [Mahesh],” but she has refused to do so. Mahesh
desires and has demanded that the Property be partitioned, but Teresita has
refused to consent to a partition. 
 
Mahesh now seeks partition by sale of the
Property, restitution of 50% of the money he spent on the Property, attorney’s
fees, and costs.
 
II.        Procedural
 
On April 28, 2023, Mahesh filed a complaint (the
“Complaint”) against Defendants with causes of action for (1) partition of real
property by sale and restitution as deduction against defendant’s interest in
proceeds of sale, and (2) restitution based on unjust enrichment.
 
On November 8, 2023, Teresita propounded on
Mahesh a set of special interrogatories, a set of form interrogatories, and a
set of requests for production. (Miller Decl. ¶ 2.) Mahesh did not respond
to any of the discovery requests by their response deadlines. (Id.,
¶ 3.) Teresita’s counsel then sought to meet and confer with Mahesh, but
Mahesh again did not respond. (Id., ¶¶ 4–5.)
 
On January 22, 2024, Teresita filed the three
instant motions to compel (the “Motions”) against Mahesh. The Motions are
unopposed. [NOTE: The filing deadline for any opposition was February 6, 2024.]
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.         “Meet and Confer”
 
“Unlike a motion to compel further responses,
a motion to compel responses is not subject to a 45–day
time limit, and the propounding party does not have to demonstrate either good
cause or that it satisfied a ‘meet and confer’ requirement.” (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) Because no response has been provided to the instant
discovery requests and Plaintiff files motions to compel, not motions to compel
further, there is no requirement for parties to meet and confer prior to the
filing of the Motions.
 
II.        Responses to Discovery Requests 
 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed
fails to serve a timely response,…[t]he party propounding the interrogatories
may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.” (Cal. C.
Civ. Proc. § 2030.290.) And, “a party's failure to object to
interrogatories within 30 days, or such additional time as extended by the
court, constitutes a waiver of any right to object.” (Leach v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Similarly, “[i]f a party to
whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it,… [t]he party
to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand [and]…[t]he party
making the demand may move for an order compelling response to
the demand.” (Cal. C. Civ. Proc. § 2031.300.) In the absence of any
response to the discovery request, all that a motion to compel need show is
that a set of interrogatories was properly
served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no
response of any kind has been served. (See id., 905–06.)
 
Teresita attaches to the Motions evidence that
each discovery request was properly served on Mahesh’s attorney by mail at his
correct address on November 8, 2023. (Motions Exh. “1.”) Mahesh’s responses
thereto were therefore due 35 days later, on December 13, 2023. (Cal. C. Civ.
Proc. §§ 1013(a), 2016.050, 2030.260(a), 2031.260(a).) Teresita attaches
to the Motions evidence that no response of any kind to any of the three
discovery requests was received by that response due date or thereafter. (Miller
Decl. ¶ 5.) Thus, Teresita has met her burden of showing that the Motions
are necessary.
 
Accordingly, Teresita’s motion to compel
responses to special interrogatories is GRANTED; Teresita’s motion to compel
responses to form interrogatories is GRANTED; and Teresita’s motion to compel
responses to requests for production of documents is GRANTED.
 
III.      Sanctions
 
Sanctions are mandatory against the party, the attorney, or both whose
failure to serve a timely response to the request necessitated the motion to
deem request for admissions as admitted. CCP § 2033.280(c); see also Cal. Rules
of Court R. 3.1348(a) (the court can award sanctions under the Discovery Act in
favor of a party seeking to compel discovery even though no opposition was
filed, the opposition was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to
the moving party after the motion was filed). “As to the amount
of sanctions, Cal. C. Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a) authorizes
the trial court to impose an amount representing ‘the reasonable expenses,
including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result’ of a party's misuse
of the discovery process. (Parker v. Wolters Kluwer United States, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 285, 294.)
 
Each of the Motions request sanctions in the amount of $1,510.00 for a
total of $4,530.00. This is based upon five hours of attorney time for each
Motion at a rate of $290.00 per hour plus a $60.00 expense to file each Motion.
Teresita attaches a declaration by her attorney to each Motion, however, that
explains that the five-hour estimates were reached by summing 0.3 hours for
drafting each meet and confer letter, 1.5 hours to prepare each Motion and
assemble the Motion’s exhibits, and 3.2 hours to review Mahesh’s opposition,
prepare a reply, and appear at the hearing. (Miller Decl. ¶¶ 6–8.) 
 
These calculations reveal some duplication in time. First, we note that no
oppositions were ever filed, thus Teresita’s attorney never needed to review
such oppositions or prepare replies. Second, the Motions are now being heard
together, meaning Teresita’s attorney only needs to appear at one hearing. He
notes that the hearing will take “additional time since [his] office is in Van
Nuys,” but we note that the courthouse in this case is conveniently also
located in Van Nuys and is, in fact, less than four miles away from his office.
We believe that an hour would cover both his travel time to and from the
courthouse and appearance time at the hearing on the Motions. Thirdly, we
notice that the three meet and confer letters are nearly identical and were all
emailed on the same day. We therefore believe Teresita’s attorney should only
be permitted to bill 0.3 hours once for all three letters. Lastly, we notice
that the Motions are nearly identical and were all filed on the same day. We
therefore believe Teresita’s attorney should only be permitted to bill 1.5
hours once for all three Motions. Thus, we believe that the reasonable amount
of attorney time spent on the Motions is the sum of one hour, 0.3 hours, and
1.5 hours, or 2.8 hours. 2.8 hours billed at a rate of $290.00 per hour sums to
$812.00. Adding the $180.00 expense to file the Motions, we believe Teresita is
entitled to recover $992.00 in sanctions.
 
Accordingly, Teresita’s request for sanctions against Mahesh is GRANTED in
the reduced amount of $992.00. Sanctions are payable within 30 days of service
of this order.
 
 
 
 
Dated:  February 21, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge of the
Superior Court