 Case Number:  24STCV24786    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Permitting Informal Service of Process
Plaintiff Henry Azaryan moves for an
order permitting informal service of process on defendant Anahit Arakelyan.  Code of Civil Procedure 413.10, subdivision
(c) provides that a summons may be served “[o]utside the United States, as
provided in this chapter or as directed by the court in which the action is
pending, or, if the court before or after service finds that the service is
reasonably calculated to give actual notice, as prescribed by the law of the
place where the person is served or as directed by the foreign authority in
response to a letter rogatory.  These
rules are subject to the provisions of the Convention on the ‘Service Abroad of
Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents’ in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague
Service Convention).”  
Service of process outside the United
States must both comply with California law and the Hague Service Convention.  (Rockefeller Technology Investments (Asia)
VII v. Changzhou SinoType Technology Co., Ltd. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 125, 138 [“
‘Failure to comply with the Hague Service Convention procedures voids the
service even though it was made in compliance with California law’ ”].)  
Defendant lives in Yerevan,
Armenia.  (Balayan Decl., ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff seeks to serve defendant via a
private process server rather than the Central Authority of Armenia.  Service of process via personal delivery by a
private process server is the typical manner of service under California
law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)  
This manner of service is also
permitted by the Hague Service Convention. 
The treaty permits service by informal means when (1) “the receiving
state has not objected to” the manner of service and (2) the manner of service
“is authorized under otherwise-applicable law.” 
(Water Splash, Inc. v. Menon (2017) 581 U.S. 271, 284 [allowing
service by mail].)  “Armenia is a
signatory” to the Hague Service Convention and has not “made any objections to
any of the Hague Convention’s provisions.” 
(Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Khachatryan (C.D. Cal., Sept. 20,
2021, No. 220CV10020ABPVCX) 2021 WL 5862454, at *2; see also Nelson Decl., ¶
3.)  
Plaintiff shows good cause for an
order permitting informal service of process outside the United States under
Code of Civil Procedure 413.10, subdivision (c).  Plaintiff presents testimony by Nelson Tucker,
who has written multiple books on service of process and has extensive
experience with international service of process in Armenia.  (Tucker Decl., ¶ 1.)  Tucker states, “The most common and customary
method for service in Armenia is the informal method.”  (Id., ¶ 3.)  Tucker also states that service via the
Central Authority of Armenia results in “serious time delays”, increased “cost
of translation,” and will not result in a sufficient proof of service under
California law.  (Id., ¶ 4.)  
Disposition
Plaintiff Henry Azaryan’s motion for
an order permitting informal service of process on defendant Anahit Arakelyan
is granted.  The court hereby
orders that plaintiff may serve the summons and complaint on defendant in
Armenia via personal delivery by a private process server. 
 