 Case Number:  23SMCV02412    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to quash service of process for lack of
personal jurisdiction brought by defendant Gershon, Apyx’s former CEO.  Gershon is a New York resident.
 
At the outset, the court has a question regarding
representation.  Counsel for plaintiff
includes attorney Kimball Jones.  Jones
is not licensed in California and the court is aware of no pro hac vice
application relating to Jones.  Jones’s
partner, Ryan Loosvelt, is a California attorney, but that does not mean that
Jones can practice law here.  The
opposition brief appears to have been signed by Jones, not Loosvelt.  (Jones also signed the declaration, but that
is not a problem.)  Before addressing the
merits, the court needs to resolve this issue. 
Assuming the court can get past this question, what follows are the
court’s thoughts.
 
Personal jurisdiction is a concept unique to the United
States.  It grows out of the fact that
the country is made up of a union of sovereign states.  Because the states are sovereign in their own
right, the concept developed that suit could not be brought in one state
against a citizen of another state unless doing so comported with due
process.  So far as this court knows, in
every other country in the world there is no jurisdictional issue about suing
someone far from home.  There are
questions of proper venue, to be sure. 
And there could be statutes or rules that govern where suits can be
brought.  But there is no sovereign
jurisdictional power bar to suit.  Yet in
the United States, it has been the rule since Pennoyer v. Neff and
before (the bane of every first year law student) that one state cannot
exercise personal jurisdiction against a citizen or resident of another state
absent certain features.  As the doctrine
has developed, personal jurisdiction comes in two flavors.  The first is general jurisdiction.  That exists where the defendant’s contacts
with the state in question are so broad and pervasive that it is proper to sue
the defendant in that state for anything. 
For example, if a defendant owns a home in California and lives here 5
months out of every year, the defendant can be sued in California for
anything.  The lawsuit does not have to
be related to anything that defendant did in California; the thought is that
the defendant has such deep ties to the state that there is no question of the state’s
power to adjudicate a claim against that person.  The second flavor (and the one more commonly
litigated) is special or specific jurisdiction. 
This occurs where the defendant’s contacts with California are not so
pervasive as to make it proper to sue the defendant here for everything, but
where the defendant has availed itself of California’s laws and protections and
the litigation grows out of those contacts. 
Often referred to as “minimum contacts,” such jurisdiction is limited to
the events arising from the contacts. 
The easy example would be where a person living in another state decides
to take a vacation in California.  It
could be the first time that defendant has set foot in the state or had
anything to do with the state, but during the two day vacation, the defendant
causes an auto accident.  There will be
no bar to suing the defendant for an injury caused by the accident even though
it would not be proper to sue the defendant here for just about anything
else.  Finally, even if there are minimum
contacts such that the suit arises out of the contacts with the state, it still
must be fair to hail the defendant to California for the suit.  If that is all true, then California has the power
to hold the defendant to account for the alleged wrong.  (Of course, there still could be questions of
venue or convenient forum.   But those
are generally not questions of state power.) 
Specifically, the plaintiff must establish (for specific jurisdiction)
that the defendant has “purposefully availed himself of the privilege of
conducting activities in California, thereby invoking the benefits and
protections of its laws” and (2) that the claim arises out of those
activities.  If that is established, then
the defendant can try to show that the exercise of jurisdiction would not be
“fair and reasonable” and would not “comport with notions of fair play and
substantial justice.”  (F. Hoffman-La
Roche, Ltd. v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.)  Purposeful availment is generally where the
nonresident directs activities at forum residents or derived benefit from forum
activities, or availed itself of the privilege of conducting activities here,
or engaged in significant activities here or created continuing obligations
with a resident here.  (Gilmore Bank
v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1558.)  The test is in the disjunctive.
 
And that is the simple version.  A whole host of rules have grown up to
account for many of the troubling issues as to what it means to avail ones’
self of California’s laws.  So, for
example, if the defendant stands on the Nevada/California border (Nevada side)
and shoots a gun at a person standing on the California side, there is
jurisdiction, even though one might say that the defendant did not avail itself
of California’s laws or protections.  And
what about an employee?  If an employee
who otherwise has no ties at all to California comes to this state to sign a
contract on behalf of the employer, is that employee subject to California
jurisdiction for a wrong arising from the contract?  There are rules that suggest that an employee
in California at the behest of an employer cannot be viewed as having availed
itself of California protections to the extent of wrongs committed by the
employer (but the employee could be liable for wrongs committed outside or
beyond the scope of the employment) based on those contacts.  And in so many contexts where personal
jurisdiction is at play, the answer to the general question will be the most
common of answers in jurisprudence: “It depends.”
 
One starts with the allegations in the complaint.  Some complaints so plainly lack a basis for
personal jurisdiction, that little more need be said.  For example, if the complaint that alleges
that a Californian was driving in Iowa and got into an accident caused by an
Iowan with no ties to California, the plaintiff will be hard pressed to get
beyond the pleading stage where the defendant asserts a lack of California
contact.
 
But very few cases are resolved there.  What usually happens, and happened here, is
that the complaint is alleged what the plaintiff believes would be sufficient
contacts and the defendant, appearing specially for the purpose of contesting
jurisdiction, files a motion to quash service of the summons.  The motion is generally accompanied by a
declaration that establishes, at least facially, that there is no jurisdiction
here.  To resolve the motion the court
cannot rely on the complaint’s allegations. 
Allegations are not facts and they are not evidence.  Rather, it is the plaintiff’s burden to
establish jurisdiction, and that must be done using evidence, not theories or
allegations.  
 
Here, Gershon states that he is a New York resident.  He denies ever having availed himself of
California jurisdiction or protection, or at least in any way having anything
to do with this case.  He asserts that he
lacks sufficient contacts for there to be general jurisdiction over him, and he
states that everything he is alleged to have done was done in his capacity as
CEO of Apyx.
 
In opposition, plaintiff contends that Gershon was one of
the major architects of the plan to market the product in question even though
Apyx (and Gershon) knew that the product had not been approved for the use they
were pressing and could cause harm to patients. 
The claim is that this marketing plan was designed to increase sales
(and therefore profits), and that the marketing targeted California as well as
other states.  The marketing in general
is alleged to have been not only to doctors to recommend to patients, but also
to patients directly, although Gershon is not alleged to have marketed anything
personally.  Plaintiff also asserts that
Apyx’s web site shows that its employees are sent to California routinely for
trade shows.  The long and short of it is
that Gershon is alleged to be a knowing participant in a plan to sell a product
throughout the country—including in California—that Gershon knew could cause
harm and for a use for which the product was not fit.  Thus, the argument goes, while Gershon did
not know that plaintiff herself would be injured—and there is no claim that
Gershon did anything where Gershon was even aware of this specific
plaintiff—Gershon knew that the product would be sold in California, money
would come out of California and into Apyx’s coffers, and that people in
California would be harmed.
 
Plaintiff’s major authority for the proposition that this is
enough is Calder v. Jones (1984) 465 U.S. 783.  But that case does not really get plaintiff
where plaintiff needs to go.  In Calder,
the National Enquirer ran an allegedly defamatory story against actress
Shirley Jones.  Jones sued the Enquirer
and Calder (the Enquirer’s editor-in-chief) in California.  The defense argued a lack of personal
jurisdiction.  The Supreme Court,
unanimously, felt differently, affirming the determination that California had
jurisdiction.  The High Court noted that
the conduct in questino was aimed at California.  Calder knew that Jones lived here, and that
the defamatory statements would thus cause the bulk of the injury to be felt
uniquely in California.  The sources for
the story largely came from calls made to California.  The Court concluded that defendants could not
aim the harm directly at California and then claim it is unfair to be sued
here.  But that simply is not the
situation in the case at bench.  The
product was being sold throughout the United States.  There is no claim that it was being marketed
solely or even predominantly in California. 
There was no target consumer that was unique to California.  While plaintiff is a Californian, the harm
was not directed to her personally; it was allegedly directed everywhere.  Calder does not go so far as to create
nationwide jurisdiction for such a set of facts.  Plaintiff also notes that physical presence
is not required.  Of course, Calder
says that.  Other forms of contact—such
as calls or communications—may be sufficient even without a physical
presence.  But the cases still require
more than just that some phone call be made to someone who happens to be in
California.  
 
Plaintiff also argues that an employee is not shielded from
jurisdiction merely because the employee is not independent.  That is, or can be, true.  Thus, where the employee comes to California
to commit an intentional tort, the fact that the employee works for an entity
is no shield.  To take an easy example,
if Gershon had travelled to California to pitch the device to the California
doctor who performed the procedure on plaintiff, all the while knowing that the
product was dangerous and could cause harm but instead telling the doctor that
the product was completely safe, that might well be enough.  While Gershon would have been acting as an
employee in the hypothetical, an employee cannot come to California and commit
an intentional tort and then hide behind the employment.  But, again, the fact is that the complaint
does not allege that Gershon did any such thing.
 
And plaintiff argues that the individuals and Apyx formed a
“Joint Venture” such that all are equally subject to the jurisdiction.  The court is not even sure that is the
law.  There could well be a joint venture
formed, although the court does not believe that joint ventures are formed
between a company and its employees acting within the course and scope of
employment.  But even putting that issue
to one side, the law is not that every joint venturer will be subject to
personal jurisdiction wherever any of them are subject to personal
jurisdiction.
 
Further, even if any of those allegations would be enough,
they would only be enough if true. 
Plaintiff would need to do more than allege them; plaintiff would have
to present evidence to support them. 
None has been presented here other than the website.
 
Boiled down to its essentials, plaintiff is alleging that
Gershon (and various others) participated knowingly in a scheme to market and
sell the product throughout the United States, deliberately setting up a
campaign to oversell it by making promises that they had no reason to believe
were true and hiding the harm that they knew the product was causing.  California was, presumably, a major
market—after all, it is one of the largest economies in the world—and the revenues
coming from California increased not only Apyx’s profits, but also (at least
allegedly) the compensation paid to Gershon and others.  While California was not the specific
target—the whole country was—defendants allegedly knew that much harm would be caused
in California.  Plaintiff’s argument is
that the fact that defendants engaged in this misconduct via computer does not
shield them from being called to account in whatever jurisdiction the known and
predictable harm manifests and that where the alleged course of conduct is
aimed everywhere, personal jurisdiction is appropriate anywhere.
 
In reply, Gershon spends some time arguing that counsel’s
declaration is not evidence.  And that is
correct.  But what that does is lead to
the question whether plaintiff should be allowed to take jurisdictional
discovery to obtain evidence to support the allegations.  Generally, where there is a question as to
jurisdiction, a plaintiff can request to take jurisdictional discovery.  Even if it winds up that this court lacks
personal jurisdiction over Gershon, a court always has jurisdiction to decide
if it has jurisdiction.  And
jurisdictional discovery is a part of that.
 
So, then, turning to a resolution of the merits, defendant
points out, correctly, that mere foreseeability of harm to a person in the
jurisdiction, without more, is not enough for jurisdiction, citing the
unanimous decision in Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, a case that,
fairly read, seems to walk back some of the dicta in Calder.  There, a Georgia law enforcement official
allegedly wrote a false probable cause statement in an effort to cause harm to
a person the defendant knew lived in Nevada (by allowing the government to keep
cash that was seized as plaintiffs were getting on a plane to go back to
Nevada).  The Supreme Court well
understood and accepted that the defendant knew that the purported victim lived
in Nevada and that the fallout from the statement would be felt in Nevada—not
Georgia.  But that was not enough because
it focused the contact test on the plaintiff, not the defendant.  In other words, it is not the plaintiff’s
contacts that matter; it is the defendant’s actions as those actions relate to
the forum state that matter.  In short,
jurisdiction must be established from defendant’s in-state activities,
although those activities do not require physical presence necessarily.  And that is a key takeaway.  The fact that plaintiff is a Californian is
of no moment at all.  The question is
whether Gershon took some act to avail himself of California law or protection.
 
But Gershon never really deals with the key question (and
plaintiff does not either).  Generally,
at least, placing goods within the stream of commerce is not enough without
more, even though it is likely or even certain that some of them will land in
California.  (Carretti v. Italpast (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 1236.)  But it could be that if enough of the stream
flows through California—and if California is the major target of that stream
of commerce—it could suffice.  At
present, though, there is no evidence that Gershon earned any substantial
income from California sales (as opposed to Apyx) or that he (or anyone else)
targeted California especially.  The fact
that as a general rule Gershon would do better as Apyx does better is not, in
the court’s view, enough.  But if there
is a direct through-line between a dollar earned in California and a sum given
to Gershon, and if there is evidence that he directed the product to California
directly, the analysis might be different. 
As stated above, it is not enough that Gershon acted on Apyx’s
behalf.  Corporations can only act
through individuals; personal jurisdiction law has not developed, though, to
the point of conflating the two.  (Ruger v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 427; Mihlon v. Superior Court (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703.)  It is simply not the law that a corporate
employee is subject to jurisdiction wherever the company is subject to
jurisdiction if the employee played an important role in the facts leading to
the tort.  But if the facts establish that
the individual engaged in a deliberate and intentional tort, and had sufficient
contacts with California while doing so, it could be enough.
 
The court’s initial
thinking is that plaintiff has not demonstrated—even through allegations—that
Gershon has committed acts personally that would constitute purposeful
availment in California that would be sufficient to establish minimum contacts
for purposeful jurisdiction.  The only
question in the court’s mind that remains is whether allegations that a
corporate officer engaged in intentional misconduct could be sufficient.  The court believes the answer is “no,” at
least without more.  But the court will
give the parties an opportunity to brief it before ruling definitively.  Pending that briefing, the other
jurisdictional motions will be held in abeyance.