  Case Number:  20SMCV00636    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion for leave to amend.  It raises a number of concerns.
 
The case is one for malpractice.  Plaintiffs are former clients of
defendant.  The underlying case involves
the purchase of a home.  Plaintiffs
bought a home and, shortly after closing, they started to discover numerous and
substantial problems with it.  They
retained defendant to represent them in a potential suit against the
developer/seller.  Initially defendant
reached out to the seller.  The seller’s
lawyer responded and there was a settlement overture.  The gist of the initial overture was
rescission—the seller would return the money paid and take back the home.  However, as became clear, the seller was
willing to make plaintiffs whole for additional costs to some degree.  Defendant wrote an optimistic email to
plaintiffs suggesting that the defendant was willing to make them completely
whole.  Plaintiffs seemed
enthusiastic.  It quickly became apparent
that the seller had no problem returning not only the sale price, but also
additional sums paid for enhancements. 
That was all well and good so far as it went, but plaintiffs had
incurred other costs, in part to do repairs and in part as consequential
expenses and they wanted that money back as well.  Defendant wrote back and informed the seller
that there were those other costs and that any settlement pre-mediation had to
make plaintiffs whole for that.  And this
is where things get a bit murkier.
 
As the court originally understood it, and as defendant
suggested was the case, the only thing that the sellers affirmatively stated
that they were willing to do was repay plaintiffs the money that they had paid
for the home plus the enhancements, which was $3.618 million, and plaintiffs
would return the home.  According to the
defense, plaintiffs rejected that sum as insufficient.  After plaintiffs discharged defendant and
brought in new counsel, the case against the seller settled for $650,000 (with
plaintiffs keeping the property). 
Plaintiffs sued for malpractice. 
The defendant moved for summary judgment arguing that plaintiffs could
not show that, but for the asserted malpractice, a better result would have
been obtained.  In the moving papers,
defendant adverted to the rescission plus enhancement offer that plaintiffs had
rejected—a better offer (perhaps) than the ultimate settlement.  In opposition, plaintiffs seemed to attempt
to back track from their deposition, where they admitted that the rescission
plus enhancement offer was unacceptable, and seemed to suggest that they might
have accepted that and it was malpractice for defendant not to accept that
offer.  Their theory became that they
were never actually told of the seller’s offer, and thus were not given a
chance to accept.  The court was
initially inclined to grant the motion for summary judgment.  It was clear from the evidence that the
rescission plus enhancement offer was not acceptable to the plaintiffs, and it
did not appear from the record at the time of the first hearing that defendant
had ever indicated that it would have gone higher.  To defeat summary judgment there had to be
some reason to believe that the defendant would have paid a number that
plaintiffs would have accepted but that defendant did not convey that or that
defendant had mis-litigated the case such that a better offer than rescission
would have been forthcoming but for the malpractice and plaintiffs would have
taken it.
 
However, the court did allow further briefing.  Plaintiffs’ counsel indicated that the file
was somewhat new to her, and there were issues as to what plaintiffs knew and
when they knew it.  Then, in the final
supplemental brief, the court finally saw the entire email chain.  In it, defendant wrote to seller’s counsel
and said that for his clients to settle, the seller would have to not only pay
rescission plus enhancements, but also make plaintiffs whole for other
incidental expenses including additional repairs and other costs.  The email exchange as pertinent to this issue
is as follows.  On April 13, 2017,
defendant wrote sellers counsel saying that he was meeting with plaintiffs to
try and get “their out-of-pocket costs on top of the purchase price.”  He went on to ask “I just want to make sure
we’re on the same page.  We rescind, and
my client also will be getting all of their upgrade and out of pocket
expenses.  Correct?”  That led to the upgrade/enhancement
discussion of the $120,000 beyond the price.  And in an email later that day responding to
the seller’s counsel’s question as to what was meant by upgrade, defendant
wrote about the $120,000 as well as stating that plaintiffs were “looking at
several hundred thousand dollars out-of-pocket. 
We’re looking at a house which has gone up in value and my clients have
now lost that appreciation, we’re looking at a house which is basically
irreplaceable because there’s no inventory of these new McMansions etc. etc. so
maybe it would be a good idea if we do a formal mediation.  What do you think?”  The response later that day was “I think that
there is a deal to be had, I need something formal from you on exactly what
rescission looks like[.]”  Defendant’s
response (later the same day) was: “I think we should go straight to
mediation.  If your client thinks the
concept of full reimbursement is not on the table, why waste time?  The numbers are what they are, but it’s the
concept I’m interested in.  The house has
gone up in value to 4.2 [fixed of course], and we presume your client is not
trying to make a profit on our clients and doesn’t think all the fixtures and
finishing pieces are his for free???What about the fact that your client bought
our clients’ home, below market, and now my clients have no place to move
to?  How do we handle that?  Many issues and so mediation looks
best.”  (Brackets in original.)  Defendant went on to say “We need to know if
your client agrees to pay our clients back for all money expended that cannot
be taken with them. . . . Let me know. 
ty.”  Sellers’ counsel responded
by agreeing to the $118,000 in enhancements but said “we need to see what you
mean by several hundred thousand out of pocket. 
So please itemize and then we will know.”   Later that day, defendant wrote again.  He said “if you cannot get me an answer on
concept and reimbursement, then we might as well just set up a formal mediation
and deal with it after were [sic] both out of trial.”    The response from seller’s counsel was “I
told you yes.  Get me the exact number and
a breakdown.”  Defendant wrote back
saying his clients were getting the numbers, and it appears that he did ask the
clients for the numbers.  However, no
numbers were ever sent and the court does not believe that there were further
substantive discussions thereafter.
 
But because much of that information came up post briefing,
including some of the critical emails, the court denied the motion for summary
judgment without prejudice.  A series of
late-breaking emails is no way to handle such a motion.  But to be clear, the moving papers included
the email exchange where defendant raised the “several hundred thousand dollars
of out-of-pocket” and also where he discussed some of the out of pockets.  It then included the response where the
$118,000 was agreed to and in which more detail was requested, but it did not
include the email where defendant asked if the seller agreed on concept or the
response “I told you yes.”
 
Plaintiffs’ proposed amended complaint goes to that.  Plaintiffs note that defendant complained at
summary judgment that plaintiffs were moving the goal posts in that the
allegation that defendant had wrongly either not communicated the seller’s
offer to plaintiffs or not concluded the deal with the seller was not the
theory of the complaint.  Plaintiffs do
not want to be precluded from making that claim now.  Defendant contends that it will be
prejudicial to allow the amendment now. 
Plaintiffs’ depositions have been taken, as well as the seller’s
counsel’s deposition.  And there is a
looming trial date.
 
But all of that said, the court is somewhat concerned.  First, the summary judgment moving papers did
not have the full recitation of the email exchange of April 13, 2017.  But that exchange is perhaps different from
how the case was pled (which might well be why the entire chain was not in the
moving papers).  That said, no one is
arguing that the emails are not authentic. 
Of course, the court does not know how much of the chain was
communicated to plaintiffs.  It could be
that all of it was communicated, which means that defendant fully discharged
its duty of keeping the client informed. 
It could be that the problem is that plaintiffs simply would not give a
number to defendant until it was too late. 
It could be that plaintiffs did give the number but defendant’s view
that mediation was better caused defendant not to communicate it to the
seller.  It could be that a number was
given but the seller refused it.  The
court does not know, but this is a material change and it is based on emails
that are not disputed.  The court
believes that, especially given the liberal policy of granting motions to amend
even up to trial, this motion should be GRANTED.
 
The court will therefore allow the amended complaint as a
standalone document by Friday at noon. 
Defendant may file a new answer or other response (if it is a demurrer,
it can only be to the new part) within 30 days thereafter.  Defendant is right that some additional
discovery will need to be done, which will in turn require that the trial date
be moved.  Accordingly, the FSC and trial
dates are VACATED.  The court will
discuss with counsel a new trial schedule and the discovery cut off will be
keyed to the new trial date.  