  Case Number:  23STCV20598    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
CECILIA AREVALO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ADIR INTERNATIONAL, LLC,
  
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV20598
  Hearing Date:  December 11, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s demurrer and motion to
  strike




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff Cecilia
Arevalo filed this employment discrimination action against Defendant Adir
International, LLC. 
            On November 7, 2023, Defendant filed
the instant demurrer and motion to strike. Plaintiff filed her opposition on
November 28, 2023. Defendant filed its reply on December 4, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike,
the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to
strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court notes
that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Schwartz
Decl.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
a. Discrimination and Retaliation  
            Defendant argues that the complaint
fails to allege that the adverse employment actions taken against Plaintiff
were caused by discrimination or retaliation. However, Plaintiff has alleged
that Defendant terminated her because of her age and disability, as well as
engagement in protected activity. (Compl. ¶ 26.) This sufficiently places
Defendant on notice of the claim. The evidentiary facts proving discriminatory
and retaliatory intent should be left for discovery.  
b. Reasonable Accommodation/Failure to
Engage
            Defendant argues that these claims
fail because Plaintiff fails to allege the essential element that “the employee could perform the essential
functions of the job with reasonable accommodation.” (See Nealy v. City of
Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 373.) Plaintiff alleges that she “could
have performed the duties and functions of that position with reasonable
accommodations.” (Compl. ¶ 75.) This is sufficient for pleading purposes. 
However, Defendant
argues that the complaint contradicts itself by admitting that Plaintiff could
not perform the essential functions of her job regardless of accommodation because
Plaintiff was on leave. (See Compl. ¶¶ 20-21.) By that logic, no employee on
leave could ever assert a failure to accommodate claim, because being on leave
necessarily negates the element of being able to perform one’s job functions. Defendant
cites no authority for the proposition that taking medical leave defeats a
failure to accommodate claim as a matter of law. In fact, medical leave is
itself a reasonable accommodation. (Moore v. Regents of University of California
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 243.)  
            The
complaint alleges that Defendant terminated Plaintiff while she was on leave
despite a doctor’s note. (Compl. ¶¶ 21-22.) The complaint alleges that
Defendant refused to accommodate Plaintiff and refused to have any dialogue
with Plaintiff despite being put on notice of Plaintiff’s disability. (Id.,
¶¶ 75, 83.) For pleading purposes, this sufficiently supports a reasonable
inference that Defendant failed to engage with Plaintiff and failed to provide
a reasonable accommodation. Defendant is free to prove that Plaintiff could not
perform the essential functions of her job, or that it provided Plaintiff with reasonable
accommodations including leave. However, that is not a matter to be addressed
on a demurrer. At this stage, the allegations are sufficiently clear to warrant
an answer.   
c.
Derivative Causes of Action 
            The
remaining causes of action are derivative: failure to prevent; declaratory
relief; and wrongful termination in violation of public policy. Defendant
reiterates the same arguments rejected above for these causes of action.
Therefore, the derivative causes of action survive. 
d.
Unfair Competition
            Plaintiff
filed for dismissal of her unfair competition claim on November 30, 2023, and
the dismissal was entered on December 4, 2023. The demurrer is moot as to this
claim.  
 
II. Motion to
Strike
            a. Punitive Damages
            “In
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd.
(c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id.,
subd. (c)(2).) Fraud is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
            The
allegations discussed above, demonstrating intentional discrimination and
retaliation, sufficiently support a finding of malice and oppression for
pleading purposes. Plaintiff is not required to specifically identify a
corporate managing agent at the pleading stage. This is an evidentiary matter
for discovery. Plaintiff has properly pled punitive damages. 
            b. Disgorgement
            Because
Plaintiff has dismissed her UCL claim, there is no basis for disgorgement. This
prayer is stricken. 
            c. Post-Judgment Interest
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has made an untimely claim for post-judgment interest,
considering no judgment has been entered in the case. Plaintiff is entitled to include
a prayer for post-judgment interest in her complaint. Whether she actually
recovers any is addressed separately.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED as to the prayer
for disgorgement and DENIED in all other respects. 
 