  Case Number:  22AHCV00927    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]  ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSE TO WRITTEN DISCOVERY AND TO  HAVE MATTERS DEEMED ADMITTED AND DENYING REQUEST FOR SANCTIONSI.        INTRODUCTION           This case arises out of a vehicle collision that resulted  in the death of Santos Gabino Larrynega (“Decedent”). On October 27, 2022,  Plaintiffs Francisca Gutierrez, individually and as successor to Decedent,  along with Raul Lareinaga Gutierrez, and Saul Lareinaga Gutierrez (collectively  “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Manuel Reyes (“Reyes”), DLR  Express, Inc., and Adrian De La Rosa, alleging causes of action for survival,  and  wrongful death. The complaint  alleges that while Decedent’s vehicle was proceeding straight within his lane, Defendant  Reyes’ vehicle negligently and suddenly merged in front of Decedent’s vehicle,  suddenly braked and stopped without signaling, and Decedent was unable to stop,  and collided with Defendants’ vehicle. The complaint further alleges that  Defendant DLR Express was Reyes’ employer, and De La Rosa owned the vehicle  Reyes was operating.           On June 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this  motion to compel a response to written discovery from Defendant Reyes, for  sanctions, and to have matter in request for admission deemed admitted.            Defendant Reyes filed an opposition on  August 6, 2024.            Plaintiffs have not filed a reply as  of August 15, 2024.             Because Defendant Reyes responded, the  motion is denied.    II.      LEGAL  STANDARD If a party to whom an inspection demand was  directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for  an order compelling responses without objections. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,  subd. (b).) No meet and confer efforts  are required before filing a motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code  Civ. Proc., § Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,  Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390,  411.)    If the court finds that a party has  unsuccessfully made or opposed such a motion, the court “shall impose a  monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction  acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the  imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  Sanctions may be awarded even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or  opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided  to the moving party after the motion was filed. (CRC Rule 3.1348, subd. (a). If a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to  serve a timely response, the requesting party may move for an order that the  truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as  for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The court  “shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for  admission have been directed has served, before the hearing¿on the motion, a  proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial  compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) It  is “mandatory that the Court impose a monetary sanction…on the party or  attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for  admission necessitated this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)   III.     ANALYSIS   As a preliminary  matter, Defendant’s motion is improper because it combines four separate  motions to compel (1. Form Interrogatories; 2. Special Interrogatories; 3. Request  for Production of Documents and 4. Request for Admission).  Multiple motions should not be combined in a  single filing.  “Every direction of a  court or judge, made or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is  denominated an order. An application for an order is a motion.” (CCP § 1003.)  Government Code section 70617 requires payment of a $60 filing fee for each  motion filed with the Court. A party may not circumvent the Government Code  with an omnibus filing. An additional filing fee is required before the Court  may hear the motion.  "In addition, Plaintiff filed a single motion for  what should have been three separate motions. Combining discovery motions  allows the moving party to avoid paying the requisite filing fees. Filing fees  are not jurisdictional and it is mandatory for court clerks to demand and  receive them.” (See Duran v. St. Luke’s Hospital (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th  457, 460.)  This alone is sufficient  basis to deny the instant motion.  (See  also Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The  Rutter Group 2011) ("Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery  requests ordinarily should be filed separately."))   

   Plaintiffs  served demands for production and requests for admission on Defendant Reyes’  counsel on April 22, 2024. (Walston Decl. ¶ 2; Exs. A and B.)  Defendant Reyes did not provide responses by  the May 24, 2024 deadline. (Walston Decl. ¶ 3.)   Plaintiffs therefore seek an order an order to compel a response to  written discovery from Defendant Reyes and to have the requests for admission  deemed admitted.            Defendant Reyes opposes the motion arguing that he served  the outstanding responses on August 6, 2024, prior to the hearing on this  motion. (Bridgman Decl. ¶ 3; Ex. 2.)  The  Court therefore denies Plaintiffs’ motion as moot.            The only remaining issue  is sanctions. Plaintiffs request $1,750 in monetary sanctions against Defendant  Reyes and/or his counsel under section 2033.280(c). (Walston Decl. ¶ 3.) This amount represents 1.5 hours  drafting this motion, 1 hour in drafting a reply, and 1 hour in preparing for  and attending the hearing at counsel’s hourly rate of $500. (Walston Decl. ¶  3.) The Court  declines to award sanctions.  As noted  above, Plaintiffs’ motion was improper and, therefore, it would be improper to award  sanctions.  Furthermore, there was no  meet and confer in this matter.  In his  declaration, Mr. Bridgman states that Plaintiffs never attempted to meet and  confer.  (Bridgman Decl. ¶ 10.)  Defendant does not appear to dispute  this.  Since there was no meet and  confer, Defendant had no opportunity to provide the requested discovery prior  to the drafting of the motion.   IV.     CONCLUSION  AND ORDER           Plaintiffs’ motion is denied.            Defendant to give notice.                          Dated:  August 16, 2024                                                                                                                                                JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT                                                                      