 Case Number:  BC616980    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION
TO ADVANCE MSJ DATEI.         INTRODUCTION
            This
action was filed on April 14, 2016, and arises from a business dispute that
occurred on April 16, 2014, resulting in a physical altercation and ultimately,
the shooting of Plaintiffs Arutyun Fitilchyan (Fitilchan), Hrachya Gasparyan (Gasparyan)
and Defendant Robert Torosian (R. Torosian). Plaintiffs Fitilchyan, Galina
Azumanova, Gasparyan, and Marine Hovhannisayn filed a complaint against
Defendants Akop Torosian aka Jack Torosian (A. Torosian), and R. Torosian. The
complaint alleges causes of action for: 1) assault and battery, 2) conspiracy,
3) negligence, 4) loss of consortium, and 5) intentional infliction of
emotional distress. 
The complaint alleges that
Fitilchyan was contacted by A. Torosian to perform locksmith services for him.
Fitilchyan alleges he was on his way to deliver brochures and schedule the
service when he ran low on fuel. On telephoning A. Torosian about his tardiness,
A. Torosian began to verbally abuse Fitilchyan, which caused Fitilchyan to
decide he was no longer willing to provide the services. Fitilchyan alleges
that after this he went to visit his friend Gasparyan at his body shop.
Fitilchyan alleges that while the two were having coffee at the body shop, A.
Torosian showed up and proceeded to scream obscenities at him and the two of
them got into a scuffle which body shop employees broke up. Fitilchyan alleges
A. Torosian left but then returned with his brother R. Torosian, who charged
Fitilchyan and struck him with his fist. He alleges that A. Torosian then
produced a gun and began shooting at them, in response to which Garparyan
retrieved a gun and returned fire. 
On July 26, 2024, R Torosian filed
this motion to advance the hearing of the pending motion for summary judgment.
On August 5, 2024, Plaintiffs Gasparyan and Hovhannisyan filed an opposition. On
August 9, 2024, R Torosian filed a reply.
The motion to advance the hearing
on the motion for summary judgment is granted as the motion was timely filed
and served, and a trial court may not refuse to hear a timely filed motion for
summary judgment.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1335 states as follows:  
 
(a) Noticed motion or application required 
A party
seeking to advance, specially set, or reset a case for trial must make this
request by noticed motion or ex parte application
under the rules in chapter 4 of this division. 
(b) Grounds for motion or application 
The request
may be granted only upon an affirmative showing by the moving party of good
cause based on a declaration served and filed with the motion or application. 
 
            III.      DISCUSSION
            Defendant R. Torosian (Defendant)
moves to advance the hearing on his Motion for Summary Judgment (MSJ), which is
currently scheduled for October 17, 2024, to a date before and closer to the
current October 8, 2024 trial date. Defendant argues that there is good cause
to advance because he timely filed and personally served his motion on June 25,
2024, which was 105 days before trial, and a court cannot refuse to hear a
timely filed MSJ. Defendant argues he was unable to obtain a hearing date 30
days before the trial date since there were no open dates on the court’s online
reservation system. (Hill Decl., para. 9; Ex. A-F.) 
A party may move for
summary judgment “at any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general
appearance in the action or proceeding of each party against whom the motion is
directed or at any earlier time after the general appearance that the court, with
or without notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)  Notice of the motion and supporting papers
must be served on all other parties at least 75 days before the time appointed
for hearing.  (Id., subd. (a)(2).)  The motion must be heard
no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause
orders otherwise.  (Id., subd. (a)(3).)   
 
“The importance of
providing the minimum statutory notice of a summary judgment hearing cannot be
overemphasized.”  (Robinson v. Woods (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1258,
1262 (Robinson).)  “Because it is potentially case
dispositive and usually requires considerable time and effort to prepare, a
summary judgment motion is perhaps the most important pretrial motion in a
civil case.”  (Ibid.)  “Therefore, the Legislature was
entitled to conclude that parties should be afforded a minimum notice period
for the hearing of summary judgment motions so that they have sufficient time
to assemble the relevant evidence and prepare an adequate opposition.”  (Ibid.) 
Thus, without the parties’ consent, “in light of the express statutory
language, trial courts do not have authority to shorten the minimum notice
period for summary judgment hearings.”  (Ibid.)   
 
 Here, the MSJ was filed and
personally served on June 25, 2024. 105 days (75 days plus 30 days) from June
25, 2024 would be October 8, 2024, the date of trial here. As such, the MSJ was
timely filed and served.  It is well established that a court may not
refuse to hear a summary judgment motion that is timely filed.¿ (Wells Fargo
Bank v. Superior Court¿(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 918, 919¿[“We are asked to
determine whether the trial court may refuse to hear a summary judgment motion
filed within the time limits of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c.¿We
determine it may not”]; Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 207
Cal.App.3d 526, 530¿[“We are sympathetic to the problems the trial courts
experience in calendaring and hearing the many motions for summary judgment.
However, the solution to these problems cannot rest in a refusal to hear timely
motions.”].)¿¿¿¿ 
Plaintiff takes issue with the way the notice dates are
calculated, arguing that the 75 days and 30 days should not be combined into
105 days before trial, but that the court must count backwards 30 days from the
trial date, which lands on a Sunday, and thus, the date would fall on the
Friday before. Then, Plaintiff argues the court should count 75 days from that
Friday. However, the court in Cole v. Superior Court (2022) 87
Cal.App.5th 84, 87, and Wells Fargo, supra, 206 Cal.App.3d 918 combined
the dates this way in its calculation as well. 
Plaintiff also argues that the notice Defendant provided
is invalid, and thus, a new 75-day notice period is required. As such,
Plaintiff argues that the court lacks authority to grant Defendant relief or to
reset the hearing date as there is not enough time before trial. Plaintiff
cites to Robinson v. Woods (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1268 for the
proposition that it has been held that for the motion to be valid, the court
must make the good cause finding before the motion is filed.  The court in Robinson stated:
“[d]efendants noticed their motion for hearing within 30 days of the trial date
without first obtaining a determination of good cause from the trial court.
[Citation.] Unless and until the trial court found good cause, the notice of
the hearing was invalid. . .” However, the inverse is true here. Defendants did
not notice their motion within the 30 days of trial. The motion is noticed
outside the 30 days, and they are asking for a good cause determination here.
Plaintiff also argues that personal service of the motion
was made on Tabatabai on June 26, 2024. However, all Plaintiffs were
represented by Okorocha, who was personally served on June 25, 2024. It was not
until after personal service on Plaintiffs’ Counsel was completed, that
Okorocha was substituted out. Further, Defendant served the MSJ by personal
service, and electronic service does not come into play.
“The fact remains that the motion was
timely filed, and calendaring issues are not a basis on which the trial court
can refuse to hear a timely filed summary judgment motion, absent an indication
that it was defective under section 437c.” (Cole, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th
at 88.)
IV.       CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            The motion
to advance the hearing of the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
            
Dated:  August 16, 2024                                
 
 
                                                                                                                            JARED D. MOSES                                JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                                 