 Case Number:  22STCV31343    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior
Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
BRANDON BLAKE;
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
COLENSO EVELYN;
 
                              Defendant.
 


Case No.:  23STCV31343
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  12/22/23
Trial
  Date:  Not Set
 
 



 
Hearing date:              June 25, 2024
Moving Parties:           Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Colenso Evelyn
Responding Parties:    Plaintiff
and
Cross-Defendant Brandon Blake
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
The court has
considered the moving and opposition papers.
The court DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. 
 
Background
            On
December 22, 2023, Plaintiff Brandon Blake (“Blake”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant Colenso Evelyn (“Evelyn”) for 1) Libel; 2) Unlawful Business
Practices violating Business and Professions Code § 17200; and 3) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
Evelyn filed an
Answer to the Complaint on April 17, 2024. 

On March 13,
2024, Evelyn filed a Cross-Complaint against Blake, Blake & Wang P.A.
(“B&W”), and Saturn Harvest, LLC (“Saturn”) for 1) Breach of Contract; 2)
Contract Fraud; 3) Actual Fraud; 4) Disability Abuse; 5) Recoverin Defrauded
Monies; and 6) Dissolution of Contracts.          
On May 17, 2024, Evelyn filed the instant
motion to compel arbitration. 
On June 11, 2024, the Court continued the
hearing for Evelyn’s motion to provide Blake an opportunity to file an
opposition. That same day, Blake filed his opposition to the motion. 
 
Legal
Standard
Under CCP § 1281, a “written agreement
to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter
arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds as exist
for the revocation of any contract.” A party to an arbitration agreement may
seek a court order compelling the parties to arbitrate a dispute covered by the
agreement. (CCP § 1281.2.) The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a
petition to compel arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific
performance of that contract. (Marcus
& Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68
Cal. App.4th 83, 88.)
When presented with a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court’s first task is to determine whether the parties
have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute. (Id. at 88.) “[A]bsent a clear agreement to submit disputes to
arbitration, courts will not infer that the right to a jury trial has been
waived.” (Adajar v. RWR Homes, Inc. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 563, 569,
internal citations and quotations omitted.)
Because the right to arbitration depends
upon contract, the party seeking arbitration bears the initial burden of
proving that the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the instant dispute.  (Hotels
Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761.) If
the moving party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show that
the subject agreement is unenforceable. (Id.
at 761.) The court “sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits,
declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony
received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.)
 
Discussion
Evelyn moves for an
order to “shift [this case] over to a previously and mutually agreed upon
Arbitration process that was initiated by” Blake, which bears case number 01 23
0004 3513.
 
1.      Existence of an
Arbitration Agreement
In moving for an
order compelling arbitration, Evelyn submits a “Memorandum of Agreement” which
was appended as Exhibit 10 of another, unspecified, contract. The Memorandum
memorializes an agreement between Evelyn and cross-defendant Saturn to produce,
sell and distribute a series entitled “L&D” (the “Series”). Saturn is
described as the executive producer, Evelyn as the owner. Paragraph 10 of the
Memorandum contains an arbitration clause, which states:
10. ARBITRATION:
In the event of a dispute between the parties hereto, the parties agree to
submit such dispute to binding arbitration under the Commercial Arbitration
Rules of the American Arbitration Association, before a single arbitrator with
knowledge of the entertainment industry, in the City of Los Angeles,
California. The arbitrator must be mutually approved by the parties in writing.
The aggrieved party shall file a notice to arbitrate with the American
Arbitration Association, whose rules and procedures shall govern such
arbitration. The language of the arbitration shall be English. The award of the
arbitrator may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction for
enforcement. All costs of the arbitration, including reasonable outside
attorneys fees and other out-of pocket expenses of the parties, whether or not
such expenses might be deemed recoverable costs of litigation under the California
Rules of Court, shall be awarded and apportioned by the arbitrator to the party
or parties that prevail in the arbitration. The arbitrators will have no
authority to award punitive, consequential or other damages not measured by the
prevailing party’s actual damages, except as may be required by statute. Any
award in an arbitration initiated under this clause shall be limited to
monetary damages and shall include no injunction or direction to any party
other than the direction to pay a monetary amount.
(Motion, Exh., p. 2.) Immediately below
the arbitration clause are Blake’s signature, on behalf of Saturn, as its
manager, and Evelyn’s signature, in his personal capacity. 
            Blake
argues that Evelyn did not meet his initial burden of proving the existence of
an agreement to arbitrate because Blake is not, in his individual capacity, a
party to the Memorandum, and Blake initiated this lawsuit in his individual
capacity, not on behalf of cross-defendants Saturn (or B&W).  
 
2.     
Opposition
arguments
Blake also
opposes the motion on two additional grounds. First, Blake argues that even if
the Court were to find based on the Memorandum that a binding agreement to
arbitrate exists, the tort claims that make up his Complaint would be beyond
the scope of that agreement because the agreement only covers disputes arising
out of the parties’ collaboration on the Series. As a reminder, Blake’s
complaint asserts two tort claims, libel and intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and one statutory claim under Business and Professions Code
§ 17200.
Second, Blake
argues that the Court should use its discretion to deny the motion based on CCP
§ 1281.2(c). This section provides that a court may decline to order the
parties to arbitrate, even if an agreement to arbitrate exists, if “[a] party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or
special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or
series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” (CCP § 1281.2(c).) Blake contends
that Evelyn, who is a party to the alleged arbitration agreement, is also a
party to a pending court action with third parties, cross-defendants Saturn and
B&W. If only Blake’s Complaint, but not Evelyn’s Cross-Complaint, is
arbitrated, there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on common issues with
respect to the factual nexus giving rise to Blake’s tort claims, which Blake
contends substantially overlap with Evelyn’s cross-claims. 
 
The Court finds Evelyn has not met his
burden of showing the existence of an arbitration agreement that is binding on
Blake in his individual capacity. 
The court therefore DENIES Evelyn’s motion
to compel arbitration. 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated:
June 25, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court