 Case Number:  23SMCV00895    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Leiws v. General
Motors LLC
CASE NO.:                23SMCV00895
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One)
HEARING DATE:   11/22/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
            In
the absence of contrary court order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is broad.
“[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action . . . if the
matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010; see Davies v. Superior Court (1984)
36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) Section 2017.020(a) vests the Court with authority to
limit the scope of discovery if the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of the
discovery sought “clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  CCP § 2019.030 directs the Court to consider
the needs of the case, amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues
at stake in the litigation, and to consider whether the discovery being sought
is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable by a more
convenient or less expensive or less burdensome way, when deciding whether to
restrict the frequency of extent of use of an authorized discovery method.
 
            CCP section 2030.220(a) requires
that “[e]ach answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” Pursuant to CCP section 2030.300, a party may move to compel further
responses to a form interrogatory if the other party’s answer is “evasive or
incomplete.” The responding party has the burden of justifying the objections
to the form and special interrogatories. (Coy v. Superior Court (1962)
58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Daniel Lewis moves to compel
further responses from Defendant General Motors LLC as to Special
Interrogatories (SROG) (Set One) Nos. 14, 20, 23, 25, 26, 39, 41, and 43.
 
This lemon law action arises from the
purchase of a new 2021 Chevrolet Bolt EV, manufactured by Defendant. Plaintiff
alleges defendants sold the vehicle with a defective battery that, among other
things, could catch fire. Defendant failed to repair the vehicle and failed to repurchase
it in willful violation of the Song-Beverly Act. The subject SROGs pertain to
the identification of witnesses who inspected, tested, or repaired the vehicle,
persons that have knowledge of Plaintiffs’ notices of defect, persons
responsible for customer relations over Plaintiffs’ complaints, persons most
knowledgeable for warranty policies, persons involved that have supervisory
responsibilities over repurchased/replacement decisions, persons involved in
investigating Plaintiffs’ claims, and individuals with whom Defendant
communicated with regarding the subject vehicle. 
 
 
SROG no. 14: “IDENTIFY all
PERSONS who performed warranty repairs upon the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
Def’s Resp. (omitting unsupported
objections): 
 
“[P]ursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.230, GM refers Plaintiff to the documents it has
produced in response to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set
One, particularly any Service Request Activity Report(s), the Global Warranty
History Report for the SUBJECT VEHICLE, and any repair orders that GM may have
obtained from GM-authorized dealerships who may have serviced, maintained, or
repaired the SUBJECT VEHICLE. These documents identify the individuals and
transactions, including dates and times, of which GM is familiar regarding the
SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
GM does not sufficiently justify
any of its objections. GM argues that it has fully answered by citing certain
types of documents produced in discovery. GM cites certain types of documents,
such as “any” Service Request Activity Report, Global Warranty History Report,
the Repair Order Details and Vehicle History, and “any repair orders and other
information that GM obtained from GM-authorized dealerships who may have
serviced, maintained, or repaired” the Vehicle. (Opp. at 6.) In essence, GM
broadly identifies the entirety of its production and asserts that the answers
lay therein. This argument underscores the fact that GM’s response to SROG is
evasive. 
 
CCP section 2030.230 states in
full: 
 
If the answer to an interrogatory
would necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract,
audit, or summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the
interrogatory is directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing or making
it would be substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory
as for the responding party, it is a sufficient answer to that interrogatory to
refer to this section and to specify the writings from which the answer may be
derived or ascertained. This specification shall be in sufficient detail to
permit the propounding party to locate and to identify, as readily as the
responding party can, the documents from which the answer may be ascertained.
The responding party shall then afford to the propounding party a reasonable
opportunity to examine, audit, or inspect these documents and to make copies,
compilations, abstracts, or summaries of them.
 
The subject SROGs do not call for,
and do not necessitate, the preparation of any compilations, abstracts, audits,
or summaries of or from any documents. Defendant also does not explain with any
substantial evidence the burden or expense of preparing an answer to any of the
interrogatories. The cited categories of documents, by themselves, do not
identify all persons that have performed warranty repairs on the vehicle.
Defendant has used section 2030.230 to evade answering the interrogatory
entirely.
 
Accordingly, a further response is
required for SROG no. 14.
 
SROG no. 20 - IDENTIFY all
PERSONS who inspected or tested the SUBJECT VEHICLE during the RELEVANT PERIOD.
 
Response: GM states that the
SUBJECT VEHICLE was inspected and repaired by an authorized GM repair facility,
not GM, as reflected on the Global Warranty History Report applicable to the
SUBJECT VEHICLE produced by GM in response to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents, Set One. GM also states that it has not inspected or
repaired Plaintiff’s vehicle. Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.230, GM refers Plaintiff to any incidentally obtained repair
orders produced in its responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, which may contain the names of individuals who inspected
and/or repaired the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
The answer is evasive. GM does not
identify any persons who inspected or tested the vehicle. The same analysis
applies as SROG no. 14. A further response is required for SROG no. 20.
 
SROG no. 23 - IDENTIFY all
PERSONS who have knowledge of Plaintiffs’ notice(s) of DEFECT to YOU OR ANYONE
ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF.
 
Response: “[P]ursuant to California
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230, GM refers Plaintiff to the documents
it has produced in response to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One, particularly the Global Warranty History Report for the SUBJECT
VEHICLE, any Service Request Activity Report(s) for the SUBJECT VEHICLE, and
any repair orders that GM may have obtained from GM-authorized dealerships who
may have serviced, maintained, or repaired the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
The answer is evasive. GM does not
identify any persons that have knowledge of Plaintiffs’ notices of defect to GM
or anyone on its behalf. The same analysis applies as the above SROGs. A
further response is required for SROG no. 23.
 
SROG no. 25 - IDENTIFY all
PERSONS responsible for the customer relations department in the district or region
having jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s complaints during the RELEVANT PERIOD.
 
Response: GM objects to this
Interrogatory on grounds the terms “customer relations department” and
“jurisdiction” are vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to this Interrogatory
on grounds it seeks information which is irrelevant and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible information as it is not
limited to the SUBJECT VEHICLE or the issues in this action. This is a simple,
individual lemon law case with limited issues and this request also violates
Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 61
Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff is entitled to relief under
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely unrelated and incommensurate
to the scope and breadth of this request. GM also objects to this Interrogatory
to the extent this request seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret
information. GM further objects to this Interrogatory to the extent it seeks
information protected by the attorney- client privilege and/or work-product
doctrine.
            
Defendant fails to justify any of
its objections. The identity of persons responsible for customer relations
having jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s complaints is reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence on Plaintiff’s lemon law claims.
Defendant does not present evidence in support of its trade secret and
attorney-client/work product objections.
 
Accordingly, a further response is
required for SROG no. 25.
 
SROG no. 26 - IDENTIFY YOUR
present employee in California who is most knowledgeable regarding YOUR
warranty policies, including but not limited to any policies YOU may have had
regarding the replacement or reimbursement of allegedly defective automobiles,
during the RELEVANT PERIOD;
 
Response: GM objects to this
Interrogatory on grounds the term “defective automobiles” is vague, ambiguous,
and overbroad. GM also objects to this Interrogatory on grounds it improperly
assumes that there is a defect with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE, or GM
VEHICLES, generally, invades the province of the jury, and calls for a legal
conclusion. GM also objects to this Interrogatory to the extent it seeks
premature disclosure of witness information. GM has not had the opportunity to
inspect the SUBJECT VEHICLE or depose Plaintiff and, therefore, has not yet
identified a PMK concerning Plaintiff’s allegations. Upon receipt of a proper
PKM notice of deposition, GM will identify a person most knowledgeable based on
the categories stated in said notice of deposition. GM reserves the right to
supplement or amend this Response during the course of this proceeding
 
            Defendant
does not justify its objections-only response. The identity of the person most
knowledgeable regarding warranty policies is relevant to the resolution of this
lemon law action. GM asserts that disclosure would be premature, but does not
provide authority on this point.
            
Accordingly, a further response is
required for SROG no. 25.
 
SROG no. 39 - Identify the
individual(s) whose responsibility it is to supervise to ensure that YOU are properly
determining whether a vehicle should be repurchased or replaced pursuant to The
Song- Beverly Warranty Act;
 
Response: GM objects to this
Interrogatory on grounds it is overbroad, vague, ambiguous, irrelevant and not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, as it is
not limited to the SUBJECT VEHICLE or the issues in this litigation. This is a
simple, individual lemon law case with limited issues and this request also
violates Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th
216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff is entitled to relief
under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely unrelated and
incommensurate to the scope and breadth of this request. GM also objects to
this Interrogatory to the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and trade
secret information. GM further objects to this Interrogatory to the extent it
seeks information protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or
work-product doctrine.
            
The same analysis applies as to RPD
nos. 25-26. A further response is required for SROG no. 39.
 
SROG no. 41 - Identify all
person(s) involved in YOUR investigation, including any individuals with whom you
communicated regarding the subject vehicle;
 
Response (omitting unmeritorious
objections): GM states that it is informed and believes that verifiable
concerns were resolved, and the SUBJECT VEHICLE has been adequately repaired within
a reasonable number of repair attempts. To the extent that Plaintiff or a
non-GM authorized facility caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s concerns, or to
the extent Plaintiff’s failure to properly maintain the SUBJECT VEHICLE caused
or contributed to Plaintiff’s concerns, such concerns are not covered under the
warranty. GM evaluates each case in good faith in accordance with the provisions
of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civ. Code section 1794 et seq.)
Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230, GM refers
Plaintiff to the documents it has produced in response to Plaintiff’s Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One, particularly the New Vehicle Limited
Warranty, any Service Request Activity Report(s), the Global Warranty History
Report for the SUBJECT VEHICLE, and any repair orders that GM may have obtained
from GM-authorized dealerships who may have serviced, maintained, or repaired
the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
The response is evasive. The
response does not identify any persons involved in Defendant’s investigation or
that communicated with GM regarding the subject vehicle. GM instead makes
various contentions which amount to a non-sequitur. The same analysis applies
to SROG no. 41 as SROG nos. 14, 20, and 23. A further response is required
here.
 
SROG no. 43 - Identify all
individuals responsible for YOUR decision whether or not repurchase or replace
the Subject Vehicle.
 
            GM provides
the same response to SROG no. 43 as SROG no. 40. A further response is required
for the same reasons. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
in full.  Further responses are due
within 10 days.