  Case Number:  24NWCV02325    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  F Itnyre,
et al. vs. Credit Union of Southern California, Case No. 24NWCV02325
 
This
is a premises liability action. Plaintiffs, husband and wife, move for trial
preference. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (a) provides, as
follows: “A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition
the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both
of the following findings: (1) the party has a substantial interest in the
action as a whole; and (2) the health of the party is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the
litigation.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 36.5 provides that “An affidavit
submitted in support of a motion for preference under [C.C.P. §36(a)] may be
signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information
and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party. The
affidavit is not admissible for any purpose other than a motion for preference
under [C.C.P. §36(a)].”
 
In its discretion, the court may
also grant a motion for preference accompanied by clear and convincing medical
documentation that concludes that one of the parties
suffers from an illness or condition raising substantial medical doubt of
survival of that party beyond six months, and that satisfies
the court that the interests of justice will be served by granting the
preference. (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).) 
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1335(b) provides that a party’s
request to specially set a case for trial “may be granted only upon an
affirmative showing by the moving party of good cause based on a declaration
served and filed with the motion…”
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ attorney submits an affidavit that states that
Plaintiff Beth Itnyre is 92 years old and is currently hospitalized in
intensive care. (Decl. Jensen, ¶ 3.) Her husband, Terry Itnyre, has been in
intensive care and will likely transfer to hospice care. (Decl. Jensen, ¶ 4.)
 
Based on the above, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have a
substantial interest in the action, and Plaintiffs’ health is such that a
preference is needed to prevent prejudicing their interest in the litigation. 
 
The Court grants the motion. Trial is set for December 2, 2024. 
