 Case Number:  22STCV29576    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 21, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
April 23, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Airline Geo Sky, LLC v. CSDS Aircraft
Sales & Leasing, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV29576
            
 
(1)
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (SET TWO); 
(2)
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION (SET TWO); 

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2) Plaintiff Airline Geo Sky LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Defendant
Benedict Sirimanne (2) Defendants CSDS Aircraft Sales & Leasing, CSDS Asset
Management, LLC, and Benedict Sirimanne. 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/12/22: Complaint filed.
·        
10/26/22: Cross-Complaint filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
This action involves a cancelled
transaction to purchase a cargo aircraft, wherein the parties entered into a
Cancellation Agreement and Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to repay a
$5 million balance. Plaintiff asserts the following causes of action: (1)
breach of contract; (2) constructive trust; and (3) judicial foreclosure.
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to special interrogatories and requests for production propounded to
Defendants. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED. This ruling
is conditioned on the payment of an additional $120 in filing fees within 10
days of this order.
 
            Defendants
are ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections to
the discovery that is the subject of these motions within 20 days of this
order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel responses to special interrogatories propounded to Defendant
Benedict Sirimanne.
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to respond, a party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.290(b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any
objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ.
Proc.  § 2030.290(a).) For a motion to
compel initial responses, no meet and confer is required. All that must be
shown is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing
party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response has been
served. (Leach v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.)
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
served Special Interrogatories (Set Two) on Defendant Sirimanne on December 7,
2023 via email. (Declaration of Kevin Hughes ISO Mot. ¶ 2; Exh. A.) The parties
agreed to extend the deadline to respond to January 19, 2024. (Id. ¶ 3
Exh. B.) As of the date this motion was filed on January 21, no response had
been received. (Id. ¶ 4.) Further, although Defendant responded to this
motion and acknowledged its failure to provide timely responses, that response
did not state that responses have been provided. Plaintiff, in reply, states
that it still has not received responses to these interrogatories. On this
record, the Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling
responses to these interrogatories. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED. 
 
//
 
//
Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel responses to requests for production propounded to each Defendant.
 
Multiple Motions
 
            Multiple
motions should not be combined into a single filing.¿(See¿Govt. Code,¿§
70617(a)(4) [setting forth the required filing fee for each motion,
application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing];¿see¿also¿Weil
& Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter
Group 2011)¿[“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery requests
ordinarily should be filed separately.”].) 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks in one motion
to compel responses to three sets of requests for production, one propounded to
each Defendant in this action. Combining multiple motions under the guise of
one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates the Court Reservation
System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants. Moreover, combining motions
to avoid payment of separate filing fees deprives the Court of filing fees it
is otherwise entitled to collect.
 
            The Court
therefore conditions its ruling on this motion on the payment of an additional
$120 in filing fees within 10 days of this order.
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party to whom an inspection
demand is directed fails to respond under Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b), a
party making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the
inspection demand. A party who fails to provide timely responses waives any
objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300(a).) For a motion to compel initial responses, no meet and confer is
required. All that must be shown is that a set of requests for production was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response has been served. (Leach
v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.) 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
served Requests for Production (Set Two) on Defendants on December 7, 2023 via
email. (Declaration of Kevin Hughes ISO Mot. ¶ 2; Exh. A.) The parties agreed
to extend the deadline to respond to January 19, 2024. (Id. ¶ 3 Exh. B.)
As of the date this motion was filed on January 21, no response had been
received. (Id. ¶ 4.) Further, although Defendants responded to this
motion and acknowledged its failure to provide timely responses, that response
did not state that responses have been provided. Plaintiff, in reply, states
that it still has not received responses to these interrogatories. On this
record, the Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling
responses to these interrogatories. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED. This ruling
is conditioned on the payment of an additional $120 in filing fees within 10
days of this order.
 
            Defendants
are ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections to
the discovery that is the subject of these motions within 20 days of this
order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  February 21,
2024                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 