  Case Number:  22STCV00277    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
LESTER
  JIMENEZ,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
25
  ART, L.P., FREDERICK LEEDS, DAVID OVED, and DOES 1-50 inclusive, 
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  22STCV00277
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  1/4/22
1st
  Amended Cross-Complaint Filed:   9/1/23
Trial
  Date:  1/12/26



 
Hearing
date:  September 20, 2024
Moving
Party:  Defendants 25 Art, L.P., et al. 
Responding
Party:  Plaintiff Lester Jimenez and
Cross-Defendant Sharol Batres
Motion
for Compliance with Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records         
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            The
motion is GRANTED. Verizon Legal
Compliance is ordered to produce the subpoenaed records within 20 days of this
order.
 
Background
            On
January 2, 2022, Plaintiff Lester Jimenez (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants 25 Art, L.P., Frederick Leeds, David Oved, and DOES 1-50
inclusive for (1) Negligence and (2) Premises Liability. 
            On
April 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint identifying Doe 1 as
Fred Leeds Properties, unknown entity and Doe 2 as Fred Leeds Investment
Properties, LP. 
            On
July 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint identifying Doe 3 as
Olga Avalos. 
            On
September 1, 2023, Defendants 25 Art, L.P., Frederick Leeds, and David Oved
filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) against ROES 1 to
50, inclusive for (1) Indemnity; (2) Equitable Apportionment; (3) Declaratory
Relief; and (4) Breach of Lease Agreement/Contract. 
            On
August 14, 2023, Defendants 25 Art, L.P., Frederick Leeds, and David Oved filed
an Amendment to the FAXC identifying Roe 1 as Sharol Batres
(“Cross-Defendant”). 
            On
March 18, 2024, Defendants 5 Art, L.P., Frederick Leeds, David Oved, Fred Leeds
Investment Properties, LP, and Olga Avalos (“Moving Defendants”) filed the
instant Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena for Production of
Business Records. On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant (“Opposing
Parties”) filed an opposition. On May 6, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply.
 
Legal
Standard
            “The
party requesting a consumer's personal records may bring a motion under Section
1987.1 to enforce the subpoena within 20 days of service of the written
objection. The motion shall be accompanied by a declaration showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution of the dispute between
the party requesting the personal records and the consumer or the consumer’s
attorney.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3(g).)
“If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).)
 
Discussion
            Meet and Confer
            The
is no indication that the parties met and conferred prior to the filing of the
present motion per Code of Civil Procedure Section 1985.3(g). The Court will
exercise its discretion and rule on the merits of the motion below, however,
Moving Defendants are admonished to comply with meet and confer requirements
moving forward.
 
Merits of the
Motion 
Moving
Defendants seek an order compelling Verizon Legal Compliance (“Verizon”) to
produce the cellphone records, incoming and outgoing calls and/or texts to and
from Sharol Batres’ (“Batres”) cellphone number (213)-800-3547. The motion is
made on the grounds that the requested information are related to the date of
the incident for the period of 04/17/2020 through 04/18/2020. Moving Defendants
contend efforts were made to obtain the requested information and documents via
subpoena served on Verizon on May 1, 2023. (Crawford Decl., ¶, Ex. A.) Moving
Defendants further contend Verizon indicates it cannot produce the requested
information and documents without a court order. (Id. at ¶, Ex. B.)
Likewise, Moving Defendants assert Batres did not provide an objection to the
production of the records by Verizon. Moreover, Moving Defendants assert the
subpoena is narrowly tailored to pertain to only the evening of the alleged
accident. 
 
In response, Opposing
Parties argue the requested information is unnecessary and redundant because
Plaintiff has already provided his own cellphone records for the time period in
question including all calls and texts exchanged with Batres. Similarly, Opposing
Parties contend the subpoena seeks a broad range of Batres’ calls and messages
unrelated to the incident, which constitutes an overreach violating her
reasonable expectation of privacy. Lastly, Opposing Parties contend Moving
Defendants are already in possession of the recorded 911 call from a subpoena
to the police department, thus no further corroboration is needed that she made
the 911 call and will not be relevant to any liability or damages. 
 
For discovery
purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in
evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.¿(Gonzalez
v. Superior Court¿(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)¿¿Generally, all
unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action
is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010;¿Schnabel v. Superior Court¿(1993)
5 Cal.4th 704, 711.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
The right of
privacy of individuals is protected by the California Constitution. (Cal.
Const., Art. I, § 1.) The framework for evaluating invasions of privacy in
discovery have been clarified in Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531.¿There, the California Supreme Court held that, generally, “[t]he
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.¿The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.¿A court must then balance
these competing considerations.”¿(Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 533,
citing Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1,
35.)¿ The court rejected the cases which held that the party seeking protected
information must always show a compelling need or interest.¿ (Id. at p.
557.)¿ Instead, the court held, “[o]nly obvious invasions of interest
fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.”¿
(Id.)¿¿
 
Here, Opposing
Parties fail to cite to any legal authority establishing a legally protected
privacy interest in cellphone records. However, the United States Supreme Court
has recognized that people have a reasonable expectation of privacy in the
contents of their cellphone. (See generally Riley v. California (2014)
573 U.S. 373.) Nevertheless, this instant case alleges Plaintiff suffered
injuries from a fall while on Moving Defendants’ property, Plaintiff was found
by Batres, and Batres made the 911 call reporting the subject incident.
Moreover, the subpoena seeks the following:
 
“Cell phone for
Sharol Batres any and all cell phone records, incoming and outgoing calls and
or texts to and from cell phone number (213) 800-3547 for dates
04/17/2020-04/18/2020, (in the possession, custody or control of said witness,
and every such record to which the witness may have access).”
 
Moving
Defendants argue Batres is the only witness to the subject incident and
believes the requested records contain messages between Batres and her best
friend Gloria Aguirre pertaining to the subject incident and events leading up
to it. Thus, the subpoena requests information that Moving Defendants does not
already have in its possession and is reasonably calculated to lead to
admissible pertaining to liability and damages. Finally, the threatened
intrusion is limited to the time period of the subject incident not Batres’
entire cellphone records such as for dates unrelated to the subject incident. 
 
Therefore, the
Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business
Records is GRANTED. 
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: September 20, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 