 Case Number:  22AHCV00600    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  X DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Defendant moves for summary adjudication as to the complaint’s third
cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment.
 
BACKGROUND

This
is a lemon law action which arises from Plaintiff’s lease of a 2020 Honda
Accord.  On August 23, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendant American Honda Motor Co. asserting causes
of action for Violation of Song-Beverly Act and Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment.  Plaintiff alleges their
vehicle had a sensing defect, which Defendant knew about and concealed.
 
Defendant’s motion
for summary adjudication of the third cause of action is DENIED.
 
Legal Standard
The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim,
defendant must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to
negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D.
B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  Once defendant has met that burden, the burden
shifts to plaintiff to show a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objection no. 1 to Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts (“SSUMF”) ¶ 20
is overruled.
 
Analysis
First, Honda’s memorandum exceeds the page limit at 24
pages.  Plaintiff did not previously seek
leave to exceed the page limit.  “In a
summary judgment or summary adjudication motion, no opening or responding
memorandum may exceed 20 pages.”  (CRC,
Rule 3.1113(d).)  “A memorandum that
exceeds the page limits of these rules must be filed and considered in the same
manner as a late-filed paper.”  (CRC,
Rule 3.1113(g).)
 
Honda moves for summary adjudication
on the third cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment.  Honda argues Plaintiff cannot establish a
special or transactional relationship, active concealment, or fraud damages,
and that the claim is barred by the economic loss doctrine.
 
The elements of a
claim for fraudulent concealment are: “(1) concealment or suppression of a
material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose that fact to the
plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally
concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he or she did if she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damages as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact.” 
(Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)  As it is a
species of fraud and deceit, such claim must be plead with specificity.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645 [specificity means pleading the who, where, when, what, and
how].)  But this rule for fraud by
concealment, unlike fraud by an affirmative misrepresentation, must be applied
differently in the case of non-disclosure because it is difficult to allege
“who” or “how” or “by what means” something was not disclosed or “when” or
“where” a statement was not made.  (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Imp. System & Planning Ass’n, Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  Because of the
nature of such fraud and the fact such facts supporting concealment are more
likely to be known by defendant, less particularity is required.  (Id.)
 
Concealment
Defendant contends
one reason Plaintiff cannot prevail on this cause of action is because
Plaintiff has failed to come forward with evidence of active concealment by
Defendant which affected his decision to purchase the subject vehicle.  Defendant argues that, in order to prevail on
this claim, a plaintiff must prove that, prior to the purchase of the vehicle,
the manufacturer was aware of a defect that it was either unwilling or unable
to fix.  (Santana v. FCA US, LLC (2020)
56 Cal.App.5th 334, 344-45.)
 
In support of its
position, Defendant relies on excerpts from Plaintiff’s responses to
Defendant’s discovery requests.  (See
SSUMF ¶¶ 4-7.)  Prior
to purchasing the Subject Vehicle, Plaintiff did not review and rely upon any
sales literature related to the Subject Vehicle.  (SSUMF ¶ 4.)  He did review the AHM internet web page to
look at safety features in Honda vehicle (SSUMF ¶ 5), but those were the only
web pages Plaintiff looked at related to his purchase of the Subject Vehicle (SSUMF
¶ 6).  And the only newspapers and
magazines Plaintiff looked at related to his purchase of the Subject Vehicle
were the classified ads in the L.A. Times.  (SSUMF ¶ 7.) 
 
Factually devoid
discovery responses can be an evidentiary basis in support of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication.  (Union
Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590.)  As Plaintiff provided responsive documents in
connection with Defendant’s Requests for Production, Defendant may properly
assert that the responses are factually devoid so as to meet its burden under
the summary adjudication standard.  The
burden therefore shifts to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue of fact.
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff offers evidence from his deposition testimony that he did in fact
communicate with a Honda representative.  Plaintiff submits that Defendant had
exclusive knowledge of the severity of the subject vehicle’s sensing defect
through numerous similar consumer complaints.  (AMF ¶
6.)  Prior to purchasing the Subject
Vehicle, no employees of Defendant, nor any representatives at the selling
dealership Sierra Honda, disclosed any information to Plaintiff about the
defective Sensing System.  (AMF ¶ 1; SSUMF ¶ 15.)  In purchasing the Subject Vehicle, Plaintiff’s
main considerations was safety for his family and himself.  (AMF ¶
2.)  This information was vital to
Plaintiff’s purchase of the Subject Vehicle and Plaintiff relied on the
information Honda produced on its website and from its sales representatives
about the safety of the vehicle.  (AMF ¶ 1; UMF ¶ 26 as disputed.)  However, Plaintiff’s vehicle was distributed
to him with an underlying sensing defect that Defendant was unable to repair.
(AMF ¶ 4.)
 
The Court finds Plaintiff has presented evidence that Defendant
was aware of the defects.  (AMF ¶ 6; Tran Decl., ¶ 5.)  According to paragraph 5 of the Tran
Declaration:
 
On
August 25, 2023, Defendant provided further responses to Plaintiff’s First Set
of Production of Documents request.  In
response to Request for Production No. 45, Defendant produced four-hundred and
ninety-five (495) pages of internal communications with its customers regarding
similar complaints that Plaintiff experienced with the Subject Vehicle.  For brevity sake, Plaintiff will only include
the further responses but can and will produce the full 495 pages of
confidential documents upon request of the Court.  A true and correct copy of Defendant’s August
25, 2023 further responses to Request for Production of Documents is attached
hereto as Exhibit 2.
 
Further, Plaintiff demonstrates that he interacted with and
received information from a sales representative at a Honda dealership prior to
purchasing the subject vehicle.  
 
Plaintiff therefore meets his burden to establish that a triable
issue of fact exists with respect to the issue of active concealment. 
 
Damages
Defendant also
contends that Plaintiffs cannot prevail on this cause of action because
Plaintiff has not established damages from an alleged fraudulent concealment.
 
The standard measure
of fraud damages is the difference between the actual value of that with which
the defrauded person has parted and the actual value of that which he received.
 (Civ. Code § 3343.)  Costs of repair is not the proper measure of
damages, but has some probative worth on the issue.  (See, e.g., Central Mut. Ins. Co. v.
Schmidt (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 671, 676-77.)
 
Defendant bases its
position, that Plaintiff offers no evidence of the market value of the subject
vehicle, on Plaintiff’s deposition.  (See
SSUMF ¶¶ 19-22.)  Plaintiff does
not have any opinion as to the fair market value of the Subject Vehicle on the
day he bought it.  (SSUMF ¶ 19.)  Plaintiff also does not have any opinion as to
how much the Subject Vehicle has diminished in value because of Plaintiff’s
warranty concerns.  (SSUMF ¶ 20.)  Plaintiff has never gone on Kelley Blue Book
online to see what the value of the Subject Vehicle is.  (SSUMF
¶ 21.)  Plaintiff has not performed
any valuation of the Subject Vehicle. (SSUMF
¶ 22.)
 
Defendant has
offered evidence that shows that Plaintiff cannot establish damages for
fraudulent concealment.  The burden now
shifts to Plaintiffs to establish a triable issue of fact. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff asserts he would not have purchased the vehicle had the sensing
defects been disclosed.  Therefore,
Plaintiff argues, the purchase price of the vehicle is a reliance damage.  Further, Plaintiff would not have insured or
registered the vehicle absent Defendant’s alleged fraudulent concealment.  Thus, Plaintiff argues these are additional
damages.  Specifically, Plaintiff
spent $268.00 to register the subject vehicle with the Department of Motor
Vehicles.  (AMF ¶ 7.)  Plaintiff incurred further expenses associated
with the purchase of the Subject Vehicle including document processing charge
of $80.00, $2,361.41 sales tax, $30.00 Transfer charge, $161.00 vehicle license
fees, $165.00 registration fee, $8.75 California tire fees. (AMF ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff asserts he brought his vehicle in
for repairs on multiple occasions, but the dealership technicians were unable
to fix the issues.  (AMF ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff anticipates his expert will testify
as to the diminution in value and its effects on Plaintiff’s use, value, and
safety in the subject vehicle caused by the defective Sensing System. (Tran
Decl., ¶ 3)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff is able to show the
difference between the actual value with which he has parted and the actual
value of that which he received, because he declares that he brought his
vehicle in for repairs on multiple occasions.  The costs of repair have probative worth as to
the issue of value.
 
Plaintiff has established a triable issue of fact as to
whether Plaintiff incurred any damage as a result of the defect in his vehicle.

 
Economic Loss Rule
Defendant contends
that this cause of action is barred under the economic loss doctrine. 
 
Under the economic
loss rule, “[w]here a purchaser’s expectations in a sale are frustrated because
the product he bought is not working properly, his remedy is in contract alone,
for he has suffered only ‘economic losses.’”  (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana
Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.)  The economic loss rule “hinges on a
distinction drawn between transactions involving the sale of goods for
commercial purposes where economic expectations are protected by commercial and
contract law, and those involving the sale of defective products to individual
consumers who are injured in a manner which has traditionally been remedied by
resort to the law of torts.”  (Id.)
 Simply stated, the economic loss rule
“prevents the law of contract and the law of tort from dissolving one into the
other.”  (Id.)
 
The Robinson
Helicopter case carved out a narrow exception to that rule, where defendant
makes affirmative misrepresentations on which a plaintiff relies, leading to a
claim for fraud.  The two requirements
for the exception to apply are: (1) the defendant must have made affirmative
misrepresentations upon which the plaintiff relied; and (2) the affirmative
misrepresentations must “expose a plaintiff to liability for personal damages
independent of the Plaintiff’s economic loss.”  (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th
at 993.)
 
Defendant argues
this very narrow exception does not apply to this case, because Honda made no
affirmative misrepresentations and because Plaintiff has not suffered personal
damages.
 
Plaintiff relies on Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, which
extended the ruling in Robinson Helicopters to fraudulent concealment claims.
 Although Dhital is currently on
review by the California Supreme Court and has no precedential value, the Court
finds its analysis of Robinson Helicopters persuasive.  Dhital points out that the tort claims
considered by the Supreme Court in Robinson Helicopters were premised on
a duty that is either “completely independent of the contract or arises from
conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.’”  (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th
at 990.)  Because “that independence is
present in the case of fraudulent inducement (whether it is achieved by
intentional concealment or by intentional affirmative misrepresentations),
because a defendant’s conduct in fraudulently inducing someone to enter a
contract is separate from the defendant's later breach of the contract or
warranty provisions that were agreed to,” the economic loss rule should not
apply.  (Dhital, supra, 84
Cal.App.5th at 841.)  Here, plaintiffs’
fraudulent inducement claim alleges presale conduct by Honda (concealment) that
is distinct from Honda’s alleged subsequent conduct in breaching its warranty
obligations.  Thus, the economic loss
rule does not bar such claims.  
 
As a result, Defendant has failed to show that Plaintiff cannot
prevail on this cause of action based on the economic loss doctrine.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of
the third cause of action is DENIED. 