  Case Number:  22AHCV00270    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  X PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO GARNISH WAGES 
Plaintiff has been unsuccessful in collecting on the judgment. Plaintiff
moves to garnish Defendant’s spouse’s wages.  No opposition is filed.
The case involves
former business partners with ownership of defendant limited liability company
FAKK LLC which operated as a scuba dive shop business known as the Zen Dive
Company. The matter went to arbitration and the hearing was conducted on
March 11-15 and 18, 2024. On June 13, 2024, the arbitrator issued a Final
Award. (6/25/24 Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award, Attachment 8(c).)      
Plaintiff’s
motion to garnish the wages of Defendant’s spouse is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
“An earnings
withholding order may not be issued against the earnings of the spouse of the
judgment debtor except by court order upon noticed motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 706.109.)  “Except for an earning assignment order for
support, the earnings of an employee shall not be required to be withheld by an
employer for payment of a debt by means of any judicial procedure other than
pursuant to this chapter.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 706.020.)  “Both the wage
garnishment law and the attachment law protect wages from creditors.  The wage garnishment law provides the
exclusive judicial procedure by which a judgment creditor can execute against
the wages of a judgment debtor, except for cases of judgments or orders for
support.  [Citation.]  It limits the amount of earnings which may be
garnished in satisfaction of a judgment and establishes certain exemptions from
earnings which may not be garnished.  [Citation.]”  (California State Employees’ Assn. v. State
of California (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 374, 377.)
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 706.050 sets forth express maximum limits on the amount of
disposable earnings of an individual judgment debtor that are subject to a
garnishment order. 
 
Plaintiff is the
Judgment Creditor and seeks an order permitting him to garnish the wages of Defendant/Judgment
Debtor’s spouse, Heather Wilson.
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 695.020 provides that community property is subject to
enforcement of a money judgment as provided in the Family Code.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 695.020(a).)  Family Code section 910 provides that
“[e]xcept as otherwise expressly provided by statute, the community estate is
liable for a debt incurred by either spouse before or during marriage,
regardless of which spouse has the management and control of the property and
regardless of whether one or both spouses are parties to the debt or to a
judgment for the debt.”  (Fam. Code, §
910(a).) 
 
Judgment Creditor
presents a Petition for Dissolution of Marriage regarding Karim Hamza and
Heather Wilson’s divorce proceedings.  (Cameli
Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. A.)  According to the
petition’s Statistical Facts, the date of marriage was March 25, 2010 and the
date of separation was May 15, 2024.  (Cameli
Decl., Exh. A, ¶ 3.) 
 
Judgment was entered
for Judgment Creditor on July 31, 2024 against Judgment Debtor in a total sum
of $341,461.38.  (7/31/24 Judgment; Sheik
Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1.)  Judgment Creditor’s
counsel declares Plaintiff has been unsuccessful in his attempts to collect the
judgment (Sheik Decl., ¶ 3), and no amount has been paid on the judgment (Sheik
Decl., ¶ 4). 
 
Family Code section
903, subdivision (a) provides that in the case of a contract, a debt is
incurred “at the time the contract is made” and subdivision (b) provides that
in the case of a tort, a debt is incurred “at the time the tort occurs.”  (Fam. Code, § 903, subds. (a)-(b).) 
 
Here, Hamza’s debt
pursuant to the Judgment was incurred at the time he committed the torts,
namely assault in 2021 and defamation throughout 2021-2023, which is during the
time Hamza and Wilson were married.  (Cameli
Decl., ¶ 11.)  Since Hamza and Wilson
were married during this time, the debt becomes a community debt. 
 
The Court finds this
evidence demonstrates the spousal relationship between Judgment Debtor and
Wilson during the time the debt was incurred, such that an earnings withholding
order may be issued against Wilson’s earnings. 
 
Therefore, Judgment Creditor is entitled
to a court order garnishing the wages of Heather Wilson.  The Court
will issue an earnings withholding order against Wilson’s earnings. 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to garnish the wages of Defendant’s spouse is GRANTED.