  Case Number:  21PSCV00179    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Pedro  Gonzalez v. General Motors, LLC  Defendant  General Motors LLC’s Motion to Tax Counsel’s Memorandum of Costs  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant  General Motors LLC’s motion to tax counsel’s memorandum of costs in part, by  taxing $1,927.87 in printing related costs. The Court otherwise DENIES the  motion. Plaintiff is therefore awarded costs in the amount of$9,914.66.                    Defendant shall submit a proposed order and is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. BACKGROUND  This is a lemon law case. On February 9, 2024, plaintiff Pedro  Gonzalez (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant)  and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for violation of subdivision  (d) of Civil Code section 1793.2, violation of subdivision (b) of Civil Code  section 1793.2, violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code section 1793.2,  Civil Code section 1791.2, breach of express written warranty, and breach of  the implied warranty of merchantability.  On February 20, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to tax costs. On April  9, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On April 11, 2024, Defendant replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD “(1) Striking and taxing costs Any notice of motion to strike or to tax costs must be served and  filed 15 days after service of the cost memorandum. If the cost memorandum was  served by mail, the period is extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure  section 1013. If the cost memorandum was served electronically, the period is  extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6(a)(4). (2) Form of motion Unless objection is made to the entire cost memorandum, the motion  to strike or tax costs must refer to each item objected to by the same number  and appear in the same order as the corresponding cost item claimed on the  memorandum of costs and must state why the item is objectionable. (3) Extensions of time The party claiming costs and the party contesting costs may agree  to extend the time for serving and filing the cost memorandum and a motion to  strike or tax costs. This agreement must be confirmed in writing, specify the  extended date for service, and be filed with the clerk. In the absence of an  agreement, the court may extend the times for serving and filing the cost  memorandum or the notice of motion to strike or tax costs for a period not to  exceed 30 days. (4) Entry of costs After the time has passed for a motion to strike or tax costs or  for determination of that motion, the clerk must immediately enter the costs on  the judgment.” (Cal. Rules  of Court, rule 3.1700, subd. (b).) DISCUSSION  Summary of Arguments  Defendant seeks to tax the three following sets of costs:  (1) $150.00 in jury fees; (2) $1,927.87 in printing  related costs; and (3) $388.77 in filing and motion fees. Defendant contends  Plaintiff bears the burden of showing that the costs were necessary and  reasonable. Defendant argues it should not be forced to reimburse the jury fees  because this case never went to trial. Defendant then contends the printing  fees relating to courtesy copies are improper, unreasonable, excessive, and  that a worksheet or verification of the alleged costs were not attached to the  memorandum of costs. Defendant further contends it should not be required to  reimburse Plaintiff in costs related to various motions and Plaintiff’s motion  for attorney fees before that latter motion was filed, that the motion to  compel related costs were optional and the motion practice was one-sided, and  that it should not be required to pay for filing fees related to a notice of  change of address, rejection notice, and re-filing.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends the burden is on Defendant to  show the charges are unreasonable if the items on their face appear to be  proper. Plaintiff contends the law is clear that jury fees, costs related to  courtesy copies, and costs attributable for reservations of hearings and motion  filings are recoverable as costs. Plaintiff contends Defendant must provide  more than a subjective opinion that the costs are unreasonable, that Defendant  has not provided sufficient evidence to show Plaintiff’s claimed costs are  unreasonable, and that Defendant’s actions led to the increased costs at issue.  Analysis                        “If the items appearing in a cost bill appear to be  proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show that  they were not reasonable or necessary. On the other hand, if the items are  properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the  party claiming them as costs. [Citations.] Whether a cost item was reasonably  necessary to the litigation presents a question of fact for the trial court and  its decision is reviewed for abuse of discretion. [Citation.] However, because the right to  costs is governed strictly by statute [citation] a court has no discretion to  award costs not statutorily authorized.” (Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19  Cal.App.4th 761, 774, italics in original.)              The  Court finds that some of the items on the memorandum of costs do not appear to  be proper charges, namely the printing related costs and the hearing  transcripts. (See Memorandum of Costs, Attachment 16; Code Civ. Proc., §  1033.5, subd. (b)(3) and (a)(9) [“Postage, telephone, and photocopying charges,  except for exhibits” excluded as costs; “Transcripts of court proceedings  ordered by the court” allowable as costs.]) Thus, the burden is on Plaintiff to  prove they are reasonable. (See Ladas, supra,  19 Cal.App.4th at p. 774.) The Court finds  Plaintiff has provided little to no evidence to justify these costs, citing  only the general proposition that prevailing buyers in Song-Beverly Act claims  are entitled to recover “costs” and “expenses.” (Jensen v. BMW of North  America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 137; Civ. Code, § 1794, subd.  (d).) This is insufficient considering the clear language of Code of Civil  Procedure section 1033.5, subdivision (b)(3). Moreover, there is no evidence  provided showing that the Court ordered transcripts of law and motion hearings.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(9).) Therefore, the Court GRANTS the  motion to tax costs as to the $1,927.87 in costs.              As for the jury fees and motion  related fees, the Court finds them to be proper on their face, and thus the  burden is on Defendant to prove they are not reasonable. (See Ladas, supra,  19 Cal.App.4th at p. 774.) “Filing, motion,  and jury fees” are explicitly listed as recoverable costs. (Code Civ. Proc., §  1033.5, subd. (a)(1).) The Court finds Defendant’s arguments against them here  to be unpersuasive. Defendant cites no legal authority for the proposition that  the case must have gone to trial for the prevailing party to recover the  $150.00 jury deposit. Defendant’s arguments regarding motion related fees are  also unpersuasive because they are conclusory, conjectural, and not supported  by any evidence or citations to legal authority. The Court therefore DENIES  Defendant’s motion to tax costs as to jury fees and motion related fees.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant  General Motors LLC’s motion to tax counsel’s memorandum of costs in part, by  taxing $1,927.87 in printing related costs. The Court otherwise DENIES the  motion. Plaintiff is therefore awarded costs in the amount of$9,914.66               Defendant shall submit a proposed order and is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.