 Case Number:  22PSCV00257    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  City of El  Monte v. Lino James Ibarra, et al. Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint of  Plaintiff City of El Monte  TENTATIVE RULING  The Court  GRANTS Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s demurrer to First Amended Complaint of  Plaintiff City of El Monte, as to Defendant Tucker Lincoln, without leave to  amend. Defendant Lincoln may submit a proposed judgment for the Court’s review  and signature.  The Court  DENIES Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s motion to strike as moot.  Defendant  Tucker Lincoln is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof  of service of same within five days of the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND  This  is a nuisance action relating to illegal sales of cannabis. On March 16, 2022, plaintiff  City of El Monte (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Lino James  Ibarra (Ibarra), Michael Atencio, Manuel Aquino, Joseph Hernandez, Jung Hsiang  Chen, Ya Fen Hsu, Tucker Lincoln (Lincoln), Philip Gonzales, Shane Sapp, H.C.  Rue Royale Partner LLC (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 through 100,  alleging causes of action for narcotics abatement (Health and Safety Code  section 11570 et seq.), public nuisance (Civil Code section 3479 et seq.),  violation of El Monte Municipal Code (EMMC Chapters 5.18 and Ch. 1.19),  violation of unfair competition law (Business and Professions Code section  17200 et seq.), and violation of MAUCRSA (Business and Professions Code section  26000 et seq.)  On  January 18, 2024, after the Court granted Lincoln’s motion for judgment on the  pleadings, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against  the same Defendants and alleging causes of action for narcotics abatement  (Health and Safety Code section 11570 et seq.), public nuisance (Civil Code  section 3479 et seq.), violation of El Monte Municipal Code (EMMC Chapters 5.18  and Ch. 1.19), violation of unfair competition law (Business and Professions  Code section 17200 et seq.), and violation of MAUCRSA (Business and Professions  Code section 26000 et seq.)  On  March 18, 2024, Lincoln demurred  to and moved to strike portions of the FAC. On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff opposed  the demurrer and motion to strike. On April 15, 2024, Lincoln replied to both  oppositions.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer  A  demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other  pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function  of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for  purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are  assumed to be true. (Id.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire  cause of action. (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency  (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE  – Demurrer            The Court GRANTS Lincoln’s request for judicial notice. (See Evid.  Code § 452, subd. (d).) The Court takes judicial notice of the foregoing  documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public records  and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth  of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta  (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400.) However, the Court does not find any  contradictory statements in Exhibit 4 to be considered in ruling on the  demurrer. While the responses to Special Interrogatory No. 1 do not  specifically mention activity in the City of El Monte, the response states that  Tucker Lincoln operated an unlawful THC dispensary…in a conspiracy to  distribute the product beyond the business located at the property in Covina.  MEET AND  CONFER – Demurrer Per  Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), the parties were  required to meet and confer telephonically or in person before bringing this  motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The  Court finds the parties’ meet-and-confer efforts to be sufficient. (Kashfian  Decl., ¶¶ 11-12.) DISCUSSION – Demurrer            Standing – Location of Conduct            A municipal corporation has generally no  extraterritorial powers of regulation. It may not exercise its governmental  functions beyond its corporate boundaries. (See Const., art. XI, sec. 11;  Oakland v. Brock (1937) 8 Cal.2d 639, 641. Further, “an action to abate  a nuisance may be taken by the city attorney or city prosecutor of the city  within which the nuisance exists, is kept, or is maintained.” (Health &  Saf. Code, § 11571.5 (emphasis added).) Plaintiff contends that the fact that the offending conduct originates outside of  a city’s boundaries does not necessarily undermine that city’s ability to sue  for nuisance. (People v. City of Los Angeles (1958) 160 Cal.App.2d 494,  507 [“Respondent attacks this cause of action upon the grounds that by it, the  city of Manhattan Beach seeks to give extraterritorial effect to its ordinance  and therefore does not state a cause of action. This contention cannot be  sustained.”]; see also People v. Selby Smelting and Lead Co. (1912) 163.  Cal. 84, 88 (Selby Smelting) [nuisance law governs the effect of one’s  actions on the enjoyment of life or property another; it matters not where the  nuisance originated].) Plaintiff argues that just because the allegedly  offending conduct occurred in Covina and West Covina does not categorically  mean it cannot have been a nuisance that interfered with Plaintiff’s rights  within its boundaries.  Defendant Lincoln contends the entire FAC fails because  Plaintiff is not a real party in interest.[1] Lincoln  contends Plaintiff’s causes of action in the FAC are all based on the use of  specific properties in Covina and West Covina, neither of which are located in  the City of El Monte, and therefore undermines Plaintiff’s claims here. Lincoln  contends the exclusive power to pursue these causes of action is vested in  another, and that Plaintiff has not suffered an injury entitling it to relief.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends it has standing for  nuisance abatement actions that extend beyond city boundaries. Plaintiff  contends that although the source of the illegal marijuana activities were  based on properties outside of the City of El Monte, the nuisance existed in and  affected Plaintiff and its community. Plaintiff cites an incident alleged in  the FAC regarding Defendant Ibarra having been pulled over by the El Monte  Police Department in which Ibarra was found in possession of certain marijuana  products allegedly manufactured by the Defendants and financed by Lincoln.  Plaintiff also contends its injury is alleged in the FAC, as Plaintiff alleges  that Lincoln was involved in distributing, storing, and selling marijuana in  the City of El Monte.  The Court agrees with Defendant Lincoln. The FAC does not  contain any factual allegations showing that Lincoln was selling unlicensed  marijuana products in the City of El Monte. The only specific incident alleged  to have occurred in the City of El Monte is the search of Defendant Ibarra’s  vehicle, i.e., not Lincoln’s, after having been pulled over for having illegal  tinted windows in his vehicle and a subsequent search of that vehicle  discovered some of the allegedly illegal marijuana products manufactured by  Lincoln. (FAC, ¶ 45.) This allegation does not demonstrate Lincoln sold illegal  marijuana products within the City of El Monte. It does not even demonstrate  that Ibarra sold them. At most, it demonstrates that the illegal products were  found during a search of his vehicle that happened to occur within the City of  El Monte.  Moreover, the FAC does not allege any other specific  instances of alleged sales of illegal marijuana products within the City of El  Monte. Instead, the FAC contains speculative allegations of such sales  activity. (See FAC, ¶¶ 8-9, 21, 29, 40-45, 44, 48; Serrano v. Priest (1970)  5 Cal.3d 584, 591 [court treats the demurrer as admitting all properly pleaded  material facts, “but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  [Citation].”]) The FAC otherwise alleges that the illegal manufacturing  occurred at properties and locations outside of the City of El Monte. (FAC, ¶¶  24-49.)  As the Court previously found in its prior ruling on  Lincoln’s motion for judgment on the pleadings, the FAC fails to allege any  specific facts showing the specific effect of that conduct on Plaintiff. (Order  re Tentative Ruling (12/13/23).) Plaintiff fails to allege facts, as opposed to  conclusions, showing how the alleged unlawful conduct affected or created a  nuisance in the City of El Monte. While governmental entities like Plaintiff  have strong interests in regulating controlled substances within their  boundaries, the FAC fails to allege any conduct or nuisance within its  boundaries. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff lacks standing to assert these  claims.  The Court also notes that Plaintiff did not make an offer  of proof as to how these defects can be corrected. (See Opp., 13:20-22.)  Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the entire complaint as to  Defendant Lincoln without leave to amend.  First Cause of Action – Narcotics Abatement (Health  and Safety Code section 11570 et seq.)  “Every building or place used for the purpose of  unlawfully selling, serving, storing, keeping, manufacturing, or giving away  any controlled substance, precursor, or analog specified in this division, and  every building or place wherein or upon which those acts take place, is a  nuisance which shall be enjoined, abated, and prevented, and for which damages  may be recovered, whether it is a public or private nuisance.” (Health &  Saf. Code, § 11570.) Defendant Lincoln demurs to the First Cause of Action  for narcotics abatement for failure to state a cause of action. Lincoln  reiterates the argument from above that none of the allegedly offending conduct  occurred within the boundaries of the City of El Monte and therefore lacks  standing. In opposition, Plaintiff contends it has standing to bring this cause  of action because the effects of the nuisance are what matters, not the source,  citing the Selby Smelting case.  For the same reasons set forth above, the Court  agrees with Lincoln. A narcotics abatement action under Health and Safety Code  section 11570 is limited to unlawful activities occurring in the specific  buildings where those acts took place. (Health & Saf. Code, § 11570.) The  FAC alleges that the buildings at issue are located in West Covina and Covina,  i.e., not El Monte. (See FAC, ¶¶ 24-49.)  As for the rule set forth in Selby Smelting  regarding the effects of a nuisance versus its origin, this still does not  solve the pleading problems of the FAC. Selby Smelting did not address  Health and Safety Code section 11570. (See generally Selby Smelting, supra, 163. Cal. 84.) Either way, the FAC still fails to allege  facts demonstrating the occurrence of any unlawful conduct, i.e., Lincoln  illegally selling or distributing marijuana within the City of El Monte, for  purposes of a narcotics abatement action within the City of El Monte.  Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS Lincoln’s demurrer to  the First Cause of Action without leave to amend.              Second Cause of Action – Public  Nuisance (Civil Code section 3479 et seq.)            “Anything which is  injurious to health, including, but not limited to, the illegal  sale of controlled substances, or is indecent or offensive to the  senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with  the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully obstructs the free  passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay,  stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway, is a  nuisance.” (Civ. Code § 3479.)              Defendant Lincoln demurs to the  Second Cause of Action for public nuisance for failure to state a cause of  action. Lincoln contends to the extent that Plaintiff is bringing this action  in its representative capacity rather than as a private party, it has failed to  allege any special injury entitling it to relief. Lincoln reiterates the  argument that Plaintiff lacks standing to bring this cause of action because  the alleged nuisance is based on properties outside of El Monte, and that the  FAC pleads a section of the Civil Code which applies only to properties. In  opposition, Plaintiff reiterates its argument that what matters is the effect  of the nuisance and not the source.[2]               For the same reasons set forth above with  respect to the First Cause of Action, the Court agrees with Lincoln that the  FAC fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for public  nuisance. Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS Lincoln’s  demurrer to the Second Cause of Action without leave to amend.              Third  Cause of Action – Violation of El Monte Municipal Code (EMMC Chapters 5.18 and Ch.  1.19)            El Monte Municipal Code section 5.18.040  states that, “[n]o person may engage in any commercial cannabis activity within  the city unless the person (1) has a valid commercial cannabis license issued  by the city; (2) has a valid state license; (3) any other applicable approvals,  including, but not limited to, a building permit and city business license, and  (4) is currently in compliance with all applicable state and local laws and  regulations pertaining to the commercial cannabis activity.” (El Monte Municipal  Code § 5.18.040; FAC, ¶ 73.)              Defendant  Lincoln demurs to the Third Cause of Action for violation of the El Monte  Municipal Code for failure to state a cause of action. Lincoln contends the FAC  fails to allege sufficient facts here because, as set forth above, the  allegedly unlawful conduct at issue occurred outside of the City of El Monte,  and the City of El Monte cannot regulate licensing for properties outside of  its boundaries. In opposition, Plaintiff cites the allegations of distribution,  storing, and selling illegal marijuana in the City.              The  Court agrees with Lincoln. As set forth above, the FAC fails to allege any facts  demonstrating the illegal sale, storage, or distribution of marijuana by  Lincoln within the City of El Monte. (See FAC, ¶¶ 8, 9, 24-49; Serrano,  supra, 5 Cal.3d at p. 591.)              Based on  the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action  without leave to amend.              Fourth  Cause of Action – Violation of Unfair Competition Law (Business and Professions  Code section 17200 et seq.)              “The  UCL prohibits any unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent business act or practice.  [Citation.] Only the first two types of practices are at issue here. A practice  is unlawful under the UCL where it violates a predicate law.” (CADC/RADC Venture 2011-1 LLC v. Bradley (2015) 235  Cal.App.4th 775, 792-793.)              Defendant  Lincoln demurs to the Fourth Cause of Action for unfair competition for failure  to state a cause of action. Lincoln contends the FAC fails to state a cause of  action because it does not state facts showing both an injury in fact and a  loss of money or property entitling Plaintiff to restitution, and Plaintiff  therefore lacks standing. Lincoln contends Plaintiff did not suffer an injury  in fact and it did not lose money or property to unfair competition. Lincoln  also contends this claim fails because Plaintiff cannot claim it is entitled to  money obtained from illegal marijuana sales.              In opposition, Plaintiff contends it has  standing to bring an unfair competition law claim against Lincoln because  Business and Professions Code section 17204 applies to injunctions, not  restitution, by persons who have suffered an injury in fact, and because a city  attorney is allowed to pursue an action on behalf of Plaintiff, as Plaintiff is  doing here. Plaintiff contends it was injured by alleged illegal marijuana  sales, storage, and distribution within the City of El Monte, and by incurring  law enforcement costs.              The  Court finds the FAC fails to plead sufficient facts to state a cause of action  for unfair competition, albeit not necessarily for the reasons addressed in the  parties’ respective briefs. The FAC predicates the Fourth Cause of Action  squarely on violations of Health and Safety Code section 11570 et seq. and El  Monte Municipal Code Chapter 5.18. (FAC, ¶¶ 82-84.) The FAC  also alleges a violation based on the federal Controlled Substances Act under  21 U.S.C. section 856, (FAC, ¶ 84), which involves criminal punishments and  civil fines for maintaining a drug-involved premises, which does not confer a  private right of action, (see 21 U.S.C. § 856). The  Court therefore understands the FAC to be alleging a representative cause of  action here rather than a private cause of action, contrary to Lincoln’s  arguments in the demurrer. (See Mem. Points & Authorities, 19:26-20:9.) The  Court finds the Fourth Cause of Action to be duplicative of the First and Third  Causes of Action, both of which fail for the reasons set forth above. Since  those causes of action fail, the Fourth Cause of Action necessarily fails too.  The FAC fails to allege any facts, as opposed to conclusions, showing a  violation of Business and Professions Codes sections 17200 by Defendant Tucker  in the City of El Monte or causing an injury in fact to the City of El Monte.              Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action without leave to amend.              Fifth Cause of Action – Violation of MAUCRSA (Business and Professions Code  section 26000 et seq.)  “A person engaging in commercial cannabis activity  without a license as required by this division shall be subject to civil  penalties of up to three times the amount of the license fee for each  violation. Each day of operation shall constitute a separate violation of this  section.” (Bus. & Prof. Code § 26038, subd. (a)(1).)[3] “Actions for  civil penalties pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) may be brought by  the Attorney General on behalf of the people, on behalf of the department, or  on behalf of the participating agency, or by a city or county counsel or city  prosecutor.” (Id., 26038, subd. (c)(1).)              Defendant Lincoln demurs to the Fifth Cause of Action for  violation of MAUCRSA for failure to state a cause of action. Lincoln contends  Plaintiff does not have standing to enforce the Medicinal and Adult Use  Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act (MAUCRSA), because its enforcement is left  primarily to the California Department of Cannabis Control, and because city  attorneys in cities with less than 750,000 people are only allowed to seek  civil penalties for unlicensed marijuana operations under Business and Professions  Code section 26038, subdivisions (a)(1) and (a)(3). Lincoln further contends  that the city attorney has authority to enforce commercial marijuana licensing  violations within its own boundaries, but not outside its city limits.              In opposition, Plaintiff contends it has standing to  bring this action under Business and Professions Code section 26038,  subdivision (a)(1), and that subdivision (e)(4) does not apply. Plaintiff cites  the search of Defendant Ibarra’s vehicle as demonstrating marijuana being  illegally manufactured by Lincoln and the Defendants and financed by Lincoln as  evidence of a violation of MAUCRSA within the City of El Monte.              The  Court agrees with Lincoln. The FAC fails to allege facts demonstrating that  Plaintiff has standing to bring this cause of action. The allegations regarding  the search of Defendant Ibarra’s vehicle fail to demonstrate the occurrence of  marijuana being illegally manufactured in the City of El Monte, for the reasons  set forth above. (See FAC, ¶ 45.) The Court also notes that Plaintiff’s  opposition did not respond to the argument that enforcement of MAUCRSA is left  primarily to the California Department of Cannabis Control, which the Court  construes as a tacit admission that the argument is meritorious. (Sexton  v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410;  C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.  Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.  In addition, Plaintiff’s  contention that it is bringing this action under subdivision (a)(1) of Business  and Professions Code section 26038 is unavailing, since the FAC alleges the  violation is based on subdivision (a)(2) for aiding and abetting, which means  subdivision (e)(4) does apply. (FAC, ¶ 91; see Bus. & Prof. Code, § 26038,  subd. (e)(4).) Subdivision (a)(2) provides that such claims “shall be brought  exclusively by the Attorney General on behalf of the people, on behalf of the  department, or on behalf of the participating agency, or by a city or county  counsel or city prosecutor in a city or county having a population in excess of  750,000.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 26038, subd. (e)(4).) The FAC does not  allege that Plaintiff is a city with a population in excess of 750,000. Thus,  Plaintiff lacks standing to bring a claim for aiding and abetting.              Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer  to the Fifth Cause of Action without leave to amend.  LEGAL STANDARD – Motion to Strike              “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE  – Motion to Strike            The Court  GRANTS Lincoln’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibits 1, 2, and 3, but  DENIES as to Exhibit 4 for the motion to strike. (See Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) The Court takes  judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content  and authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it does not  take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those  documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400.)  MEET AND CONFER – Motion to Strike   Per  Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), the parties were  required to meet and confer telephonically or in person before bringing this  motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).)  The Court finds the parties’ meet-and-confer efforts to be sufficient.  (Kashfian Decl., ¶¶ 11-12.)  DISCUSSION – Motion to Strike              In light of  the Court sustaining the demurrer without leave to amend, the Court DENIES the  motion to strike as moot.  CONCLUSION  The Court  GRANTS Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s demurrer to First Amended Complaint of  Plaintiff City of El Monte, as to Defendant Tucker Lincoln, without leave to  amend. Defendant Lincoln may submit a proposed judgment for the Court’s review  and signature.  The Court  DENIES Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s motion to strike as moot.   Defendant Tucker Lincoln is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof  of service of same within five days of the Court’s order.     