 Case Number:  22TRCV01133    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Tuesday, October 3, 2023   
Department B                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 11
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Credit
Card Services, Inc. v. Heung Tae Oh, et al.  
22TRCV01133

1.      Credit Card Services, Inc.’s Demurrer to First Amended
Cross-Complaint
2.      Credit Card Services, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions
of First Amended Cross-Complaint      

TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Credit Card Services, Inc.’s Demurrer
to First Amended Cross-Complaint is overruled, in part, and sustained with 20
days leave to amend, in part.
 
Credit Card Services, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions
of First Amended Cross-Complaint is deemed moot.
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on November 4, 2022. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff’s grocery market customers, who used
defendant’s software, started to complain to Plaintiff about defects in the
services. Defendants were responsible for correcting such defects. Defendants manipulated
the software that it used to perform services to Plaintiff to cause the defects.
Grocery market customers canceled their contracts with Plaintiff. Plaintiff
alleged causes of action for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty,
intentional interference with contractual relations, and violation of Cal. Bus.
& Prof. Code sections 17200, et seq. 
 
            Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint and then the operative
First Amended Cross-Complaint. Cross-Complainant alleged the following causes
of action: 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing; 3. Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage; 4. Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; and
5. Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
 
            Meet and Confer
  
            Cross-Defendant set
forth a meet and confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41
and CCP § 435.5.  (Decl. Jake Jung, ¶ 2.)
  
 
            Demurrer

            A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
            Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
            Cross-Defendant demurs to the FACC and each of the five
causes of action for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and for uncertainty. 
 
            First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
 
            Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action
is overruled. Cross-Complainant states facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action and the cause of action is not uncertain.
 
            “The elements of a cause of action for breach of contract
are: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
plaintiff.” Coles v. Glaser (2016) 2
Cal.App.5th 384, 391(internal quotations omitted). “[T]he complaint must
indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by
conduct. [...] If the action is based on an alleged breach of a written
contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a
copy of the written instrument must be attached and incorporated by reference.”
Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452,
458–59.
 
               Here, Cross-Complainant has indicated the existence of
a written contract and has attached the written contract. Cross-Complainant
alleges sufficient facts to meet the elements of the cause of action for breach
of contract including the existence of the contract, its performance,
cross-defendant’s breach, and resulting damages.  (FACC, ¶¶ 17-21.)
 
            The demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled. 
 
            Second Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
            The demurrer is overruled.  Cross-Complainant states facts sufficient to state
a cause of action and the cause of action is not uncertain.
 
            “Every contract contains an implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing providing that no party to the contract will do anything
that would deprive another party of the benefits of the contract. The implied
covenant protects the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties based
on their mutual promises. The scope of conduct prohibited by the implied
covenant depends on the purposes and express terms of the contract. Although
breach of the implied covenant often is pleaded as a separate count, a breach
of the implied covenant is necessarily a breach of contract.” Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young Money
Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885 (internal citations
omitted). A breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing does not give
rise to a cause of action separate from a cause of action for breach of the
contract containing the covenant. Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 327 (stating that “where breach of an actual term is alleged, a
separate implied covenant claim, based on the same breach, is superfluous.”)
“If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a
mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts,
simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract
cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim
is actually stated.” Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit,
Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.
 
            Cross-Complainant has alleged facts demonstrating Cross-Defendant’s
actions in depriving Cross-Complainant the benefit of these agreement, namely, Cross-Defendant’s
actions in placing blame upon Cross-Complainant and disparaging and defaming
Cross-Complainant.  (FACC, ¶ 24.)  These facts are outside of and go beyond the
normal facts of breach of contract which simply consisted of Cross-Defendant’s
alleged breach of the underlying agreement. 
 
            Thus, the demurrer to the second cause of action is
overruled.
    
            Third Cause of Action for Intentional Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage
            Fourth Cause of Action for Negligent Interference
with Prospective Economic Relations

             Cross-Defendant’s
demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend.  Cross-Complainants fail
to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.  
 
            The elements of Intentional Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage are: (a) An economic relationship between the plaintiff and
some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the
plaintiff; (b) The defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (c) Intentional
acts by the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (d) Actual
disruption of the relationship; (e) Economic harm to the plaintiff proximately
caused by the acts of the defendant; (f) Conduct that was wrongful by some
legal measure other than the fact of interference itself. Della Penna v.
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 378.
 
            “The tort of negligent interference with prospective
economic advantage is established where a plaintiff demonstrates that (1) an
economic relationship existed between the plaintiff and a third party which
contained a reasonably probable future economic benefit or advantage to
plaintiff; (2) the defendant knew of the existence of the relationship and was
aware or should have been aware that if it did not act with due care its
actions would interfere with this relationship and cause plaintiff to lose in whole
or in part the probable future economic benefit or advantage of the
relationship; (3) the defendant was negligent; and (4) such negligence caused
damage to plaintiff in that the relationship was actually interfered with or
disrupted and plaintiff lost in whole or in part the economic benefits or
advantage reasonably expected from the relationship.” Venhaus v. Shultz
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078. A claim for negligent interference also
requires the pleading of the independent wrongful conduct. National Medical
Transportation Network v. Deloitte & Touche (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 412,
439-42.
 
            Cross-Complainants failed to plead facts of an economic
relationship with a “third party.”  Cross-Complainants allege that the third party
or third parties were customers of CCS. However, there are no facts to support
the existence of an economic relationship with the probability of future
economic benefit to Cross-Complainants between these third parties and
Cross-Complainants. Instead, the only facts alleged were the existence of such
a relationship between Cross-Defendant and these third parties. There are no
facts that Cross-Complainants had any independent economic relationship with
these third parties outside the context of the service agreement between the
Cross-Complainant Posware and Cross-Defendant. Cross-Complainants make
reference to Cross-Defendant persuading Hannam Chain and Arirang Market to use
another POS, but it is uncertain as to whether Cross-Complainants had any
existing business relationship with these entities outside of the context of
the service agreement between the Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendant. Thus,
without facts to show an economic relationship, elements (b) to (e) listed
above pursuant to Della Penna and elements (2) to (4) of Venhaus are
also lacking.
 
            The demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
            Fifth Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend. Cross-Complainants fail to state facts sufficient
to state a cause of action.  
 
            “The elements of a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty are: (1) existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the
fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by the breach.”  Stanley v. Richmond (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1070, 1086–87 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Cross-Complainants point to the service agreement between
the parties as imposing a fiduciary duty. Nothing in this agreement creates a
fiduciary duty, nor has Cross-Complainants provided authority to show that what
appears to be simply an arms-length contractual relationship creates a
fiduciary duty. In opposition, Cross-Complainants point to the existence of a
cause of action asserted by Cross-Defendant in the Complaint for fiduciary
duty. The Court notes that this cause of action is asserted against all Defendants
not merely Defendant Oh. However, it is inappropriate to comment on this cause
of action as this cause of action is not what is at issue with the instant
demurrer. The Court can only address the cause of action that is demurred to
currently which is the fifth cause of action of the FACC. Here, there are no
facts to show that Cross-Defendant owed a fiduciary duty to Cross-Complainants
pursuant to the service agreement.
 
            The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Motion to
Strike  
 
            The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436. 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
            Cross-Defendant moves to strike the following items:
            “1. Paragraph 31, Page 10, Lines 1 - 4, unauthorized
punitive damages claim as against Cross-Defendant. Code Civ. Proc. Section
436(a). 2. Paragraph 42, Page 12, Lines 16 -19, unauthorized punitive damages
claim as against Cross-Defendant. Code Civ. Proc. Section 436(a). 3. Prayer for
Relief (Third Cause of Action), Page 13, Line 10, unauthorized punitive damages
claim as against Cross-Defendant. Code Civ. Proc. Section 436(a). 4. Prayer for
Relief (Fifth Cause of Action), Page 13, Line 22, unauthorized punitive damages
claim as against Cross-Defendant. Code Civ. Proc. Section 436(a).”  (Notice of Motion, page 1, lines 7-14).
 
            The motion to strike is deemed moot upon the sustaining
of the demurrer to the third through fifth causes of action. 
 
            Cross-Defendant is ordered
to give notice of this ruling.