  Case Number:  20STCV40419    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  49 Marco Aiello v. 4820 Bellflower, Inc., et al.(1) DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT(2) MOTION TO STRIKE MOVING PARTY: Defendants 4820 Bellflower, Inc., Linda Abruzzo, Coro Community Management and Consulting, LLC, and Karen Kokowitz RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Marco AielloSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Marco Aiello owns a condominium unit in North Hollywood. Plaintiff alleges the premises suffered a sewer back-up incident causing excessive damages. Plaintiff also alleges the Association acted in bad faith by promulgating proposed rule changes harmful to Plaintiff and in violation of applicable laws. Plaintiff asserts claims against 4220 Bellflower, Inc., the association’s president, and the property manager for (1) negligence, (2) violation of Davis-Stirling Common Interest Development Act, (3) Violation of CC&Rs, (4) intentional interference with contract, (5) declaratory relief, (6) intentional concealment, (7) breach of contract, and (8) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.Defendants now demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, and also move to strike portions therein. Plaintiff opposed both motions.TENTATIVE RULING:  Defendant Karen Kokowicz’s Demurrer to the First through Sixth Causes of Action is OVERRULED without prejudice.  She is free to file and serve a standalone motion to dismiss pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.210 and 583.250 if she elects to do so. Defendants 4820 Bellflower, Coro Community Management and Consulting, and Linda Abruzzo’s Demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.Defendants’ Motion to Strike is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART as expressly stated herein. No leave to amend is given.Moving parties are ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Demurrer to First Amended ComplaintI. Meet and Confer The Declaration of attorney Joseph Z. Mkryan confirms that the meet and confer requirement was satisfied. II. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  III. AnalysisA. Demurrer to First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action by Defendant Karen KokowiczFirst, Defendants argue the causes of action against Defendant Kokowicz are subject to mandatory dismissal for Plaintiff’s failure to serve her within three years of the filing of the Complaint. In opposition, Plaintiff argues the service on Defendant was timely under the “relation-back doctrine.” This court need not address these arguments at this time, because a demurrer is not the proper proceeding to resolve this issue.Under CCP section 583.210(a), the summons and complaint “shall be served upon a defendant within three years” from the filing of the complaint. The service and timing requirements of the statute “are mandatory and are not subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as expressly provided by statute.” (CCP § 583.250 [emphasis added].) Where “service is not made within” the three-year period, “[t]he action shall be dismissed by the court on its own motion or on motion of any person interested in the action, whether named as a party or not, after notice to the parties.” (CCP § 583.250(a)(2) [emphasis added].)By statute, the remedy in the event of non-service is a motion to dismiss under sections 583.210 and 583.250—not a demurrer. The statute expressly provides for and contemplates a “motion to dismiss made pursuant to this chapter.” (§ 583.220; see also Cook v. Superior Ct. in & for Los Angeles Cnty. (1936) 12 Cal. App. 2d 608, 611 [“A statute prescribing a new right and a particular remedy must be strictly construed, and the manner provided in the statute whereby the right may be acquired must be strictly followed”].)Indeed, the analysis is largely incompatible with a demurrer, considering a party may raise equitable estoppel or various other defenses designated in the statute, which will often present factual questions. (§ 583.240.) It is well-settled that the “material facts alleged in the complaint are treated as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer” (C & H Foods Co. v. Hartford Ins. Co. (1984) 163 Cal. App. 3d 1055, 1062), and a “demurrer tests the pleading alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.” (Hayter Trucking, Inc. v. Shell W. E&P, Inc. (1993) 18 Cal. App. 4th 1, 17.) Accordingly, the demurrer as to Defendant Kokowicz as to the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action is OVERRULED without prejudice. Defendant Kokowicz is free to file and serve a standalone motion to dismiss pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.210 and 583.250 if she elects to do so. B. Demurrer to Sixth Cause of ActionThe moving Defendants also demurrer to the new Sixth Cause of Action for Intentional Concealment. (See Notice of Motion.) Defendants argue the cause of action is barred by the applicable statute of limitations and does not relate back to the original complaint. It seems uncontested that a three-year statute of limitations applies. (See CCP § 338.)“Where the statute of limitations has expired before the filing of an amended complaint, unless an amended complaint relates back to a timely filed original complaint, the amended complaint will be time-barred. (Barrington v. A.H. Robins Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 146, 150.) Under the relation-back doctrine, “where an amendment is sought after the statute of limitations has run, the amended complaint will be deemed filed as of the date of the original complaint provided recovery is sought in both pleadings on the same general set of facts....” (Lamont v. Wolfe (1983) 142 Cal. App. 3d 375, 378.) Thus, “to avoid the statute of limitations bar, the amended complaint must allege the same general set of facts, refer to the same accident, same injuries, and refer to the same instrumentality as alleged in the original complaint.” (Fix the City, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2024) 100 Cal. App. 5th 363, 374.) The analysis “requires courts to compare the factual allegations in the original and amended complaints.” (Id.)In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants made false descriptions in invoices about water blockage and mere “grey water” at the property, which “creat[ed] a trumped-up, false narrative that Plaintiff had failed to mitigate his damages by changing the Plumbing and ServPro reports, were all false statements, and concealment of the truth, intended to cause damages to Plaintiff, which they did.” (FAC ¶ 102.) This is consistent with the general allegations in the original Complaint, which in part, alleged untreated sewer backup at the property resulting from construction defects. (Compl. ¶¶ 37, 38, 43, 51.) The FAC merely asserts additional facts that Defendants allegedly attempted to conceal the issues and shift the blame on Plaintiff. The allegations are therefore based on “the same general set of facts, refer to the same accident, same injuries, and refer to the same instrumentality as alleged in the original complaint.” (Fix the City, Inc., supra, 100 Cal. App. 5th at 374.) The FAC therefore “relates back” to the filing of the Complaint, and the new claims are timely. Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.Motion to StrikeI. Legal StandardA motion to strike lies either (1) to strike any irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) to strike any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.) II. AnalysisA. Sufficiency of AllegationsDefendants move to strike Plaintiff’s references to punitive damages in the FAC. Defendants argue Plaintiff has failed to plead specific facts to support an award of punitive damages.  [FN 1]Civil Code § 3294 provides that “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” As defined in § 3294(c):(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (3) “Fraud” means that a defendant intentionally misrepresented or concealed a material fact and did so intended to harm a plaintiff.In opposition, Plaintiff only attempts to defend punitive damages as they pertain to the Second and Sixth Causes of Action. Thus, where the motion seeks to strike references to punitive damages not expressly addressed below—i.e. those contained in the Second Cause of Action, Sixth Cause of Action, or Prayer for Relief—Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED as to those portions.  In the Second Cause of Action for violation of the Davis-Stirling Act, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants, “having been involved in the construction defect lawsuit were well aware of the sewer pipe construction defect, and thus w[ere] on notice of affirmative acts [they] need to consistently perform to avoid causing damages to the Project and Unit 208.” (Id. ¶ 72.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants breached the Act “by failing to maintain the common area generally, and the common area sewer pipes, specifically, which then predictably lead to the July 2019 sewer water back-up incident at Unit 208.” (Id. ¶ 74.) On these facts, Plaintiff alleges Defendants “have acted in a malicious, arbitrary, capricious and oppressive manner, as stated herein, and Plaintiff seeks punitive damages in an amount no less than $1,000,000, or at least three times Plaintiff’s damages, whichever is greater.” (Id. ¶ 76.)In the Sixth Cause of Action for intentional concealment, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants made false descriptions in invoices about water blockage and mere “grey water” at the property, which “creat[ed] a trumped-up, false narrative that Plaintiff had failed to mitigate his damages by changing the Plumbing and ServPro reports, were all false statements, and concealment of the truth, intended to cause damages to Plaintiff, which they did.” (FAC ¶ 102.) On these facts, Plaintiff alleges this conduct is “fraudulent, oppressive, and full of malice, conducted in a manner to hurt, harm and damage Plaintiff, and Plaintiff seeks punitive damages or an amount no less than $1,000,000.” (Id. ¶ 107.)Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to remedy substantial sewer pipe issues at the property despite being on notice of same, and then attempted to conceal the issues and shift the blame to Plaintiff. These allegations, if true and proven at trial, could amount to the requisite malice, oppression, or fraud necessary to seek punitive damages on the Second and Sixth Causes of Action and the Prayer for Relief.Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Strike is GRANTED in PART and DENIED in PART. Because Plaintiff has not addressed those portions of the motion to strike that have been ordered stricken nor asked for leave to amend those portions, no leave to amend is given.B. Request for Amount of Punitive DamagesFinally, Defendant correctly notes that Plaintiff has improperly sought a specific amount of punitive damages at various portions of the FAC. “No claim for exemplary damages shall state an amount or amounts.” (Civil Code § 3295(e).) Here, Plaintiff seeks punitive damages for defendants’ conduct in the amount “no less than $1,000,000.” (FAC ¶¶ 76, 86, 94, 107; Prayer, 4, 6.) Thus, the motion to strike portions seeking an amount of punitive damages is GRANTED without leave to amend. But as discussed, the request for punitive damages remains in the Second Cause of Action, Sixth Cause of Action, and Prayer for Relief.Going forward, Plaintiff may request an amount of punitive damages in a Statement of Damages under CCP § 425.11, which purpose is “to notify a defendant of the amount of damages sought where the law prevents the plaintiff from including a specific amount in the complaint.” (Dhawan v. Biring (2015) 241 Cal. App. 4th 963, 969.)IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   June 28, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - Defendants filed their Demurrer and Motion to Strike in single 28-page document. Going forward, all demurrers and motions to strike should be filed as two separate documents. Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at  Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.