  Case Number:  21STCV30828    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  73 10/16/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
YEDAM, INC., et al. v. DANIEL LEE, et
al. (21STCV30828)
 
Counsel for Cross-Complainants/opposing
party:  Dale Park (Law Offices of Dale J.
Park)
Counsel for Cross-Defendants/moving
party: Frederick Lee (Frederick W. Lee Law Firm APC)
 
(1)   CROSS-DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL
FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE) PROPOUNDED ON
CROSS-COMPLAINANT DANIEL N. LEE AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS (filed on 07/01/2024)
(2)   CROSS-DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL
FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET ONE) PROPOUNDED
ON CROSS-COMPLAINANT DANIEL N. LEE AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS (filed on 07/01/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further
Discovery Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, propounded on
Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee is GRANTED.
 
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further
Discovery Responses to Production of Documents, Set One, propounded on
Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee is granted in part and denied in part.  Further responses to Request Nos. 12,
14-18 and 25 are DENIED. Further responses to Request Nos. 1-10 and 19-24 are
GRANTED. 
 
Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee shall serve supplemental responses
within 30 days of the Court’s order.
 
Sanctions are denied. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On August 20, 2021, Plaintiffs Yedam, Inc. (“Yedam") and Eun
Kyung Choi (“Choi") brought this breach of loyalty and unfair business
practices action against Daniel N. Lee (“Lee") and Jin Sook Lee (together,
“the Lees"), and DM Cosmetics, Inc. (“DM Cosmetics"). 
 
On March 15, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) asserting 5 causes of action for: (1) Breach of Duty of Loyalty; (2) Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; (3) Negligent Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage; (4) Unfair Business Practices; and (5) Declaratory
Relief.
 
The FAC alleges the following. Yedam imports and purchases
products including candles and scented oils that are sold at various retail
locations such as department stores in South Korea. (FAC, ¶ 9.) On or about February 2017 Defendant Daniel Lee
began working for Yedam in South Korea. (FAC, ¶
10.) In his capacity as an employee, Defendant Daniel Lee was significantly
involved in dealing with: a) manufacturers that produced candles, scented oils
or related products; b) the manufacturers’ decision makers and the purchase
terms such as price; c) the buyers at the department stores in Korea that
purchased such products from Yedam; d) the buyers’ decision makers and the
purchase terms such as price; and e) the retail locations in both the United
States of America and South Korea where such items were sold at. (FAC, ¶ 22.) Notwithstanding his duty of loyalty,
Defendant Daniel Lee, in conjunction with his wife Defendant Angela Lee, have
misused Yedam’s proprietary information in order to enrich themselves
financially. (FAC, ¶ 24). Defendants’ actions have
caused Buyers for Department Stores in South Korea to cease purchasing products
from Plaintiff Yedam and/or have caused the closure of retail locations in
South Korea. (FAC, ¶ 26).
 
The Lees and DM Cosmetics, Inc. (“Cross-Complainants" or
“Defendants”) cross-complained against Yedam, Choi, Olive House LLC, and Lamis
Tania, LLC (“Cross-Defendants"). On August 10, 2023, Cross-Complainants
filed their third amended cross-complaint (“TACC”) asserting 8 causes of action
against Cross-Defendants: (1) Breach of Oral Contract I; (2) Breach of Oral
Contract II; (3) Breach of Oral Contract III; (4) Breach of Oral Contract IV;
(5) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets; (6) Trademark Infringement; (7) Unfair
Competition in Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq. and
California Trademark Law; and (8) Declaratory Relief.
 
The TACC alleges the following. Prior to 2017,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Choi owned Yedam. (TACC, ¶
11.) Yedam was experiencing serious financial problems. (Ibid.) In
February of 2017, Choi approached Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lee asking for
help. (Id., ¶ 12.) Choi proposed Lee
serve as Yedam’s general manager, whereby Lee would oversee the Korean market
and Choi would oversee the Chinese market. (Ibid.) In exchange, Lee
would be paid a $10,000 per month salary. (Ibid.) In addition, Choi
would give Lee 49% ownership of Yedam if Lee could help Yedam “overcome [its]
financial hardship and become profitable." (Ibid.) Lee agreed and
moved from the US to Korea to serve as Yedam’s general manager. (Id., ¶ 13.) To help Yedam solve its financial issues, Lee
loaned Yedam $70,000.00 in operating capital. (Id., ¶ 14.) Choi promised that the $70,000.00 would be
paid back when Yedam become profitable, along with 7% interest per annum from
April 1, 2017. (Id., ¶ 12.) Lee
successfully managed Yedam thereafter, and Yedam went from net losses in 2016
and 2017 to net profits of over a million dollars per year by the end of 2019.
(Id., ¶ 15.) However, in July of 2019,
Yedam faced supply chain issues when the “Milk House Candle" company in
the United States refused to renew its exclusive distribution contract with
Yedam. (Id., ¶ 16.) In response, the
Lees created a new brand of merchandise named “Dani Mackenzie" under DM
Cosmetics, Inc. (Id., ¶ 17.) The Lees
trademarked Dani Mackenzie in the United States in May of 2020. (Id., ¶ 18.) Around that same time, Choi proposed that
Yedam purchase Dani Mackenzie merchandise from DM Cosmetics in exchange for
Yedam having the right to use the Dani Mackenzie name. (Id., ¶ 19.) Choi told the Lees that there was no need to
have a written licensing and distribution agreement because Choi would transfer
49% of Yedam’s ownership interest to Lee by the end of December 2020. (Id.,
¶ 20.)
 
Dani Mackenzie became highly popular in Korea, and Yedam’s sales
and profit soared to the point that Yedam was valued at over $50 million. (Id.,
¶ 22.) On December 20, 2020, Lee demanded that
Choi transfer 49% of Yedam to him. (Id., ¶
23.) Lee also demanded that Choi and Yedam repay the $70,000 operating capital
loan with 7% interest from April 1, 2017. (Ibid.) However, Choi
terminated Lee from Yedam shortly thereafter and refused to convey the 49%
ownership share. (Id., ¶ 25.) Further,
Choi and Yedam stopped purchasing Dani Mackenzie merchandise from DM Cosmetics
and started using other suppliers to manufacture products bearing the Dani
Mackenzie trade name. (Id., ¶ 28.) On
March 18, 2021 and April 14, 2021, Cross-Complainants demanded that
Cross-Defendants cease and desist manufacturing, supplying and/or selling
products under the Dani Mackenzie name. (Id., ¶
32.) 
 
A.      Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One)
 
On July 1,
2024, Cross-Defendants filed the Motion to Compel Further Answers to Special
Interrogatories (Set One) against Daniel Lee, arguing:
·      
Cross-Complainant improperly responded by providing a collective
objection to all interrogatories without separately stating its responses.
·      
Monetary sanctions
should be awarded in the amount of $4,820.00.
Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Cross-Defendants’ special interrogatories are not code compliant
because each interrogatory is not full and complete. The set contains
“definitions” on two pages which include
subparts, compound and/or conjunctive interrogatories.
·      
Sanctions should be awarded to Daniel
Lee in the amount of $1,927.26.
Cross-Defendants filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Just like the matter at hand, the court in Clement v. Alegre
(2009) 177 Cal. App. 4th 1277 concerned a response to straightforward
interrogatories with nitpicking and meritless objections, that resulted in
delaying the proceedings, impeded the self-executing operation of discovery and
wasted the time of the court and counsel. In Clement v. Alegre (2009)
177 Cal. App. 4th 1277 the responding party (to the discovery request) also
made an objection based on Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.060(d). The
court in Clement found that Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.060 (d)
and (f) is to prevent evasion of the statutory limit on the number of
interrogatories that one party may propound to another. Clement, at
pages 1287 and 1288.
 
B.      Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set One)
 
On July 1, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed the Motion to Compel
Further Answers to Request for Production of Documents (Set One) against Daniel
Lee, arguing: 
·      
The
responses are not code compliant.
·      
Monetary
sanctions should be awarded in the amount of $6,010.00.
Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Responses are code-compliant and the
requests contain vague and ambiguous terms.
·      
Sanctions should be awarded to Daniel
Lee in the amount of $2,160.00.
No reply was filed.
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer 
 
Before
bringing a motion to compel further responses to any discovery request, the
moving party is required to make efforts to meet and confer in good faith and
must submit a declaration attesting to those efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2031.310(b)(2), 2030.300(b), 2033.290(b).) “A meet and confer declaration in
support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
 
Here,
counsel for Cross-Defendants submitted a declaration attesting that the parties
discussed the alleged deficient responses via email but an agreement was not
reached. (Muriella
Decl., ¶¶ 8-11.) The
Court finds the moving party has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer
requirement.
 
B.      Legal
Standard 
¿  
“On receipt
of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(a).¿ “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(b).¿ In addition, a separate statement is required.¿
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1345(a)(2).¿ 
¿ 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that: 
“(1)  
A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. 
 
(2)   A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
 
(3)   An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.”   
 
Under CCP §
2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”   
 
“In the more
specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who
asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the
request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney
work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Under CCP §
2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section
specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that
discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having
knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description,
nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.” 
 
C.      Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One)
Cross-Defendants request further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1-33.
 
Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee objected to each interrogatory,
stating: 
 
“Objection on the grounds that this
set is not in compliance with the Code in that each interrogatory is not full
and complete, this set includes instructions and definitions, and this set
includes subparts, or compound or conjunctive interrogatories by way of
“DEFINITIONS” which include subparts, or a compound or conjunctive
interrogatories. CCP Section 2030.060 (d) and (f). Responding Party reserves
all of his/her/its right to object on other grounds.”
 
CCP Section 2030.060 (d) requires: “Each interrogatory shall
be full and complete in and of itself. No preface or instruction shall be
included with a set of interrogatories unless it has been approved under
Chapter 17 (commencing with Section 2033.710).” CCP Section 2030.060 (f)
provides: “No specially prepared interrogatory shall contain subparts, or a
compound, conjunctive, or disjunctive question.”
 
While the Court agrees that Cross-Defendants’
interrogatories are not compliant with CCP Sections 2030.060 (d) and (f),
the Court does not find that this deficiency warrants denial of Cross-Defendants’ motion to compel further responses. In Clement
v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal. App. 4th 1277, 1287-88, the court found that the
rule that each specially prepared interrogatory must be “full and complete” by
itself (§ 2030.060, subd. (d)), together with the rule that “[n]o specially
prepared interrogatory shall contain subparts, or a compound, conjunctive, or
disjunctive question” (§ 2030.060, subd. (f)) “prevent evasion of the statutory
limit on the number of interrogatories that one party may propound to another.” As the court stated in Clement: 
 
“As to the specific provision at issue in this case, the
Reporter's Note continues: “Prefaces, Instructions, Definitions, and Sub–Parts.
This provision is included to prevent wrangling about whether a party is evading
the 35–question limit by using prefaces, instructions, definitions, and
sub-parts to exceed the substance of the restriction it imposes. The Commission
does not believe that boiler plate interrogatories, prefaces, instructions,
definitions, or sub-parts are per se abusive. Instead, it recognizes the
need to control use of these devices lest they become the vehicle
for evasion of the 35–question limit.”
 
“Plaintiffs do not contend that any of the interrogatories to
which they objected on this basis were unclear, or that the interrogatories,
considered either singly or collectively, in any way undermined or violated the
presumptive numerical limit of 35 interrogatories of section 2030.030. Yet
plaintiffs seized on what might have been at most an arguable
technical violation of the rule, to object to interrogatories that were clear
and concise where the interrogatories did not even arguably violate
the presumptive numerical limitation set by statute. In so doing, plaintiffs
themselves engaged in the type of gamesmanship and delay decried by the
drafters of the Act.”
 
(Ibid., (emphasis
in original).) Similarly here, Cross-Complainant
Daniel Lee does not argue that the interrogatories are unclear or violated the
presumptive numerical limit of 35 interrogatories. Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that further responses are warranted. Cross-Defendants’
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One,
propounded on Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee is GRANTED.
 
                                                              
i.     
Sanctions
 
The court may impose sanctions against any party for engaging in conduct
constituting a “misuse of the discovery process.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030
(a).)¿Misuse of the discovery process includes “failing to respond or submit to
an authorized method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010 (d).) 
 
Both parties
request the Court impose monetary sanctions. As discussed above, the Court
finds further responses are warranted. However, since Cross-Defendants’
interrogatories were not compliant with CCP Sections 2030.060 (d) and (f),
the Court does not find that Cross-Complainant acted without substantial
justification in objecting to Cross-Defendants’ interrogatories. The Court
declines to impose sanctions.  
 
D.     Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set One)
 
Cross-Defendants request further responses to
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 1-10, 12, 14-25.
 
Requests Nos. 1-10 seek all documents identified in response to
corresponding Special Interrogatories. As discussed above, the Court finds
further responses to the special interrogatories are warranted. Therefore, the
Court grants Cross-Defendants’ request for further responses to
these requests.
 
Requests Nos. 12 and 14 seek all documents identified in response to
corresponding Form Interrogatories. Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee responded by
stating that no documents were identified in the underlying form interrogatories,
thus, he is unable to comply with this demand. Cross-Defendants fail to show why
further responses are warranted. Since Cross-Complainant Lee has stated why he
cannot comply with these demands, the Court denies Cross-Defendants’
request for further responses to these requests. 
 
Requests Nos. 15-18 and 25 seek documents or ESI
relating to communications at any time from April 29, 2019 up to and including the
present between Cross-Complainant Lee and any buyer of the
PRODUCT. Cross-Complainant objects to each request stating that the term
“PRODUCT” is vague, ambiguous, overbroad, too general and too
indefinite. The Court agrees. Cross-Defendants define “PRODUCT” as candles,
diffusers and/or scented oils. However, Cross-Defendants’ definition is overbroad,
and it is unclear specifically what candles, diffusers and/or scented oils they
are referring to. For instance, if Cross-Defendants’ are only referring to the
products bearing the trademark, then it should be clearly set forth. The Court
denies Cross-Defendants’ request for further responses to these
requests. 
 
Requests Nos. 19-24 seek documents or ESI
relating to communications at any time from April 29, 2019 up to and including the
present between Cross-Complainant Lee and Eun Kyung Choi regarding either
Yedam, Inc., DM Cosmetics, or Dani Mackenzie. Cross-Complainant
objects to each request stating that “regarding Yedam, Inc.”, “regarding DM
Cosmetics” and “regarding Dani Mackenzie” are vague, ambiguous,
overbroad, too general and too indefinite. However, the Court finds that further responses are warranted. The discovery
sought is relevant to the subject matter of this case. Cross-Defendants have specified
the scope of time for which they are seeking production. Further, while Cross-Complainant
provides boilerplate objections and states in a conclusory manner that they
will suffer undue hardship in searching these documents, Cross-Complainant fails
to provide any evidence as to this undue hardship. The party objecting to a
discovery request on this basis bears the burden of supplying evidence of “the
quantum of work required.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 549.)¿¿The Court grants Cross-Defendants’ request for further responses to these requests.
 
In sum, Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Further Discovery Responses to Production of Documents, Set One, propounded on
Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee is granted in part and denied in part.  Further responses to Request Nos. 12,
14-18 and 25 are DENIED. Further responses to Request Nos. 1-10, 19-24 are
GRANTED. 
 
                                                              
i.     
Sanctions
 
The court may impose sanctions against any party for engaging in conduct
constituting a “misuse of the discovery process.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030 (a).)¿Misuse
of the discovery process includes “failing to respond or submit to an
authorized method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010 (d).) 
 
Both parties
request the Court impose monetary sanctions. Here, the motion is granted and
denied in part. The Court declines to impose sanctions.  
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Discovery
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, propounded on Cross-Complainant
Daniel Lee is GRANTED.
 
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Discovery
Responses to Production of Documents, Set One, propounded on Cross-Complainant
Daniel Lee is granted in part and denied in part.  Further responses to Request Nos. 12, 14-18 and 25 are
DENIED. Further responses to Request Nos. 1-10 and 19-24 are GRANTED. 
 
Cross-Complainant
Daniel Lee shall serve supplemental responses within 30 days of the Court’s
order.
 
Sanctions are denied. 