 Case Number:  23STCV29774    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  73 10/16/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
MENDEZ v. DINO’S BURGERS FAST FOOD,
INC., et al. (23STCV29774)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party: Eli Banayan (Bana Legal Group, PC)
Counsel for
Defendants/opposing party:  Timothy R.
Casey (Law Offices of Timothy R. Casey)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S FURTHER
RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS TO DEFENDANT DINO’S BURGERS
FAST FOOD, INC., SET ONE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS (filed 07/15/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, to
Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. is GRANTED. Defendant Dino’s Burgers
Fast Food, Inc. shall provide verified responses within 30 days. 
 
The Court
further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. in the reduced amount of $2,670. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid
to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
December 6, 2023, Plaintiff Diego Lopez Mendez filed this action against
Defendants Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc.; Dino’s Main St, Inc.; Konstantinos
Pantazis and George Pantazis. 
 
On
January 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging
the following causes of action:
 
C/A
1: Failure
To Provide Meal Periods
C/A
2: Failure
To Provide Rest Periods
C/A
3: Failure
To Pay All Wages Due Upon Termination: Waiting Time Penalties
C/A
4: Failure
To Pay All Wages Earned
C/A
5: Failure
To Pay Minimum Wage
C/A
6: Failure
To Issue Accurate Itemized Wage Statements
C/A
7: Failure
To Timely Produce Personnel File
C/A
8: Violations
Of California’s Unfair Competition Act
 
The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was employed by Defendants as
a dishwasher from in or about 2017, until the termination of Plaintiff’s
employment on August 29, 2023. Plaintiff alleges multiple violations of
California’s Labor Code. 
 
On July 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc.’s Further
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and request for
sanctions. No opposition was filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
A motion to compel further discovery responses
must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(2);
2016.040.)¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that a meet and confer
letter was sent to Plaintiff’s counsel on June 12, 2024, explaining why the
discovery responses were deficient and requesting further responses. (Banayan Decl.,
¶ 6.) Plaintiff’s
counsel also states another correspondence was sent on June 26, 2024 asking
Defense Counsel if Defendant was amenable to participating in an Informal
Discovery Conference to address the issues. (Id., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff did
not receive a response. (Id., ¶ 8.) The Court finds
that counsel has satisfied the meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2). 
 
B.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves
to compel Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc.’s further responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set One.
 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that: 
“(1)  
A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. 
 
(2)   A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
 
(3)   An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.”   
 
Under CCP § 2031.310
(b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” To the extent there is any
doubt in whether these records should be discoverable, California’s liberal
approach to discovery provides that doubt should be resolved in favor of
permitting discovery. (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court
(1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 173.) 
  
If a timely
motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party to
justify any objection or failure fully to answer. (Coy v. Superior Court
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses
to interrogatories]; see also Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant improperly responded to numerous
requests without stating whether or not the activity demanded would be allowed
“either in whole or in part” and that all documents or things in the demanded
category that are in the possession, custody, or control of Defendant and to
which no objection is being made will be included in the production. Defendant
also failed to state whether or not documents exist, whether or not a
reasonable search and diligent inquiry had been conducted.
 
Upon review of Defendant’s responses, the Court agrees and notes
that Defendant has failed to oppose the instant motion. “A party who has not timely filed
written opposition to a motion…may not be afforded an opportunity to offer oral
argument at the hearing.” (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) “The failure to file opposition creates an inference
that the motion…is meritorious.”¿ (Id.)¿ “In such cases, the court may
hear argument limited to a request for a continuance of the hearing in order to
afford an opportunity for written opposition.” (Id.) “[T]he rule is
patently intended to prevent the introduction of legal theories without prior
notice to opposing counsel and the court.” (Id.)
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant
Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc.’s  further responses to Request for
Production, Set One. 
 
C.      Sanctions
 
“A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of
motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is
sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of motion shall be
supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a
declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction
sought.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.) 
 
Sanctions
may be imposed for misuse of discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery
constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section
2023.010, subd. (d).) Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 provides that a court
may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a
motion to compel discovery even if no opposition was filed.  
 
Here, the
Court finds that Defendant engaged in the misuse of the discovery process by
failing to make good faith efforts to respond to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production, Set One. Plaintiff requests $3,970 in sanctions for counsel’s work
on this motion, including 4 hours spent on the instant motion, an anticipated 2
additional hours to review the opposition, prepare a reply and appear at the
hearing, and $70 filing fee. The Court finds sanctions are warranted. However, since no opposition was filed, the Court awards
sanctions in the reduced total amount of $2,670 (4 hours of attorney time at
the rate of $650 an hour and $70 filing fee).
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set
One, to Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. is GRANTED. Defendant Dino’s
Burgers Fast Food, Inc. shall provide verified responses within 30 days. 
 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. in the reduced amount of $2,670. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid
to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 