 Case Number:  23STCV08305    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  73 10/16/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
KENT TRAN v. UTOMO TANI, et al. (23STCV08305)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants/moving
party:  Sally Chan (West Themis Law, PC)
Counsel for Defendants/Cross-Complainant/opposing
party: T. Randolph Catanese (Catanese and Wells)
 
PLAINTIFF
KENT TRAN’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed 05/23/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to November 19, 2024.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff Kent Tran
(“Plaintiff”) filed his Complaint against Defendants Utomi Tani aka Jimmy Tani
(“Jimmy”); Yong Sook Kim; Jimmy Tani, Jr.; Lan Sam; Goodland Global Farm Inc.;
JT and KT Development LLC; Maie JT & KT Development LLC; True Garlic, Inc.;
Goodland Global Mining, Inc.; and nominal Defendant Golden Partner Global
Investment, Inc. dba NBC Seafood Restaurant (“collectively Defendants”). 
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint alleging the following causes of action: 
1)     
Intentional misrepresentation/fraud 
2)     
Conversion/embezzlement
3)     
Declaratory relief
4)     
Partition by sale
5)     
Violation of Welfare and Institutions
Code § 15600 et seq – Financial Elder Abuse
6)     
Intentional
infliction of emotional distress
7)     
Breach
of fiduciary duty
8)     
Conspiracy
9)     
Fraudulent
transfer/constructive fraud
10)  Negligent misrepresentation/fraud
11)  Fraud by concealment 
12)  Breach of written contract
13)  Breach of oral contract
14)  Inspection of records 
15)  Accounting
16)  Unjust enrichment
17)  Involuntary dissolution of
corporations
18)  Fraudulent transfer
19)  CA Penal Code Section § 496(A)
20) 
Cancellation
of instrument pursuant to Civ. Code § 3412
 
The Complaint alleges
the following. In or about 2008, Plaintiff and Jimmy formed several companies,
including Goodland Global Farm Inc., (“Goodland”), JT and KT Development LLC, and Maie JT and KT Development LLC. Plaintiff and Jimmy had
agreed to own the companies equally as partners. Plaintiff and Jimmy also
decided to jointly invest in another company, NBC Seafood Restaurant (“NBC”)
with Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei
Lin Zheng and Wai Hung Szeto. Plaintiff alleges that Jimmy engaged in fraud and
falsely misrepresented to Plaintiff, among other things, that Plaintiff owned 50% of the
Companies when he actually did not, that the Companies were in need of loans
and not profitable in order to induce Plaintiff to obtain personal loans, for
Plaintiff to sign documents that were related to taking out loans in 2021, and
that Plaintiff needed to vacate and sell his home to save the Companies. 
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendants (“Cross-Complainants”)
filed a Cross-Complaint against Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei Lin Zheng and
Wai Hung Szeto (collectively “Cross-Defendants”).
 
Cross-Complainants filed a Second
Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) alleging the following causes of action:
1)     
Equitable Indemnity and Contribution
2)     
Indemnity
3)     
Declaratory relief
 
Cross-Complainants,
Cross-Defendants and Plaintiff are shareholders of NBC Seafood Restaurant. The SACC
alleges that that any
liability held against them pertaining to Plaintiff’s allegations, is due to
the negligence, carelessness, acts, or omissions of Cross-Defendants. Cross-Complainants
are seeking indemnification and contribution for any loss suffered and damages
awarded to Plaintiff. Cross-Complainants also seek a declaration that Jimmy has
not violated the Bylaws of Golden Partner Global Investment, Inc., and that his
actions or omissions were ratified and consented to by Cross-Defendants.
 
On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff Kent Tran filed a Motion
for Summary Adjudication:
·       Plaintiff
Kent Tran moves for summary adjudication of the SAC’s first, second, third,
fifth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, sixteenth, eighteenth,
nineteenth and twentieth causes of action.
 
On August 19, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition,
arguing: 
·       Defendants
did not address the merits of Plaintiff Kent Tran’s motion. Instead, Defendants
argue that under CCP section 437c(h), the Court should deny the motion or
continue the hearing to allow Defendants and Cross-Complainants an opportunity
to obtain essential evidence from the Plaintiff necessary to oppose the Motion.
·       Defendants contend
that essential evidence exists, specifically oral testimony and documents of
Plaintiff and the Cross-Defendants, but cannot be presented in opposition to Plaintiff’s
Motion due to intervening acts of Plaintiff’s counsel and Plaintiff’s refusal
to make himself available for deposition or to make the Cross-Defendants
available for deposition.
 
On August 29, 2024, Plaintiff argued in his reply:
·       Defendants
had a full 103 days from May 23, 2024, when the Motion for Summary Judgment was
filed, until September 3, 2024, when the hearing is set to schedule and
complete depositions. Despite this ample timeframe, Defendants have failed to
conduct any meaningful discovery.
·       Defendants’
opposition to the motion purports to include a declaration from Defendants’
counsel. However, Defendants’ counsel failed to include such declaration in the
document filed with the court. 
·       Defendants
have failed to dispute any material facts or provide a valid defense against
the causes of action established by Plaintiff. 
 
On September 3, 2024, the Court continued the
hearing on Plaintiff Kent Tran’s Motion for Summary Adjudication to allow time
for the Court to consider the reply filed by Plaintiff. The Court considered
the reply as timely filed. 
 
On October 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental
reply, arguing:
·       Defendants
recently canceled Plaintiff’s deposition, which was scheduled for October 1,
2024, due to their inability to secure a Vietnamese translator on short notice,
despite being aware as early as May 23, 2024 that Plaintiff would require a
Vietnamese translator. This last-minute cancellation is yet another example of
Defendants' ongoing attempts to delay the resolution of this case.
 
II. DISCUSSION
 
A.     
Legal
Standard 
 
A party may
move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or
that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc.
Code § 437c(a).)   “Summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. 
In determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or
evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.”  (Id.,
§ 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
A defendant
moving for summary judgment must show “that one or more elements of the cause
of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to
the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also,
Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) 
 
“The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.  The defendant may also
present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following
extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.  But…
the defendant must indeed present evidence."  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in
original].)   “In other words, all that the defendant need do is to
show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of
action--for example, that the plaintiff cannot prove element¿X.”  (Id.,
at 853.) The court in Aguilar distilled summary judgment to “a
single proposition:  If a party moving for summary judgment in any action
. . . would prevail at trial without submission of any issue of material fact
to a trier of fact for determination, then he should prevail on summary
judgment.  In such a case . . . the ‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and
“avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’ by nonsuit or directed verdict or
similar device.  (Id. at 855.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar,
“the party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  Thus, courts
usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify the issues framed by
the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether the moving party’s
showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a
judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion prima facie justifies
a judgment, the third and final step is to determine whether the opposition
demonstrates the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Ojavan
Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385
[citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing
parties must present substantial evidence in order to avoid summary
judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative value
that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts
“construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe the opponent's
affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of granting the
motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v. Angeles-IPA
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation omitted.) 
“The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues of fact. The
court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.     
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request the Court grant
judicial notice of the following:
1.     
Defendants'
Ex Parte Application to Deny Plaintiffs Motion for Summary Adjudication
(Summary Judgment) or Alternatively Continue the Motion for a Reasonable Period
to Allow Defendants' Deposition Discovery filed by Defendants on August 8, 2024;
2.     
Declaration
of T. Randolph Catanese, Esq. in support of Defendants' Ex Parte Application to
Deny Plaintiffs Motion for Summary Adjudication (Summary Judgment) or
Alternatively Continue the Motion for a Reasonable Period to Allow Defendants'
Deposition Discovery filed by Defendants on August 8, 2024; and
3.     
This
Court's Minute Order of August 9, 2024, pertaining to the Court's ruling on
Defendants' Ex Parte Application to Deny Plaintiffs Motion for Summary
Adjudication (Summary Judgment) or Alternatively Continue the Motion for a
Reasonable Period to Allow Defendants' Deposition Discovery.
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court grants all of Defendants’
requests for judicial notice. 
 
C.     
Denial
or Continuance of Motion Pursuant to CCP section 437c(h)
 
As an initial matter, the Court
addresses whether Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication should be denied
or continued pursuant to CCP section 437c(h).
 
Under CCP section 437c(h), the Court
may continue or deny a motion for summary judgment, summary adjudication, or
both when a party submits facts in a declaration to demonstrate that essential
evidence may exist but cannot then be presented to oppose the motion. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c(h).) Where the opposing party submits an adequate affidavit
showing that essential facts may exist but cannot be presented in a timely
manner, the Court must either deny the motion or grant a continuance. (Dee
v. Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 30, 34-35.) 
 
Defendants argue that essential
evidence exists but cannot be presented to oppose the instant Motion.
Defendants assert in a declaration by their counsel, Randolph Catanese, that they
have not been able to take the deposition of Plaintiff or Cross-Defendants. (RJN
Ex. B, Catanese Decl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
references multiple declarations made by Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants. (RJN
Ex. B, Catanese Decl., ¶ 10.) Mr. Catanese states that he believes essential evidence
may or will be obtained from the Plaintiff and the Cross-Defendants which may
or will establish the existence of triable issues of fact, once he has had the
opportunity to examine them regarding their recollection, knowledge and
information related to documents produced in this case. (RJN Ex. B, Catanese
Decl., ¶ 11.) Defendants contend that they issued deposition notices for
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants on April 30, 2024. (RJN Ex. B, Catanese Decl., ¶
3.) Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants objected to the notices, the parties
attempted to meet and confer, but Defendants contend they were not provided alternative
deposition dates. (RJN Ex. B, Catanese Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Thereafter, on June 14,
2024, Plaintiff filed his Motion for the Appointment of a Discovery Referee,
which is scheduled for hearing on September 3, 2024, ( the motion was denied
that day) the same day as the hearing for Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication. (RJN Ex. B, Catanese Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Defendants had ample time to conduct the depositions of Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendants. Plaintiff also argues that Defendants failed to provide the
necessary declaration in support of their opposition outlining the facts
justifying further discovery.
 
However, the Court notes that
Defendants’ provided the declaration of their counsel as Exhibit B to their
Request for Judicial Notice. Further, the Court finds that Defendants’
counsel’s declaration sufficiently demonstrates the need for additional
discovery. Based on the foregoing, the Court continues Plaintiff’s Motion for
Summary Adjudication to allow
Defendants and Cross-Complainants an opportunity to obtain essential evidence
necessary to oppose the Motion pursuant to CCP section 437c(h).
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to November 19, 2024.
 
III.
DISPOSITION 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to November 19, 2024.