 Case Number:  22STCV05553    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  B  
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



GLENDIS BEKER,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THE HERTZ CORPORATION, ROMAINE
  KIRLEW, and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


Case No.: 22STCV05553
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO QUASH SIX (6)
  SUBPOENAS OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER AND/OR ORDER TO MODIFY
  THE SUBPOENAS
 
Dept. B
1:30 p.m. 
July 5, 2024



 
 
1. Background
            On
February 14, 2022, Plaintiff Glendis Beker (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants The Hertz Corporation, Romaine Kirlew, and DOES 1 through 50
(“Defendants”), alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence; (2) Negligence
Per Se; and (3) Statutory Liability.   
Plaintiff, at this
time, moves for an order quashing or limiting the civil disposition subpoena
for production of business records of Plaintiff. Alternatively, Plaintiff moves
for a protective order. The motion is opposed. No reply has been filed. 
 
2. Preliminary Issues
            Defendants’
argue the instant motion should be denied because (1) Plaintiff failed to
engage in an adequate, timely meet and confer effort; (2) the motion is
untimely; and (3) the motion is procedurally defective due to improperly
combining six motions into one. 
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1985.3(g), “Any consumer whose personal
records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party to the civil
action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to the date for
production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena
duces tecum.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3(g).)
Multiple motions
cannot be combined into a single filing.  (See Govt.
Code § 70617(a)(4) (setting forth the required filing fee for each motion,
application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing); see also Weil
& Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter
Group 2011) (“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery
requests ordinarily should be filed separately.”)
Here, Plaintiff
sent a meet and confer letter on February 7, 2024, which was just three court
days before production of the documents were due. However, the meet and confer
letter does address all the issues raised by the instant motion, specifically,
the grounds for quashing and/or limiting the subpoena. On the other hand, the
Court notes that the instant motion was not filed until June 21, 2024, which is
untimely because it is after the date for production, thus noncompliant with
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1985.3(g). Moreover, Plaintiff improperly
combined six motions to quash subpoenas into one motion. See, Government Code
Section 70617(a)(4). Nonetheless, Defendants oppose the motion on the merits,
thus the Court will exercise its discretion and rule on the merits below. 
 
3. Motion for Order Quashing
Subpoenas 
a. Legal
Standard
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1987.1(a), “[i]f a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1987.1(a).)¿¿However, “[n]othing in this section shall require any
person to move to quash, modify, or condition any subpoena duces tecum of
personal records of any consumer served under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b)
of Section 1985.3 or employment records of any employee served under paragraph
(1) of subdivision (b) of Section 1985.6.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(c).)
b. Discussion
For discovery
purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in
evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.¿(Gonzalez
v. Superior Court¿(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)¿¿Generally, all
unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action
is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010;¿Schnabel v. Superior Court¿(1993)
5 Cal.4th 704, 711.)¿¿¿¿ 
The right of
privacy of individuals is protected by the California Constitution. (Cal.
Const., Art. I, § 1.) The framework for evaluating invasions of privacy in
discovery have been clarified in Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531.¿There, the California Supreme Court held that, generally, “[t]he
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.¿The party
seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.¿ A court must then balance
these competing considerations.”¿(Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at
p. 533, citing Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1, 35.)¿ The court rejected the cases which held that the party seeking
protected information must always show a compelling need or interest.¿ (Id.
at p. 557.)¿ Instead, the court held, “[o]nly obvious invasions of interest
fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.”¿
(Id.)¿ 
 Here, Defendant The Hertz Corporation
(“Hertz”) served Plaintiff with six subpoenas seeking Plaintiff’s medical
records, billing records, and diagnostic imaging from Kaiser Foundation
Hospital and Kaiser Permanente Normandie North Medical Office. Plaintiff
contends that these subpoenas are overly broad and seek categories/records
which are irrelevant, confidential, and protected from disclosure by
Plaintiff’s constitutional right to privacy. As such, Plaintiff has raised an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in her personal medical records
under the circumstances. Specifically, the six subpoenas at issue request
production of all of Plaintiff’s medical records, billing records, and
radiology images from the first date of treatment to present. (Plf. Sep. Stmt.
at pp. 2-4.) Nevertheless, Plaintiff’s privacy interests must be balanced
against Defendants’ right to obtain discovery. As Defendants’ contend,
Plaintiff has put her medical condition at issue in this instant lawsuit by
seeking damages arising out of a motor vehicle collision. So, the request for
Plaintiff’s medical records, billing records, and diagnostic/radiology imaging
are relevant because they may lead to admissible evidence regarding the
veracity of Plaintiff’s injuries. By contrast, the Court agrees that the
requests are overbroad and vague as to time and scope because they seek all
records from the date of treatment to present, which could mean the date
Plaintiff first started getting treatment at the hospital or the date of the
accident. Nonetheless, the Court notes Plaintiff has not identified with
particularity what body parts have purportedly been injured as a result of the
subject accident, which makes narrowing the scope of the subpoenas difficult. 
Therefore, an
order modifying the subpoenas are warranted. 
Request for
Sanctions 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1987.2(a), “Except as specified in subdivision (c),
in making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section
1987 or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount
of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2(a).)
Here, Plaintiff’s
counsel seeks a total of $1,260.00 in sanctions for (1) 2.0 hours preparing the
motion, points and authorities, separate statement, and meet and conferring;
(2) 1.0 hour for the reply; (3) 1.0 hour for attending the hearing for a total
of 4.0 hours at an hourly rate of $300.00; and (4) $60.00 filing fee. Although
the requests are overbroad as to time and scope, Defendants have shown that the
requested records are relevant to the instant lawsuit as Plaintiff has placed
her medical condition at issue. 
Furthermore, Plaintiff has failed to narrow the scope of her injuries
because she has not identified with particularity, which areas of her body
sustained the alleged injuries. As such, Defendants’ opposition to the instant
motion was made with substantial justification and in good faith. 
Thus, the Court
will not impose any sanctions against Defendants at this time. 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff Glendis Beker’s Motion to Quash Six Subpoenas is DENIED. Alternatively,
the Motion to Modify Six Subpoenas is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall produce medical
records, billing records, and diagnostic imaging from five years before the
subject accident to present for all six subpoenas. The request for sanctions is
DENIED.
 
Moving Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice.
 
 
 
Dated this 5th day of July,
2024







 


 




 


Hon. Karen
  Moskowitz
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 