  Case Number:  19STCV06208    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  B SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



FILIBERTO ALVEAR ESPINOZA and CESILIA
  NAVA, 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
 
            vs.
 
CARRIBEAN NETWORK EXPRESS, GEMAEL EDWARD
  CHRISHON AND DOES 1-50, inclusive,
 
                        Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 19STCV06208
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR
  LEAVE TO FILE A SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept. B
1:30 p.m.
July
  5, 2024



 
I.                  
BACKGROUND
On
February 21, 2019, Plaintiffs Filiberto Alvear Espinoza (“Espinoza”) and
Cesilia Nava (“Nava”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants Caribbean Network Express (“Caribbean”), and Chrishon Gamael (“Chrishon”)
(collectively “Defendants”) for an unlimited personal injury action exceeding
$25,000. The Complaint alleges that on August 16, 2017, Defendants proximately
caused a collision with Plaintiffs’ vehicle because Defendants were negligently
maintaining their own vehicle. (Compl., ¶ 6.) 
Plaintiffs further allege that as a proximate result, Plaintiffs
sustained bodily injuries, portions of which are permanent. (Id. at ¶
7.) Additionally, due to said injuries—Plaintiffs have incurred medical
expenses, will be unable to work, and have also suffered damage to their
automobile. (Id. at ¶¶ 7-10.) The Complaint constitutes four pages in
total and does not allege any specific sums for damages. Plaintiffs provided that
they would ask for leave of the Court to amend their Complaint after Plaintiffs
ascertained such sums. (Id.)
On
May 28, 2020, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) but still
did not allege an amount in damages. 
On
June 11, 2021, Plaintiffs attempted to file a second amended complaint.
However, on July 7, 2021, the Court rejected it due to Plaintiffs’ failure to
move the court for leave to amend.
On
February 15, 2022, Plaintiffs again attempted to file a second amended
complaint which was, again, rejected by the Court (on February 17, 2022) due to
Plaintiffs’ failure to move the court for leave to amend.
On
January 31, 2024, Plaintiffs attempted to file a second amended complaint for
the third time. It was again rejected by the Court on February 1, 2023, due to
Plaintiffs’ failure to move the court for leave to amend.
On
May 10, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ request for a continuance for their
Hearing on Motion for Leave to Amend Second Amended Complaint which was
scheduled for March 29, 2023. The Hearing was continued to May 29, 2024.
On
May 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion for Leave to File a Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”), along with an attached Notice of the Motion, a
Memorandum of Points and Authorities, and the Declaration of Plaintiffs’
Counsel, Gilbert Quinones. That same day, Plaintiffs also filed a document
entitled “Proposed Order Granting Motion for Leave to File Second Amended
Complaint.” However, this document appears to have been for an alternate case
belonging to Plaintiffs’ Counsel. 
On
May 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed another Proposed Order Granting Motion for Leave
to File a Second Complaint which appropriately pertained to the instant matter.

On
May 29, 2024, the Honorable Lisa R. Jaskol (covering for Judge Michelle C. Kim
in Department 31) ordered Defendant Caribbean dismissed from the FAC, due to
Plaintiffs’ failure to file the corresponding proof of service. Thus, Defendant
Caribbean was dismissed without prejudice. Regarding, Defendant Chrishon Edward,[1] although
an OSC Re: Dismissal for Failure to Enter Default as to Defendant Chrishon was
scheduled for that same day, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ request for that OSC
Re: Dismissal hearing to be continued to August 22, 2024.
On
June 7, 2024, the instant case was reassigned from the court of Judge Michelle
C. Kim in Department 31 to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz in Department B. This
is where the case presently resides. 
No
Opposition has been filed. 
II.               
 LEGAL STANDARD¿¿ 
A complainant may obtain
leave from the trial court to amend his pleading beyond the number of
amendments allowed under Code of Civil Procedure section 472 (a) by filing a
noticed motion.¿ CCP § 472 (a); CRC, Rule 3.1324.¿ The motion must be
accompanied by a declaration stating: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request was not made
earlier.¿ CRC, Rule 3.1324 (b).¿¿¿¿¿ 
“Any judge, at any time
before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon
such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or
pretrial conference order.”  CCP § 576.  In the absence of a showing
of prejudice from the opposing side, the trial court ordinarily lacks
discretion to deny a motion to amend a pleading.  Honig v. Financial
Corp. of America (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960, 965 (Honig).
 
 
III.            
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiffs move the Court for
leave to amend the FAC and, therefore, file the SAC.  AS explained below,
the motion is denied without prejudice. 
a.     
Plaintiffs fail
to meet requirements of subsections (1)-(4) per the California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324.  
Plaintiffs filed their noticed
motion for leave to file their SAC on May 8, 2024. Thus, Plaintiffs complied
with the requirement of CCP § 472 (a) providing that a SAC must be filed by
filing a noticed motion. However, in addition to CCP § 472(a), the CRC Rule
3.1324 provides that Plaintiffs must also file a declaration providing the (1)
effect of amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why
the request was not made sooner. In this case, Plaintiff’s Counsel filed the
declaration of Gilbert Quinones (“Quinones Decl.”) whereby Quinones explains
that on February 1, 2023, Quinones informed the Court he would file a motion to
amend the complaint. (Quinones Decl., ¶ 4.) Furthermore, Quinones declares that
on January 29, 2024, Quinones unfortunately, suffered a heart attack. (Id.
at ¶ 8.) Thus, Quinones was hospitalized shortly thereafter and underwent
Quintuple Heart Bypass surgery at Pomona Valley Hospital. (Id. at ¶ 9.)
Following Quinones release from the hospital, he was instructed to not return
to work for ninety (90) days following the surgery. (Id. at ¶ 10.) On
May 6, 2024, Quinones officially returned to work and updated the instant
Motion for Leave to File a Second Amended Complaint. (Id. at ¶ 11.)
While the Court acknowledges
the hardship expressed in Counsel Quinones Declaration, the Court first notes
that said Declaration does not (1) state the effect of the amended contained
therein, (2) does not state why the amendment is necessary and proper; and (3)
does not state when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered. It may be that Counsels’ Declaration attempts to provide an
explanation to satisfy the fourth requirement noted above as to why the
amendment was not made sooner by providing his recent medical history, however,
given Counsel does not (a) make this connection, or (b) identify the substance
of said amendment, thus this fourth requirement has not been met either. The
Court further finds that Plaintiffs’ Memorandum simply provides limited
excerpts of both §§ CCP 473(a) and 576 but does not provide any legal argument,
facts, or discussion and/or analysis pertaining to the instant matter. Thus,
the Court must deny Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File a Second Amended Complaint.
IV.            
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to
File a Second Amended Complaint without prejudice. 
 
DATED: July 5, 2024
 
_____________________
Karen Moskowitz
Judge of the
Superior Court


