 Case Number:  20STCV44468    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  B  
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



JUAN CARLOS FLORES,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
PETER PAUL BORJA and DOES 1 to 20,
  
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


Case No.: 20STCV44468
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ORDER ALLOWING
  SUBMISSION OF TARDY EXPERT WITNESS DESIGNATION
 
Dept. B
1:30 p.m. 
July 5, 2024



 
 
1. Background
            On
November 19, 2020, Plaintiff Juan Carlos Flores (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants Peter Paul Borja and DOES 1 to 20 (“Defendants”), alleging
causes of action for (1) Motor Vehicle and (2) General Negligence.   
Defendant Borja, at
this time, moves for an order allowing submission of a tardy expert witness
designation. The motion is unopposed.
 
2. Motion for Order Allowing
Submission of Tardy Expert Witness Designation
a. Legal
Standard
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure Section 2034.710 provides in pertinent part: 
“(a) On motion of any
party who has failed to submit expert witness information on the date specified
in a demand for that exchange, the court may grant leave to submit that
information on a later date.
(b) A motion under
subdivision (a) shall be made a sufficient time in advance of the time limit
for the completion of discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section
2024.010) to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to
be taken within that time limit. Under exceptional circumstances, the court may
permit the motion to be made at a later time.
(c) The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.710.)
“[S]ection
2034.720 provides: ‘The court shall grant leave to submit tardy expert
witness information only if all of the following conditions are
satisfied: [¶] (a) The court has taken into account the extent to which the
opposing party has relied on the absence of a list of expert witnesses. [¶] (b)
The court has determined that any party opposing the motion will not be
prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits. [¶] (c)
The court has determined that the moving party did all of the following: [¶]
(1) Failed to submit the information as the result of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. [¶] (2) Sought leave to submit the information
promptly after learning of the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect. [¶] (3) Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert
witness information described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have
appeared in the action. [¶] (d) The order is conditioned on the moving party
making the expert available immediately for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing
with Section 2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just, including, but
not limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional
expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously
designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the
awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion.’” (Cottini
v. Enloe Medical Center (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 401, 418.)
b. Discussion
             Here, the deadline for the exchange of expert
witness information was June 4, 2024. (Tseng Decl., ¶9.) However, Defendant
Borja’s counsel, Jennifer T. Tseng attests that due to inadvertence, mistake,
excusable neglect she failed to serve a fourth expert witness on June 4, 2024.
(Id. at ¶¶10-11, Ex. I.) Specifically, Tseng attests that her son had an
unexpected medical emergency that day, which led to her forgetting that she had
to serve the expert witness designation. (Id.) On June 5, 2024, only
one-day after the deadline to serve Defendant Borja’s expert witness
designation, Tseng attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel about
the late-served expert witness designation. (Id. at ¶12, Ex. J.) Tseng
also attached the designated expert witness designation to the email, which
constitutes prompt service of the proposed expert witness designation on the
all the parties that have appeared in the lawsuit. Plaintiff’s counsel objected
to the proposed expert witness designation on June 6, 2024. (Id. at ¶12.)
Defendant Borja filed this instant motion the same day, which demonstrates that
Defendant Borja immediately sought relief. Although Plaintiff has not opposed
the instant motion, the Court finds that allowing the tardy submission of the
designated expert witness would prejudice Plaintiff because the trial is three
weeks away, i.e., July 24, 2024.          
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant Peter Paul Borja’s Motion for Order Allowing Submission of
Tardy Expert Witness Designation is GRANTED on the condition that the tardy
designated expert witness be made immediately available for deposition;
Plaintiff Juan Carlos Flores is given leave to designate additional expert
witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously designated;
and a continuance of the Final Status Conference and Trial to
___________________ _____, 2024. 
 
Moving Defendant are
ordered to give notice.
 
 
 
Dated this 5th day of July,
2024







 


 




 


Hon. Karen
  Moskowitz
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 


 