 Case Number:  22STCV00193    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  B  
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



DANIEL ABRAM,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SOULCYCLE INC., SOULCYCLE
  BEVERLY HILLS, LLC, LINDSAY WARNER, and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


Case No.: 22STCV00193
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL AND
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Dept. B
1:30 p.m. 
July 5, 2024



 
 
1. Background
            On
January 2, 2022, Plaintiff Daniel Abram (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants SoulCycle Inc., SoulCycle Beverly Hills, LLC, Lindsay Warner, and
DOES 1 to 50 (“Defendants”), alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence and
Gross Negligence; (2) Negligent Hiring, Retention and Supervision; and (3)
Premises Liability.   
Plaintiff, at this
time, moves for an order (1) continuing the trial and (2) continuing the
summary judgment motion for 120 days or any amount of time the Court deems to
be reasonable. The motion is unopposed.
 
2. Motion To Continue Trial
and Motion for Summary Judgment
a. Legal
Standard
            Pursuant
to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c): the court may grant a continuance
for “good cause,” which includes: (1) unavailability of an essential lay or
expert witness due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (2)
unavailability of a party due to death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; (3) unavailability of trial counsel due to death, illness, or
other excusable circumstances; (4) substitution of trial counsel required in
the interests of justice; (5) addition of a new party or other parties in
regard to a new party’s involvement hasn’t had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; (6) party’s excused inability to
obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or (7) significant, unanticipated change in the status of the
case as a result of which indicates the case is not ready for trial. (Cal.
Rules Ct., Rule 3.1332(c).)¿¿ 
¿¿           Other
relevant factors to be considered may include: “(1) the proximity of the trial
date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or
delay of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested;
(4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise
to the motion or application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties
or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is
entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; (8) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice
are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application” (Cal. Rules Ct., Rule
3.1332(d).)¿¿ 
¿¿           “A
trial court has great discretion in the disposition of an application for a
continuance. Absent a clear abuse of discretion, the court’s determination will
not be disturbed.” (Estate of Smith v. Atkinson (1973) 9 Cal.3d 74, 81.)
“Such discretion is abused, however, where the lack of a continuance results in
the denial of a fair hearing.” (Rankin v. Curtis (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d
939, 947.)¿
b. Discussion
            A
motion for summary judgment must be heard no later than 30 days before trial.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(a)(3).) However, “[i]f it appears from the affidavits
submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but
cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion,
order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had,
or make any other order as may be just. The application to continue the motion
to obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time
on or before the date the opposition response to the motion is due.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c(h).)
 Here, the trial is currently set for September
23, 2024 and the motion for summary judgment is set to be heard on August 15,
2024. Thus, the motion for summary judgment will be heard within the time
required by Code of Civil Procedure Section 437c(a)(3). However, Plaintiff’s
counsel’s motion to withdraw, i.e., to be relieved as counsel is set to be
heard on July 16, 2024 and Plaintiff has not filed a substitution of attorney
indicating new counsel has been retained. Plaintiff contends that he is
actively attempting to retain new counsel and a continuance will allow him to
retain new counsel, respond to the pending motion for summary judgment, and
prepare for trial. Furthermore, the deposition of Defendant SoulCycle Beverly
Hills, LLC was set for June 27, 2024, which was last week Thursday and
Plaintiff plans to notice the deposition of Defendant SoulCycle LLC’s person
most qualified if it is not the same person. Moreover, Defendants have not
opposed the instant motion to demonstrate that any prejudice will result by a
continuance. In contrast, Plaintiff’s unanticipated change in his
representation status shows he is not prepared for trial, which is two months
away, or for the hearing on the motion for summary judgment, which is a month
away. Additionally, there is no indication that previous continuances have been
granted. Lastly, courts favor trying cases on the merits, so in furtherance of
justice Plaintiff should be given the opportunity to retain new counsel to
defend against the motion for summary judgment and possible trial. 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff Daniel Abram’s Motion to Continue Trial and Motion for
Summary Judgment is GRANTED. [The trial is continued to _________________ ____,
2024 and the motion for summary judgment is continued to _________________
____, 2024.] 
 
Moving Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice.
 
 
 
Dated this 5th day of July,
2024







 


 




 


Hon. Karen
  Moskowitz
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 


 