  Case Number:  23STCV29997    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Dominick Martin, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCV29997




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
O’ My Sole,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: September 17, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Assignment Order
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor Dominick
Martin
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     JUDGMENT
CREDITOR’S MOTION IS GRANTED.
JUDGMENT CREDITOR TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received. 
 
Code Civ. Proc. § 708.510(a) provides
for assignment orders and states: 
 
(a) Except as otherwise provided by law, upon application of the
judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court may order the judgment debtor to
assign to the judgment creditor or to a receiver appointed pursuant to Article
7 (commencing with Section 708.610) all or part of a right to payment due or to
become due, whether or not the right is conditioned on future developments,
including but not limited to the following types of payments: (1) wages due
from the federal government that are not subject to withholding under an
earnings withholding order. (2) Rents. (3) Commissions. (4) Royalties. (5)
Payments due from a patent or copyright. (6) Insurance policy loan value.
 
A court may take into consideration all
relevant factors in determining whether to issue an assignment order, and the
only constraints placed on the court are that the right to payment be assigned
only to the extent necessary to satisfy the creditor’s money judgment and that,
where part of the payments are exempt, the amount of payments assigned should
not exceed the difference between the gross amount of the payments and the
exempt amount. (CCP §§ 708.510 (c), (d) (e) and (f).) The burden is on the debtor
to show that an exemption applies. (CCP § 703.580(b).) 
 
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor moves for
an order assigning Defendant/Judgment Debtor O’ My Sole’s interest in the payments generated from its business activities, and
all rights to any payment in connection therewith, to Plaintiff in an amount up
to the judgment amount of $17,853.17, plus interest. Defendant has not opposed
this motion to show an exemption applies. 
 
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor has shown
entitlement to assignment of payments generated from its business activities.
The motion is GRANTED.
 
 
 