 Case Number:  22STLC05300    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



TIMOTHY D. RAND-LEWIS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CRESTWOOD HILLS ASSOCIATION,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STLC05300
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 30, 2023
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Plaintiff Timothy D. Rand-Lewis (“Plaintiff”) moves the
Court to set aside the Court’s September 12, 2023 Nunc Pro Tunc order. Plaintiff
requests that this case be reclassified back to the civil limited division of
the Court.  
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion.
 
Background
 
This case has an unusually complex procedural history which
the Court summarizes as follows.
 
On August 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed this action against
Defendant Crestwood Hills Association (“Defendant”) in civil limited
jurisdiction (“Limited Civil”). Plaintiff alleged causes of action for (1)
defamation; (2) negligence; (3) violation of Business & Professions Code
section 17200; (4) violation of the Unruh Act; and (5) declaratory and
injunctive relief. 
 
Limited Civil courts do not have authority to grant
declaratory relief or permanent injunctive relief. Nor can the total claim
exceed $25,000.  The Complaint stated with
respect to the Unruh Act Claim that Plaintiff sought “all the relief and
remedies afforded by the Civil Code, including section 51, et seq., declaratory
relief, injunctive relief, general damages, a civil penalty of $25,000, attorney’s
fees and other equitable relief against Defendants. (Complaint ¶ 43.) The Fifth
Cause of Action sought only injunctive relief. 
(Complaint ¶¶44-45.)  
 
In its prayer for relief, the Complaint as filed explicitly
sought “equitable relief, declaration and injunction.  (Complaint at 9:17.)   In terms of monetary relief, the Complaint sought
“all damages in totality not to exceed $24,999.99. (Complaint at 9:10.) The
Complaint listed damages not to exceed $24,999.99  and in addition attorney’s fees not to exceed
$24,999.99 and costs of litigation not to exceed $24,999.99. (Complaint at
9:11-20.)  
 
On September 8, 2022, Defendant filed an anti-SLAPP motion. 
 
On September 12, 2022, Plaintiff filed an ex parte
application to strike the anti-SLAPP motion on the grounds that anti-SLAPP
could not be heard in Limited Civil.  On
the same day, September 12, 2022, Defendant filed a motion to reclassify the
case to civil unlimited jurisdiction (“Unlimited Civil”). That motion remained
pending until March 28, 2023.
 
On September 13, 2022, the Court (Judge Katherine Chilton) denied
Plaintiff’s ex parte application to strike the anti-SLAPP motion and ordered
the case to be reclassified as an Unlimited Civil case.  The Court stated: “the relief sought by
Plaintiff in his initial complaint, in the form of declaratory and [presumably]
permanent injunctive relief, is not the type of relief that can be granted by a
limited civil court. (9/13/22 Minute Order at p. 2.)
 
On September 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Errata
and Correction of Complaint To Strike Any Reference To Declaratory Relief Or
Permanent Injunction. The notice of errata substituted or deleted various
words, including adding to page 8, line 4 so that the final paragraph of the
Unruh Act claim now would read “Plaintiff does not seek relief in excess of
$24,9999.99, limited to the issuance of a temporary restraining order or
preliminary injunction.”  It also struck
the Fifth Cause of Action for injunctive relief and similar language in the
prayer for relief.   
 
On September 21, 2022, Defendant filed a motion to strike
Plaintiff’s Notice of Errata.
 
On September 26, 2022, Plaintiff sought and received default
against Defendant. Although Defendant had been active in the case and had filed
an anti-SLAPP motion, Plaintiff sought and received a default without notice to
Defendant’s counsel.
 
On September 29, 2022, Plaintiff filed a “Stipulation and
Order Reclassifying Case From Civil Unlimited to Civil Limited. While the term
“stipulation” implies that it is signed by both parties, this one was signed by
Plaintiff only. It requested an order reclassifying the case from Unlimited Civil
to Limited Civil and stated that Defendant’s default was taken and for that
reason Defendant was not a party to the stipulation. 
 
On October 18, 2022, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application
seeking to reclassify the case to Limited Civil. It stated that there was no
need to give notice to Defendant because Defendant was in default. The ex parte
did not mention the previously filed anti-SLAPP motion. 
 
On October 19, 2022, the Court (Judge Jon Takasugi) signed
Plaintiff’s “Stipulation and Order Reclassifying Case from Civil Unlimited to
Civil Limited.” The Court issued a minute order reclassifying the action
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 403.010 through 403.090.
 
On November 8, 2022, Defendant filed an ex parte seeking
relief from default and a request to strike the order reclassifying the matter
to Civil Limited. The Court granted the ex parte application for relief from
default.  The Court denied the ex parte
about reclassification, stating that the motion must be made on regular notice.
 
In the course of ruling on the Defendant’s request for
relief from default, the Court (Judge Takasugi) wrote the following:
 
The Court takes a
dim view of Plaintiff’s counsel’s handling of this action. Plaintiff requested
relief that is not permitted in limited jurisdiction cases, then after the case
was reclassified, sought to avoid having Defendant’s Special Motion to Strike
heard by filing a Notice of Errata instead of an amended complaint. Plaintiff
then filed a “stipulation” that is not a stipulation. More egregiously,
however, Plaintiff’s counsel breached his ethical and statutory obligations by
failing to notify opposing counsel of the intent to seek entry of a default . .
. .Plaintiff’s counsel was well aware of the identity of Defendant’s counsel as
well as the fact that Defendant had filed two responsive motions that had not
been heard. The Court admonishes Plaintiff’s counsel for doing so.
 
(11/29/22 Minute Order at p. 2.)
 
           On
November 30, 2022, the Court set a hearing on Defendant’s motion to strike the
errata for January 5, 2023 and set a hearing for the motion to reclassify for
January 12, 2023.
 
           On
January 5, 2023, the Court (Judge Katherine Chilton) denied Defendant’s motion
to strike the notice of errata but struck Plaintiff’s notice of errata on its
own motion.
 
On the same day, January 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Verified
Amendment to and Correction of Complaint. 
This document made the same changes previously made in the September 15,
2022 notice of errata.   
 
On January 25, 2023 Defendant filed a motion to strike the
amendments.
 
On March 28, 2023, the Court (Judge Katherine Chilton) held
a hearing to resolve Defendant’s September 12, 2022 motion to reclassify and
Defendant’s January 25, 2023 motion to strike the amendments to the Complaint. There,
Plaintiff argued that the amendments to the Complaint removed the reasons for
which Defendant moved to reclassify the case to Unlimited Civil. Defendant
argued that the pendency of the anti-SLAPP motion prevented amendment. The
Court denied Defendant’s motion to strike and provided reasoning that, as a
result, the motion to reclassify was moot because the amendments removed the basis
to reclassify the complaint to Unlimited Civil.  However, in the conclusion of the order, the
Court issued a contrary order stating as follows:
 
The Motion to
Reclassify Limited Civil Case to Unlimited Civil Case filed by [Defendant] on
09/12/2022 is Granted. Moreover, Plaintiff’s request for sanction is Denied.
 
(3/28/2023 Minute Order at p. 2.)
 
           On
July 11, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to reclassify on the grounds that the
complaint “continues to seek injunctive relief unavailable in a limited civil
case and seeks in excess of $25,000 in damages when viewing the complaint as a
whole.  On August 31, 2023 Plaintiff
filed an opposition to this motion. On September 7, 2023, Defendant filed a
response.
 
On September 12, 2023, the Court (Judge Griego) issued a
nunc pro tunc order striking the March 28, 2023 order in its entirety and
replacing it with a new order (the “Order”). The Order gave reasoning
supporting the original order’s concluding sentence stating that the motion to
reclassify was “Granted” and the request for sanctions “Denied.”
 
The Order found that Plaintiff had improperly filed the case
in Limited Civil because the Complaint sought relief not available there. The
Court found that because the case’s filing in Limited Civil was improper, Defendant’s
anti-SLAPP motion’s filing was proper. The Court found that, as a result, the
anti-SLAPP motion prevented amendment to the complaint. The Court therefore
struck Plaintiff’s amendments and granted the motion for reclassification,
reclassifying the case to Unlimited Civil, where it is now.
 
On September 21, 2023, the Court Clerk served Notice of
Reclassification and Notice of Reassignment of case to Judge Escalante. On
October 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Peremptory Challenge pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 170.6 to Judge Escalante. On October 4, 2023, the preemptory
challenge was accepted, and the case assigned to Department 72 of the Court
(Judge Lipner).  The clerk mailed the
minute order assigning the case to Plaintiff’s counsel on the same day.  On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff mailed notice
of the new assignment to Defendant.
 
On November 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed the current motion
seeking an order setting aside the Court’s September 12, 2023 Order. 
 
Discussion
 
This case has been subject to sheer chaos because Plaintiff
initially filed in Limited Civil a complaint that prominently sought relief
available only in Unlimited Civil.  Plaintiff
then for over a year engaged in procedural maneuvers—including violating
ethical obligations to obtain a default against Defendant—to try to avoid a
decision on Defendant’s timely filed anti-SLAPP motion, which has been pending
since September 2022. Two judges have previously sent the case from Limited
Civil to Unlimited Civil, where the case is currently pending.   
 
Plaintiff now asks a third judge to rule on this issue again
and send the case back to Limited Civil. The Court denies Plaintiff’s motion
for three separate and independent reasons. First, Plaintiff’s motion is a
request for reconsideration of the September 12, 2023 Order and Plaintiff does
not meet the procedural or substantive requirements for reconsideration. Second,
the September 12, 2023 Order is substantively correct. Third, Plaintiff’s Complaint
to this day contains allegations which require the case to be heard in
Unlimited Civil even if (contrary to the September 12, 2023 Order) the Court
were to take into account the edits Plaintiff has attempted to make to the
original complaint.
 
This case cannot keep bouncing back and forth from Unlimited
Civil to Limited Civil and back again.  The
dispute over where the case should be pending must come to an end so that the case
may proceed on the merits.  
 
Plaintiff Fails to Meet The Requirements For a Reconsideration Motion
 
Plaintiff argues that the Court’s September 12, 2023 Order is
invalid because (1) a nunc pro tunc order may not make substantive changes and
may only correct clerical errors; and (2) the anti-SLAPP was invalidly filed
and therefore did not prevent the amendments which the Court previously found
removed the bases for reclassification to Unlimited Civil.
 
At heart, Plaintiff’s motion is a request that this Court
find the order of a prior judge in error and to issue a different substantive
ruling. As an initial matter, the Court questions whether Plaintiff was
required to make such a request before Judge Griego, not the current judicial
officer. The statute requires that a motion for reconsideration be filed before
“the same judge or court that made the order. 
(Civ. Proc. Code § 1008, subd. (a).) Los Angeles County Local Rule 2.23
provides that a party may make a motion for reconsideration before a different
judge only where the judge who made the order is “unavailable.”  If Plaintiff had addressed the motion for
reconsideration to Judge Griego, the judge who issued the challenged ruling, he
would have been in the best position to address Plaintiff’s complaints about
his use of the nunc pro tunc proceeding.
 
The Court will assume for the sake of argument that
Plaintiff did not violate the rule requiring Plaintiff to file this motion
before the same judge who issued the challenged Order, given that the case has
been reclassified from Limited Civil to Unlimited Civil.  Nevertheless, Plaintiff runs afoul of other basic
requirements for a motion for reconsideration. Plaintiff did not file the
motion within 10 days of the order, as required by law, or even within 10 days
of the case being assigned to the current judicial officer. (Civ. Proc. Code §
1008, subd. (a).) Substantively, a motion for reconsideration requires a
statement of “what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to
be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)  Here, there are none. Plaintiff disagrees with
the prior order.  This does not provide
grounds for a motion for reconsideration. 
 
In his reply brief, Plaintiff argues that the rules
concerning motions for reconsideration do not apply here because there was no “application
for an order” as required by Section 1008, and because the Order is assertedly
“null and void.  Neither of these
arguments has merit. There most certainly was an initial motion for reclassification
made to the Court: Defendant’s September 12, 2022 motion to reclassify, which
was fully briefed by the parties and resolved only on March 28, 2023, when the
Court issued a ruling stating that the “Motion to Reclassify Limited Civil Case
to Unlimited Civil Case filed by [Defendant] on 09/12/2022 is Granted.”  Moreover, Plaintiff’s argument that the Order
supposedly being null and void exempts the Order from the requirements of Section
1008 is unsupported by authority.
 
Plaintiff is also substantively incorrect when arguing that
Judge Griego used the nunc pro tunc procedure illegitimately. The face of the original
minute order revealed a clerical error, as it contained reasoning that implied
a denial of the motion, but ended with a conclusion that the motion was
granted, not denied. The nunc pro tunc Order remedied that discrepancy. 
 
Plaintiff’s failure to meet the requirements for a motion
for reconsideration is itself sufficient grounds to deny the motion.
 
The Order Challenged by Plaintiff is Substantively Correct 
 
Even if it were going to reach the merits of Plaintiff’s
argument, the Court would still deny Plaintiff’s motion. The Court agrees with
the Order that Plaintiff challenges. 
 
Although Plaintiff filed the case in Limited Civil, it was
facially not a Limited Civil case per Code of Civil Procedure section 86 at the
time when it was filed. The Complaint requested declaratory relief and
permanent injunctive relief, which are not permitted by section 86. (Complaint
at 9:17.) Furthermore, the Complaint requested damages not to exceed
$24,999.99, attorney’s fees not to exceed $24,999.99, costs of litigation not
to exceed $24,999.99, and “other just and proper relief” not to exceed $24,999.99.
(Complaint at 9:9-10, 9:18-20.) The total of this relief would far exceed
$25,000. The Complaint was therefore an Unlimited Civil case that never should
have been filed in Limited Civil.
 
Given that Plaintiff filed his case in the wrong Court, Judge
Griego’s treatment of the anti-SLAPP motion as properly pending is entirely
reasonable. If Plaintiff had properly filed the Complaint in Unlimited Civil, even
Plaintiff would agree that the anti-SLAPP motion filed by Defendant would bar
any amendments to the Complaint.  Judge
Griego properly chose not to give Plaintiff a second bite at the apple, which
would reward Plaintiff for filing in the wrong jurisdiction and punish
Defendant for erring on the side of filing the anti-SLAPP motion within the
60-day window required by Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (f).
 
The Complaint Would Still
Belong in Unlimited Civil, Even if Plaintiff’s Proposed Amendments Were Taken
Into Account
 
Even if Plaintiff’s proposed amendments were granted
(contrary to the ruling in the Order), they would still fail to remove all
disqualifying allegations for Limited Civil.
 
A request to reclassify the case as Limited Civil must be
denied unless it appears to a legal certainty that the recovery will be less
than $25,000.   (Ytuarte v. Superior
Court  (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 266, 278,
emphasis omitted; see also Civ. Proc. Code § 86, subd. (a) [case belongs in
Limited Civil where “the demand . . . amounts to twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000) or less.”)  Even with the
proposed amendments, Plaintiff’s demand still exceeds $25,000 in total.  The Complaint requests “all damages in
totality not to exceed $24,999.99” but also requests other relief such as
“Attorney’s fees as allowed by statute and common law not to exceed $24,999.99”
and “Costs and expenses of suit incurred herein not to exceed $24,999.99.” and
“other just and proper relief” not to exceed $24,999.99. (Complaint at 9:9-20.)  The total of this claimed relief would far
exceed $25,000.  Notably, Plaintiff’s
prayer for relief does not contain the allegation present in the Unruh Act claim
that Plaintiff does not seek “relief” in excess of $24,999.99.
 
Thus, even if the Order had not stricken the amendments, the
Complaint would still belong in Unlimited Civil even as amended. The Court sees
no reason to give Plaintiff an additional chance now to amend a Complaint that
for the entirety of its existence, and even with all proposed amendments, has
belonged in Unlimited Civil.
 
Defendant Has Paid the Reclassification Fee
 
          Plaintiff
separately argues that this case must be reclassified to Limited Civil because
Defendant has not paid the reclassification fee following reclassification. The
court record shows that Defendant paid the reclassification fee on September
19, 2023. (Miles Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.)
 
 
 