  Case Number:  21STCV34041    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DONNY ADONIS EKINE,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
DEBORAH YEARBY et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  21STCV34041
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 30, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  3
 



 
 
          Defendant
Deborah Yearby (“Defendant”) moves to set aside entry of default in this
matter.  The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion.  Defendant is ordered to file an answer within
20 days of today.
 
          As an initial
matter, the Court exercises its discretion to disregard the untimely opposition
to this motion filed by Plaintiff Donny Adonis Ekine (“Plaintiff”).  Plaintiff filed his opposition three days
before this hearing.  Plaintiff’s failure
to oppose the motion is itself grounds to grant Defendant’s motion.
 
          In addition,
even apart from Plaintiff’s failure to timely file an opposition, the Court will
grant Defendant’s motion.  Defendant
moves for relief from default under Code of Civil Procedure § 473.5,
subdivision (a), which states:
 
When
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to
set aside the default judgment and for leave to defend the action. 
 
The time deadline to bring a motion to vacate default is
“180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or
default judgment has been entered.”  (Ibid.)  Although Plaintiff argues that Defendant
knew about the default, there is no indication in the record or otherwise that Defendant
received written notice that the default had been entered.  Accordingly, the motion is timely.
 
Defendant testifies in her declaration that she never
received service of the summons and complaint. 
(Yearby Decl. ¶ 7.)  In fact, she
was out of town that day and no one was at home to receive service.  (Ibid.)  While Plaintiff argues that Defendant is
lying, the Court finds that Defendant has provided sufficient basis for setting
aside the default.
 
The Court’s disposition of this motion is supported by the
strong public policy in favor of deciding matters on the merits.  This will lead to a more orderly and just
proceeding.  This is especially true in
this case, because Defendant credibly asserts confusion over the interplay
between the small claims action she filed and this action that Plaintiff filed.
 
Accordingly, the Court vacates the default entered by the
Court on June 7, 2022.  Defendant must
file her answer within 20 days of today. 
