 Case Number:  24NNCV00846    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Christopher
  mandalian, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
narek vardanyan,
  et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  24NNCV00846
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 25, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to strike
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Christopher
Mandalian (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendants Narek Vardanyan, Niko
Kravchenko, and Christopher Robert McReynolds each worked for Defendant McReynolds
Vardanyan, LLC (“Law Firm”).  Plaintiff
alleges that on August 18, 2022, he was subleasing office space from the Law
Firm at 100 West Broadway, Suite 700 in Glendale, which is where the Law Firm
is located.  He alleges that on that day,
he was physically assaulted by Mr. Vardanyan and Mr. Kravchenko in Mr.
Vardanyan’s office and that this attack was unprovoked and not in
self-defense.  He alleges that he
reported the assault to the Glendale Police Department.  Plaintiff alleges that when he returned to
his office on August 19, 2022, his property was vandalized.  He alleges that on August 20, 2022, Mr.
Vardanyan sent him obscene text messages in the Armenian language.  Plaintiff alleges that as a result of the
incident, he expended money and resources to move to another office
building.  
Plaintiff alleges that on October 26,
2023, he unsuccessfully sought a civil harassment restraining order against Mr.
Vardanyan to keep him from going to Plaintiff’s new office building.  He alleges that Mr. Vardanyan then filed a
lawsuit against him in Vardanyan v. Mandalian et al. (Case No.
23STCV27983) for defamation and malicious prosecution.  Plaintiff alleges that on March 6, 2024, he
successfully had the malicious prosecution claim stricken via an anti-SLAPP
motion.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
July 29, 2024, alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) malicious prosecution
(CCP § 425.18); (3) assault; (4) battery; (5) IIED; and (6) conversion. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On September 24,
2024, Defendants filed a motion to strike portions of the FAC. 
On October 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.  
On October 18, 2024, Defendants filed a
reply brief. 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            With the opposition papers,
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of Exhibit 1, which includes a court ruling
on an anti-SLAPP lawsuit heard on March 6, 2024 in Department 78 of the Los
Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 23STCV27983, Narek Vardanyan v. Christopher
Mandalian.  The request is
granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)  
DISCUSSION
            Defendants Mr. Vardanyan, Mr.
Kravchenko, Mr. McReynolds, and Law Firm move to strike the allegations for
punitive damages from the complaint at paragraph 41 and the Prayer for Relief
at paragraph 3.  
A complaint including a request for
punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is
entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and
allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and
malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that
the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
            Paragraph 41 of
the complaint is alleged in connection with the 2nd cause of action
for malicious prosecution against Mr. Vardanyan, Mr. McReynolds, and the Law
Firm.  In the 2nd cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges that Mr. Vardanyan, Mr. McReynolds, and the Law Firm
pursued a malicious prosecution action against Plaintiff in Case No.
23STCV27983, which concluded in a legal termination in Plaintiff’s favor via
the granting of an anti-SLAPP motion. 
(FAC, ¶¶37-39.)  Plaintiff alleges
that the malicious prosecution claim was brought without probable cause and was
initiated with malice with the express purpose of harming Plaintiff in his
personal, business, and professional reputation.  (Id., ¶40.)  Paragraph 41 alleges: 
The
foregoing conduct of Defendants individually, or by and through their managing
agents, was intended by the Defendants, and each of them, to cause injury to the
Plaintiff or was despicable conduct carried on by the Defendants with a willful
and conscious disregard of the rights of Plaintiff, or which subjected
Plaintiff to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s
rights and safety, and was undertaken with Defendants’ prior knowledge, active
consent and subsequent ratification and therefore constituted malice,
oppression or fraud under Civil Code § 3294, thereby entitling Plaintiff to
punitive damages in an amount appropriate to punish or make an example of
Defendants.
(FAC,
¶41.)  
            As currently alleged, the
allegations for punitive damages in the FAC are general and conclusory and fail
to rise to the level of particularity required for a punitive damages
claim.  Read together with the
allegations of the 2nd cause of action, paragraph 40 merely alleges
bare allegations of malice, oppression, fraud, and/or despicable conduct.  Additional supporting facts showing how
Defendants were malicious, oppressive, and/or fraudulent in their actions
should be alleged. 
            The motion to strike is granted with
leave to amend.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendants’ motion to strike the
allegations for punitive damages from the First Amended Complaint is granted
with 20 days leave to amend. 
Defendants shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 
 
DATED: October 25, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  