 Case Number:  24NNCV01157    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
andreyass
  tahmassian, by an through his successors in interest, marajan kasheshian,
  eileen tahmazian, aida tahmazian, andrew tahmazia, and anaiet tahmasian, 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
providence
  health system – southern california d/b/a providence saint joseph medical
  center, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.:  24NNCV01157
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 25, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Demurrer; motion to strike
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
This action
arises out of alleged negligent and deliberate disregard by Defendants
Providence Health System – Southern California dba Providence Saint Jospeh
Medical Center and Providence Health & Services (“Defendants”) for the
health and safety of Andreyass Tahmassian (“Decedent”), who was an 88-year-old
inpatient of Defendants’ general acute hospital Providence Saint Joseph Medical
Center (“Providence”) in April 2023. 
Plaintiffs include Decedent, by and through his successors in interest,
Marajan, Kasheshian, Eileen Tahmazian, Aida Tahmazian, Andrew Tahmazia, and
Anaiet Tahmasian (“Plaintiffs”).  
Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants were required to meet Decedent’s basic needs, such as
nutrition, hydration, hygiene, safety, and medical care, as he was admitted
with a medical history of hypertensive heart disease, advanced Alzheimer’s,
inability to perform his activities of daily living, general muscle weakness,
unsteady gait, hypertension, coronary artery disease, hyperlipidemia, benign
prostatic hyperplasia, vitamin D deficiency, and mixed incontinence, and was
dependent on Providence’s staff for eating, bed mobility, transfers, dressing,
toilet use, and personal care.  Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants were aware of Decedent’s inability to provide for his
own basic needs, making him a high risk for skin breakdown and/or bedsores or
pressure ulcers.  Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants’ continued neglect resulted in a severe pressure ulcer on Decedent’s
upper and lower back area and testicles. 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants’ ongoing neglect, abuse, and
abandonment caused Decedent’s pressure ulcers. 

Plaintiffs
allege that Decedent developed a urinary tract infection, which necessitated
antibiotic treatment.  After surgery,
Decedent was discharged home on April 27, 2023. 
Plaintiffs allege that Decedent’s health began to deteriorate on April
28, 2023 and he was readmitted to Providence on April 29, 2023, where he was
noted to have multiple strokes due to blood clot.  On May 8, 2023, Decedent passed away and his
death certificate listed cardiopulmonary arrest, acute kidney failure,
clostridium difficile, colon cancer, and sepsis as his causes of death. 
The complaint, filed April 23, 2024,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violations of the Elder and Dependent Adult
Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Instit. Code, § 15600 et seq.); (2)
negligence; and (3) wrongful death. 
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On September 30, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer
and a motion to strike portions of the complaint. 
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief.  On October 18, 2024,
Defendants filed a notice of non-opposition, stating that they did not receive
an opposition brief from Plaintiffs. 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
With the moving papers, Defendants
requests judicial notice of Exhibit 1, which includes the Articles of
Incorporation of Providence Health System – Southern California, filed with the
California Secretary of State, identifying it as a religious corporation.  (Cody F. v. Falletti (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 1232, 1237, fn.2 [taking judicial notice of corporate records such
as articles of incorporation filed with the Secretary of State].) 
DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER
Defendants demur to the 3rd
cause of action for wrongful death, on the ground that it fails to state
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against them.  Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have not
alleged standing to bring a wrongful death claim. 
The elements of a wrongful death cause of
action are: (1) a wrongful act or neglect on the part of one or more persons
that (2) causes (3) the death of another person.  (Nogart
v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 390.) 
“[A] wrongful death plaintiff must plead and prove standing….”  (Nelson
v. County of Los Angeles (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 783, 789.)  
CCP § 377.60
states in relevant part: 
A cause of
action for the death of a person caused by the wrongful act or neglect of
another may be asserted by any of the following persons or by the decedent's
personal representative on their behalf:
(a) The
decedent's surviving spouse, domestic partner, children, and issue of deceased
children, or, if there is no surviving issue of the decedent, the persons,
including the surviving spouse or domestic partner, who would be entitled to
the property of the decedent by intestate succession. If the parents of the decedent would be entitled
to bring an action under this subdivision, and the parents are deceased, then
the legal guardians of the decedent, if any, may bring an action under this
subdivision as if they were the decedent's parents.
(CCP § 377.60(a).)
 A “wrongful death cause of action is not
a survivor claim and may only be brought by persons identified in section
377.60. This statute does not identify decedents or successors in interest as
persons with standing.”  (Monschke v.
Timber Ridge Assisted Living, LLC (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 583, 588,
fn.2.)  
At most, the complaint alleges that
Plaintiffs include Decedent, by and through his successors
in interest, Marajan, Kasheshian, Eileen Tahmazian, Aida Tahmazian, Andrew
Tahmazia, and Anaiet Tahmasian.  However,
merely alleging “successors in interest” is not sufficient to allege standing
for the purposes of a wrongful death cause of action.  Thus, as currently alleged, the complaint
fails to include facts regarding Plaintiffs’ standing to pursue the wrongful
death cause of action.  
As such, the demurrer to the 3rd
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendants move to
strike the prayer for relief at page 22, item (b), which requests punitive
damages according to proof.  
            CCP
§ 425.14 states: 
No
claim for punitive or exemplary damages against a religious corporation or
religious corporation sole shall be included in a complaint or other pleading
unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading that includes a
claim for punitive or exemplary damages to be filed. The court may allow the
filing of an amended pleading claiming punitive or exemplary damages on a
motion by the party seeking the amended pleading and upon a finding, on the
basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff
has established evidence which substantiates that plaintiff will meet the clear
and convincing standard of proof under Section 3294 of the Civil Code.
Nothing
in this section is intended to affect the plaintiff's right to discover
evidence on the issue of punitive or exemplary damages.
(CCP
§ 425.14.)  
            Defendants submitted the Articles of
Incorporation of Providence Health System – Southern California, which states
that it is a California nonprofit religious corporation.  (Def.’s RJN, Ex. 1 [Articles at p.1].)  As such, the Court grants the motion to
strike the request for punitive damages in the complaint.  Plaintiffs may later file a motion to amend
the complaint to include punitive damages following discovery in this
matter.  
            The motion to strike is granted without
leave to amend.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendants’ demurrer to the 3rd
cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  
Defendants’ motion to strike the
allegations for punitive damages from the Complaint is granted without leave to
amend, at this time.  However, Plaintiffs
may file a motion to amend the complaint pursuant to CCP § 425.14 if they later
obtain evidence that supports a request for punitive damages against
Defendants.  
Defendants shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 
 
DATED: October 25, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  