 Case Number:  24BBCV00423    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
jenna
  rose hunter, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
dginger group
  llc,
  et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  24BBCV00423
 
  Hearing Date: October 25, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for summary judgment 
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Jenna Rose Hunter (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that she is the owner of the real property located at 3212 W. Valley Heart
Drive in Burbank.  She alleges that she
contracted with Defendants Dginger Group LLC (“Dginger”) and David Dginguerian
(“Dginguerian”) to renovate the property. 
Plaintiff alleges that during construction of the project, Defendants
requested and received payments from Plaintiff in the total amount of
$194,350.  Plaintiff alleges that, upon
information and belief, Defendants were not and have never been licensed by the
CSLB and were not properly licensed at all times during their performance of
the work at the property.  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants’ work was substandard, causing her to incur additional
costs and expenses to repair the work.  
The complaint, filed February 20, 2024, alleges
a single cause of action for disgorgement of money paid to unlicensed
contractor. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion
for summary judgment on the complaint against Defendants.  Plaintiff argues that there are no triable
issues of material fact and that she is entitled to judgment as a matter of law
on her sole cause of action for disgorgement of money paid to an unlicensed
contractor.  
On September 19, 2024, Defendants filed an
opposition brief. 
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            With
the motion papers, Plaintiff requests judicial notice of Exhibits: (E)
California State Contractors License Board, Certified Non-License History for
Dginger Group, LLC; (F) California State Contractors License Board, Certified
Non-License History for David Dginguerian LLC; and (G) the complaint filed in
this action.  The request is
granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d); see Ball
v. Steadfast-BLK (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 694, 699 [taking judicial notice
that plaintiff was not licensed with the CSLB].) 
            With
the opposition papers, Defendants request judicial notice of Exhibits: (A)
California State Contractors License Board, Contractor’s License Detail for
License No. 1087941 for VLV Builders Inc.; and (B) copies of images of VLV
Builders, Inc.’s crew members at the subject property.  The request is granted as to Exhibit A.  The request is denied as to Exhibit B.  While the request for judicial notice is
denied as to Exhibit B, the Court notes that it may consider the photographic
evidence as it has been authenticated by David Dginguerian by way of his
declaration.  
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            With the opposition papers, Defendants
filed evidentiary objections to the declarations of Plaintiff and Matthew T.
Bechtel submitted in support of the moving papers.  With the reply brief, Plaintiff provided
responses to the objections.  The Court
rules as follows: 
·        
Plaintiff’s declaration:

o   Objection no. 1 is sustained at paragraph 3, 2:11-13:
“My realtor advised me that her husband, David Dginguerian, was highly successful
in the business of constructing and renovating properties.” 
o   Objection no. 2 is sustained at paragraph 4, 2:18-19:
“indicating they were ‘very excited to be building [my] dream home’ and gave me
a bid of $150,000 for a ‘FULL REMODEL’ of the property.”  
o   The remainder of the objections as to nos. 1-6
regarding paragraphs 3-8 are overruled. 
·        
Plaintiff counsel
Matthew T. Bechtel’s declaration: Objection no. 1 to paragraph 3 is overruled. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff moves for summary judgment
on the complaint in her favor, and against Defendants.  Plaintiff argues that Defendants acted in a
capacity as contractors to provide labor and materials for home improvement for
Plaintiff, but neither were licensed as a contractor as required by the
law.  She argues that under Business
& Professions Code, § 7031(b), she is entitled to recover her payments from
Defendants. 
            Business
& Professions Code, § 7031 states in relevant part: 
(b)
Except as provided in subdivision (e), a person who utilizes the services of an
unlicensed contractor may bring an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction in this state to recover all compensation paid to the unlicensed
contractor for performance of any act or contract.
…
(e)
The judicial doctrine of substantial compliance shall not apply under this
section where the person who engaged in the business or acted in the capacity
of a contractor has never been a duly licensed contractor in this state.
However, notwithstanding subdivision (b) of Section 143, the court may
determine that there has been substantial compliance with licensure
requirements under this section if it is shown at an evidentiary hearing that
the person who engaged in the business or acted in the capacity of a contractor
(1) had been duly licensed as a contractor in this state prior to the
performance of the act or contract, (2) acted reasonably and in good faith to
maintain proper licensure, and (3) acted promptly and in good faith to remedy
the failure to comply with the licensure requirements upon learning of the
failure.
(Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 7031(b), (e).)   Section 7031(b) “allows a person who utilizes
the services of an unlicensed contractor to bring an action ‘to recover all
compensation paid to the unlicensed contractor for performance of any act or
contract.’” (§ 7031, subd. (b).) … [T]he word ‘all’ in the statute has been
interpreted to mean just that, all compensation without any offsets.”  (Jeff Tracy, Inc. v. City of Pico Rivera
(2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 510, 521.)  “[T]he
Legislature was specifically aware that permitting reimbursement may result in
harsh and unfair results to an individual contractor and could result in unjust
enrichment ..., but nonetheless decided that the rule was essential to
effectuate the important public policy of deterring licensing violations and
ensuring that all contractors are licensed.” (Id.)  “Under section 7031(b), a party is entitled to
reimbursement for amounts paid to an unlicensed contractor even if the party
knew the contractor was unlicensed.”  (Alatriste
v. Cesar's Exterior Designs, Inc. (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 656, 668 [“Thus,
we reject Cesar's Designs' contention that its equitable defenses (unclean
hands, estoppel, unjust enrichment) were viable based on the evidence of
Alatriste's prior knowledge of its unlicensed contractor status.”].)  
            In support of the motion, Plaintiff
provides the following material facts. 
Plaintiff is the owner and occupant of a single-family residential
property located at 3212 W. Valley Heart Drive, in Burbank.  (Pl.’s Fact 1; Mot. at Ex. A [Property Detail
Report].)  On March 8, 2023, Dginguerian
on behalf of Dginger sent an email for a “FULL REMODEL” for home improvement services
including constructing works of improvement related to the subject
property.  (Pl.’s Fact 2; Mot. at Ex. B
[3/8/23 Email].)  On March 20, 2023,
Defendants increased the contract price to $177,000 and on July 5, 2023,
Defendants increased the price to $196,350. 
(Pl.’s Fact 3; Mot. at Ex. C [3/20/23 Email; 7/5/23 Email].)  In his March 20, 2023 email, Dginguerian
states that he was trying to come up with the best and most practical design
for her kitchen, he was replacing her plumbing, he stated that she would have a
new house by the time he was done, etc. 
In his July 5, 2023 email, Dginguerian provided updates on bids for work
and estimated costs.  Plaintiff paid
Dginger $194,350 and all payments were made out to David Dginguerian.  (Pl.’s Fact 4; Mot. at Ex. D [Chase and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. banking statements and check images].)  Plaintiff argues that neither Dginger nor
Dginguerian were licensed contractors. 
(Pl.’s Fact 5; Mot. at Ex. E [CSLB Certificate of Non-License History re
Dginger Group LLC], Ex. F [CSLB Verified Certificate of non-licensed status for
David Dginguerian].)  
            By way of the moving papers,
Plaintiff has established her initial burden in showing that she contracted
with Dginguerian and Dginger by way of the March 8, 2023 email for a remodel of
her home, that Dginguerian and Dginger were not licensed with the CSLB at the
time of the remodeling project, and that she made payments by way of 1 wire
transfer and 4 checks in the total amount of $194,350 for the project (payable
to David Dginguerian).  As such, the
burden shifts to Defendants to raise a triable issue of material fact. 
            In opposition, Defendants argue that
Dginger is not a proper party to this action and thus the entire motion should
be denied.  Defendants argue that there
is no contract between Plaintiff and Dginger and Plaintiff only made payments
to Dginguerian and not to Dginger.  Dginguerian
states in his declaration that Dginger was never involved in any matter related
to the property and that he uses Dginger as an entity exclusively to purchase
his own real estate investments and developments.  (Dginguerian Decl., ¶8; Def.’s Fact 4; Def.’s
Additional Material Facts [AMF] 5.)  However,
other than Dginguerian’s self-serving declaration, no other evidence has been
submitted by Dginguerian showing that Dginger was not a party to the
email-contract entered with Plaintiff. 
Rather, Dginguerian stated in his March 8, 2023 email that he would
prefer to email with Plaintiff instead of doing a “full blown contract” and he
signed the email as “David Dginguerian [phone number] Dginger Group LLC.”  (Mot., Ex. B.)  The Court finds that Defendants have not
raised a triable issue of material fact based on this argument.  “It is not enough to produce just some
evidence. The evidence must be of sufficient quality to allow the trier of fact
to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion for
summary judgment.”  (Miller v.
American Greetings Corp. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1055, 1061.) 
            Defendants also argue that all work
was performed by a licensed contractor through VLV Builders and not by
Dginguerian or Dginger, and that Plaintiff never hired Dginguerian as her
contractor.  Defendants argue that Plaintiff
only hired Dginguerian as a liaison and that any funds he received from
Plaintiff was forwarded to VLV Builders. 
Defendants provide the contractor’s license information for VLV
Builders, which shows that the license is current and active.  (Opp. at Ex. A [CSLB License information re VLV
Builders].)  They also provide 4 undated
photographs showing several individuals wearing VLV Builders t-shirts working
on a home and eating food.  (Opp. at Ex.
B [Photographs].)  (The Court cannot
verify when and where the pictures were taken.) 
The only other evidence provided by Defendants is the declaration of
Dginguerian.  In his declaration,
Dginguerian states that he is the managing member of Dginger.  (Dginguerian Decl., ¶3.)  He states that his wife Amy Weber introduced
him to Plaintiff, who wanted to remodel her home.  (Id., ¶4.)  He states that he repeatedly advised
Plaintiff that he was not a licensed contractor and he only remodeled
properties he purchased and owned, but that he agreed to serve as a liaison
between Plaintiff and VLV Builders, Inc., who he has worked with for the past
15 years.  (Id., ¶5.)  He states that he did not perform or enter
into a written contract with Plaintiff to remodel the property and she did not
personally retain him to perform the remodeling work or as a contractor.  (Id., ¶6.)  He states that Plaintiff was aware from the
outset that he was would not be performing any remodeling work and that the
work would be done by licensed contractor VLV Builders.  (Id., ¶¶7, 10.)  He states that Dginger was not involved with
the subject property and that any emails by him to Plaintiff were intended to
provide information concerning the services performed by VLV Builders.  (Id., ¶¶8-9.)  He states that Plaintiff issued 5 payments to
him personally and she did not make any payments to Dginger, and that the
entirety of the sum was forwarded to VLV Builders.  (Id., ¶¶11-13.)  
            Other
than Dginguerian’s declaration, there is no documentary evidence provided by
Dginguerian that he informed Plaintiff that he was not a licensed contractor, a
licensed contractor or VLV Builders would be performing the work, he was only
acting as a liaison between Plaintiff and VLV Builders, and that he forwarded
all proceeds to VLV Builders.  The emails
provided in Plaintiff’s moving papers sent from Dginguerian to Plaintiff do not
state that he is not a licensed contractor nor do they mention VLV Builders
once.  In his March 8, 2023 email,
Dginguerian states: 
            I’m also very excited to be building
your dream home!
Instead
of doing a full blown contract, if you are ok with just the email then we can
go with this. 
…
Once
I get in there, Most likely Friday, I'm going to demo everything as we
discussed. Once the entire place is demoed, you and I will walk the entire
house and work on the layout of all the bathrooms and kitchen and everything
else sort of like we did last time. We will both get a better idea of
everything with a nice clean slate.
You
are getting a FULL REMODEL
…
If
this sounds like we are on the same page, just give me the green light. 
…
David
Dginguerian
[Phone
number]
Dginger
Group LLC
(3/8/23
Email.)  In his March 20, 2023 email,
Dginguerian states that he was trying to come up with the best and most
practical design for her kitchen, he is replacing her plumbing, he states that
she will have a new house by the time he is done, etc.  (Mot. at Ex. C [3/20/23 Email].)  In his July 5, 2023 email, Dginguerian
provided updates on bids for work and estimated costs.  (Mot. at Ex. C [7/25/23 Email].)  In his emails, Dginguerian refers to himself
as being an active participant in the remodeling of the subject property.  There is no mention of VLV Builders or any
other licensed contractor.  There is no
disclosure by Dginguerian in his emails that he is not a licensed contractor
that he is merely acting as a liaison.  Moreover,
even if Defendants informed Plaintiff that they were not licensed contractors,
Plaintiff would still be entitled to reimbursement for amounts paid to an
unlicensed contractor.  (See Alatriste,
supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 668.)  
In addition, Defendants have not provided
any documentary evidence that he had a contract with VLV Builders to do the
work on Plaintiff’s property or that all proceeds from Plaintiff’s checks were
in fact forwarded to VLV Builders.  Rather,
in his July 5, 2023 email, Dginguerian states that he is personally into her
rehab out of pocket close to $225,000, he is not asking her to pay him that
money but that he has learned a valuable lesson to charge for labor and let the
client pay for finishes, and that he has received payment from Plaintiff in the
amount of $150,000 so far (and, again, there is no mention of VLV Builders).  (7/5/23 Email.)  
While Mr. Dginguerian’s statements are not
credible under these circumstances, the Court is not deciding credibility.
Rather the Court is finding that the evidence submitted is not of sufficient
character and admissibility to justify a trial where they would be excluded. Defendants
have not provided any evidence in opposition to support Dginguerian’s
declaration statements.  (Bozzi v. Nordstrom, Inc. (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 755, 761 [“Declarations must show the declarant's personal
knowledge and competency to testify, state facts and not just conclusions, and
not include inadmissible hearsay or opinion. [Citations.] The declarations in
support of a motion for summary judgment should be strictly construed, while
the opposing declarations should be liberally construed. [Citation.] This does
not mean that courts may relax the rules of evidence in determining the
admissibility of an opposing declaration. Only admissible evidence is
liberally construed in deciding whether there is a triable issue.”] [Citations
omitted].)
            Finally, even if Defendants were able to
show that they had an agreement with VLV Builders to do construction work at
Plaintiff’s property, this would be improper. 
Business & Professions Code, § 7026 defines “contractor” as follows:

“Contractor,”
for the purposes of this chapter, is synonymous with “builder” and, within the
meaning of this chapter, a contractor is any person who undertakes to or offers
to undertake to, or purports to have the capacity to undertake to, or submits a
bid to, or does himself or herself or by or through others, construct, alter,
repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building,
highway, road, parking facility, railroad, excavation or other structure,
project, development or improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the
erection of scaffolding or other structures or works in connection therewith,
or the cleaning of grounds or structures in connection therewith, or the
preparation and removal of roadway construction zones, lane closures, flagging,
or traffic diversions, or the installation, repair, maintenance, or calibration
of monitoring equipment for underground storage tanks, and whether or not the
performance of work herein described involves the addition to, or fabrication
into, any structure, project, development or improvement herein described of
any material or article of merchandise. “Contractor” includes subcontractor and
specialty contractor. …
(Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 7026.)  Defendants’
emails stating that they were undertaking and offering to undertake work, or to
submit a bid for work, requires a license as a contractor.[1]
            For these reasons, the Court finds
that Defendants have failed to raise a triable issue of material fact in their
shifted burden in opposition to the motion. 
As such, the motion for summary judgment is granted in favor of
Plaintiff.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff Jenna Rose Hunter’s motion for summary
judgment is granted.   Plaintiff is
ordered to lodge with the Court and serve on Defendant a proposed judgment
within ten (10) days and to provide notice of this order. Plaintiff shall
provide notice of this order.  
 
 
DATED: October 25,
2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court    


