 Case Number:  23BBCV00663    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
michael green, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
royal garden
  apartments inc., 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00663
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 25, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motions to compel further responses; motion to compel attendance
  at deposition; and motions for protective order 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs
Michael Green, Mia Cordes, Delia Reed, Zarinah Reed, and Jimmie Henry
(“Plaintiffs”) allege that they reside at 6705 Riverton Avenue, North
Hollywood, CA 91606 in various units. 
Michael Green and Mia Cordes reside in Apartment 13, Jimmie Henry
resides in Apartment C1, and Delia Reed and Zarinah Reed reside in Apartment
21.  Defendant Royal Garden Apartments
Inc. (“Defendant”) is alleged to be the owner, agent, and manager of the 6705
Riverton Avenue property.  Plaintiffs
allege that the premises have an infestation of roaches and rodents, lack
adequate gas facilities, and lack smoke detectors.  They allege that the premises are
uninhabitable.  
The complaint, filed March 23, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of warranty of habitability; (2)
breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (3) nuisance; (4) negligence (Civ. Code,
§§ 1714(a), 3333); (5) premises liability (negligence per se); (6) unfair
business practice and unfair competition; and (7) IIED.  
On August 16, 2023, Plaintiffs named J.K.
Residential Services, Inc. as Doe 1.  On
August 29, 2024, Plaintiffs named Anza Management Company as Doe 2.  
B.    
Relevant Background re: Discovery 
On July 26, 2024, the Court scheduled an
Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) for August 1, 2024.  The Court ordered all future discovery
motions currently scheduled stayed.  
On August 1, 2024, the Court held an
Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”). 
The Court ordered that each side may have 35 discovery requests and that
no additional discovery requests were permitted without further order of the
Court.  The Court continued the IDC to
August 9, 2024 and tolled the time on discovery until August 9, 2024.  
On August 9, 2024,
the Court held another IDC in order to sequence and control discovery in this
matter: 
By
October 1, 2024, each party will serve upon all other parties a disclosure
statement as described in Code of Civil Procedure Section 2016.090(a)(1).
Except
for motions already filed and/or decided interrogatory and request for
admission discovery is stayed. 
Motions
to compel regarding document requests or depositions may be filed. As to
defendants' currently contemplated motions to compel further responses to
requests for production of documents, the time for filing those motions is
stayed by ten days from today's date to give plaintiff's the opportunity to to
[sic] provide supplemental responses.
(August
9, 2024 Minute Order.) 
C.    
Motions on Calendar 
There are 5 motions on calendar. 
On August 21, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion to compel Michael Green’s further verified responses and documents to
Request for Production of Documents, set one (“RPD”).  On October 15, 2024, Green filed an
opposition brief.  On October 17, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply brief. 
On August 21, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion to compel Mia Cordes’ further verified responses and documents to RPD,
set one.  On October 15, 2024, Cordes
filed an opposition brief.  On October
17, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
On August 21, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion to compel the attendance, uninterrupted and without coaching testimony
and production of requested documents of Delia Reed (“Reed”).  On October 14, 2024, Reed filed an opposition
brief.  
On August 21, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion seeking a protective order preventing Plaintiff’s counsel from coaching Delia
Reed during deposition or, in the alternative, appointing a discovery referee
at the expense of Plaintiff.  On October
14, 2024, Reed filed an opposition brief. 
On October 18, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
On August 23, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion seeking a protective order preventing Jimmie Henry (“Henry”) from
appearing at his deposition on his cell phone, while driving and/or working and
refrain from using profanity, and refusing to answer a question based on a
self-asserted relevance objection, and from Plaintiff’s counsel instructing
Plaintiff not to answer questions for reasons other than privilege.  On October 14, 2024, Henry filed an
opposition brief.  On October 18, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply brief.   
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL GREEN’S AND CORDES’ FURTHER RESPONSES
Defendant moves to compel Green’s further
responses to RPD Nos. 1-25. Defendant also moves to compel Cordes’ further
responses to RPD Nos. 1-25.  
In the opposition briefs, Green and Cordes
each argue that Defendant failed to adequately meet and confer prior to filing
this motion.  Plaintiffs also argue that the
motions are moot as they each provided Second Supplemental Responses on October
1, 2024 and Third Supplemental Responses on October 10, 2024.  (Opp. at Ex. D(a) and Ex. E(a).)  
In light of the supplemental responses
that were served after the filing of the motions, the motion to compel Green’s
further responses to the RPD and the motion to compel Cordes’ further responses
to the RPD are denied as moot.  The Court
is aware that the parties have numerous discovery issues.  In order to avoid future motions, the parties
should meet and confer in good faith if Defendant finds that the supplemental
responses are inadequate.  Counsel for
Plaintiff should be advised to produce every document requested and agreed to
be produced. Documents not produced at this juncture will be excluded from
trial, unless good cause is shown. 
Defendant seeks $2,742.50 in sanctions
against each Plaintiff and their attorney of record.  Plaintiffs each seek $2,400 in sanctions
against Defendant for filing the opposition briefs.  In light of the supplemental responses, which
were provided after the filing of the motions, the Court declines to award
sanctions to the moving and opposing parties. 
MOTION
TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DELIA REED AND MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER RE REED
A.   
Evidentiary Objections 
With the opposition papers, Plaintiff
submitted evidentiary objections to the declarations of Daniel Flesch, which were
filed in support of Defendant’s motion to compel deposition and motion for
protective order.  Namely, Plaintiff
takes issue with the fact that Mr. Flesch provided his declaration in support
of the motion to compel Reed’s deposition, but Mr. Flesch did not attend the
initial deposition.  The Court will
sustain the objections to Mr. Flesch’s declaration to the extent he makes
observations about the deposition conduct; however, the Court will consider the
documents and the deposition testimony of Reed that were submitted as their
contents are not contested.  
B.    
Discussion of Merits 
Defendant moves to
compel the attendance, uninterrupted and without coaching testimony and
production of requested documents of Delia Reed.  Defendant also moves for a protective order
preventing Plaintiff’s counsel from coaching Reed or, in the alternative,
appointing a discovery referee at Plaintiff’s expense.  The Court will consider the two motions
together as the arguments in the motions and opposition briefs are essentially the
same.  
On April 4, 2024, Defendant served on Reed
a notice of deposition and production of 21 categories of documents, with the
deposition scheduled for May 16, 2024. 
(Mot., Ex. A.)  On May 15, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent a 75-page document. 
(Mot., Ex. B.)  That same day,
defense counsel responded that the production was not responsive to at least 13
of the RPDs in the notice.  (Mot., Ex.
C.)  Defendant argues that Plaintiff did
not object to the deposition notice or RPDs. 
On May 16, 2024, Reed’s deposition went forward, but Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s counsel began answering questions for Reed.  (Mot., Ex. D.)  During the deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel
stated that Reed was still looking for documents and a further production would
be made.  (Mot., Ex. E.)  After the deposition, Defendant served a meet
and confer letter on May 17, 2024 to request the documents, but Defendant
states that it is not in receipt of additional documents.  (Mot., Exs. F-I.)  
Defendant provides excerpts of the
deposition transcript showing that Plaintiff’s counsel, Macauley Ekpenisi
interrupted Reed’s deposition by answering questions directed to the deponent
and by repeating/rephrasing defense counsel’s questions, despite being asked
and warned by defense counsel not to interrupt. 
(See Mot., Ex. K.)   
In opposition, Reed argues that the motion
was not timely filed within 60 days after the deposition and that Defendant did
not promptly move for a protective order. 
CCP § 2025.480 states that if a deponent fails to answer any question or
produce any document, the party seeking discovery may move to compel an answer
or production and the motion shall be made no later than 60 days after
completion of the record of the deposition. 
CCP § 2025.420 states that before, during, or after a deposition, any
party/deponent may promptly move for a protective order.  The deposition went forward on May 16, 2024
and the record was completed on June 4, 2024. 
(Reply at Ex. A.)  The motion was
filed on August 21, 2024, which is over 60 days from the completion of the
record.   Nevertheless, the Court halted all discovery
motions on July 26, 2024, and did not allow the filing of further motions until
August 9, 2024, by which time the 60 days had expired. Defendant filed its
motion within a reasonable time after the lifting of the stay.  In addition, the Court finds that the filing
of this motion for protective order was made within a reasonable time following
the deposition.    
The Court has reviewed the entirety of the
Reed deposition. Based on that review, the Court finds that Mr. Ekpenisi
obstructed Reed’s deposition with repeated interruptions, improper speaking
objections, improper objections, and tendentious efforts to distract the
Defendant’s attorney. Plaintiff’s counsel’s conduct is unbecoming of a
professional attorney. The coaching of the witness was intentional and
pervasive and designed to induce answers that Plaintiff’s counsel felt would be
more favorable to the case, thus depriving Defendant of a fair opportunity to
test the witness’s knowledge. The persistent effort to distract and confuse a
young attorney to the point where it would be difficult for the questions to be
answered was disrespectful. The disrespect shown to defense counsel was picked
up by Plaintiff Reed, who began to adopt her counsel’s encouragement, including
to “not recall” things that she otherwise might have recalled. Ms. Reed also
began to demean the defense attorney by calling her “honey,” something that
would not have occurred had Ms. Reed been properly prepared for her deposition
and had Plaintiff’s counsel not shown such disrespect for the defense attorney.

Moreover, Plaintiff’s counsel’s efforts
were meant to confuse the record. For example, the deposition began with a
representation that all documents had been produced.  (Reed Depo., p. 5:5-9.) Yet as the deposition
wore on, it became clear that this was not true, and had counsel for Defendant not
persisted, this never would have been known.  Ms. Reed’s interrogatory answers reflect that
she not seeking damage for physical or emotional injury, yet Plaintiff’s
counsel was encouraging to allege some sort of injury. 
The Court grants the motion to compel the
deposition of Reed without interruption and coaching testimony from Plaintiff’s
counsel.  Plaintiff must produce all
requested documents 20 days prior to the deposition. Any document not produced
in a timely manner will be excluded at trial. In this regard, Plaintiff should
note that if only part of text message, including the message to which Reed or
other document is produced, then the entire communication will be excluded at
trial.  Defendant’s motion for a
protective order preventing Plaintiff’s counsel from coaching Reed during her
deposition is granted; the request for a discovery referee is denied.  
In addition, Reed is ordered to provide
further documents in compliance with the RPDs in the deposition notice, as Reed
and Plaintiff’s counsel represented during the deposition that Reed was still
gathering documents in response to the RPDs. 
In this regard, it should be noted that for each Plaintiff, Defendant
may seek only 35 RPDs whether by deposition notice or by formal request for
production of documents. Defendant should examine the RPDs in connection with
the deposition notice to be sure they are not duplicative of other requests. 
Defendant may re-notice the deposition of
Reed following meet and confer efforts to ascertain a mutually agreeable
deposition date for Reed.  The deposition
shall be limited to 1 hour of testimony. The Court imposes this limitation
because despite the obstruction, most relevant areas were covered during the
deposition. Defendant’s motion does not specify what additional areas are
needed to be covered. Nevertheless, it appears that after the further
production of documents Defendant will still need to make a record that all
relevant documents should be produced.   
While a discovery referee might be
appropriate in a larger case, it is not appropriate here. In its July 26, 2024
order, the Court already has entered a protective order governing further
depositions in this case. To clarify that order, the Court notes that at
further depositions, Plaintiff’s counsel may only assert objections and only in
their legal form as in 
“Vague and ambiguous” and/or
“Lacks foundation.”  
No speaking objections are allowed. There
is to be no attempt to argue with Defense counsel or to interrupt the
questioning except for stating these objections as to form only. No trial
objections such as relevance are permitted. No instructions not to answer are
permitted except on grounds of privilege. Plaintiff’s counsel should be advised
that if there is further improper conduct that occurs in the continued
deposition of Reed, or any other witness, the Court will consider excluding
that witness from trial testimony if called by Plaintiffs. This includes the
Plaintiffs themselves.
For each motion, Defendant seeks sanctions
in the amount of $4,167.40 against Reed and Plaintiff’s counsel, which includes
defense counsel’s time spent at the deposition and on this motion, plus
$1,854.90 in court reporter fees.  In each
opposition, Reed seeks sanctions in the amount of $3,600 against
Defendant.  The Court awards attorney’s
fees in the amount of $2,600 total in favor of Defendant for filing both
motions and will also order Reed to reimburse Defendant for the cost of the
court reporter in the amount of $1,854.90.
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER RE
HENRY
Defendant moves
for a protective order preventing Plaintiff Jimmie Henry
from appearing at his deposition on a cell phone, while driving and/or working,
and from refraining from using profanity and refusing to answer a question
based on a self-asserted relevance objection, and from Plaintiff’s counsel
instructing Henry not to answer questions for reasons other than
privilege.  
            The Court notes that there is a
motion to compel the physical attendance of Henry set for November 8,
2024.  
            As these two motions are related,
the Court will continue the hearing on the motion for protective order to
November 8, 2024, so that the motion to compel the deposition and motion for
protective order may be heard together.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Royal
Garden Apartments Inc.’s motion to compel Plaintiff Michael Green’s further
response to RPD Nos. 1-20 is denied in light of the supplemental responses that
were provided.  No sanctions shall be
awarded.  
Defendant Royal
Garden Apartments Inc.’s motion to compel Plaintiff Mia Cordes’ further
response to RPD Nos. 1-20 is denied in light of the supplemental responses that
were provided.  No sanctions shall be
awarded.  
Defendant
Royal Garden Apartments Inc.’s motion to compel the attendance, uninterrupted
and without coaching testimony and production of requested documents of
Plaintiff Delia Reed is granted.  Defendant’s
motion for a protective order preventing Plaintiff’s counsel from coaching Reed
during her deposition is granted; the request for a discovery referee is
denied.  Reed is ordered to provide
further responses/documents in compliance with the RPDs in the deposition
notice.  Defendant may re-notice the
deposition of Reed following meet and confer efforts to ascertain a mutually
agreeable deposition date for Reed and the deposition shall be limited to 4
hours of testimony.  Plaintiff and her
counsel of record, jointly and severally, are ordered
to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,600, plus costs of $1,854.90 to Defendant,
by and through counsel.  While the Court
has generally suspended payment of other sanctions, this particular one is not
stayed as the Court believes it important to impose this sanction now rather
than face another improper deposition in the case. 
Defendant
Royal Garden Apartments Inc.’s motion for a protective order preventing
Plaintiff Jimmie Henry from appearing at his deposition on a cell phone, while
driving and/or working, and from refraining from using profanity and refusing
to answer a question based on a self-asserted relevance objection, and from
Plaintiff’s counsel instructing Henry not to answer questions for reasons other
than privilege is continued to November 8, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. so that it can be
heard concurrently with Defendant’s motion to compel the physical attendance of
Jimmie Henry and the production of documents at the deposition of Jimmie
Henry.  
Defendant shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 
 
DATED: October 25, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court   