 Case Number:  23BBCV02407    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
EPICURUS GOURMET,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
HILLARY HIRSCH, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02407
 
  Hearing Date:  October 25, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to bifurcate trial of the
  allegations of alter ego and the 13th cause of action in the
  cross-complaint after trial on the issues of liablity for the claims in the
  complaint and cross-complaint



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiff Epicurus Gourmet
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that it is in the business of selling gourmet food
products and is located at 12140 Sherman Way, North Hollywood, California
91605.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
Hillary Hirsch was an employee of Plaintiff from 2016 until March 17, 2023 and
was the secretary of the Board of Directors. 
Defendant Eric Gitter is alleged to have conspired with Hirsch by
directing, encouraging, ratifying, and approving Hirsch’s unlawful
conduct.  
            In January 2016, Kevin Jones (president
and sole shareholder of Plaintiff) formed Plaintiff.  In March 2016, Hirsch began working to start
Plaintiff’s business as a manager and secretary for the Board of Directors,
such that she owed fiduciary duties and had job responsibilities to order
products, keep financial books, pay bills, etc. 
However, she was employed by Jones through his company Liquid Assets
Cellars since Plaintiff did not yet have capital.  At that time, Plaintiff was running its
business from the premises leased by Liquid Assets Cellars located at 12134
Sherman Way.  Plaintiff alleges that as a
part of her duties, Hirsch had access to Plaintiff’s Sales Order System
(“SOS”), a proprietary database with confidential trade secrets, customer
lists, and sales data.  She also had
access to confidential business passwords for bank accounts, QuickBooks
accounting, social media, payroll, and credit card processing.  
            Plaintiff alleges that in December
2016, Jones approached the landlord of Liquid Assets Cellars’ to lease another
unit for Plaintiff and notified Gitter of the terms.  Plaintiff alleges that in January 2017, Jones
entered the lease for the 12140 Sherman Way premises and in May 2017, the
premises was opened by Plaintiff for business. 

            Plaintiff alleges that Jones had
discussed with Gitter about whether Gitter was interested in investing in
Plaintiff, but Gitter never committed to any of Jones’ offered terms and
instead began loaning money to Plaintiff through Gitter’s company Chickie the
Cop Entertaining for repayment, regarding the construction of the
premises.  On February 3, 2018, Gitter
filed his own Articles of Incorporation for Epicurus Gourmet LA, LLC and
thereafter Defendants conspired to convert Plaintiff’s confidential proprietary
information.  Plaintiff alleges that in
August 2018, Hirsch opened a Wells Fargo account in Plaintiff’s name, made
herself the sole signatory, and began depositing all proceeds from Plaintiff
into the account in September 2018. 
Hirsch also allegedly changed all passwords for Plaintiff.  
            Plaintiff alleges that it pays all
local, state, and federal taxes from Jones’ personal funds and that Jones
renegotiated and extended Plaintiff’s lease at the premises.  On March 23, 2023, Hirsch was removed as
secretary and on October 10, 2023 was terminated from employment.  Upon her termination, Plaintiff demanded
Hirsch provide Jones with the passwords and access to the bank account, but
Defendants contacted Plaintiff’s vendors and customers, instructing them to
discontinue conducting business with Plaintiff. 
            The second amended complaint (“SAC”),
filed June 6, 2024, alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of fiduciary duty;
(2) conversion; (3) intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage; (4) unfair competition; (5) misappropriation of trade secrets; and
(6) declaratory relief.   
B.    
Cross-Complaint
On December 14, 2023, Hillary Hirsch filed
a cross-complaint against Kevin Jones, Epicurus Gourmet, Liquid Assets Cellars,
Inc., and Service West Construction, Inc. for: (1) accounting; (2) declaratory
relief; (3) breach of contract; (4) breach of contract; (5) conversion; (6)
conversion; (7) fraud; (8) breach of fiduciary duty; (9) aiding and abetting
breach of fiduciary duty; (10) intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage; (11) unjust enrichment; (12) unjust enrichment; (13) declaratory
relief; (14) unfair business practices; (15) conversion; and (16) appointment
of receiver. 
C.    
Motions on Calendar
On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff Epicurus
Gourmet filed a motion to bifurcate trial of the allegations of alter ego and
the 13th cause of action for declaratory relief in the
cross-complaint after trial on the issue of liability for the claims in the
complaint and cross-complaint. 
On October 14, 2024, Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Gitter and Hirsch (“Cross-Complainants”) filed an opposition brief. 
On October 18, 2024, Epicurus filed a
reply brief. 
The Court notes that there is a motion to
bifurcate filed by Gitter and Hirsch on October 14, 2024, that is scheduled for
hearing on November 8, 2024.  In their
motion, Cross-Complainants argue that the Court should bifurcate the equitable
claims of alter-ego and accounting so that they are heard in a first phase
bench trial.  
DISCUSSION 
            Epicurus moves to
bifurcate trial of the allegations of alter ego and the 13th cause
of action for declaratory relief in the cross-complaint, so that they are heard
after the trial on issues of liability for the claims in the complaint and
cross-complaint.  
            The
Court continues the hearing on Epicurus’ motion to bifurcate so that it can be
heard concurrently with Gitter and Hirsch’s motion to bifurcate that is
scheduled for November 8, 2024.   
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Plaintiff Epicurus Gourmet’s motion to
bifurcate trial of the allegations of alter ego and the 13th cause
of action for declaratory relief in the cross-complaint after trial on the
issue of liability for the claims in the complaint and cross-complaint is continued
to November 8, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: 
October 25, 2024                                        ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 