 Case Number:  23BBCV02893    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
ervand
  ovanesyan, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
ana carla
  santamaria, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.:  23BBCV02893
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 25, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for leave of Court to amend complaint  
 



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiffs
Edvand Ovanesyan and Eduard Tamrazyan (“Plaintiffs”) allege that at 7:00 a.m.
on January 28, 2023, Ovanesyan was driving his vehicle eastbound on Stagg
Street approaching Atoll Avenue and Tamrazyan was his passenger.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Ana Carla
Santamaria (“Santamaria”) was traveling northbound on Atoll Avenue, attempting
to relocate a large container with a U-Haul forklift.  Plaintiffs allege that as they traveled
around the curve from Stagg Street to Atoll Avenue in their dedicated lane of
travel, the vehicle driven by Santamaria suddenly and without warning dove in
the opposite lane of traffic, causing a collision with the front side of
Plaintiffs’ vehicle. 
Plaintiffs
allege that Santamaria and U-Haul Co. of California, Inc. (“U-Haul”) were the
owners/operators of the U-Haul forklift vehicle that was involved in the
subject incident.  Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants negligently hired, trained, and/or supervised Santamaria that caused
and/or contributed to the subject incident. 

The complaint,
filed December 6, 2023, alleges a single cause of action for negligence. 
B.     Motion
on Calendar 
On September 23,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to amend the complaint. 
The Court is no
in receipt of an opposition brief. 
LEGAL STANDARD
CCP § 473(a)(1) states: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  
            CRC
rule 3.1324 requires a motion seeking leave to amend to include a copy of the
proposed pleadings, to identify the amendments, and to be accompanied by a
declaration including the following facts:
            1) The effect of the amendment;
            2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; 
            3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and 
            4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.
The Court’s discretion regarding granting
leave to amend is usually exercised liberally to permit amendment of
pleadings.  (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939.)  If a motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend.  (Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs
move for leave to file the proposed First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  The FAC is attached as Exhibit C to the
motion.   
            In
support of the motion, Plaintiffs provide the declaration of Khachik
Nalchadjian, counsel for Plaintiffs.  Mr.
Nalchadjian states that he is counsel for Mariam Ovanesyan, as
successor-in-interest to the Estate of Ervand Ovanesyan.  (Nalchadjian Decl., ¶1.)  Mr. Nalchadjian provides a copy of the Notarized
Affidavit of Heirship naming Mariam Ovanesyan and a copy of Ervand Ovanesyan’s
death certificate.  (Id., ¶¶3, 6,
Exs. A, D.)  
            Plaintiffs
move to amend the complaint because Mr. Ovanesyan passed away on May 8, 2024
and his surviving wife Mariam Ovanesyan was named as the intestate
successor-in-interest of the Estate.  The
effect of the amendment is to add a survival action so that decedent/Mr.
Ovanesyan’s successor-in-interest may step into his shoes and continue pursuing
the action.  
            Based on the moving papers, the
Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend the complaint.  The motion papers address the factors under
CRC Rule 3.1324.  Further, the motion is
not opposed.  In addition, the Court
recognizes the liberal policy in allowing amendment.  “[T]he court's discretion will usually be
exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings.  The policy favoring amendment is so strong
that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified.”  (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422,
1428.)  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend the complaint
is granted.  Plaintiffs are ordered to
electronically file a separate version of the First Amended Complaint with the
Court by this date following the hearing on the matter.  
Plaintiffs
shall
give notice of this order.
 
DATED:
October 25, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court