 Case Number:  22STCV03507    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SPAZZ, INC., et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
STACEY SUMMERS, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV03507
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO SEAL
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 23, 2024



 
On April 23, 2024, Cross-Defendant Stacy Summers filed
a motion for summary judgment (scheduled for hearing on July 9, 2024) and a motion
to seal certain documents.  Cross-Complainants
filed a notice of non-opposition.

The Court may order that a record be filed under seal
only if it finds that (1) there is an overriding interest that overcomes the right
of public access to the record, (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the
record, (3) a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced absent sealing, (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, and (5)
no less restrictive means exists to achieve the overriding interest.  (California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  A motion seeking an order sealing records must
be accompanied by a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.  (California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).)
A
record must not be filed under seal without a court order, and a party requesting
that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order
sealing the record.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(a)-(b).)  The party requesting
sealing must also file a public redacted version and lodge conditionally under seal
with the court a complete, unredacted version. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(4)-(b)(5).)  Additionally, pursuant to Department 48’s courtroom
procedures, if a motion requires reliance on confidential and/or lodged filings,
the unredacted versions must be emailed to smcdept48@lacourt.org, in accordance
with Department 48’s Courtroom Information, available on the court’s website (www.lacourt.org).
Cross-Defendant
lodged redacted copies of the Motion for Summary Judgment, Exhibit A to the Declaration
of Larry R. Jackson in Support of the Motion, and Statement of Undisputed Facts
in Support of the Motion.  Cross-Defendant
did not provide the Court with unredacted electronic copies.  Because the documents were not properly lodged
with the Court, the Court is unable to review them.
Even
if Cross-Defendant had followed the proper procedures, the accompanying declaration
does not contain facts sufficient to justify
the sealing.  (See California Rules of Court,
rule 2.551(b)(1).)  Cross-Defendant’s counsel
declares only that the motion refers to testimony that has been designated as Confidential
under the Protective Order, and the Protective Order “requires any such documents
to be submitted under seal with the Court by any party desiring to cite to them
in support of moving papers.”  (Jackson Decl.
¶ 3.)  However, “[t]he court must not permit
a record to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of
the parties.”  (California Rules of Court,
rule 2.551(a).)
The motion to seal is DENIED, without prejudice to the
filing of a renewed motion that satisfies all requirements for sealing.
For any future motions that rely on confidential
and/or lodged filings, the unredacted versions must be emailed to smcdept48@lacourt.org,
in accordance with Department 48’s Courtroom Information, available on the court’s
website (www.lacourt.org).
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
      
Dated this 23rd day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 