 Case Number:  23SMCV03088    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Hillgreen Capital, LLC, et al.
v. Student Debt Services, LLC, et al. 



Case No.:


23SMCV03088


Complaint Filed:


7-10-23           




Hearing Date:


12-7-23 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


10


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE
PLEADINGS
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Student Debt
Services, LLC; Jeffrey DaPra; and Nicole Pierce
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiffs Hillgreen
Capital, LLC; Renee Esebad, trustee of the Trevis Trust
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants Student Debt Services, LLC, Jeffrey DaPra, and
Nicole Pierces’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the First Cause of
Action for Breach of Written Amended Guaranty Agreement is DENIED. Plaintiffs
have successfully pled all the elements of the first cause of action. The note
at issue was allegedly not fully extinguished through completing one of
multiple elements involved in the Amended Guaranty Agreement. 
            
            Defendants RJN is GRANTED.
 
            “A motion for judgment on the
pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks
only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be
judicially noticed. Presentation of extrinsic evidence is therefore not proper
on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp  (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.)
 
            A motion for judgment on
the pleadings is properly granted when the “complaint does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii).) The
grounds for the motion must appear on the face of the challenged pleading or
from matters that may be judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(d).) 
 
            The trial court must accept as true all material facts
properly pleaded, but does not consider conclusions of law or fact, opinions,
speculation, or allegations contrary to law or facts that are judicially
noticed. (Stevenson Real Estate Services, Inc. v. CB Richard Ellis Real
Estate Services, Inc. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1219–1220.)
 
            Defendants Student Debt Services, LLC, et al.’s (“SDS”) requests
a Judgment on the Pleadings as to the First Cause of Action for Breach of Written
Amended Guaranty Agreement. An amended guaranty agreement is a contract, so the
cause of action is essentially for breach of a written contract. (See Series
AGI West Linn of Appian Group Investors DE, LLC v. Eves (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 156, 163 [“A guaranty is a form of contract and subject to the
usual rules governing contract interpretation.”]; see also Civ.Code, § 2837;
Rest.3d Suretyship and Guaranty, § 14, p. 69.)  The essential elements of breach of contract
are “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse
for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
the plaintiff." (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of
America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.) 
 
            Here, Plaintiffs Hillgreen Capital, LLC, et al.
(“Hillgreen”) sufficiently state the facts within their complaint in order to
constitute a cause of action for breach of amended guaranty agreement. 
 
1.     Hillgreen
alleges the parties entered into an amended Guaranty Agreement on 4-22-20 which
provided for additional conditions than the previous guaranty agreement entered
into on 11-2-16. (Compl., ¶ 15, Ex. 3.) 
2.     Hillgreen
alleges Hillgreen performed all the conditions precedent as to all the
agreements between the parties including the amended guaranty agreement at
issue. (Compl., ¶ 17.) 
3.     Hillgreen
alleges SDS breached the Amended Guaranty Agreement by failing to pay Hillgreen
either “any part of the $150,000 yearly payment due; or ten percent (10%) of
the total profits of Guarantor in the venture's known as RWC Group, LLC, and
Lantorganics, LLC; and ten percent (10%) of any proceeds provided to Defendants
as result of the sale, exchange or conveyance of the operations known as RWC
Group, LLC & Lantorganics, LLC.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
4.     Hillgreen
alleges Hillgreen was damaged in an “amount exceeding the jurisdictional limit
of this Court, in accordance to proof at trial, plus interest at the statutory
rate.” (Comp., ¶ 19.)  
 
            Thus, all the essential elements of
breach of contract were properly plead within the complaint. 
 
            SDS argues the Amended Guaranty was extinguished as a
result of SDS paying off the underlying loan in August of 2022, citing to Civil
Code §§ 1473 and 1474, and as a result Hillgreen “cannot maintain a claim on
the note itself.” (Motion, pp. 7–8.) However, as argued and alleged by
Hillgreen, SDS did belatedly repay the loan, but SDS allegedly did not perform
on another portion of the amended guaranty—paying a specific amount of profits
to Hillgreen from SDS’s “cannabis businesses. (Oppo, pp. 3–4.) Thus, SDS
allegedly did not fully perform on their obligations under the Guaranty and
Amended Guaranty Agreements.
 
            SDS argues Department K of the Superior Court has
exclusive jurisdiction over the matter, but this argument is incorrect. Department
K reserved jurisdiction only to enforce the settlement of an earlier lawsuit
involving the repayment of the loan within the same guaranty at issue here. (See
RJN, Ex. A.) Department K did not reserve jurisdiction over the issue here, the
interest payments related to SDS businesses, also included in the Amended
Guaranty. (See Compl., Ex. 3, ¶ 2.)
 

            Thus, the Court finds that Hillgreen has
successfully pled their first cause of action for breach of amended guaranty
agreement and SDS’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED. 