 Case Number:  23CMCV01088    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  A 23CMCV01088
 Ada Zulema Rodriguez v. Wells Fargo Ban, N.A.
Tuesday,
 March 26, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING
 THE HEARING ON PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL WELLS FARGO NATIONAL BANKING
 ASSN’S FURTHER RESPONSE TO FORM INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING
 THE HEARING ON PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL WELLS FARGO NATIONAL BANKING ASSN’S
 FURTHER RESPONSE TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
I.       
BACKGROUND      
      Plaintiff alleges
claims for premises liability and negligence arising from a dangerous condition
at Defendant’s property. Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s further
responses to form interrogatories and special interrogatories. Plaintiff
contends that Defendant asserted only objections after Plaintiff granted five
extensions to respond. Defendant maintains objections despite efforts to meet
and confer. 
      Defendant filed
an opposing separate statement maintaining that its responses were Code
compliant. Plaintiff did not file a reply brief by Tuesday, March 19, 2024,
(five court days before the hearing.) (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005 subd (b).)          
 
II.     
DISCUSSION
      A party
can move to compel a further response to interrogatories where the party deems
an answer to be evasive or incomplete or an objection is without merit or too
general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(a).) The parties are
required to meet and confer prior to making the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300(b).) The parties participated in an informal discovery with the Court
on March 1, 2024, without resolution. 
      The
discovery at issue seeks information relevant to Plaintiff’s burden of proof.
To prevail on a claim for premises liability, a plaintiff must establish the
existence of a dangerous condition and that the defendant knew or should have
known of it. (Vaughn v. Montgomery Ward & Co. (1950) 95 Cal.App.2d
553, 556.)  Actual or constructive notice
of the dangerous condition is key to establishing defendant’s liability."
(Ortega
v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206.) A
business owner’s duty to a person coming on the premises includes a duty to "inspect
the premises or take other proper action to ascertain their condition, and if,
by the exercise of reasonable care, the owner would have discovered the
condition, he is liable for failing to correct it." (Ortega
at 1207.)
      It
is evident from Plaintiff’s separate statements that Plaintiff has not engaged
in a serious effort to meet and confer. The
Discovery Act obligates the moving party to “declare that he or she has made a
serious attempt to obtain an informal resolution of each issue” prior to
initiating a motion to compel. (Townsend
v. Superior Court (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1431, 1435 [adopting
federal guidelines requiring the parties to “present to each other the merits
of their respective positions with the same candor, specificity, and support
during informal negotiations as during the briefing of discovery motions. Only
after all the cards have been laid on the table, and a party has meaningfully
assessed the relative strengths and weaknesses of its position in light of all
available information, can there be a 'sincere effort' to resolve the matter.”].)
      Plaintiff contends that Defendant made
“the same objection-only response” to each special and form interrogatory.”
(Plt’s Sep Stmt 2:2-3.) Defendant, however, did provide some substantive
responses (for example SI 22, 28-37, 49, 58-59, 61-66, 68-70,
76, 88, 92 and FI 1.1-12.0 series). Additionally, Plaintiff propounded
identical questions concerning repair of drainage mechanisms, policy and
procedure manuals, or inspection of the location of incident (for example
compare SI 67-68, 74-75, and 90-93). Plaintiff’s separate statement is
defective in that it does not argue why any of Defendant’s substantive
responses are inadequate. 
 
      Therefore,
the parties are ordered to engage in serious efforts to meet and confer prior
to requiring the court’s involvement with the following principles in mind: 
 
A.      Special
interrogatories and form interrogatories relevant to Defendant’s actual or
constructive notice of the dangerous condition are relevant and discoverable
(SI 1).
      Defendant has not established how discovery
of prior incidents on the property is irrelevant or subject to a privilege. The
interrogatory is relevant to Defendant’s notice of a dangerous condition.  
 
 
 
B.     
Potential witness identification (SI
2-4, 7-8, 10, 60; FI 12.0, 13.0 series).
      Plaintiff
requests identification of employees who worked at the property on the day of
the incident, who may have witnessed the incident, identification of the
manager and assistant manager, and of employees assigned to maintain the
property on the date in question. Defendant unilaterally limits the scope of
inquiry to those people who counsel believes have knowledge of the incident.
Plaintiff is entitled to determine whether any employee on the premises has
knowledge of the incident. 
      Defendant
failed to provide contact information in the event Plaintiff must subpoena
non-employee witnesses. Stating that identified people can be contacted through
defense counsel is evasive. Defendant must identify the particular employee by
name and contact information. (SI 9, 11.)
 
C.      Inspections,
maintenance, and prior incidents, claims, and lawsuits at the subject location.
(SI 5-6, 12-13, 38-43, 77-79, 82-83, 86, 89, 90; FI 12.0 series) 
 
      Dates and times of inspections prior to
the incident and parties hired to clean are relevant to establishing whether
Defendant acted reasonably in discovering the dangerous condition. Defendant is
required to identify employees and provide contact information without
limitation. The identification of third parties who may have provided
maintenance and cleaning service to Defendant is also relevant to Defendant’s
duty to inspect. 
 
D.    
Training procedures regarding
accidents. (SI 44-47.)
      These
interrogatories are relevant to Defendant’s exercise of its duty. Defendant has
not established that this information is “proprietary.” 
 
E.      Surveillance
video, location of cameras, accident reports and related documents, identification
of persons handling complaints (SI 14-21, 48.)
      To these and other interrogatories, Defendant
asserts attorney-client privilege which requires producing a privilege log describing
the documents with specificity in order that the Court can determine whether
any privilege applies. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240.) Defendant has not
established how location of surveillance videos of the incident are “proprietary.”
Customer complaints are relevant to Defendant’s notice of the dangerous
condition.
F.      
SI 23-24, 26-27 expert information. 
      The
request for identification of experts or those who have evaluated Plaintiff’s claim
impermissibly requests premature disclosure of expert information. Exchange of
expert witness information may be made after trial setting and pursuant to statutory
requirements. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2034.210.)
 
G.    
The condition of the floor.
      Plaintiff
must establish that a dangerous condition existed. Therefore, the type of
flooring installed and the decision making surrounding that installation, as
well as evidence relevant to the draining mechanisms in the area are relevant.
(SI 50-57, 67, 71-75, 91) 
 
H.    
Overbroad. 
      Plaintiff
requests information regarding slip-and-fall claims or lawsuits in the past 10
years in “any” of Defendant’s Southern California locations. Plaintiff has not
established the how incidents at other locations involving other conditions bear
on Defendant’s notice of a condition at the location at issue. (SI 80-81, 84-85).

      While
this is not an exhaustive list of the interrogatories at issue (mainly because
many of them are duplicative), the general topics of inquiry described above
are relevant to Plaintiff’s prima facie case. Any objection based on
attorney-client privilege, work product, or “proprietary or sensitive
information” must be supported by a declaration of a person with personal
knowledge of these facts and a privilege log.
      Based
on the foregoing, the Court continues the hearing on both motions to April 30,
 2024,  at 8:30 a.m. in
Department A of the Compton Courthouse. The parties are ordered to submit a
joint statement of special interrogatories that remain in dispute at least 10
court days prior to the hearing. 