  Case Number:  22VECV01878    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
RAYMOND
  THOMAS, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22VECV01878




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AEOLUS
  AIR CHARTER, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          September 4, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Aeolus Air Charter, Inc. and Lett’s Jett, Inc.
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Raymond Thomas
Motion
to Tax Costs
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The Court
strikes Item 16 (Other) in the amount of $3875 for mediation fees from
plaintiff’s memorandum of costs.
BACKGROUND
On November 4, 2022, plaintiff
Raymond Thomas filed a complaint against Aeolus Air Charter, Inc. for wrongful
death based on negligence, strict products liability, and products
liability/negligence.
On December 28, 2022, the case was
deemed related to 22STCV03393.
On November 8, 2023, plaintiff
filed amendments designating Let’s Jett, Inc., Conner Jadwin, and Dave
Ventrella as Does.
On April 10, 2024, the related
cases were consolidated with 22STCV03393 being the lead case for discovery
purposes.
On June 5, 2024, defendants filed a
stipulation for purposes of liability that defendant Aeolus Air Charter, Inc.,
aka Let’s Jett, Inc. was the sole cause of the subject accident.  The stipulation noted that defendants dispute
the nature and extent of damages (if any) that will be claimed by Raymond
Thomas and that the action will be tried on damages only.
On June 27, 2024, after a jury
trial, the Court ordered judgment entered for plaintiff Raymond Thomas against
defendants Aeolus Air Charter, Inc. and Let’s Jett, Inc. for damages of
$850,000 ($135,000 past loss, $715,000 future loss).
On July 16, 2024, defendants filed
a notice of intent to move for new trial or, in the alternative, for a
conditional remittitur. 
On July 17, 2024, plaintiff Thomas
filed a memorandum of costs.
On July 25, 2024, the Court granted
defendants’ request for stay of enforcement of judgment.
On August 1, 2024, defendants filed
a motion to tax costs.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            “Except as otherwise expressly
provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to
recover costs in any action or proceeding. 
This means that the prevailing party is entitled to all of his costs
unless another statute provides otherwise. 
Absent such statutory authority, the court has no discretion to deny
costs to the prevailing party.”  Nelson
v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal. App. 4th 111, 128-29 (citations and internal
quotations omitted); CCP §1032(b) (“Except as otherwise expressly provided by
statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs
in any action or proceeding”). 
CCP §1033.5(c) states, in relevant
part:  “Any award for costs shall be
subject to the following:  
            (1) Costs are allowable if incurred,
whether or not paid.  
(2) Allowable costs shall be
reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely
convenient or beneficial to its preparation. 

(3) Allowable costs shall be
reasonable in amount.  
(4) Items not mentioned in this
section . . . may be allowed . . . in the Court’s discretion.” 
“If the items appearing in a cost
bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax
costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary.  On the other hand, if the items are properly
objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party
claiming them as costs.”  Ladas v.
California State Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19 Cal. App. 4th 761, 774
(citation omitted).   Id.  “The court’s first determination, therefore,
is whether the statute expressly allows the particular item, and whether it
appears proper on its face.  If so, the
burden is on the objecting party to show them to be unnecessary or
unreasonable.”  Nelson v. Anderson
(1999) 72 Cal. App. 4th 111, 131 (citations omitted).  “[I]t is not enough for the losing party to
attack submitted costs by arguing that he thinks the costs were not necessary
or reasonable.  Rather the losing party
has the burden to present evidence and prove that the claimed costs are not
recoverable.”  Seever v. Copley Press,
Inc. (2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 1550, 1557.
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
request that the Court strike plaintiff’s memorandum of costs filed on July 17,
2024 at Item 16 (Other) for $3,875 for mediation fee incurred on July 18, 2022.
            Defendants
argue that the mediation cannot have been reasonably necessary to the conduct
of the litigation because the mediation occurred two months before the
complaint was filed.  Defendants argue
that rather than being necessary to the conduct of the litigation, the
mediation was conducted in the hopes of avoiding litigation.  
            In
opposition, plaintiff contends that mediation expenses are recoverable in the
court’s discretion.  Plaintiff asserts
that the mediation was "essentially court-ordered as [Judge Hill] ordered
the parties to either participate in private mediation or a multi-hour
in-person settlement between counsel and the parties.”  Plaintiff argues that the parties fulfilled
that obligation by participating in, and paying for, private mediation after
the related case had already been filed and before the herein case was
filed.  Plaintiff further argues that the
parties would have had to participate in the mediation anyways if Judge Hill
had not determined that the parties had complied with the standing order by already
participating in a mediation.  Plaintiff
cites to Gibson v. Bobroff (1996) 49 Cal. App. 4th 1202, 1209
which states that “mediation is fundamental to the conduct of litigation as it
encourages the parties to settle their disputes before trial and exposes
parties who fail to agree to a reasonable settlement proposal to the risk of a
discretionary court determination that they should pay their opponent’s share
of the failed mediation.”  Further, the
court stated:  “We hold that when an
unsuccessful mediation has been court-ordered, reasonably necessary expenses
incident thereto may, in the sound discretion of the trial court, be awarded
after trial to the prevailing party.”  Id.
            In
reply, defendants contend that the mediation was not court-ordered as it took
place in September 2022 prior to when plaintiff filed the herein case and well
before the case was transferred to Judge Hill in November 2022.  Defendants reiterate their argument that
pre-litigation mediation fees are not recoverable as they are not reasonably
necessary to the conduct of litigation. 
Defendants further argue that the Gibson case cited by plaintiff
is inapplicable as that case specifically addresses that the mediation was
court-ordered.
            The
Court rules as follows:  Defendants have
shown that the mediation costs in the amount of $3875 do not fall under CCP
§1033.5(c)(2) as they were not reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation.  The mediation was held
before the complaint was filed and was merely convenient and/or beneficial to
the preparation of litigation.  Indeed,
had the Court never ordered mediation in this case, the funds had already been
spent and the mediation conducted.  The
Court shall not allow the fortuity of the Court’s later order to convert an
already expended non-litigation costs to a compensable litigation cost.
             The motion is thus GRANTED.        
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.  The Court strikes
Item 16 (Other) in the amount of $3875 for mediation fees from plaintiff’s
memorandum of costs.
Defendants
are ordered to give notice of ruling.