 Case Number:  23CMCV00461    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  A 
23CMCV00461 Donald L. Crawford Sr., v. Ally Financial, Inc., et
 al.
Tuesday, September 26, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
TAKING OFF CALENDAR DEMURRER TO THE COMPLAINT FILED BY DEFENDANTS, HERTZ CAR
RENTAL AND ALLY BANK, 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
GRANTING THE ANTI-SLAPP MOTION BY DEFENDANTS, HERTZ CAR RENTAL AND ALLY BANK, TO
STRIKE THE FIRST THROUGH THIRD CAUSES OF ACTION ALLEGED IN THE COMPLAINT 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The complaint alleges that Plaintiff
settled an underlying dispute against Hertz Car Rental (“Hertz”), that was
filed in Riverside County (“Crawford I”). Plaintiff alleges that a vehicle he
bought from Hertz was defective, and defendants failed to correct the defects
pursuant to the warranty. However, the Hon. Daniel Ottolia allegedly refused to
hear any of Plaintiff’s motions for breach of settlement agreement and
dismissed the case, but retained jurisdiction pursuant to Civil Procedure,
section 664.6. Defendants, Hertz, Ally Bank (“Ally”), and their attorneys
refused to comply with the settlement agreement. Plaintiff alleges claims for
tortious breach of agreement, unfair business practices, fraud, negligent
hiring/training/supervision, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and
punitive damages. 
II.      ARGUMENTS
      Ally and Hertz, joined by the remaining
Defendants, demurred to the entire complaint on grounds it is barred by res
judicata resulting from the final judgment in Crawford I and because the Court
lacks jurisdiction under the rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction.
Plaintiff did not file an opposition. Instead, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (“FAC”) on August 23, 2023.
      Ally and Hertz (collectively,
“Defendants”) also filed an anti-SLAPP special motion to strike the first
through third causes of action as the claims are barred because Plaintiff is
attempting to punish Defendants for defending against Plaintiff’s claims in Crawford
I. These acts were in furtherance of Defendants’ rights of petition or free
speech. Plaintiff will not be able to show a probability of prevailing on the
claim. The Court should deny leave to amend. Defendants are entitled to
attorney’s fees. 
      Plaintiff did not file an opposition by September
12, 2023 (nine court days before the hearing.
III.    DISCUSSION
A.   
The effect of filing a first amended complaint.
      Preliminarily, the demurrer to the complaint
is taken off calendar as it has been rendered moot by the filing of the FAC on
August 23, 2023. (Sylmar Air Conditioning v. Pueblo
Contracting Services, Inc. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1049, 1054 [“an
amendatory pleading supersedes the original one, which ceases to perform any
function as a pleading.”]) However, the FAC does not have the same effect where
an anti-SLAPP motion is pending. (Salma v. Capon (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 1275, 1280.)    
      Plaintiff cannot avoid an anti-SLAPP
motion by filing an amended pleading before the motion is heard. (Salma v. Capon (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 1275, 1280.)  The motion
pierces the pleadings and requires an evidentiary showing. (Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1073.) The court cannot permit a plaintiff to amend the
pleadings once the defendants have established that the complaint arises from acts
in furtherance of their constitutional rights. Doing so would undermine the
statute by permitting plaintiff a “ready escape” from the statute’s quick
dismissal remedy. (Simmons at 1073.)
 
B.   
Defendants have met their initial burden.
      The ANTI-SLAPP statute codified at Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16 provides that any act “in furtherance of the
person's right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution
or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be
subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court determines that the
plaintiff has established a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim." (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16(b).) The statute provides a procedure for
"weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from
protected activity."(Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1
Cal.5th 376, 384.) 
      The moving parties bear the initial burden
of establishing that the challenged allegations or claims “arise from protected
activity in which the defendant has engaged." (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11
Cal.5th 995, 1009.) The trial courts “consider the elements of the
challenged claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and
consequently form the basis for liability.” (Park v. Board of Trustees
California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1063.) The defendant's
burden is to identify what acts each challenged claim rests on and to show how those
acts are protected under a statutorily defined category of protected
activity." (Id.) 
      The first cause of action for
tortious breach of settlement agreement after mediation of Crawford I on August
4, 2022. (Complaint, ¶ 16.) A tortious breach of contract  is found where (1) the breach is accompanied
by a traditional common law tort, such as fraud or conversion; (2) the means
used to breach  the contract are
tortious, involving deceit or undue coercion or; (3) one party intentionally
breaches the contract intending or knowing that such a breach will cause
severe, unmitigable harm in the form of mental anguish, personal hardship, or
substantial consequential damages. (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21
Cal.4th 543, 553–554.) 
      Plaintiff alleges that Defendants continue
to breach that agreement by refusing Plaintiff’s return of the vehicle,
contacting credit bureau agencies to report the Plaintiff’s failure to pay for
the vehicle although the settlement required Plaintiff to return the vehicle in
exchange for $5,500, Defendants’ removal of negative credit information from
credit reporting agencies. (Complaint, ¶ 9, 11, 17.)
      Defendants argue that these alleged acts
constitute litigation-related activity, which is statutorily protected.
Defendants contend that Plaintiff refused to accept the terms of settlement and
all Plaintiff had to do was dismiss Crawford I with prejudice. Instead,
Plaintiff refused to satisfy conditions precedent to Defendants’ obligations
and engaged in punitive litigation. (Mot. 18:8-14.)
      The anti-SLAPP statute precludes claims
that are based on oral or written statements made ”in connection with an issue
under consideration or review” by any judicial body or any other official
proceeding, or any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16(e).) A claim is “in connection with” litigation if it “relates
to the substantive issues in the litigation and is directed to persons having
some interest in the litigation.” (Neville v. Chudacoff (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 1255, 1266 [synonymous with “reasonably relevant”].) Additionally,
claims based on breach of settlement agreements not to disparage are subject to
the statute’s protections. (See Vivian v. Labrucherie (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 267, 274.)
      All the alleged misconduct arise from
litigation activity in connection with Crawford I and Defendants’ alleged breach
of the settlement agreement. Accordingly, Defendants have made a prima facie
showing that the claims arise from defendant’s constitutionally protect
activity. (Governor Gray Davis Com. v. American
Taxpayers Alliance (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 449, 460.)           The burden then shifts to Plaintiff to
demonstrate that the complaint is legally sufficient and is “supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.” (Governor Gray Davis Com. v. American
Taxpayers Alliance (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 449, 460–461.)  To make this determination, the court
considers the pleadings and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the
facts upon which the liability or defense is based. (Id.) 
      Plaintiff has not filed an opposition, and
has therefore, failed to meet his burden of proof. Accordingly, the first cause
of action alleged in the complaint is stricken.            
      The second and third causes of action allege
that Defendants engaged in fraudulent and unfair business practices by
“allowing this simple rescission/breach of warranty action to fester and
continue to be unresolved” five months after the case was settled through
mediation. (Complaint ¶ 20). Defendants allegedly denied liability and “dragged
this case on with frivolous legal tactics.” (Complaint ¶ 21.) Plaintiff alleges
that instead of negotiating in good faith, Defendants “launched in[to] an
aggressive campaign to smear Plaintiff because they had no viable defense.”
(Complaint, ¶ 22). Defendants allegedly avoided the settlement agreement.
(Complaint, ¶ 24). 
      The second and third causes of action are
equally based on conduct in connection with litigation activity in Crawford I,
which is protected by the anti-SLAPP statute. As Plaintiff has not met his
burden of probably prevailing on the merits, the second and third causes of
action are also stricken. 
C.   
Defendants are entitled to recover attorney’s
fees as mandated by statute.
      The prevailing defendant on the anti-SLAPP
motion “shall be entitled” to recover the defendant’s attorney’s fees and costs
but only on the motion to strike, not the entire litigation. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16; Lafayette
Morehouse, Inc. v. Chronicle Publishing Co. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1379,
1383.) 
      Defendants request an award of attorney’s
fees amounting to $76,131.90, incurred to prepare an anti-SLAPP motion while
the case was pending in the federal court. (Andrew Wood Decl, ¶ 24.) That motion,
however, was never heard because the federal court remanded the case once
Plaintiff dismissed his federal claim. (Id.). Fees are awarded
to a prevailing Defendant. There is no ruling that Defendant prevailed on that
motion.  Nor have Defendants established
that they are entitled to attorney’s fees for preparing the demurrer, which has
been taken off calendar. 
      Defendants have not proffered any facts on
which the Court can determine whether the fees and costs incurred to prepare
this motion were reasonably incurred, or any facts whether the hourly fees of
$650, $700, or $500 are reasonable fee under the circumstances. Defendants also
request fees to prepare a reply brief, which has never been filed. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
      Based on the foregoing, anti-SLAPP motion
to strike the first through third causes of action alleged in the complaint as
alleged against Hertz and Ally is GRANTED. Defendants are entitled to reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs as prevailing parties and are ordered to file a
supplemental declaration substantiating fees and costs incurred to prepare this
anti-SLAPP motion to strike only. 