 Case Number:  21CMCV00161    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  A 
21CMCV00161 Gerardo Ramirez, et al. v. Aegion Energy Services, Inc., et
 al.
Tuesday,
 September 26, 2023 at 1:30 p.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND GRANTING IN PART AND
DENYING IN PART DEFENDANTS’ ALTERNATIVE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF
ISSUES
 
I.       
BACKGROUND FACTS
      The
complaint alleges that Defendants employed Plaintiff, Gerardo Ramirez, as an
electrician in 2014. Plaintiff suffered a work-related injury on January 9,
2017. Plaintiff contends that Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff for
exercising his right to receive workers’ compensation benefits and medical
care. Plaintiff alleges 10 causes of action for discrimination, retaliation and
related violations of the Fair Employment and Housing Act, as well as wage and
hour claims under the Labor Code. On August 26, 2021, Plaintiff dismissed the eighth
cause of action for failure to provide a workplace free from discrimination,
the ninth cause of action for denied continuation of employer-paid health
coverage, and the 11th cause of action for loss of consortium. 
II.      ARGUMENTS
      Defendants,
Aegion Energy Services, Inc. (“Aegion”), Brinderson LLC (“BLLC”) (erroneously
sued as Brinderson LP (“BLP”) and Brinderson CA (“BCA”); and Schultz Industrial
Services, Inc. (“Schultz”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move for summary
judgment or adjudication of the first through seventh causes of action
(employment-related claims) and the 10th cause of action for waiting
time penalties in violation of the Labor Code. Defendants argue that they never
terminated Plaintiff, and therefore, Plaintiff has not suffered an adverse
employment action to support the claims for age and disability discrimination,
wrongful or constructive termination, retaliation, and failure to reasonably
accommodate. He remains on medical leave. Because he was not terminated, he is
not entitled to accrued vacation or waiting time penalties under the Labor
Code.
      In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the motion cannot be granted because the
material facts are disputed by Plaintiff’s evidence relating to whether
Plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action. Plaintiff has documentary
evidence that Defendants’ agent, Infinisource Benefit Services (“Infinisource”),
terminated Plaintiff’s employment on July 31, 2020. 
      In reply, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s entire lawsuit is based on a mistaken and unreasonable belief that Plaintiff
had been terminated. There is no evidence that Infinisource was Defendants’
agent. Plaintiff’s evidence does not dispute any of Defendants’ material facts.
Defendants object to Plaintiff’s declaration, which is inadmissible as
evidence.
III.    LEGAL STANDARDS
      Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c(c).) As the moving party,
Plaintiff’s burden is to produce admissible evidence on each element of a cause
of action entitling him or her to judgment. (§437c(p)(1).) If that threshold burden is established, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to show a triable issue of one or more material facts. (Code
Civ. Proc., §437c(p)(1).)
      A party may move for summary
adjudication “as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there
is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, [or] that there is no merit to a
claim for [punitive] damages.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c. subd.(f)(1).)
      The court applies the
three-step analysis to motions for summary judgment or adjudication: (1)
identify the issues framed by the pleading, (2) determine whether the moving
party established facts which negate the opponents’ claim, (3) if the moving
party meets its threshold burden of persuasion and the burden shifts, determine
whether the opposing party has controverted those facts with admissible
evidence. (Torres
v. Reardon (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 831, 836.) 
IV.    DISCUSSION
A.      Undisputed
facts. 
      Plaintiff sustained a work-related injury on January 9, 2017,
at the Valero Refinery Asphalt (UF 1.)[1]
Plaintiff burned his right hand and injured his face, eye, right and upper-mid
and lower back.” (UF 22.) Specifically, Plaintiff sustained burn injuries from
an arc blast of at least 480 volts of electricity. (Defendant’s Ex. E, .pdf p.
7:15-23.) Plaintiff was hired by Defendant BLLC as an electrician at the Valero
location in Wilmington on May 13, 2016[2]
(UF 7.) Defendants BLP, BCA, BLLC, and Schultz are subsidiaries of Aegion. (UF 5,
6) Plaintiff claims he was terminated from his employment with Defendants on
July 31, 2020, after receiving an August 20, 2020, “Notice of Continuation of
Coverage” from Infinisource), Defendants’ third-party benefits coordinator, stating
that Plaintiff was “involuntary terminated” from employment effective July 31,
2020 (UF 26.) 
      Defendants assert that from May 13, 2016, to the present,
Plaintiff was not employed by Aegion’s subsidiaries, BLP, BCA, and Schultz (Fact
8, which Plaintiff disputes, contending he was employed by Aegion and its
subsidiaries). BLLC hired Plaintiff on May 13, 2016 (UF 8.) Plaintiff maintains
he was employed by Aegion and all of the Brinderson entity subsidiaries and
Schultz. (See evidence in response to Fact 8.) 
B.      Defendant’s
objections to Plaintiff’s declaration.
      Nos. 1, 2. SUSTAIN. Plaintiff lacks foundation or personal
knowledge as to the employment relationship, which is also a legal conclusion,
or the relationship of Aegion and its subsidiaries.  
      Nos. 4, 5. SUSTAIN. The circumstances of the incident are
irrelevant, and what Plaintiff was told about the condition of electricity
before or after the accident is hearsay.
      No. 7. As to the nurse’s comments, SUSTAINED, hearsay.
      No. 8. SUSTAINED. The causes for Plaintiff’s injuries lacks
foundation. Regardless, the issue of damage is irrelevant.
      No. 11. SUSTAINED. References to information provided to
Plaintiff is hearsay. 
      No. 12. SUSTAINED. Plaintiff does not have foundation to
establish the agency relationship between Infinisource and Defendants. 
      No. 22 SUSTAINED. Whether discrimination, retaliation, or
wrongful termination occurred is a legal conclusion. Lacks foundation.
      All remaining objections are OVERRULED.  
C.     
Adjudication
of the first cause of action for wrongful or constructive termination in
violation of public policy is DENIED.
      Wrongful or constructive termination requires
proof of the following elements:  "(1)
an employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer terminated the plaintiff's
employment, (3) the termination was substantially motivated by a violation of
public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm. (Haney v.
Aramark Uniform Services, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 623, 641, 17
Cal.Rptr.3d 336 (Haney ).)" (Yau
v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144,
154.)
Defendants contend it never terminated Plaintiff, but rather a third-party,
Infinisource, sent Plaintiff a termination letter although Infinisource was not
authorized to terminate Brinderson employees, nor was Infinisource acting in its
scope of authority relating to Plaintiff’s separation from employment. 
      As a preliminary matter, Defendants attempt to claim an
employment relationship between Plaintiff and BLLC only. Defendants, however,
do not argue or establish with undisputed facts the absence of an employment
relationship between Aegion and its subsidiaries, BLP, BCA, and Schultz, on the
one hand, and Plaintiff on the other. That issue is not expressly identified as
an issue to be adjudicated, nor do the moving papers discuss the applicable
authority and supporting facts to establish the existence or non-existence of an
employment relationship as distinguished from an independent-contractor
relationship, which is a multi-faceted test. (Ayala
v. Antelope Valley Newspapers, Inc. (2014) 59 Cal.4th 522, 531.)[3]
To establish the employment relationship with BLLC only, Defendants rely solely
on the declaration of Jessica Perez-Okuno, BLLC’s human resources manager. (Perez-Okuno declaration, ¶
2-3.) There
is no basis for the conclusion that Plaintiff was not employed by the other
Brinderson entities and Schultz. (Id.
at ¶ 8.)
      Perez-Okuno’s declaration that Plaintiff was never terminated
is a conclusion without any factual support as is the assertion that Plaintiff
was on a medical leave of absence since January 12, 2017.  (Perez-Okuno
declaration, ¶ 11-12, 15.) Defendant contends that Infinisource
lacked authorization to terminate BLLC employees or that Infinisource made an
error in sending the document to Plaintiff declared by Perez-Okuno is conclusory
and unsupported by any documentary evidence. (Perez-Okuno
decl.,
¶ 16.) 
      Declarations must be based on personal knowledge. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c(d)) All the documents Perez-Okuno relies upon are based on
information and belief. (Perez-Okuno
decl., ¶ 1.) The court has discretion to deny the motion where
the only proof of a material fact offered in support of the motion is a
declaration by an individual who was the sole witness to that fact, or the fact
is an individual’s state of mind, or lack thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437(e).)
Therefore, Facts 8, 24, 32 are unsupported by Perez-Okuno’s sole declaration. 
      Defendants attempt to establish that Plaintiff was on medical
leave because he testified at his deposition that this was his belief.
(Defendants Ex. B, Vol. I, 240:245-241:1.) Defendants then contend that
Plaintiff was on “a leave of absence.” (DP 54.)[4]
There is insufficient documentary evidence to establish that Defendants placed
him on leave in the first instance, medical or otherwise, except for the sole
Perez-Okuno declaration. Whether he was on leave “to the present” is
controverted by the letter of termination sent by Infinisource on August 20,
2020. Fact 55 is disputed. 
      Plaintiff disputes Defendants’ contention that Plaintiff never
received written or oral notification from BLLC regarding his termination.
Plaintiff submits the Infinisource notice documenting his involuntary
termination. The letter of termination proffered by
Plaintiff sent on Infinisource letterhead and indicating it is from Brinderson
CA, states that Plaintiff is entitled to COBRA health insurance because of a
“qualifying event” identified as “Involuntary termination of employment” on
July 31, 2020. (Plaintiff’s Decl., Ex. 1, .pdf page 7.) Plaintiff was informed that
his group health coverage plan was terminated and was given an option to buy
COBRA continuation coverage. (Plaintiff’s Decl., Ex. 1, .pdf page 7.) DP 38 is controverted by
the evidence. Accordingly, even if the Perez-Okuno declaration is admissible,
whether Plaintiff was terminated is controverted by Plaintiff’s evidence. (DP
24, 38, 39, 43, 44, 45, 46, 55, 70, 72, 92, 93.)
 
      Defendants contend that Plaintiff was
under a “mistaken belief that he was terminated.” (Fact 39.) Defendants’
characterization of Plaintiff’s belief as “mistaken” is a conclusion not based
on documentary evidence demonstrating Plaintiff’s belief was unreasonable. (Perez-Okuna decl., ¶ 16.) An agency relationship is
ostensible “when the principal intentionally, or by want of ordinary care,
causes a third person to believe another to be his agent who is not really
employed by him.” (Civ. Code, § 2300.) Moreover, the existence of an agency “is
a factual question within the province of the trier of fact whose determination
may not be disturbed on appeal if supported by substantial evidence.
[Citation.] [Citation.] Inferences drawn from conflicting evidence by the trier
of fact are generally upheld. [Citation.]. (Michelson v. Hamada (1994)
29 Cal.App.4th 1566, 1576.) ‘Only when the essential facts are not in conflict
will an agency determination be made as a matter of law.’” (Secci v. United Independant Taxi
Drivers, Inc.
(2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 846, 854.) Even
if Defendants had established with evidence that Plaintiff’s belief was
unreasonable, the Infinisource letter controverts that issue. 
      The facts supported by Plaintiff’s
evidence as a whole are sufficient to infer that Defendants’ conduct was
wrongful and in violation of public policy. There is no dispute that Plaintiff
provided BLLC with a disability certificate on February 19, 2019 (UF 59.) There
is no evidence Defendants placed Plaintiff on medical leave. Defendants admit
that Plaintiff’s worker's compensation claims are currently pending. (UF 51.) 
      Plaintiff’s evidence demonstrates that on December
16, 2020, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a claim with the Department of Fair
Employment and Housing (“DFEH”) based on the same facts alleged in the
complaint. (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶ 13.) Ms. Okuno-Perez declares that LeAnne
Romesburg reached out to Plaintiff to inform him he was not actually terminated
but was on medical leave. This occurred on December 23, 2020, one week after
Plaintiff filed the FEHA claim. (Admitted by Plaintiff in response to requests
for admission). These facts support the inference that Defendants did not place
Plaintiff on medical leave, but terminated Plaintiff while he had a worker’s
compensation claim pending and was unable to work. (UF 51, 55.)         
 
D.    
Adjudication
of the second cause of action for wrongful or constructive termination in
violation of an implied employment agreement is GRANTED.
 
      Plaintiff
alleges that he had an implied contract with Defendants that they would not
terminate him for other than good cause and that he would be able to continue
his employment with Defendants if he carried out his duties in a proper and
competent manner. Plaintiff alleges that the implied contract was grounded in
the employee handbook and/or manual and Code of Ethics brochure. (UF 13.) 
      Defendants assert that the employment
relationship was at-will, and that the handbook is not a contract of
employment, nor a legal document. (Fact 16.) Plaintiff’s objection that Ms.
Perez-Okuno’s declarations thereto are legal conclusions is meritorious.
Defendants also rely on the employee handbook and background check
acknowledgment, which Perez-Okuna declares on information and belief that the
documents have “been created and/or maintained by the Brinderson.” (Perez-Okuna decl, ¶ 1.) Fact 16 is not supported by the
evidence.  
      However, the material facts not disputed by Plaintiff warrant a
different result. The Labor Code provides that an employment relationship of
unspecified duration may be terminated at the will of either party. (Lab.
Code, § 2922.) The statute "establishes a
presumption of at-will employment. This presumption may be overcome by evidence
of an implied agreement that the employment would continue indefinitely,
pending the occurrence of some event such as the employer's dissatisfaction
with the employee's services or the existence of a cause for termination.” (Starzynski
v. Capital Public Radio, Inc. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 33,
37–38.) The burden is on the employee to prove the employment
was not at will by evidence of a contract, express or implied, for a fixed term
or to terminate only for cause.  (Foley
v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 654, 678 ["a
contract for permanent employment, for life employment, for so long as the
employee chooses, or for other terms indicating permanent employment, is
interpreted as a contract for an indefinite period terminable at the will of
either party...."].)
      Plaintiff does not dispute his testimony that at the time he
was hired, there was no specified length of employment, and no one discussed
with him any length of employment. He assumed that the job would last until the
project ended or “they don’t need you anymore.” (UF 18.) Plaintiff conceded that
he had no idea how long the project would last, and that in the 15 years he
worked as an electrician, he was repeatedly hired and laid off based on
availability of work. (UF 18-19.) These undisputed material facts establish
that Plaintiff’s employment with Defendants was at-will. 
E.     
Adjudication
of the third cause of action for age discrimination is GRANTED. 
      Plaintiff alleges he was 44 years old at
the time of termination and that it is “highly probable” that he would have
continued his employment as a journeyman electrician and soon-to-be licensed
electrician (Complaint, 46-47.) FEHA prohibits discrimination on account of a
person’s protected status (ie. age, medical condition, or disability). An
employer may not “otherwise discriminate against the person in compensation or
in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment." (Mixon
v. Fair Employment & Housing Com. (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1306,
1316;
Gov.
Code, § 12940.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
discriminated against him by terminating him from employment. (Complaint, ¶¶
46-48.)
      To establish a prima facie case for discrimination, Plaintiff
must show "that (1) he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was
qualified for the position he sought or was performing competently in the
position he held, (3) he suffered an adverse employment action, such as
termination, demotion, or denial of an available job, and (4) some other
circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)
If proved, Plaintiff will have established a presumption. 
      At trial, the burden then shifts to defendant employer to rebut
the presumption by producing admissible evidence, sufficient to “raise [ ] a
genuine issue of fact and to justify a judgment for the [employer], that its
action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.” (Guz at
355–356.) If proof is sustained, the burden shifts back to the
plaintiff to establish that the employer’s proffered reasons were pretexts for
discrimination. (Guz at 356).
This three-step, shifting burden of proof is articulated in McDonnell
Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792.
      In the context of a motion for summary judgment/adjudication,
the McDonnell Douglas test is modified. The employer moving for summary
judgment “proceed[s] to the second step of the McDonnell Douglas formula
and [must] ‘set forth competent, admissible evidence [citations] of its
reasons, unrelated to age bias, why it eliminated [the employee’s] work unit
... and thereafter chose persons other than [the employee] for vacant positions
in the unit ....’” (Arnold
v. Dignity Health (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 412, 425.)
      Defendants argue first that Plaintiff was not terminated, and
assuming he was terminated, Plaintiff cannot establish discriminatory animus
based on age as the motive for termination. Defendants cite Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony wherein Plaintiff testified that he does not believe
anyone discriminated against him because of age or said anything that he
believed to be derogatory or demeaning because of his age. (UF 74-78.) This
evidence is sufficient to sustain Defendants’ burden of production as the evidence
“would require a reasonable trier of fact not to find any underlying
material fact more likely than not"’ ie., there is an absence of evidence.
(Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 851.) 
      Plaintiff has not proffered any evidence to support
discriminatory animus based on age. 
F.       Adjudication
of the fourth cause of action for disability discrimination is DENIED. 
      California law prohibits
discrimination by “any employer” against “any employee” who incurs work-related
injuries, and the statute has been interpreted to require an employer to
provide leaves of absence to an occupationally injured employee. (Lab.
Code, § 132a (a)(1).) Nor can an employer
discharge or discriminate against any employee because he or she has filed a
claim for compensation with his employer. (Id.) Additionally, the FEHA prohibits an employer from barring or
discharging an employee or to discriminate against the person because of a
physical disability or medical condition (among other grounds). (Gov.
Code, § 12940(a)(1).) 
      Whether Plaintiff was terminated or placed
on leave as Defendants contend is a triable issue of fact. Complete termination
of employment “based on a mere likelihood of permanent disability” is precluded
where the worker's injuries are not yet “permanent and stable.” (Barns
v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 524,
533.) 
      Whether Defendants terminated Plaintiff in
the first instance or placed on medical leave is a triable issue of fact. (DF
24, 32, 38, 39, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46). Plaintiff’s evidence establishes that his
worker's compensation case was still pending at the time of his termination. (Decl.
of Gerardo Ramirez.) Defendants admit that since the date of the incident,
Plaintiff has been under Defendants’ worker's compensation insurance. (UF 51.) This
suggests that Plaintiff’s injuries have not been determined to be “permanent
and stable.” (Barns at 533). Given these disputed issues of fact,
adjudication of this issue is DENIED. 
 
 
 
G.     Adjudication
of the fifth cause of action for denial of reasonable accommodation is DENIED. 
      Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “failed to do everything
possible to assist his return to work, whether full duty, light duty or with
restrictions and hindered or interfered with the process and continues to do so
until the present time.” (Complaint ¶ 73.)     Construed
liberally, the complaint alleges a failure to reasonably accommodate
Plaintiff’s disability/medical condition. This claim involves a separate duty imposing
liability on an employer who “fail(s) to engage in a timely, good faith,
interactive process with the employee or applicant to determine effective
reasonable accommodations, if any, in response to a request for reasonable
accommodation by an employee or applicant with a known physical or mental
disability or known medical condition." (Gov.
Code, § 12940(n).) The statute also independently imposes
liability on an employer who “fail[s] to make reasonable accommodation for the
known physical or mental disability of an applicant or employee." Gov.
Code, § 12940(m).)
      The burden in moving for summary judgment on a claim for
failure to reasonably accommodate or engage in the interactive process falls on
the employer. (Jensen
v. Wells Fargo Bank (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 260.)
The employer has a “mandatory” obligation to engage in the “interactive process
[which] requires communication and good faith exploration of possible
accommodations between employers and individual employees’ with the goal of ‘identify[ing]
an accommodation that allows the employee to perform the job effectively.’"
(Jensen at
261.)
The employer cannot prevail at summary judgment on this cause of action "unless
it establishes through undisputed facts that (1) reasonable accommodation was
offered and refused; (2) there simply was no vacant position within the
employer's organization for which the disabled employee was qualified and which
the disabled employee was capable of performing with or without accommodation;
or (3) the employer did everything in its power to find a reasonable
accommodation, but the informal interactive process broke down because the
employee failed to engage in discussions in good faith." (Jensen at 263.)
      BLLC contends it accommodated Plaintiff by providing Plaintiff
with medical leave. This is not supported by Perez-Okuno’s declaration as
previously discussed, which is conclusory. (Fact 88 is not proved.) Regardless,
that is not the type of “accommodation” contemplated by statute. There is no
dispute that Plaintiff provided BLLC with a disability certificate from his
doctor with modified restrictions (UF 59.) Perez-Okuno declares that BLLC
evaluated other potential jobs available at the time that would satisfy
Plaintiff’s restrictions, but did not have any open available positions available,
and therefore, Plaintiff was “admittedly unable to perform the essential job
functions of an electrician” or in any capacity. (Perez-Okuno ¶
14.)       There is no evidence establishing
what efforts Defendants made to engage with Plaintiff to determine whether his
medical condition could be reasonably accommodated. The declaration concludes
ultimate facts without supporting evidence. Nor is there evidence that
Defendants did “everything in its power” to find a reasonable accommodation or
that the process broke down because of Plaintiff as Jensen requires.  
      Instead, Defendants place the burden on Plaintiff for failing
to apply for work in any capacity or looking for another position. (UF 67-69.) These
facts do not establish that Defendants engaged in a good faith communicative
process and exploration with the goal of “identify[ing] an accommodation that
allows the employee to perform the job effectively.’" (Jensen at
261.)

      Defendants contend that Plaintiff did not request a return to
full duty work. (Fact 66.) This assertion misstates Defendants’ obligation to engage,
make efforts, and accommodate. The evidence proffered by Plaintiff infers that
Defendants failed to respond to Plaintiff’s attempts to inquire about his
employment status, his insurance status, and refused to cooperate in his
medical care to permit him to return to work. (Decl of Plaintiff, ¶¶ 7-10.) As
Defendants have not established that they complied with their mandatory
obligations under this statute, or that Plaintiff failed to engage in the
process, adjudication of this issue is DENIED. 
 
H.    
Adjudication
of the sixth cause of action for retaliation for engaging in protected activity
pursuant to Gov. Code § 12940(h) is DENIED.
      The complaint alleges that Defendants
retaliated against Plaintiff when he presented his work restrictions to
Defendants and pursued his remedies under the Worker's Compensation Act and/or
use of the FMLA leave. (Complaint, ¶ 81). 
      A prima facie case of retaliation under FEHA requires plaintiff
to show that “(1) he or she engaged in a protected activity; (2) the employer
subjected the employee to an adverse employment action; and (3) a causal link
between the protected activity and the employer's action.” (Akers v. County
of San Diego (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1453.) 
(Price
v. Victor Valley Union High School District (2022) 85
Cal.App.5th 231, 249.) The retaliatory motive underlying
retaliation claims “is ‘proved by showing that plaintiff engaged in protected
activities, that [their] employer was aware of the protected activities, and
that the adverse action followed within a relatively short time
thereafter.’ (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214
Cal.App.3d 590, 615, 262 Cal.Rptr. 842, italics added.) In other words, [employee]
must show that the [employer] took an adverse employment action against her because
she engaged in protected activity. (Price at 249-250.) 
      Defendants argue that Plaintiff did not suffer an adverse
employment action because he was never terminated. As previously explained,
this is a triable issue of fact. (DP 24, 38, 39, 46, 70.) Defendants next
contend that Plaintiff cannot prove causation because the time between the
industrial accident on January 9, 2017, and the time he was placed “on FMLA
leave” is too attenuated to infer causation. (Mot. 27: 14-17.) Whether
Plaintiff was on leave or terminated is a triable issue of fact.  
      Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to controvert the issue of
whether his termination was  retaliatory.
Defendants contend that the protected activity occurred on January 9, 2017,
however, that was the date of the accident. There is no dispute that Plaintiff presented
Defendants with a disability certificate on February 19, 2019. (UF 59.)  In the interim, Plaintiff was receiving
worker's compensation benefits until his date of termination on July 31, 2020.
(DF 70.) Additionally, Plaintiff alleges he filed an administrative claim with DFEH
and received his “right to sue” notice on December 16, 2020. (Complaint, ¶ 7.) 
      This is material to the causation issue, although Defendants
did not present it as a material fact. One week later on December 23, 2020, after
Plaintiff’s termination, after he had been cut off from medical insurance, and
after Plaintiff filed his DFEH claim, Defendants “reached out” to Plaintiff to
state he was not in fact terminated, but had been placed on medical leave,
although these material facts are not supported by any evidence documenting
notification of medical leave and controverts the termination letter delivered
in August in any event.  (DF 39.)
      Claims for unlawful discrimination and retaliation are “inherently
fact driven,” and it is for the jury to determine the facts. (Nejadian
v. County of Los Angeles (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 703, 726 [Plaintiff
meets the burden of proving retaliation was intentional with “competent
evidence, that the employer's proffered justification is mere pretext; i.e.,
that the presumptively valid reason for the employer's action was in fact a
coverup."].) Accordingly, adjudication of this issue is DENIED. 
 
I.       
Adjudication
of the seventh cause of action for failure to take necessary steps to prevent
discrimination and retaliation is DENIED.
      It is unlawful for an employer to fail to
take reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from
occurring. (Gov.
Code, § 12940(k).) The statute “creates a separate actionable
tort enforceable upon the establishment of the usual tort elements of duty of
care, breach of duty (a negligent act or omission), causation, and damages.
" (Dickson
v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1313.)
      Defendants argue that since no viable cause of action exists
for discrimination, there was no duty for Defendants to act. (Mot., 28:2-6.) As
previously discussed, disability discrimination remains a viable claim. While
there is no dispute that BLLC has written, non-discrimination policies and
procedures in place to prohibit any form of discrimination, this is
insufficient to establish that Defendants did not violate their duty under
Government Code, section 12940(k) by terminating Plaintiff while he had a
worker's compensation claim pending. Plaintiff’s evidence controverts the inference
of discrimination. 
J.       
Adjudication of the 10th cause of action for waiting
time penalties is DENIED. 
      If an employer discharges an employee, the wages earned and
unpaid are due and payable immediately. (Lab.
Code, § 201(a).) Defendants contend that they did not
terminate Plaintiff. This remains disputed for the reasons previously
articulated. Defendants contend that Plaintiff admitted in response to request for
admission No. 49 that vacation time is available when Plaintiff returns to
work. (DF 73.) This material fact does not dispose of the cause of action
because the issue of his termination remains controverted. 
V.      CONCLUSION
      Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment
is DENIED. Defendants’ alternative motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED
as to the second cause of action for termination for violation of an implied
employment agreement and the third cause of action for age discrimination.  
      The alternative motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as to
the first cause of action for wrongful termination, the fourth through seventh
causes of action for violations of FEHA, and the 10th cause of
action for waiting time penalties under the Labor Code. 
 
 
 
 


