 Case Number:  22BBCV01020    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION FOR
RELIEF FROM ADMISSIONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01020

 



MP:  


Topa Insurance Company (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Taltech Construction, Inc.
  (Defendant) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Topa Insurance Company (Plaintiff), as subrogee of its
insured Khachik Aslanyan, brings this action against Garnik Gholikandi
Badalyans, individually and dba 11104 Oro Vista LLC, Taltech Construction, Inc.
(Taltech) and 11104 Oro Vista, LLC (collectively Defendants). Plaintiff seeks
subrogation in connection with losses its alleges were caused by Defendants.
Specifically, Plaintiff alleges Defendants failure to design and contract
ventilation safeguards at 11104 Oro Vista Ave, Sunland, California 91040, resulted
in significant water damage to that property. 
 
Before the Court is a motion by Plaintiff for relief from
admissions made in response to Taltech’s Request for Admissions propounded
August 16, 2024. (See Toroyan Decl. ¶ 3.) Taltech opposes the motion and objects
to the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel in support. This merit of this
objection will be discussed in the course of the Court’s ruling on the motion.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P.
§ 2033.300 states:
 
(a) A party may
withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for admission only
on leave of court granted after notice to all parties.
 
(b) The court may
permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the
admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and
that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced
in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.
 
(c) The court may
impose conditions on the granting of the motion that are just, including, but
not limited to, the following:
 
(1) An order that the
party who obtained the admission be permitted to pursue additional discovery
related to the matter involved in the withdrawn or amended admission. 
 
(2) An order that the
costs of any additional discovery be borne in whole or in part by the party
withdrawing or amending the admission.
 
C.C.P.
§ 2033.300 permits amendment or withdrawal of admissions expressly made by a
party and also applies to “deemed admissions.” (Wilcox v. Birtwhistle
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 973, 979.)
 
“The
court may permit withdrawal of an admission only if the admission was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect and the opposing party
will not be substantially prejudiced.” (Stover v. Bruntz (2017) 12
Cal.App.5th 19, 30-31.) “Because the law strongly favors trial and disposition
on the merits, any doubts in applying section 2033.300 must be resolved in
favor of the party seeking relief. “Accordingly, the court's discretion to deny
a motion under the statute is limited to circumstances where it is clear that
the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was inexcusable, or where it is clear
that the withdrawal or amendment would substantially prejudice the party who
obtained the admission in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.”
(New Albertsons v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420-21.)
 
The
words “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect” have the same meaning in
the discovery statutes as those terms have in C.C.P. § 473(b). (New
Albertsons supra, 168 Cal.App.4th at 1418-19; see also Carli v. Superior
Court (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 1095, 1099.) “Mistake is not a ground for
relief under section 473, subdivision (b), when 'the court finds that the
“mistake” is simply the result of professional incompetence, general ignorance
of the law, or unjustifiable negligence in discovering the law...’[Citation.]”
(Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Facts 
 
Plaintiff
seeks relief from his response to Defendant’s RFA propounded August 16, 2024. Although
Plaintiff does not attach these responses to his motion, Taltech’s submissions
make clear that 13 RFAs were sent to Plaintiff. (Melkonian Decl. ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff appears to have responded ‘admit” to ten of these RFAs. (Id.
at ¶ 5.) 
 
Discussion 
 
The
Court finds Plaintiff has not sufficiently demonstrated that his admissions
were the result of “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect”. To reach this
finding, the Court must first discuss Taltech’s objection to the declaration of
Plaintiff’s counsel on grounds that it is based on hearsay. 
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel, Christina Toroyan (Toroyan), submits the only declaration in support
of this motion. Toroyan states that, “In preparing responses to Requests,
incorrect information was presented by my client, which has since been cleared
up in discussions with its insured.” (Toroyan Decl. ¶ 4.) This statement
is purportedly based on Toroyan’s personal knowledge. (Id. at ¶ 1.)

 
The
Court finds Toroyan’s statement to be based on inadmissible hearsay pursuant to
Evidence Code § 1200. Toroyan’s statement that the initial admissions were made
in error is based on statements made by Plaintiff to their insurer. This
statement is offered for the purpose of demonstrating that the admissions were
in fact erroneous, and that relief is appropriate. Toroyan’s declaration
provides no basis for her personal knowledge of this fact, instead relying on
layers of extrapolation. Toroyan may have personal knowledge as to her belief
that the admissions were erroneous, but she does not have personal knowledge
that Plaintiff’s initial information was incorrect. As such, Toroyan’s
statement constitutes inadmissible hearsay and cannot be the basis for this
motion. 
 
Even
in the instance that Toroyan’s declaration was admissible to demonstrate
“mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect”, its details are too scant to
serve that purpose. Toroyan’s declaration contains no statement as to (1) how
Plaintiff’s information was incorrect, (2) in what way the information was
incorrect, (3) how Plaintiff’s counsel discovered the information was
incorrect, and (4) what admissions the incorrect information renders invalid.
In essence, Plaintiff requests blanket relief from ten admissions based on
nothing more than the vague representation of its counsel that they were based
on incorrect information. While the bar for relief under C.C.P. § 2033.300 is
set quite low, Plaintiff’s showing of mistake remains insufficient to clear that
bar. 
 
Despite
the foregoing, the deficiencies in Plaintiff’s motion appear such that they
could be rectified with the provision of more information. Given the finality
of party admissions, the Court is reluctant to deny Plaintiff the relief they
seek purely on grounds that they failed to submit a declaration from Plaintiff
attesting to the mistaken information. As such, the Court is inclined to deny
the motion without prejudice thereby permitting Plaintiff to renew the motion
should they be able to cure the deficiencies. 
 
Accordingly,
Taltech’s objection to the declaration of Christina Toroyan is SUSTAINED.
Plaintiff’s motion for relief from admissions is denied without prejudice. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Topa Insurance
Company’s Motion for Relief from Admissions came on
regularly for hearing on November 15, 2024 with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM ADMISSIONS IS DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 15, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 