 Case Number:  23BBCV01943    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  A MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01943

 



MP:  


CRDN
  of LA County North, Inc. (Plaintiff)  




RP:  


Carlos Serna (Defendant) [No Response
  Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
CRDN of LA County
North, Inc. (Plaintiff) brings this action against Carlos Serna (Defendant)
alleging Defendant failed to pay $33,060.36 in compensation for textile and
electronics restoration services provided by Plaintiff. (Compl. Exh. B.)
Plaintiff’s Complaint states two causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract
and (2) Common Counts. Defendant has answered the Complaint in pro per. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant’s initial response
to their Form Interrogatories Set One. Plaintiff also requests $2,275 in
sanctions be granted in connection with the motion. Defendant has filed no
opposition to this motion. The Court notes that,
pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose
a motion may be deemed consent to its being granted.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Compel Responses

 
On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel served Defendant
with Form Interrogatories Set one via email. (Dijulio Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Plaintiff’s
counsel states they received no timely responses. (Id. at ¶ 3.) On March
19, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel mailed Defendant a meet and confer letter
regarding the interrogatories. (Id.) 
 
On March 25, 2024, Defendant contacted Plaintiff’s counsel
and explained that he no longer had access to the email address to which the
discovery demands were sent. (Id. at ¶ 4, Exh. 2.) Plaintiff’s
counsel thereafter provided Defendant with a hard copy of the demands and
provided an extension to April 10, 2024 for Defendant to respond. (Id.) Plaintiff’s
counsel states they have still not received any responses from Defendant as of
filing this motion. (Id. at ¶ 5.) 
 
Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s unopposed motion to compel initial response
to their Form Interrogatories Set One is GRANTED.  
 
Sanctions

 
The Court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) Further,
it is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel,
and the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C. Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Plaintiff requests
monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,337.050 against Defendant for reasonable
expenses in connection with the preparation, filing, and service of the instant
motion. Plaintiff’s counsel declares their hourly rate is $350 and that counsel
spent 4.5 hours in preparation of this motion and anticipates an additional two
hours replying and attending a hearing on the motion. (Dijulio Decl.
¶ 6.) Based on its experience the Court finds
this hourly rate reasonable. Further, Plaintiff’s anticipated expenses in
replying do not apply because Defendant rendered no opposition. As such, Plaintiff's
request for monetary sanctions is granted in amount of $760 ($350 x 2 hours +
$60 filing fee), a reasonable sum given the nature of the motion. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
CRDN of LA County North, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Responses to Discovery came on regularly for hearing on November 15, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court,
being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE IS GRANTED. 

 
RESPONSES ARE DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS.   
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $760 AS AGAINST
DEFENDANT.
 
SANCTIONS TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
November 15, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 