 Case Number:  22STCV13111    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  A MOTIONS
TO COMPEL

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22STCV13111

 



MP:  


THC Orange County, LLC dba Kindred Hospital Los Angeles (Defendant)




RP:  


Anita Aslanyan (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Anita Aslanyan (Plaintiff),
individually and as successor in interest to Razmik Aslanyan (Decedent) bring
this action against Providence St. Joseph Health Center (Providence) and THC
Orange County, LLC dba Kindred Hospital Los Angeles (THC). Plaintiff alleges
that Providence and THC failed to properly care for Decedent, resulting in his
death. Plaintiff states a singular cause of action for professional negligence.

 
The
following two motions are currently before the Court: 
 
·        
THC’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories (SPROG) Set Four.
 
·        
THC’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Request for
Admissions (RFA) Set Three 
 
These motions follow several other discovery related
motions which ostensibly resulted from Plaintiff’s failure to respond to
discovery while she was representing herself in pro per. The procedural
disposition of all these discovery disputes is outlined in the Court’s November
7, 2024 Minute Order. Plaintiff has since secured counsel and filed oppositions
to a number of the motions, some of which were untimely. 
 
As concerns the motions currently before the Court,
Plaintiff rendered timely oppositions to each. Plaintiff asks that the Court
not issue an order compelling production as she will be complying with her
discovery obligations moving forward. On November 6, 2024, THC filed a reply
indicating that no code compliant responses have been received. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.       
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Interrogatories

 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
RFA 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
II.    
MERITS 
 
On
August 15, 2024, THC served its SPROG Set Four and RFA upon Plaintiff via
email. (Janssen Decl. ¶ 5, Exh.1.) Plaintiff’s response to these demands was
due on September 17, 2024, but THC received no responses. (Id. at
¶¶ 6-7.) As of the filing of these motions on October 1, 2024, THC had received
no responses to their discovery demands or their meet and confer correspondence.
(Id. at ¶ 8.)
 
Plaintiff’s
oppositions represent that on October 15, 2024, she retained counsel for this
matter. (Markarian Decl. ¶ 2.) Although Plaintiff’s counsel states he has
reached out to THC’s counsel to resolve the matter, he does not state that he
has sent code compliant responses to either SPROG Set Four or RFA Set Three. 
 
In
reply, THC states that they remain without code complaint responses. THC states
that they sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel on November 4,
2024. (Janssen Reply Decl. ¶ 13, Exh. 4.) THC states that in response to this
meet and confer letter, Plaintiff served responses containing objections in
violation of C.C.P. §§ 2030.290 & 2033.280. (Id. at ¶14.) Plaintiff
argues that because the responses were not substantially code compliant, these
motions are not moot.
 
THC
attaches Plaintiff’s responses to RFA Set Three as Exhibit 4 to the relevant
motion. A review of the responses reveals there are indeed objections present.
As Plaintiff did not timely respond to these RFA demands, C.C.P. § 2033.280
provides she has waived the right to object to them unless she seeks leave of
the Court to do so via noticed motion. The court also notes that these
responses are unverified. (See Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206
Cal.App.3d 632, 636 [("Unverified responses are tantamount to no responses
at all."].) 
 
THC
does not attach Plaintiff’s responses to SPROG Set Four, instead merely
asserting that they contain improper objections. (Janssen Decl. ¶ 14.) If objections
are indeed present, they would be improper by virtue of Plaintiff’s failure to
timely reply. (C.C.P. § 2030.290.) As with the RFA, Plaintiff’s only recourse
is to seek relief from her waiver via noticed motion. The Court notes that THC
does not state whether the responses to SPROG Set Four were verified. 
 
The
Court notes that both C.C.P. §§ 2030.290 & 2033.280 contain the same standard
by which a party may be relieved of their waiver of objections. Both statutes
contemplate that the Court is entitled to grant such relief upon a showing (1) that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
with the Discovery Act and (2) that the party’s failure to serve a timely
response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
 
While
the statutes are clear that Plaintiff’s only recourse is to file noticed
motions for relief, the Court notes that doing so would result in substantially
more motion practice than the complexity of this case warrants. Assuming that Plaintiff’s
responses to the discovery demands which form the basis of the two motions
scheduled for November 22, 2024 also contain objections, Plaintiff would need
to notice a minimum of four motions to be relieved from waiver. Whether
Plaintiff succeeds on these motions or not, the result is another substantial
barrier to THC obtaining the code compliant discovery responses it requires to
defend this action. 
 
In
light of the current state of discovery in the case, the Court is inclined to
continue these motions as well as those scheduled to be heard November 22, 2024,
to December 27, 2024. In the interim, Plaintiff’s counsel and THC’s counsel are
ordered to meet and confer in a method other than unilateral letter
correspondence. In the relatively short time since being retained, Plaintiff’s
counsel has demonstrated a willingness to work with THC’s counsel to provide
responses despite any shortcomings those responses may have. The Court is
confident that counsel for the parties can come to an amicable resolution of
the pending discovery efforts such that these motions are not necessary. 
 
If
the parties are unable to reach a resolution, THC is ordered to file an omnibus
briefing on the state of discovery detailing what demands remain outstanding
and the contents of Plaintiff’s most recent responses. This briefing shall be
filed no later than December 13, 2024. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
THC Orange County, LLC dba Kindred Hospital
Los Angeles’s Motions to Compel Initial Responses came on regularly for hearing on November 15, 2024, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS
TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSES TO SPROG SET FOUR AND RFA SET THREE ARE
CONTINUED TO DECEMBER 27, 2024. 
 
THE DISCOVERY
MOTIONS SET FOR HEARING FOR NOVEMBER 22, 2024 ARE HEREBY ADVANCED TO THIS DATE
AND CONTINUED TO DECEMBER 27, 2024. 
 
PARTIES
ARE ORDERED TO MEET AND CONFER IN ADVANCE OF THIS DATE.  
 
THC IS ORDERED TO FILE AN OMNIBUS BRIEFING ON THE STATE OF
DISCOVERY NO LATER THAN DECEMBER 13, 2024 AT 12:00 P.M.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: November
15, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 