 Case Number:  23BBCV02005    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION FOR
ATTORNEY’S FEES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02005

 



MP:  


Crossroads Equipment Lease and
  Finance, LLC (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Shane
  Weber dba Weber Enterprise (Defendant) [No Response Rendered]



NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS:

 
Crossroads Equipment Lease and Finance, LLC (Plaintiff) brought
this action against Shane Weber dba Weber Enterprise (Defendant), alleging that
Defendant breached a Finance Agreement for a 2021 Peterbilt 389 Tractor Truck
(the Truck). Plaintiff sought an outstanding balance of $275,825.36, though
this amount was offset by Plaintiff’s recovery of the Truck in December 2023
and it subsequent sale for $114,500.00. 
 
On August 2, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s unopposed
Motion for Summary Adjudication as to their first cause of action for Breach of
Written Agreement. Plaintiff subsequently filed a voluntary dismissal of its five
other causes of action. On September 11, 2024, judgment was entered against
Defendant in favor of Plaintiff in the amount of $189,642.68. 
 
Before the Court is a Motion for Attorney’s Fees brought by
Plaintiff. Plaintiff seeks to recover reasonable attorney’s fees in accordance
with a provision in the Finance Agreement. Defendant has not opposed this
motion. The Court notes that pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), failure to oppose
a motion may be deemed consent to its being granted. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD:
 
The
prevailing party in “any action on a contract” shall be awarded reasonable
attorney’s fees incurred to enforce that contract where the contract
specifically provides for attorney's fees. (Civ. Code § 1717(a).)
 
The Court
begins the attorney fee inquiry “with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number
of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.” (PLCM
Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) From there, the “lodestar
figure may then be adjusted [according to a multiplier enhancement] based on
consideration of factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the
fair market value for the legal services provided.” (Id.) Relevant
multiplier factors include “(1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions
involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which
the nature of the litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, [and]
(4) the contingent nature of the fee award.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24
Cal.4th 1122, 1132.)
 
No
specific findings reflecting the court’s calculations for attorney’s fees are
required; the record need only show that the attorney’s fees were awarded
according to the “lodestar” or “touchstone” approach. (Rebney v. Wells Fargo
Bank (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 1344, 1349.) A trial court has broad discretion
to award attorney fees in an amount that is less than the lodestar amount and,
to discourage claimants from making an unreasonable demand, may deny altogether
a fee request that appears unreasonably inflated. (Id. at 1321-1322; see
Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635.)
 
“The
basis for the trial court's calculation must be the actual hours counsel has
devoted to the case, less those that result from inefficient or duplicative use
of time.” (Horsford v. Board of Trustees of California State University
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359, 395.) “The law is clear, however, that an award of
attorney fees may be based on counsel's declarations, without production of
detailed time records.” (Raining Data Corp. v. Barrenechea (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 1363, 1375.) 
 
“In
challenging attorney fees as excessive because too many hours of work are
claimed, it is the burden of the challenging party to point to the specific
items challenged, with a sufficient argument and citations to the evidence.
General arguments that fees claimed are excessive, duplicative, or unrelated do
not suffice. Failure to raise specific challenges in the trial court forfeits
the claim on appeal.” (Lunada Biomedical v. Nunez (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th
459, 488.)
 
MERITS: 
 
Plaintiff
moves for attorney’s fees to be awarded in the amount of $11,497.50. This
amount reflects a total of 33.5 hours of attorney work at a rate of $350 per
hour, except for one hour which is billed at the associate’s rate of $325 per
hour. (Khatchadourian Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
As a
preliminary matter, the Court finds Plaintiff is the prevailing party in the
matter. C.C.P. § 1032(a)(4) defines a prevailing party as one with a net
monetary recovery. The Court also finds that the written Finance Agreement
between the parties allows Plaintiff to seek attorney’s fees in this matter.
The attorney fees provision of the Finance Agreement is as follows: 
 
Without limiting the foregoing, Lender may at
its election declare any or all Agreements to be in default and exercise any
and all rights and remedies available to Lender, including the following rights
and remedies: ... (vii) declare all of Borrower's Obligations immediately due
and payable including the following ("Default Amount"): ... (vii) all
costs and expenses incurred by Lender in any repossession, transportation,
recovery, storage, refurbishing, advertising, repair, sale, lease, or other
disposition of the Equipment or Lender's enforcement of its rights hereunder,
including Attorneys' fees. ... (d) If after any Default, any Agreement is
placed in the hands of an attorney, collection agent or other professional for
collection or enforcement of any other right or remedy of Lender, Borrower will
pay all Attorneys' fees and associated costs and expenses and all costs of
collections... (f) the term "Attorneys' Fees" shall include any and
all attorneys' fees incurred by Lender (whether by its use of in-house counsel
or otherwise) incident to, arising out of or in any way connected with Lender's
interests in or defense of any Action or Lender's enforcement of its rights and
interests under each Agreement, including attorneys' fees incurred by Lender to
collect sums due, during any work-out, with respect to settlement negotiations,
or in any bankruptcy proceeding (including attorneys' fees incurred in
connection with any motion for relief from the automatic stay and any motion to
assume or reject any Agreement)...
 
(Elli
Decl., Exh. 1 at p. 3 ¶ 10.) 
 
Given
this suit was for the recovery of possession and past due account, the
attorney’s fee provision is applicable. 
 
As
concerns the amount of fees requested, the Court finds them to be reasonable. “[T]he
verified time statements of the attorneys, as officers of the court, are
entitled to credence in the absence of a clear indication the records are
erroneous.” (Horsford, supra at 396; City of Colton v. Singletary
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 751, 785.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff
presents uncontested records as to the number of hours spent on the case. The
billable hours timesheets, submitted as attachments to the declaration Raffi Khatchadourian, reflect a total of 33.5 hours spent litigating this matter. In
the Court’s experience, this number of hours is commensurate with the
complexity of a case for breach of contract necessitating the repossession of
commercial equipment. Further, the Court does not find anything about the
billable hours entries to be clearly erroneous. In short, the number of hours
billed is reasonably supported by Plaintiff’s uncontested declarations and documentary
evidence. 
 
As
concerns the rate of Plaintiff’s attorneys, the Court finds this too is
reasonable. Plaintiff’s counsel states that they have over 26 years of business
litigation experience and believe their rate to be at or below the rates
charged by similar attorneys. Although Plaintiff does not submit any metrics by
which this can be judged (i.e. the Wolters Kluwer Real Rate Report), the Court
agrees that these rates are reasonable. In the Court’s training, experience,
and expertise, this rate is below the average rate for attorneys practicing in
the area of business litigation. 
 
In sum,
the Court finds Plaintiff has shown they are entitled to attorney’s fees in the
amount of $41,075 and costs in the amount of $11,497.50. Plaintiff has
adequately demonstrated the reasonableness of these fees and costs, while Defendant
has submitted no opposition. Accordingly, the Motion for Attorney’s Fees is
GRANTED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Crossroads Equipment
Lease and Finance, LLC’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees
came on regularly for hearing on November 25, 2024 with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION IS GRANTED. 
 
ATTORNEY’S FEES ARE AWARDED IN THE AMOUNT OF $11,497.50.

 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: November
15, 2024                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 