 Case Number:  23BBCV02172    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  A DEMURRER
AND MOTION TO STRIKE 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02172

 



MP:  


Los Angeles Unified School District
  & Jeffrey Daniel (Defendants)




RP:  


Marilyn R. Cortes Zapien (Plaintiff)
  [No Response Rendered]



NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Marilyn R. Cortes Zapien (Plaintiff) by
and through her Guardian Ad Litem Maria Zapien (Maria) brings this action
against the Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD), Toluca Lake Elementary
School (Toluca Lake Elementary), David Whaley (Whaley), and Jeffrey Daniel
(Daniel). Plaintiff, a five year-old child, alleges she was sexually abused by
a Whaley while attending Toluca Lake Elementary.  
 
On April 12, 2024, the Court sustained
the demurrers of LAUSD and Daniel to the entire Complaint on grounds that Plaintiff
lacked capacity to sue in lieu of a Guardian Ad Litem being appointed. The
Court also sustained the demurrers on grounds that it alleged no statutory
basis for LAUSD and Daniel’s liability as a public entity/employee. Maria
Zapien has subsequently been appointed Plaintiff’s Guardian Ad Litem. 
 
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint now contains
nine causes of action for (1) Battery (as against Whaley),  (2) Assault (as against Whaley), (3) Sexual
Battery (as against Whaley), (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (as
against Whaley), (3) Sexual Harassment (as against Whaley), (5) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty (as against all Defendants), (6) Negligent Hiring, Supervision
and Retention of an Unfit Employee (as against LAUSD and Daniel), (7) Negligent
Failure to Warn, Train or Educate (as against LAUSD and Daniel), (8) Negligence
(as against LAUSD and Daniel), and (9) False Imprisonment (as against Whaley). 
 
LAUSD and Daniel now separately demur to
the FAC. LAUSD demurs to the FAC as a whole for failure to allege compliance
with the Tort Claims Act. LAUSD also demurs to the fifth, seventh, and eighth
cause of action.  Daniel demurs to the
fifth and seventh cause of action. 
 
LAUSD and Daniel also move to strike each
of Plaintiff’s requests for treble damages.
 
Plaintiff has filed no opposition to
either demurrer or motion to strike. A plaintiff’s failure to oppose the demurrer can be treated as an
implied abandonment of the challenged claims. (Herzberg v. County of Plumas
(2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1, 20.) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) & (f), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the
grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such as words,
phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper
procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike.
(C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he
court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion to
strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include
immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not
pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and
confer requirements were met. (Lewis Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Demurrer to
Entire Complaint 
 
The
Court first addresses LAUSD’s demurrer to the entire FAC for failure to allege
facts indicating compliance with the Tort Claims Act. 
 
The
Tort Claims Act, codified in Gov. Code §§ 900 et seq., establishes certain
conditions precedent to filing a lawsuit against a public entity. (State of
California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1237.) In order to
maintain a cause of action against a public entity, a plaintiff must file a
claim with the public entity for money or damages pursuant to Gov. Code §
911.2. (Id.; see Gov. Code, § 911.2(a) [“[a] claim relating to a cause
of action for death or for injury to person or to personal property... shall be
presented as provided in” Government Code section 915 et seq. “not later than
six months after the accrual of the cause of action.”].)
 
A
plaintiff must allege facts sufficient to demonstrate compliance or excuse from
compliance of the Tort Claims Act. (State of California v. Superior Court,
supra, 32 Cal.4th at 1243, quoting Burgdorf v. Funder (1966) 246
Cal.App.2d 443, 447) [“...the language of the amended claim presentation
statutes ‘make[s] it clear that ... a plaintiff must still allege in his
complaint that he has complied with the claim statute in order to state a cause
of action against a public employee.’”].)
 
The
Court notes that Plaintiff’s FAC contains no aversion to a claim pursuant to
Gov. Code § 911.2. Plaintiff’s original Complaint utilized a Form Complaint. Section
9 of that form specifically prompts the filing party to list whether they are
(1) required to comply with a claims statute and (2) whether they did so.
Section 9 of Plaintiff’s Complaint indicated compliance, but the FAC remains
without any aversion to compliance. Given the foregoing, the Court is uncertain
whether the omission was an oversight or intentional.  As such, it will grant leave to amend. 
 
Accordingly,
LAUSD’s demurrer to the entire Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to
amend. Given Plaintiff should be able to rectify this deficiency, the Court
finds a discussion of LAUSD and Daniel’s demurrers to the individual causes of
action is nevertheless important as it would pertain to an amended
complaint.  
 
Fifth Cause of
Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Sustained without Leave to Amend
 
LAUSD and Daniel demur to this cause of
action on grounds that Plaintiff has alleged no facts supporting that a
fiduciary duty exists between Plaintiff as a student and LAUSD/Daniel as a
school district/principal. For reasons stated below, the Court finds this
argument persuasive. 
 
Fiduciary duties are “technical, legal”
creations, “recognized” and “imposed” by case law or assumed by express
agreement. (See Oakland Raiders v. National Football League (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 621, 631-632 [internal citations omitted].) The most recent comprehensive
list of fiduciary relationships does not include schools and students. (Id.
at
632.)  The Court notes a distinction between a
fiduciary relationship and a special relationship.
 
In cases involving the sexual abuse of
minors, courts have often addressed a “special relationship” between schools
and students which is distinguishable from a fiduciary duty. In Brown v. USA
Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, the court held that the existence of any
legal duty to protect a child sexual assault victim depends upon the existence
of a “special relationship” between either (a) the defendant and the victim or
(b) the defendant and the perpetrator. In this context, “special relationship”
is a term of art distinguishable from the terms “fiduciary relationship” or “confidential
relationship.” Indeed, the California Appellate Court has stated, “[W]e have
not found, any authority stating that a fiduciary relationship exists between a
school district and an individual student.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union
High School Dist. (2010)189 Cal.App.4th at 1176, reversed on other grounds
by C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861.)
 
Further, it does not appear that the
relationship between school district and student is of such a nature that LAUSD
could ever be declared a fiduciary to its students. A fiduciary obligation
requires both undivided loyalty and confidentiality. (Pierce v. Lyman
(1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1102.) The imposition of a fiduciary duty on school
districts to students would be untenable as a district could not possibly act
on a daily basis with “undivided loyalty” owed to every single student when
decisions must be made which necessarily favor some students over others. A
district also owes legal obligations to its employees, and to the public, which
prevent a district from acting solely in the best interests of one student.
 
Here, Plaintiff only alleges that by
holding Whaley out as a qualified faculty member, LAUSD and Daniel entered into
a fiduciary relationship with Plaintiff (FAC ¶ 48.) This allegation does
not reach beyond the “special relationship” discussed in Brown. Plaintiff’s
allegations are simply insufficient to state the existence of a fiduciary duty.
 Given the absence of legal authority for
applying fiduciary duties in these cases, the Court sustains the demurrers to
this cause of action without leave to amend. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action – Negligence:
Failure to Warn, Train, Educate Plaintiff – Sustained without Leave to Amend
 
Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action alleges
LAUSD and Daniel failed to warn, train, or educate Plaintiff as to potential
dangers of sexual assault by faculty members. The duty to provide this warning
is based exclusively on the holding in Juarez v. Boy Scouts of America, Inc.
(2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377. Indeed, Plaintiff directly cites this case in her
FAC. 
 
No court has extended Juarez
beyond its application to the Boy Scouts of America. (See id. at 409 [“In
response, we wish to make special note that the reach of this opinion is only
intended to extend as far as the record before us today.”].) Additionally, the
California Supreme Court disapproved of the appellate court’s use of the
Rowland factors as an alternative source of duty where defendant did not create
the risk that resulted in plaintiff’s injuries. (Brown supra, 11
Cal. 5th 204 at FN 9.)
 
Further, the statutes Plaintiff relies
upon for this cause of action are inapplicable. Gov. Code §§ 815.2, 815.4, and
820(a) do not provide that a public entity such as a school district can be
liable for negligent failure to warn, train or educate. To the Court’s
knowledge, there are no statutes that require school personnel to warn, train,
or educate students from the risk of childhood sexual harassment, molestation,
and abuse. 
 
The Court sustains the demurrers to this
cause of action without leave to amend. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action –
Negligence – Sustained without Leave to Amend
 
Plaintiff again relies upon Gov. Code §§
815.2, 815.4, and 820(a) for this cause of action. These statutes address
vicarious liability of a public employee for a tort committed by an employee or
independent contractor of the public entity within the scope of his employment.
(Gov. Code § 815.2, 815.4.) Gov. Code § 820(a) merely clarifies that the scope
of this liability is the same as that of a private person. As will be explained
below, none of these statutes are applicable where a party’s claim against a
school district stems from sexual abuse by a faculty member. 
 
Courts have definitively
held that a school cannot be held vicariously liable for a teacher’s alleged
sexual misbehavior with a student. (See John R. v. Oakland Unified School
District (1989) 48 Cal.3d 438, 441; Virginia G. v. ABC Unified School
Dist. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854-1855, and Steven F. v. Anaheim
Union High School Dist. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 904, 908-909.) Moreover, the
California Supreme Court has explicitly held that sexual harassment and assault
claims necessarily fall outside the scope of employment for a public employee.
(Farmers Ins. Group v. County of Santa Clara (1995) 11 Cal.4th 992,
1019.) 
 
The above case law makes
clear that Gov. Code §§ 815.2, 815.4, and
820(a) cannot serve as the basis for a general negligence claim against a
public entity when that claim stems from sexual assault by a public employee. Here,
Plaintiff’s claim of negligence stems from LAUSD/Daniels’ alleged “hiring,
training, retaining, allowing, permitting, regulating, controlling, monitoring,
and/or warning or failing to warn, and or supervising” of Whaley. (FAC ¶ 80.) Precedent
makes clear that such claims are rightfully brought as a cause of action for Negligent
Hiring, Retention, Training and Supervision, rather than a General Negligence
cause of action. 
 
As such, the Court sustains
the demurrer to this cause of action without leave to amend. 
 
Motions to Strike 
 
Given that the Court has
sustained the demurrer to the entire Complaint, Plaintiffs currently have no
valid cause of action against LAUSD and Daniel. Regardless the Court will
address the applicability of punitive damages against a public entity in order
to facilitate efficient amendment. 
 
Plaintiff requests treble
damages in connection with each of her causes of action. While LAUSD and Daniel
move to strike all requests for treble damages, the Court notes that their
arguments only speak to governmental immunity from treble damages. As such,
treble damages requested in connection with the causes of action asserted only
against Whaley are not the proper subject of the motion to strike by LAUSD and
Daniel. 
 
As concerns the causes of
action against LAUSD and Daniel, the Court finds the requests for treble
damages are improper. Gov. Code § 818 provides, “Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, a public entity is not liable for damages awarded under
Section 3294 of the Civil Code or other damages imposed primarily for the sake
of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” This section clearly grants
public entities immunity from the imposition of punitive damages. 
 
The most common statute cited
in support of treble damages in cases analogous to Plaintiff’s is C.C.P. §
340.1(b), which provides “In an action described in subdivision (a), a person
who is sexually assaulted and proves it was as the result of a cover up may
recover up to treble damages against a defendant who is found to have covered
up the sexual assault of a minor, unless prohibited by another law.” Regardless,
this exception has been held by courts to not apply to sexual assault claims
against a school district. (See Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v. Superior
Court (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 549 [“Because treble damages under section
340.1 are primarily exemplary and punitive, a public entity like LAUSD
maintains sovereign immunity from liability for such damages under section 818.”].)

 
Given the foregoing, the
Court grants the motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for treble damages as
concerns causes of action five through eight. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Los Angeles Unified
School District and Jeffrey Daniel’s Demurrers/Motions to Strike came on regularly for hearing on November 15, 2024, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIFTH, SEVENTH AND EIGHTH CAUSES OF ACTION IS GRANTED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
AS TO THE
REMAINDER OF THE COMPLAINT, LAUSD’S DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT IS
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
LAUSD AND
DANIEL’S MOTIONS TO STRIKE IS GRANTED. 
 
LAUSD TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 15, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 