 Case Number:  23SMCV04204    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04204




MOTION


Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant American Honda Motors, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Adib Saghizadeh and Melody Boutehsaz



 
MOTION
 
On September 6, 2023, Plaintiffs Adib Saghizadeh and Melody Boutehsaz
(“Plaintiffs”) brought suit against Defendant American Honda Motor Company,
Inc. (“Defendant” or “Honda”) alleging five causes of action for (1) violation
of Civil Code section 1793.2, subd. (d); (2) violation of Civil Code section
1793.2, subd. (b); (3) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subd. (a)(3);
(4) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability; and (5) fraudulent
inducement – concealment.  
 
Defendant moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the fifth cause of
action for fraudulent inducement – concealment. 
Plaintiffs oppose the motion and Defendant replies. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
     
I.         
JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a
general demurrer, but may be made after the time to demur has expired. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).)  “Like a
demurrer, the grounds for the motion [for judgment on the pleadings] must
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.” (Civic Partners Stockton, LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th
1005, 1013.)  In ruling on a motion for
judgment on the pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon
which judicial notice may be taken are assumed to be true.” (Rippon v. Bowen (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313; see also CACI 1901.)  
 
A.    Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment 
 
“The required elements for
fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact;
(2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or
suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact.” 
(Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs’
fraud claim fails because (1) Plaintiffs failed to state a claim with requisite
specificity; (2) Plaintiffs have not alleged Honda had a duty to disclose; and
(3) the Economic Loss Rule bars Plaintiffs’ fraud claim.
 
1.    
Duty
 
“There are four circumstances
in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.”  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311 (hereafter Bigler-Engler).)  In the absence of a fiduciary duty, “[a] duty
to disclose facts arises only when the parties are in a relationship that gives
rise to the duty, such as seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee,
doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual
arrangement.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Further, “Under California
law, a vendor has a duty to disclose material facts not only to immediate
purchasers, but also to subsequent purchasers when the vendor has reason to
expect that the item will be resold.”  (OCM
Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 835, 839.)  In the context of
automobile manufacturers, the appellate court has explained:
 
In its
short argument on this point in its appellate brief, Nissan argues plaintiffs
did not adequately plead the existence of a buyer-seller relationship between
the parties, because plaintiffs bought the car from a Nissan dealership (not
from Nissan itself). At the pleading stage (and in the absence of a more
developed argument by Nissan on this point), we conclude plaintiffs’
allegations are sufficient. Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the car from a
Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and
that Nissan's authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of
Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold
plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring
Nissan to disclose known defects.
 
(Dhital v. Nissan N. Am. Inc. (2022)
84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843-844 (hereafter Dhital).)
 
a.      Fiduciary
Relationship
 
            Under Dhital, there would be
a fiduciary duty between Honda, as the manufacturer of the subject vehicle, and
Plaintiffs, as the purchasers of the subject vehicle, if Plaintiffs either
purchased the vehicle directly from Honda or from one of its authorized
dealers.  
 
But here, the Complaint does not include any information about when
Plaintiffs purchased the vehicle, or from whom the vehicle was purchased.  In this regard, the Complaint alleges:
 
6. On or about November 13, 2020, Plaintiffs
entered into a warranty contract with Defendant, regarding a 2021 Honda Odyssey
vehicle identification number 5FNRL6H86MB023673 ("Vehicle") which was
manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant. 
 
7. The warranty contract contained various
warranties, including but not limited to the bumper-bumper warranty, powertrain
warranty, emission warranty, etc. A true and correct copy of the warranty
contract is attached hereto as Exhibit A. The terms of the express warranty are
described in Exhibit A and are incorporated herein. 
 
8. Pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act (the "Song-Beverly Act") Civil Code sections 1790 et seq. the
Subject Vehicle constitutes "consumer goods" used primarily for
family or household purposes, and Plaintiffs have used the vehicle primarily
for those purposes. Plaintiffs are "buyers" of consumer goods under
the Act. Defendant Honda is a "manufacturer" and/or
"distributor" under the Act. 
 
9. Plaintiffs justifiably revoke acceptance of
the Subject Vehicle under Civil Code, section 1794, et seq. by filing this
Complaint and/or did so prior to filing the instant Complaint. 
 
10. These causes of action arise out of the
warranty obligations of Defendant in connection with a motor vehicle for which
Defendant issued a written warranty. 
 
11. Defects and nonconformities to warranty
manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including
but not limited to, infotainment defects, electrical defects, body defects;
among other defects and non-conformities. 
 
12. Said defects/nonconformities substantially
impair the use, value, or safety of the Vehicle. 
 
13. The value of the Vehicle is worthless and/or
de minimis. 
 
14. Under the Song-Beverly Act, Defendant HONDA
had an affirmative duty to promptly offer to repurchase or replace the Subject
Vehicle at the time if failed to conform the Subject Vehicle to the terms of
the express warranty after a reasonable number of repair attempts.
 
15. Defendant HONDA has failed to either promptly
replace the Subject Vehicle or to promptly make restitution in accordance with
the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
[…]
 
The Infotainment System Defect 
 
45. Defendant designed, manufactured, tested,
warranted, advertised, distributed, sold, and leased Honda Vehicles, including
the Subject Vehicle, which contain a defective integrated in-vehicle
communication, navigation, and entertainment system – commonly referred to as
an "infotainment system" – that causes many of the Vehicles' features
(e.g., navigation system, rear-entertainment system, audio system, backup
camera, cabin watch system) to malfunction. As a result of the defect, Honda
Vehicles' infotainment systems frequently freeze or crash (in which case no
features connected to system are operational, including the navigation
technology, the radio, and the rearview camera). These malfunctions pose a
safety risk because when the system malfunctions, unexpected audio or video –
or a blank or blue infotainment screen – can cause the driver to become
distracted. The defect can also render safety-related systems (including backup
camera functions) to fail (this defect will be referred to hereafter, as the
"Infotainment System Defect"). 
 
46. Additionally, because the infotainment system
may fail at any time, thereby startling the driver and putting the passengers'
safety at risk, the defect makes Honda Vehicles, including the Subject Vehicle,
unfit for the use for which they were intended in that they cannot be relied
upon as a safe and reliable means of transport. 
 
(Complaint
at ¶¶ 6-15, 45-46.)  
 
            The warranty attached to the
Complaint provides, “To be covered, the vehicle must be distributed by American
Honda through the Honda Automobile Division, and sold or leased by an
authorized Honda automobile dealer in the United States, Puerto Rico, the U.S.
Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands.”  (Ex. A to Complaint at p.
8.)  
 
However, the Complaint does not actually allege that the subject
vehicle was sold or leased by or through an authorized Honda dealer.  Thus, Plaintiffs have not alleged facts
demonstrating any fiduciary relationship between Honda and Plaintiffs.
 
b.     Exclusive
Knowledge
 
            With regard to Honda’s knowledge,
the Complaint generally alleges:
 
48. HONDA knew of the Infotainment System Defect
prior to sale of the Subject Vehicle to Plaintiffs, based on pre-production and
post-production testing, numerous customer complaints, warranty claims data
compiled from HONDA's network of dealers, testing conducted by HONDA in
response to these complaints, as well as warranty repair and part replacements
data received by HONDA from HONDA's network of dealers, amongst other sources
of internal information. 
 
[and]
 
61. Indeed, Plaintiffs allege that prior to the
sale of the Subject Vehicle to Plaintiffs, Defendant knew that the Vehicle and
its infotainment system suffered from an inherent defect, was defective, would
fail prematurely, and was not suitable for its intended use. 
 
(Complaint at ¶¶ 48, 61.)
 
            Further,
Plaintiffs allege:
 
a. Plaintiffs are informed, believe, and thereon
allege that HONDA acquired its knowledge of the Infotainment System Defect and
its potential consequences prior to Plaintiffs acquiring the Vehicle, through
sources not available to consumers such as Plaintiffs, including but not
limited to preproduction testing data, early consumer complaints about the
Infotainment System Defect made directly to HONDA and its network of dealers,
aggregate warranty data compiled from HONDA's network of dealers, testing conducted
by HONDA in response to these complaints, as well as warranty repair and part
replacements data received by HONDA from HONDA's network of dealers, amongst
other sources of internal information; 
 
b. HONDA was in a superior position from various
internal sources to know (or should have known) the true state of facts about
the material defects of the infotainment systems contained in Honda Vehicles;
and 
 
c. Plaintiffs could not reasonably have been
expected to learn or discover of the Vehicle's Infotainment System Defect and
its potential consequences until well after Plaintiffs purchased the Vehicle. 
 
(Complaint at ¶ 62.)
 
            But allegations made “on information
and belief,” are insufficient to satisfy the heightened pleading requirement
“unless the facts upon which the belief is founded are stated in the
pleading.”  (Dowling v. Spring Val.
Water Co. (1917) 174 Cal.218, 221.)
 
            Here, the specific facts provided in
support of Plaintiffs’ “information and belief” are as follows:
 
51. Examples of some of the complaints about the
defective infotainment systems in Honda Vehicles posted on the National Highway
Transportation Safety Administration include: "THE CENTER CONSOLE, WHICH
IS THE MONITOR THAT UTILIZES GPS NAVIGATION, REAR VIEW CAMERA DISPLAY, CONTROLS
HEA T/AC, VOLUME CONTROL, ETC. HAS CONTINUED TO FAIL SINCE DATE OF PURCHASE
(7/15/17). THE MONITOR SHUTS DOWN AT RANDOM TIMES, FOR UNIDENTIFIED REASONS,
LEA VING THE DRIVER, DISTRACTED AND ATTEMPTING TO RESOLVE. THE SHUT DOWN CAN OCCUR
WHILE IN THE VAN IS MOVING OR STATIONARY. NAVIGATION SHUTS DOWN WHILE THE
DRIVER IS IN ROUTE TO A LOCATION CAUSING SIGNIFICANT DISTRACTION.... HONDA WAS
MADE AWARE OF THIS PROBLEM IN AUGUST 2017. WE BROUGHT OUR VAN IN TO THE SHOP
TWICE AND NO RESOLUTION WAS FOUND. WE FILED A COMPLAINT WITH HONDA AMERICA
(VOICE MAILS ARE RETAINED AS RECORD). AFTER SEVERAL MONTHS OF NO RESOLUTION,
HONDA AMERICAN TOLD US OUR CASE WAS BEING CLOSED BECAUSE THE COMPANY CONTINUED
TO HAVE NO RESOLUTION. 7 MONTHS AFTER PURCHASE THE CENTER CONSOLE/MONITOR
CONTINUES TO RANDOMLY FAIL. SOMETIMES THE MONITOR GOES BLACK, SOME FEATURES
WORK WHILE OTHERS STOP (FOR EXAMPLE THE RADIO MAY WORK WHILE THE SCREEN IS
BLACK). SOMETIMES THE MONITOR GOES BLUE AND EVERYTHING SHUTS DOWN. PHOTOS AND
VIDEOS OF THESE OCCURRENCES WERE SUBMITTED TO HONDA VIA EMAIL. THE PROMOTED
FEATURES BY HONDA AMERICA LEAD THE BUYER TO BELIEVE THERE IS ADDED SAFETY IN
THIS VAN. THE OPPOSITE HAS TURNED OUT TO BE TRUE. THESE FAILURES CAUSE SERIOUS
SAFETY CONCERNS FOR THE DRIVER AND THE YOUNG FAMILIES UTILIZING THE VAN."
(August 23, 2017) "FAILURE OF THE REAR ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM: THE REAR
CAMERA AND ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM WILL LOST "NETWORK CONNECTIVITY" AND
STOP FUNCTIONING.... FAILURE OF THE INFOTAINMENT SYSTEM: THE INFOTAINMENT
SYSTEM WILL TURN OFF AND GO INTO A SERIES OF FAILURES, ULTIMATELY TURNING OFF
COMPLETELY AND NOT FUNCTIONING. THE INFOTAINMENT SYSTEM WILL ALSO EXPERIENCE
POWER ERRORS RESULTING IN ERRORS WITH THE ANTI THEFT SYSTEM. IN ADDITION, THE
RADIO/SPEAKERS PERIODICALLY STOP WORKING." (October 14, 2017) "ENTIRE
DASH TURNED OFF WHILE DRIVING INCLUDING SPEEDOMETER AND INFORMATION
SCREEN-REPLACED RADIOHEAD.... IT'S A BAD REAR ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM. I BOUGHT MY
CAR 1 YEAR AGO AND IT'S OBVIOUSLY FLAWED" (October 29, 2018). 
 
52. A sample of complaints posted on
Carcomplaints.com and Edmunds.com reveal the same experiences among consumers
of Honda Vehicles: "The infotainment on this car really sucks. It has a
mind of its own. And, to add insult to injury the whole thing froze rendering
the infotainment useless. Went to the dealer to do a hard reset since there was
no way in the world that everything else I could have tried worked. The Dealer
informed that the infotainment is a known issue yet nothing has been done to fix
it. Recently, it simply refused to shut off. This is a brand new car and having
problems like these says a lot about the quality of the accessories."
(complaint posted on carcomplaints.com dated December 20, 2017). "This car
has numerous electronic and software issues that Honda America is unable to
fix. Dealers continue to sell these vehicles without disclosing the
problems.... If you buy the Elite, plan on the following; Sirius XM Radio will
work occasionally, Cabin Watch and park sense cameras will lock up and won't
work until the car goes through a hard reset, the cabin doors will not respond
to the auto open and close until a hard reset is performed, the DVD system will
lock up and won't play until a hard reset is performed, the infotainment system
is immature and is still being debugged by Honda Engineers, the voice command
system seldom works or responds. The dealer service department will acknowledge
that they can't fix the problems. We brought it back 9 times since Jan
2018-April 18 without any fixes made other than reseting which involves
disconnecting the battery and waiting 15 minutes for the system to reset.... It
is a Lemon Law candidate as well as a class action law suit (sic) for
fraud." (complaint posted on Edmunds.com dated April 10, 2018). "I
just bought 2018 odyssey less then 1000miles and my rear entertainment system
stop working and went to dealer and find out software problem and honda cannot
fix it until they have new update software so I was upset because it's not my
fault honda has to replace with new RES but they are not so please before you
buy make sure it works and it's not only mine there so many people having same
issues....Go to Odyssey forum and you will find details." (complaint
posted on Edmunds.com dated September 16, 2017). Defendant Concealed the
Infotainment System Defect 
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 51-52.)  
 
            But all of these specific
allegations of complaints date back to 2017 and 2018, which is at least two
years before the subject 2021 Honda Odyssey would have been made available to
the public.  Thus, it cannot be that any
of these consumer complaints pertain to 2021 Honda Odyssey vehicles, like the
subject vehicle.  Further, there is no
allegation that the allegedly defective Infotainment System installed in
Plaintiffs’ vehicle is the same as prior year models or other vehicles.  Nor are there any other specific allegations
demonstrating anyone at Honda had prior knowledge of the alleged defects in the
Infotainment System installed in 2021 Honda Odyssey vehicles.
 
            In short, there are no specific
allegations that the consumer complaints alleged in the Complaint have any
relevance to Plaintiffs’ vehicle, nor are there any specific allegations
demonstrating that Honda knew the 2021 Honda Odyssey’s Infotainment System was
defective, much less that Honda had exclusive knowledge of the defect.
 
            Therefore, the Complaint fails to
allege exclusive knowledge with requisite specificity.
 
c.      Active
Concealment
 
            With regard to concealment, the
Complaint alleges:
 
49. Despite HONDA's awareness of the Infotainment
System defect, it has not found a solution for it. Instead, HONDA simply
replaces defective parts with equally defective parts, thereby leaving
consumers caught in a cycle of use, malfunction, and replacement.
 
[…]
 
53. While Defendant has been fully aware of the
Infotainment System Defect affecting the Subject Vehicle, Defendant and its
agents concealed the existence and nature of the Defect from Plaintiffs at the
time of purchase (and/or lease), repair, and thereafter. Specifically,
Defendant failed to disclose or concealed at and after the time of purchase or
repair: 
 
a. any and all known material defects or material
nonconformity of the Subject Vehicle, including the Infotainment System Defect;

 
b. that the Subject Vehicle, including its
infotainment system, was not in good working order, was defective, and was not
fit for the intended purposes; 
 
c. that the Subject Vehicle and its infotainment
system was defective, despite the fact that Defendant knew of such defects
prior to release, at least as early as 2017; and 
 
d. that Defendant further learned of the
widespread problems plaguing consumers of vehicles equipped with the
infotainment system through alarming failure rates, customer complaints, as
well as through other internal sources, as early as 2017. 
 
54. To this day, Defendant still has not notified
Plaintiffs that the Vehicle suffers from a systemic, latent safety defect that
causes the infotainment system to malfunction.
 
55. HONDA's New Vehicle Limited Warranty requires
it to "repair or replace any part that is defective in material or
workmanship under normal use." But as countless consumers have reported,
HONDA has been unable to repair these defects despite being given as numerous
opportunities. In violation of this express warranty, and as evidenced by the
many complaints or repeat infotainment system failures, Defendant merely
replaces a defective part with another defective part. 
 
56. Defendant concealed, and continues to
conceal, the fact that the Honda Vehicles, including the Subject Vehicle,
contain the defective infotainment systems. Defendant also continues to conceal
the fact that the replacement components it provides in an attempt to repair
the defect are equally defective. Therefore, Plaintiffs did not discover and
could not have discovered this defect through reasonable diligence.
 
(Complaint
at ¶¶ 49, 53-56.)
 
            At best, the Complaint alleges that
Honda failed to disclose the defects. 
But there are no specific allegations regarding Honda’s prior knowledge
of the defects or active concealment. 
The only allegation that comes close to alleging active concealment is:   “HONDA
simply replaces defective parts with equally defective parts, thereby leaving
consumers caught in a cycle of use, malfunction, and replacement.”  (Complaint ¶ 49.)  But the Complaint contains no specific
examples of who at Honda did this, to whom, when, or how.  Moreover, it is unclear how replacing a
defective part with another defective part would in any way conceal the defect
from consumers.  
 
            Therefore, Plaintiffs have not
alleged active concealment with requisite specificity.[1]
 
2.    
Economic
Loss Doctrine
 
“Simply stated, the economic
loss rule provides: where a purchaser's expectations in a sale are frustrated
because the product he bought is not working properly, his remedy is said to be
in contract alone, for he has suffered only ‘economic’ losses.”  (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana
Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (hereafter Robinson Helicopter).)  “The economic loss rule requires a purchaser
to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise.”  (Ibid.)
 
However, “Tort damages have
been permitted in contract cases where a breach of duty directly causes
physical injury; for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in
insurance contracts; for wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public
policy; or where the contract was fraudulently induced.”  (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th
at pp. 989–990.)
 
Here, as discussed above,
Plaintiffs generally allege they were fraudulently induced into purchasing the
subject vehicle, due to Honda’s concealment of the Infotainment System defect:
 
57. As a result of Defendant's concealment,
inaction and silence, Plaintiffs were entirely unaware that Plaintiffs
purchased, and continued to drive, an unsafe and unreliable vehicle. As
Defendant knows, a reasonable person would consider the Infotainment System
Defect a material fact and would not purchase or lease a vehicle equipped with
a defective engine, or would pay substantially less for the vehicle, if said
defect was disclosed in advance. 
 
58. Plaintiffs are reasonable consumers who
interacted with sales representatives, considered Defendant's advertisement,
and/or other marketing materials concerning the Honda Vehicles prior to
purchasing the Subject Vehicle. Had HONDA revealed the Infotainment System
Defect, Plaintiffs would have been aware of it and would not have purchased the
Subject Vehicle.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 57-58.)
 
However, as discussed above,
Plaintiffs have failed to allege fraud with requisite specificity.  Therefore, whether the economic loss doctrine
bars Plaintiffs’ claim rises or falls with the fraud claim itself.
 
   
II.         
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
            A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action.  (See The Inland Oversight Committee v City
of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 771, 779; PGA West Residential
Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.)  The plaintiff must not only state the legal
basis for the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a
cause of action or claim.  (See PGA
West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc., supra, 14
Cal.App.5th at p. 189.)  Moreover, a
plaintiff does not meet his or her burden by merely stating in the opposition
to a demurrer or motion to strike that “if the Court finds the operative
complaint deficient, plaintiff respectfully requests leave to amend.”  (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)  
 
Here, Plaintiffs fail to meet
this burden, as they do not specify what additional facts they could add to the
Complaint to cure the deficiencies identified above.  Therefore the Court denies leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
The Court grants Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings and
dismisses the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment – inducement
without leave to amend for failure to plead with requisite specificity that
Honda owed a duty to disclose the Infotainment System defect to
Plaintiffs.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
DATED:  October 30, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


