  Case Number:  22SMCV01293    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01293




MOTIONS


Motions to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Stephen M. Sanders of Sanders Coyner Cade PC




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTIONS
 
            Stephen M. Sanders of Sanders Coyner
Cade, PC, former counsel for Defendant Stephen Brown and current counsel for Hazel
& Oak Construction, LLC (“Counsel”) moves to be relived as counsel for
Defendants Stephen Brown and Hazel & Oak Construction, citing a “breakdown
in the attorney-client relationship.”  No
oppositions have been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client
and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If
the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be accompanied by a
declaration indicating that the address served is the current address, or in
the case of service by mail, that it was served on the last known address and a
more current address could not be located after reasonable efforts within 30
days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in
litigation, or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of
harassing or maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the
lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a
reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the
client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)        
the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding
pending before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other
good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            The Court notes that a Substitution
of Attorney, substituting Larry Letofsky and Robyn McClain as counsel for
Defendant Stephen Robert Brown, was filed on June 12, 2024.  Thus, Counsel is no longer counsel of record for
Defendant Stephen Robert Brown, and therefore, the Court finds that Counsel’s
motion to be relieved regarding Defendant Brown is moot.
With respect to Defendant Hazel & Oak Construction, LLC, Counsel
has filed forms MC-051 and MC-052.  The
attorney declaration (MC-052) indicates that the motion was filed instead of filing
a consent because “there has been a breakdown in the attorney-client
relationship that makes it unreasonably difficult for the attorney to carry out
the employment effectively.”  As such, the
Court finds that the motion is substantively proper.  (See generally Rules Prof.  Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4).)  
 
            However, Counsel has not filed form
MC-053 (proposed order).  The Court
cannot grant Counsel’s motion unless the proposed order is filed with the
Court and served on all parties who have appeared in the action prior
to the hearing.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
1.16(a), emphasis added.)
 
            Further, the proof of service
indicates that the counsel for Plaintiffs Stefan Wrobel and Melissa Pena;
counsel for Defendant Ashley Wendell; and new counsel for Stephen Brown were
served electronically, and Stephen Brown was additional served by U.S.
mail.  
 
            But the proof of service does not
indicate any service was made on the client Hazel & Oak Construction.  (See California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d)
[“The notice may be by personal service, electronic service, or mail”].)   
 
Notwithstanding, Paragraph 3(b) of the attorney declaration (MC-052) indicates
Counsel has been unable to confirm the client’s last known mailing address
within the past 30 days after mailing the motion papers to the client’s last
known address, return receipt requested; calling the client’s last known
telephone number or numbers; contacting the client’s managing member’s mother,
Joan Callahan; and conducting a search of the Contractor’s State License Board
records.  Thus, Counsel has demonstrated
compliance with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d)(1)(A).  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            In light of the substitution of
attorney, the Court denies Counsel’s motion to be relieved as Counsel for
Stephen Brown as moot.
 
Further, because Counsel did not lodge form MC-053 with the Court and because
the proof of service does not indicate service was made on the client, Hazel
& Oak Construction, the Court denies Counsel’s motion to be relieved as
counsel for Hazel & Oak Construction as procedurally improper.  
 
Counsel shall provide notice of the Court’s rulings and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.
            
 
 
DATED:  October 30, 2024                           ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court