 Case Number:  22STCV21387    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case
number, date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if
applicable), and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative
ruling.  If the Court does not receive an
email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there
are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar
or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  29, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21387




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Evelyn Arias  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Gail Rose Kelch   



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
June 30, 2022, Plaintiff Evelyn Arias (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Gail Rose Kelch (“Defendant”) for negligence
related to a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On December 18, 2023, Plaintiff propounded Form Interrogatories, Set
Two on Defendant. (Hakhamzadeh Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. B.) Defendant served responses
on February 2, 2024. (Id. ¶ 9, Exh. C.) The parties met and conferred
and participated in an informal discovery conference (“IDC”) on April 17, 2024.
  
 
            On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two,
numbers 16.2, 16.3, 16.4, 16.5, 16.6, 16.9, 16.10, and 17.1 on the basis that
the responses are evasive, and the objections are without merit.[1]
Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff
replies. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
On April 17, 2024, the parties appeared for a scheduled IDC pursuant
to the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order. The issues were deemed
unresolved. Therefore, the IDC requirement has been met. (Min. Order, 4/17/24.)

 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(a) provides that
“on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that
any of the following apply:¿ 
¿ 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete.¿ 
(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.¿ 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or
too general.”¿ 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b)(1).) “Unless notice of this motion
is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(d).)¿¿¿
 
“If the
responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully
to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and
good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons
or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220(c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two,
numbers 16.2, 16.3, 16.4, 16.5, 16.6, 16.9, 16.10, and 17.1. 
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues this motion is moot because after the IDC, she
provided further/supplemental responses to numbers 16.2 to 16.6 and 17.1 on May
13, 2024. (Opp., 4; Figueroa Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. C.) Defendant contends that
numbers 16.8, 16.9, and 16.10 were not discussed during meet and confer efforts
and so Defendant assumed the responses were adequate. (Figueroa Decl. ¶
12.) Defendant asserts that after serving these responses, Plaintiff has
refused to specify which issues are being withdrawn from this motion, and which
are outstanding. (Id. ¶ 10.) 
 
In
reply, Plaintiff asserts the supplemental responses provided by Defendant are
still non-compliant. 
 
Numbers
16.2 to 16.6 seek facts, persons with knowledge of said facts, and
identifying documents in support, regarding: whether plaintiff was injured in
the incident; whether plaintiff’s injuries were caused by the incident; whether
a provider furnished care for injuries not due to the incident; whether medical
costs were unreasonable or not necessary; and whether the loss of earnings
claim is unreasonable or not caused by the incident.
 
Defendant’s
initial and supplemental responses state she disputes causation and treatment of
Plaintiff’s injuries, and that the accident did not create forces sufficient to
cause Plaintiff’s injuries. To support this contention, Defendant lists
Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s treating physicians and defense experts to be designated
later. Plaintiff argues that since her defense medical examination took place
on November 2, 2023 with Dr. Stephen Mikulak, M.D., Defendant is in a position
to provide more complete responses. The Court agrees that Defendant’s responses
are not supported by specific facts nor identify a specific person with
personal knowledge of the fact. Therefore, they do not comply with Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.220(c). 
 
Therefore, the
motion to compel further is granted for numbers 16.2 to 16.6.
 
Numbers
16.9 and 16.10 ask for documents related to personal injuries claimed by
Plaintiff before the incident and past or present conditions not previously
identified by Plaintiff. Defendant asserted the attorney work product doctrine,
but also stated the information was equally available to Plaintiff. Since these
interrogatories seek information about Plaintiff, the Court agrees that the
information is equally available. Therefore, the motion to compel further
responses to numbers 16.9 and 16.10 is denied. 
 
Lastly,
number 17.1 asks:
 
“Is your response to each request for admission served with these
interrogatories an unqualified admission? If not, for each response that is not
an unqualified admission: (a) state the number of the request; (b) state all
facts upon which you base your response; (c) state the names, ADDRESSES, and
telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and (d)
identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support your response and
state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each
DOCUMENT or thing.”
 
Plaintiff argues that Requests
for Admissions (“RFA”) numbers 21–29, 31, 33–43 are at issue. Reviewing the
initial and supplemental responses, the Court finds that Defendant has either
stated that she made a reasonable inquiry into the matter and the information
is insufficient or has provided the names and addresses of persons with
knowledge. (See Figueroa Decl., Exh. C.) Therefore, the responses
are sufficient. Though Plaintiff argues Defendant has sufficient information to
supply further responses, Plaintiff fails to show how that information is not
equally available her. (See Pl. Exh A, Defense Medical Examination Report.) 
 
Both
parties seek monetary sanctions against each other. However, seeing that the
motion is granted in part and denied in part, the Court declines to award
sanctions. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two, numbers 16.2 to 16.6. The remainder
are denied. Defendant shall serve further responses within 30 days.
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 


