  Case Number:  20STCV35050    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  29, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV35050




MOTIONS:  


Amended
  Motion for Leave to File Answer 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Fermin Antonio Mazariego Jr. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 14, 2020,
Plaintiff Michael Greenwood (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint which asserted
causes of action for assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, negligence, and negligent hiring and supervision. Plaintiff alleges he was
performing his duties as a security guard when he was physically assaulted by
Defendant Fermin Antonio Mazariego Jr. (“Defendant”)
 
On August 19, 2021, default was entered against Defendant. 
 
On February 23, 2022, Defendant Cartage West Inc.’s demurrer to the
fourth and fifth causes of action was sustained with leave to amend. 
 
On March 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative first amended
complaint (“FAC”) asserting the same causes of action.
 
On February 5, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s motion to set aside
the default on procedural grounds because the motion did not contain a proof of
service. (Min. Order, 2/5/24.) Default judgment has not yet been entered
against Defendant. 
 
Defendant first filed the instant motion on February 6, 2024, seeking
leave to file an answer. On April 29, 2024, Defendant filed an amended motion
for leave to file an answer under California Rules of Court, rule 3.110(b)–(e).
The motion has been served on all parties. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.110 provides the time for serving
the complaint and filing a responsive pleading. Also, “[t]he court, on its own
motion or on the application of a party, may extend or otherwise modify the
times provided in (b)-(d). An application for a court order extending the time
to serve a pleading must be filed before the time for service has elapsed. The
application must be accompanied by a declaration showing why service has not
been completed, documenting the efforts that have been made to complete
service, and specifying the date by which service is proposed to be completed.”
(Cal. Rules Court, rule 3.110(e).) 
 
“The entry of a defendant's default cuts off the defendant's right to
file pleadings and motions (other than a motion to set aside default under §
473), and it also cuts off the defendant's right to notices and the service of
pleadings or papers.” (Bailey v. Citibank, N.A. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th
335, 347.) 
 
“After a defendant's default has been entered, if ‘a complaint is
amended in matter of substance as distinguished from mere matter of form, the
amendment opens the default, and unless the amended pleading be served on the
defaulting defendant, no judgment can properly be entered on the default’ and
any judgment is thus void. [Citations.]” (Paterra v. Hansen (2021) 64
Cal.App.5th 507, 529.) 
 
“The reason for this rule is plain. A defendant is entitled to [an]
opportunity to be heard upon the allegations of the complaint on which judgment
is sought against him. His default on the original complaint is limited in its
effect to that complaint, and if by amendment a matter of substance is added,
he should be given the opportunity to contest the same before any judgment is
given against him on account thereof. The law, therefore, requires that the
amended pleading shall be served on all the adverse parties, including
defaulting defendants.” (Paterra, supra, 64 Cal.App.5th at 529
[internal quotations omitted].) 
 
“ ‘When a complaint is served, the defendant faces the decision to
contest the action (perhaps seeking to negotiate a settlement at the same time)
or to remain aloof and risk the entry of default. If the defendant fails to
appear in the action after valid service of process, it is reasonable to assume
the latter course has been chosen. Thereafter, if the complaint is amended in a
way which would materially affect the defendant's decision not to contest the
action, this new circumstance should be brought home to the defendant with the
same force as the notification of the original action.’ [Citation.]” (Paterra,
supra, 64 Cal.App.5th at 529.)
 
“When there are multiple defendants, the rule requiring new service of
a materially-changed complaint applies only if the change or addition relates
to the particular defendant.” (Paterra, supra, 64 Cal.App.5th at
529–30.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Here, the
Court notes that the default entered on August 19, 2021, appears to be in
effect even after the FAC was filed on March 15, 2022. For example, in
subsequent default judgment requests, the Court Clerk notes that default was
previously entered. (See Request Default Judgment, 11/29/23.)  
 
Upon reviewing the original
complaint and FAC, the Court finds that the allegations were not materially changed,
and no new causes of action were added. Both pleadings stem from an alleged
battery and assault by Defendant towards Plaintiff. In the instant motion,
Defendant does not argue that default was reopened after filing the FAC. Therefore,
the Court concludes that the default entered on August 19, 2021 is still valid.

 
            Defendant
bases the instant motion solely on California Rules of Court, rule
3.110(b)–(e). However, because Defendant is currently in default, he has no
right to file pleadings or motions, other than to set aside the default under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473. Defendant previously moved to set aside
the default, but it was denied on procedural grounds. The record does not show
that Defendant has filed a new motion to set aside, with proper notice.
Therefore, since Defendant does not move for relief under section 473, or for
equitable relief, the motion for leave to file an answer is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Defendant’s Amended Motion for Leave
to File Answer. 
 
Defendant to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 