 Case Number:  22STCV30522    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  29, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV30522




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Darien Koop




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on March 20, 2024 by Petitioner Darien Koop (Petitioner) on behalf of
Claimant Rose Koop, age 3. The Court
denies the petition without prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
In the future, Petitioner should attach the exhibits to
the back of the petition and label them according to the attachment numbers
assigned throughout the petition. 
 
Claimant suffered a broken leg on February 28, 2022.
Petitioner states in item 8b that Claimant is still suffering from ongoing pain
and limitations, but no medical treatment is planned at this time. The medical
records do not describe this ongoing pain and limitations and provide no
prognosis. The most recent record appears to be from an April 21, 2022 visit.
Petitioner must provide updated medical records or other evidence showing
Claimant’s current condition and prognosis. 
 
Petitioner must provide more terms of the settlement
in item 10c such as what the parties agree to do in exchange. 
 
Petitioner must complete all values in 12a. Based on the
values provided, it appears there was some reduction in medical expenses. 
 
Petitioner requests $ 15,000 in attorney fees which represents
20% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this to be reasonable. 
 
Petitioner indicates he will pay or become obligated to
pay $3,447.30 of the costs in 13b.  The
expenses provided in exhibit 4 equal $3,206.27, which is lower than the amount
Petitioner claims he paid. But also, proof that these expenses were paid
only equals $2,129.02. Additionally, some of these expenses appear to be
medical payments in the form of co-payments. The medical expenses for which
Petitioner seeks reimbursement must be allocated in items 12b(1) and
14b(1).  
 
Petitioner must include attachment 18b(2).  
 
In the Proposed Order (MC-351), Petitioner must complete
item 9a.
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 