 Case Number:  24CHCV01306    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  10/10/24




Case
  Name: Summer Hopkins v. Omid Vesal, M.D., dba “IRVINE URGENT CARE”; Carlos
  Ernesto Monge; and Does 1 through 10




Case No.
  24CHCV01306



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

OCTOBER 10, 2024
 

DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 24CHCV01306

 
Motion
filed: 9/9/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Omid Vesal, M.D. (“Dr.
Vesal”) d/b/a Irvine Urgent Care (“IUC”) and Carlos Ernesto Monge (“Monge”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Summer Hopkins
(“Hopkins” or “Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order sustaining Defendants’ demurrer to the Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and
Twelfth Causes of Action in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint and striking
portions of the First Amended Complaint related to punitive damages. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The demurrer
is OVERRULED. The motion to strike is GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises
from alleged harassment, discrimination, retaliation, and multiple Labor Code
and Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”) violations by the employer
Defendants.


On
April 11, 2024, Plaintiff Summer Hopkins (“Hopkins”
or “Plaintiff”) initiated this action by filing a Complaint against
Defendants Omid Vesal, M.D. (“Dr. Vesal”) d/b/a
Irvine Urgent Care (“IUC”) and Carlos Ernesto Monge (“Monge”) (collectively,
“Defendants”). 
 
On
August 7, 2024, the Court sustained a demurrer with motion to strike, filed by
Defendants on July 24, 2024, and granted Plaintiff 30 days leave to amend. On
the same day, August 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants, alleging the following causes of action:
(1) Hostile Work Environment Sexual Harassment, (2) Failure to Prevent and
Remedy Harassment, (3) Disability Discrimination in Violation of FEHA, (4)
Failure to Accommodate in Violation of FEHA, (5) Failure to Engage in the
Interactive Process in Violation of FEHA, (6) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA,
(7) Assault & Battery, (8) Violation of Labor Code §§ 233, 234, and 246.5,
(9) Violation of Labor Code §§ 226.7 and 512 (Failure to Provide Adequate Meal
& Rest Breaks), (10) Violation of Labor Code § 226(a) (Inaccurate Wage
Statements), (11) Violation of Labor Code §§ 200-204 (Waiting Time Penalties),
and (12) Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5 and 98.6.
 
On September 9, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Demurrer
with Motion to Strike the FAC. Subsequently, on September 30, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition, and Defendants replied on the same day.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal 3d 311,
318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered.
 
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th
740, 747 (Hahn).)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144
Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)  
 
“A demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
 
The court may, upon
a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz, 42 Cal. 2d 767,
782 (1954) [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is
surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is not
essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment
requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on
the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437.)
 
A.   
Demurrer
 
1)     
Meet and Confer
Requirement
 
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., section 430.41(a).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute
grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections
430.41 (a)(4).)
 
            Here, Defendants have satisfied this
requirement (Hodges Decl. ¶¶ 2-4.)
 
2)     
Third Cause of
Action – Disability Discrimination in Violation of FEHA
 
An employer is liable under Government Code sections 12940
and 12926.1 (FEHA) for discrimination because of an employee’s disability when:
(1) the plaintiff has a disability or medical condition or was regarded as
suffering from a disability; (2) the plaintiff could perform the essential
duties of the job with or without reasonable accommodations; (3) the defendant
made an adverse employment decision; and (4) the decision was because of
plaintiff’s actual or perceived disability or medical condition. ((Faust v.
Cal. Portland Cement Co.  (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 864, 886; King v. United Parcel Service, Inc.  (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 426, 432; Jensen v. Wells Fargo Bank (2000) 85 Cal. App.
4th 245, 254.)
 
A physical disability under FEHA includes “[h]aving
any physiological disease, disorder, condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or
anatomical loss that” both affects one or more of the body's major systems and
“[l]imits a major life activity.” (Gov. Code § 12926, subd. (m)(1).)  Major life activity is “broadly construed”
and includes working. (Gov. Code § 12926, subd. (m)(1)(B)(iii).) FEHA protects
individuals not only from discrimination based on an existing physical
disability, but also from discrimination based on a potential disability or the
employer's perception that the individual has an existing or potential
disability. (Gov. Code §§ 12926, subd. (m)(4), (5), 12926.1, subd. (b).)
            
To
show disability, the plaintiff must demonstrate condition makes “difficult”
work or some major life activity; and, to show one is regarded as having a
disability, one must be regarded as having a condition making major life
activity difficult, or as having a condition that may become disabling (Gelfo
v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 34, 46-47). FEHA’s
definition of disability does not exclude all temporary, nonchronic
impairments. (See Diaz v.
Federal Express Corp. (C.D.Cal.2005) 373 F.Supp.2d 1034, 1046-1053.)
However, a “disability”
does not include conditions with “little or no residual effects, such as the
common cold; seasonal or common influenza; minor cuts, sprains, muscle aches,
soreness, bruises, or abrasions; non-migraine headaches, and minor and
non-chronic gastrointestinal disorders.” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11065,
subd. (d)(9)(B).) 
 
Previously,
the Court sustained Defendants’ first demurrer, finding that Plaintiff’s
allegations of her medical conditions in the Complaint were inadequate to
qualify as a protected disability under FEHA. In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges,
“On or about February 1, 2024, a cyst in Plaintiff’s ovaries, which had caused
Plaintiff pain for multiple months, ruptured and caused Plaintiff very
severe pain. Plaintiff texted MONGE, Bryan, and the owner of Defendant
IRVINE URGENT CARE, Dr. Vesal, informing them that she is in severe pain and
is unable to work due to the serious medical condition, her ruptured ovarian
cyst. This text message from Plaintiff to Dr. Vesal placed Defendants on
notice of Plaintiff’s need for an accommodation of at least one day off work,
and possibly more due to the residual effects of Plaintiff’s ruptured ovarian
cyst and her abnormally strong menstrual flow. An emergency room physician
later confirmed that Plaintiff’s ovarian cyst had ruptured on February 1, 2024.”
(FAC ¶ 22) (Underlines added).
 
            Furthermore, the FAC alleges that “[the ruptured ovarian
cyst] made it more difficult for Plaintiff to work, and prevented Plaintiff
from working, sitting, walking, and standing without severe pain.” (FAC ¶ 64.)
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff’s amended
specific allegations are sufficient to state a “physical disability” within
FEHA’s definition as set forth in Government Code section 12926 subdivision m,
which provides, “‘Physical disability’” includes ... any physiological disease,
disorder, condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss that does both
of the following: (A) Affects one or more of the following body
systems: ... reproductive [] (B) Limits a major life activity ...
includ[ing] physical, mental, and social activities and working.” (Gov.
Code § 12926, subd. (m)(1).)
 
            In the Demurrer, Defendants argue
that “if the disability
is the ruptured cyst (FAC ¶ 64), the disability did not exist until February 1,
2024. If the disability is plaintiff s vaginal blood issue or the cyst before
it ruptured[,] the FAC has no allegations about how this issue affected her ‘throughout
her employment’ or her major life activities. (FAC ¶ 65).” Defendants maintain
that “[e]ither way, the FAC does not adequately identify an actual disability
for which FEHA protections exist.” (Dem. at p. 9.)
 
              The Court
notes that FEHA’s
definition of disability does not exclude all temporary, nonchronic
impairments. (See Diaz v. Federal Express Corp.
(C.D.Cal.2005) 373 F.Supp.2d 1034, 1046-1053.) Additionally, as outlined in Government Code section
12926.1, the Legislature finds and declares that the law contains broad
definitions of physical disability, mental disability, and medical condition,
and the intent of the Legislature is to protect applicants and employees from
discrimination due to an actual or perceived physical or mental impairment that
is disabling, potentially disabling, or perceived as disabling or potentially
disabling. (Gov. Code § 12926.1, subd. (b).) 
 
Consequently, the Court does not need to determine whether a
specific disabling condition is a short-term or long-term disability in order
to trigger the FEHA protection, rejecting Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff
is excluded the protection under FEHA due to the duration of the disability, specifically because her ovarian cyst rupture
occurred only one
day before an adverse employment decision was made against her. 
 
Furthermore, applying a liberal interpretation of the
allegations for the purpose of ruling on a demurrer, the Court also finds that disabling
residual effects that substantially limit major life activities can be
reasonably inferred from the allegation where Plaintiff, in responding to Dr.
Vesal’s inquiry, stated, “I’ll call you in a second I’m crying in pain right
now.” (FAC ¶ 24.) 
 
Therefore, the Court finds the
alleged medical condition – specifically the ruptured ovarian cyst –
constitutes a qualifying disability under FEHA. For the purpose of
reviewing the Demurrer,
the Court does not need to find whether other physical conditions alleged by Plaintiff qualifies as
additional disabilities or whether a disability existed throughout Plaintiff’s employment. At
this stage of proceedings,
the FAC would survive the demurrer challenge if the cause of action is stated
under any possible legal theory. (See Franklin v. The Monadnock Co. (2007)
151 Cal.App.4th 252, 257.)
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that the FAC has addressed the Complaint’s deficiencies by
sufficiently pleading a qualifying disability.         The
Court hereby OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the Third Cause of Action.
 
3)     
Fourth Cause of
Action – Failure to Accommodate in Violation of FEHA
 
A cause of
action for failure to accommodate in the interactive process under FEHA
requires (1) plaintiff has a disability or medical condition or was regarded as
suffering from a disability, (2) plaintiff could perform the essential duties
of a sought reassigned with or without reasonable accommodations, and (3) the
employer failed to reasonably accommodate. (Wilson v. County of
Orange (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th
1185, 1193 [reasonable accommodations include job restructuring, modified work
schedules, reassignments, providing readers or interpreters, and paid or unpaid
leave])
 
            The Demurrer challenges the first
element, arguing that a qualifying disability or medical condition has not been
sufficiently established. However, as previously analyzed, the Court finds that
the FAC now adequately states elements of the FEHA causes of action,
specifically, that Plaintiff’s medical condition – an ovarian cyst rupture – constitutes
a qualifying disability.
 
Furthermore, Defendants’ knowledge of Plaintiff’s disabling
condition is sufficiently pleaded. The FAC alleges that Plaintiff provided
notice via text message to Dr. Vesal, Bryan, and Defendant Monge on February 1,
2024, prior to Plaintiff’s termination. (FAC ¶¶ 22, 61, 65, 78.) 
 
            Consequently,
the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the Fourth Cause of Action. 
 
4)      Fifth Cause of Action – Failure to Engage
in the Interactive Process in Violation of FEHA
 
Similar to the Fourth Cause of Action, Government
Code section 12940, subdivision (n), requires an employer who receives a
request for an accommodation to “engage in a timely, good faith, interactive
process” with an employee “with a known” physical
disability. 
 
For the same reasons stated in
the previous analysis, the Court finds elements of the claim are sufficiently
stated. 
 
Therefore, the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the
Fifth Cause of Action. 
 
5)      Sixth Cause of Action – Retaliation
in Violation of FEHA
 
Government Code section 12940, subdivision (h), provides
that it is unlawful employment practice for any employer or person to
discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person because the
person has opposed any practices forbidden or because the person has filed a
complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding under FEHA. 
 
“The elements of a claim for retaliation
in violation of [the FEHA], are: ‘(1) the employee's engagement in a
protected activity ...; (2) retaliatory animus on the part of the employer; (3) an
adverse action by the employer; (4) a causal link between the retaliatory
animus and the adverse action; (5) damages; and (6) causation.” (Le Mere v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2019) 35
Cal.App.5th 237, 243 (Le Mere).)
 
i)                  
Protected Activities
 
            The FAC alleges that on January
10, 2024, Plaintiff opposed sexual harassment and assault by Defendant Monge
and reported his behavior to her staffing manager, Bryan. (FAC ¶¶ 17, 38, 54,
106, 122, 174.) Additionally, Plaintiff claims that on February 1, 2024, she
used a protected sick day and subsequently opposed Defendant’s unlawful denial
of this sick leave. (Id. ¶ 25.) Later that same day, Bryan allegedly sent
Plaintiff a text message stating that Dr. Vesal had instructed him to terminate
Plaintiff’s employment. (Id. ¶ 26.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that the Sixth Cause of Action
is based on two protected activities under FEHA – namely her request for an
accommodation for an alleged disability and her complaint about Monge’s sexual
harassment.
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s argument persuasive.
First, requesting reasonable accommodation for a disability is an activity
protected from retaliation (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (m)(2).)       Second, Plaintiff states specific
allegations regarding Defendant Monge’s sexual harassment and alleges that she
reported to unlawful harassment to staff manager Bryan on January 10, 2024. It
is undisputed that opposing to sexual harassment is a protected activity
against employer’s retaliation under FEHA. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subdivision (j)(1), [the section
sets forth, in relevant part, that “it is an unlawful employment practice] for
an employer ... to harass an employee;”) see also, Gov. Code § 12940, subd.
(j)(4)(C) [“For the purpose of this subdivision, “harassment” because of sex
includes sexual harassment, gender harassment[.]])
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff’s allegations fall within the protected activities identified in
subdivision (h) of Government Code section 12940, upon which her retaliation
causes of actions was premised. 
 
ii)                
Retaliatory Animus and Causal Link
 
            Defendants argue that the Six Cause
of Action fails to allege facts to support retaliatory intent. In her response,
Plaintiff contends that the retaliatory motive can be shown by demonstrating
that she engaged in protected activities and that the adverse action followed
within a relatively short time thereafter. Plaintiff argues that the causal
link here may be established by an inference derived from circumstantial
evidence. 
 
            Established case law outlines that,
even in the absent of direct evidence of retaliatory animus, close temporal
proximity between a plaintiff’s protected activity and the alleged retaliatory
conduct against the plaintiff has been found sufficient to support a prima
facie case of causation. (Le Mere, supra, 35 Cal.App.5th a p.
243.) Circumstantial evidence typically relates to factors such as the
plaintiff’s job performance, the timing of events, and how the plaintiff was
treated in comparison to other workers. (See Iwekaogwu v. City of Los Angeles
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 803, 816; Flait v. North American Watch Corp.
(1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 467, 479.) Several federal cases hold that intervals of
more than a few months were too long to support causation. (See, e.g., Cornwell
v. Electra Cent. Credit Union (9th Cir. 2006) 439 F.3d 1018, 1036 [the
court hold that seven-month gap was too long to support causation.])
 
As to the protected activity of requesting
accommodations, there is close temporal proximity, as the alleged retaliatory
conduct – termination of employment – occurred on the same day that Plaintiff requested
sick leave. This proximity supports a prima facie case of retaliatory animus and causation.
 
Defendants argue that there is no direct evidence to
show a nexus between the alleged harassment and plaintiff’s termination. However,
the Court notes that both direct and circumstantial evidence can be used to
show an employer’s intent to retaliate. 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s termination occurred less than one
month after her complaint about alleged sexual harassment. Whether this
circumstantial evidence will ultimately establish the elements of Defendant’s retaliatory animus and causal link is
a matter of fact, not law, and therefore cannot form a basis for sustaining the
Demurrer. As such, the Court finds Defendants argument unpersuasive. 
 
Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to
the Sixth Cause of Action.
 
6)     
Twelfth Cause
of Action – Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code Sections §§ 98.6 and 1102.5
 
Labor
Code section 98.6 prohibits retaliation against an employee for exercising
rights protected by the Labor Code. (Lab. Code § 98.6; Grinzi v. San Diego
Hospice Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 72, 87.)
 
The prima facie showing of
retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5(b) (Whistleblowing) requires the
following elements: (1) the plaintiff engaged in a protected activity, (2) the
employer subjected the plaintiff to adverse employment action, and (3) there is
a causal link between the two. (Patten v. Grant Joint Union High School Dist.  (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th
1378, 1384; Hansen v. Cal. Dept. of Corrections and Rehab. (2008) 171
Cal.App.4th 1537, 1546.) 
 
Liability under labor code whistleblower provision requires
plaintiffs to show that retaliation was a “contributing factor” in their
termination, demotion, or other adverse action. This means plaintiffs may
satisfy their burden of proving unlawful retaliation even when other, legitimate
factors also contributed to the adverse action. (Lawson v. PPG Architectural
Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 713; see, e.g., State Comp. Ins.
Fund v. Ind. Acc. Com. (1959) 176 Cal.App.2d 10, 17.)
 
Protected activity involves the disclosure of, or opposition
to, “a violation of state or federal statute, or a violation or noncompliance
with a state or federal rule or regulation, not just local employer policies. (Mueller
v. County of L. A. (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 809, 821-822.)
 
Defendants
argue that the Twelfth Cause of Action suffers the same defects as its previous
version, specifically the lack of the required causal link between Plaintiff’s
protected activity and the termination. However, upon reviewing the FAC, the
Court identifies two distinct activities – the involuntary act of being
harassed and affirmative disclosure or opposition to the sexual harassment. The
latter constitutes a protected activity under the retaliation provision of the
Labor Code.  As analyzed in relation to
the Sixth Cause of Action, the Court finds that the FAC adequately alleges the
element required to state a claim.
 
            Therefore, the Court OVERRULES the
Demurrer as to the Twelfth Cause of Action.
 
B.    
Motion to
Strike
 
Defendants move to strike (the “Motion”) the following
portions of Plaintiff’s FAC:
 
1.      “Said actions also justify the
imposition of punitive damages in that Defendant committed the acts alleged
herein maliciously, fraudulently, and oppressively with the wrongful intention
of injuring Plaintiff, from an improper and evil motive amounting to malice,
and in conscious disregard of Plaintiff s rights. Based on the foregoing,
Plaintiff is entitled to recover punitive damages from Defendants, and each of
them, in an amount according to proof.” (FAC ¶ 72 [as to the Third Cause of
Action].)
 
2.      “Said discrimination and/or
refusal to accommodate/engage in the interactive process was wrongful and
justifies the imposition of punitive damages since decision to terminate
Plaintiff s employment because she needed one (1) day off to recover from the
pain of her disability was against public policy. Defendant intentionally
failed to accommodate Plaintiff, acted maliciously, fraudulently, and
oppressively with the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiff. Defendant acted
with an evil purpose, in an intentional and deliberate manner, in violation of
Plaintiff s civil rights, and/or with conscious disregard of Plaintiff s
rights. Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff is entitled to recover punitive
damages from Defendants, and each of them, in an amount according to proof.” (FAC
¶ 84 [as to the Fourth Cause of Action].) 
 
3.      “Said discrimination and/or
refusal to accommodate/engage in the interactive process was wrongful and
justifies the imposition of punitive damages since the failure to accommodate
Plaintiff s disability and engage in the interactive process was against public
policy. Defendant intentionally failed to engage in the interactive process,
with the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiff. Defendant acted with an evil
purpose, in an intentional and deliberate manner, in violation of Plaintiff s
civil rights, and/or with conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights. Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff is entitled to recover punitive damages &om
Defendants, and each of them, in an amount according to proof.” (FAC ¶ 97 [as
to the Fifth Cause of Action])
 
4.      "... Said retaliation was
wrongful and justifies the imposition of punitive damages since it was against
public policy. Defendant intentionally retaliated against Plaintiff on account
of her protected activity, and in doing so, Defendant acted maliciously,
fraudulently, and oppressively with the wrongful intention of injuring
Plaintiff. Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff is entitled to recover punitive
damages from Defendants, and each of them, in an amount according to proof.”
(FAC ¶ 183 [as to the Twelfth Cause of Action])
 
1)      Meet
and Confer
 
“Before filing a motion to strike ... the moving party shall
meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading
that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an
agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the
motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).) If no agreement is
reached, the moving party shall file and serve with the motion to strike a
declaration stating either: (1) the means by which the parties met and
conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement, or (2) that the party
who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and confer request or
otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5,
subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, Defendants have satisfied the meet and confer
requirements. (Hodge Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)
 
2)     
Motion
to Strike Punitive Damages
 
A motion to strike punitive damages is
properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for
punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression,
fraud or malice. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc.
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
 
“Malice” is defined as conduct intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct carried
on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only when the
tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s
rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’
[Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)
 
“Oppression” is defined in as
“despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(2).) The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that
are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v.
Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th
847, 891.)
 
The allegations supporting a request for
punitive damages must be alleged with specificity; conclusory allegations
without sufficient facts are not enough. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)
 
            Furthermore, “[a]n employer shall
not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an
employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge
and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,
fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent
of the corporation.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)
 
Defendants
essentially argue that the FAC does not sufficiently state the Third, Fourth, Fifth,
and Twelfth Causes of Action, and therefore, the relief for punitive damages is
unavailable without valid underlying claims. Plaintiff contends that punitive
damages are not limited to a showing of malice and can be awarded when
employers consciously disregard the rights of employees. The Court, however,
finds neither party’s arguments persuasive.
 
First,
the Court has previously overruled the Demurrer to the FAC, concluding that
these causes of action are supported by adequate allegations. Accordingly,
punitive damages are not excluded based on the absence of valid underlying
claims.
 
Second,
as to Plaintiff’s argument, the Court emphasizes that even when causes of
action are properly pleaded, specific factual allegations supporting a
conclusion that Defendants acted with oppression, fraud or malice are required
to state a claim for punitive damages. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) As noted
in American Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton
(2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1050-1051, “Punitive damages are proper only when
the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s
rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.” 
 
Here,
the allegations Plaintiff relies upon do not include specific facts showing a
level of “extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights.” Rather, they consist
of general allegations and legal conclusions.
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike
in its entirety. Should Plaintiff later determine, through the course of
discovery, that additional facts exist which would support a claim for punitive
damages, Plaintiff may file a motion for leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendants’
Demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendants Omid Vesal, M.D.
d/b/a Irvine Urgent Care (“IUC”) and Carlos Ernesto Monge are ordered to serve
and file their Answers to the First Amended Complaint within 30 days.
 
Defendants’
Motion to Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend. 
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 