 Case Number:  24CHCV02154    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  10/10/24




Case
  Name: DrinkPAK LLC v. Paylocity Corp., and Does 1 through 10




Case No.
  24CHCV02154



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

OCTOBER 10, 2024
 

APPLICATION FOR BRIAN MEAD TO
APPEAR AS COUNSEL PRO HAC VICE

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 24CHCV02154

 
Motion
filed: 9/11/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Paylocity Corp.
RESPONDING PARTY: None
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting Defendant’s Application for Admission of Brian Mead as counsel Pro
Hac Vice
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a breach of contract and tort case between a canned
beverage manufacturer, Plaintiff DrinkPAK LLC (“Plaintiff” or “DrinkPAK”), and
a payroll services provider, Defendant Paylocity Corp. (“Defendant” or
“Paylocity”).
 
On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Complaint against
Defendant and Does 1 through 10, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (3) Implied Indemnity, (4) Equitable Indemnity, (5) Contribution, and
(6) Declaratory Relief. Subsequently, Defendant filed a demurrer with motion to
strike to the Complaint on September 9, 2024.
 
On September 12, 2024, Defendant filed the instant
Application for Brian Mead to be Admitted as Counsel Pro Hac Vice (the
“Application”).
 
No Opposition or Reply papers have been received. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Pursuant
to California Rules of Court Rule 9.40(a), “[a] person who is not a licensee of
the State Bar of California but who is an attorney in good standing of and
eligible to practice before the bar of any United States court or the highest
court in any state, territory, or insular possession of the United States, and
who has been retained to appear in a particular cause pending in a court of
this state, may in the discretion of such court be permitted upon written
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice, provided that an
active licensee of the State Bar of California is associated as attorney of
record.”
 
Additionally,
“No person is
eligible to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule
if the person is: (1) A resident of the State of California; (2) Regularly
employed in the State of California; or (3) Regularly engaged in substantial
business, professional, or other activities in the State of California.” (Cal.
Rules of Court rule 9.40(a).)
A.   
Application
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice
 
Brian Mead (“Mead”) applies to appear as counsel pro hac
vice for Defendant Paylocity. This Application is unopposed.
 
Mead is a
member in good standing of the following: (1) Supreme Court of Illinois, (2)
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, (3) U.S. District
Court for the Central District of Illinois, (4) U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of Illinois , (5) U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan,
(6) U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin, (7) U.S.
District Court for the District of Colorado, (8) U.S. Court of Appeals for the
First Circuit, (9) U.S. Court of Appeal for the Second Circuit, and (10) U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. (Mead Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) In addition, Mead
states that he is not a resident of California, is not regularly engaged in
practice of law in the State of California and is not regularly employed or
does a substantial amount of business in the State of California (Id. ¶
4.) 
 
Pursuant to
California Rules of Court Rule 9.40(d), the application for pro hac vice
admission must state, in pertinent part, “[t]he title of each court and cause
in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac
vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted[.]” Additionally, “Absent
special circumstances, repeated appearances by any person under this rule is a
cause for denial of an application.” (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 9.40(b).)
Mead submits that he has previously applied for admission pro
hac vice into California courts. (Id. ¶ 7.) These applications
include the following cases: Vozzcom, Inc. v. Paylocity Corp.,
2:19-cv-00014 and Drinkpak, LLC v. Paylocity
Corporation, 2:24-cv-06369, both in the U.S.
District Court for the Central District of California; Gill
v. Marsh USA, Inc., 3:24-cv-02366 in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of California; Safa
v. Lerner New York, Inc., Case No. BC614196, in the Superior
Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles; and Saxco
Intl, LLC v. Jeff Oberti, Case No. CGC-17-558458, in the
Superior Court of the State of California, City & County of San Francisco.
(Ibid.)
However,
Mead’s statements do not satisfy the reequipments of California Rules of Court
Rule 9.40(d), which also require “the date of each [previous] application, and
whether or not it was granted.” (Cal. Rules of Court rule 9.40(d).)
Additionally, the Application has failed to demonstrate the existence of any
special circumstance to warrant not denying the application on account of
Mead’s repeated appearance under the Rule 9.40(b).
  
Furthermore,
Mead has failed to submit proof that the $50.00 fee was paid to the State Bar
of California, pursuant to California Rules of Court Rule 9.40(e).
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the Application.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant
Paylocity Corp.’s Application for Admission of Brian Mead as Counsel Pro Hac
Vice is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
Moving
party to give notice.