 Case Number:  22STCV30285    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
5, 2023                                 TRIAL
DATE:  March 15, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Brett Blauvelt, et
al. v. Alberto Reyes Cruz
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV30285
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Alberto Reyes Cruz 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs Brett
Blauvelt and Ryon Stewart
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On September 16, 2022, Plaintiffs, Brett Blauvelt and Ryon
Stewart, filed a form complaint against Defendant, Alberto Reyes Cruz, for
injuries arising from a motor vehicle accident. 
The Complaint asserts cause of action for (1) Motor Vehicle and (2)
General Negligence.  Gross negligence is
alleged as part of the general negligence claim.  Plaintiffs seek punitive damages.  
 
            According
to the Complaint, Defendant was operating a vehicle while legally intoxicated
when he failed to stop at a red light and collided with Plaintiffs’ police
vehicle.  Plaintiffs were on duty at the
time of the incident. 
 
            On April
10, 2023, default was entered against Defendant.  On May 7, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to
set aside the default.  The motion was
first heard on July 31, 2023.  The Court issued
a tentative ruling expressing an inclination to set aside the default.  However, as Defendant had not attached the
proposed pleading to be filed, the matter was continued to allow Defendant to cure
that defect.  
 
            On August
15, 2023, Defendant filed an amended motion to set aside the default which included
a proposed demurrer to the gross negligence allegations and a motion to strike
punitive damages.  The Court granted the
motion on September 13, 2023, and deemed the demurrer and motion to strike as
filed on that same day.  However, pursuant
to Plaintiffs’ oral argument, the Court ordered Defendant to separately file
the demurrer and motion to strike.  After
encountering technical difficulties, Defendant filed the demurrer and motion to
strike on September 15, 2023.
 
            Plaintiffs have
filed oppositions,[1]
and Defendant has filed replies.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].)  Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give
effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent
general or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America
v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.)   Judicial
Council forms are not immune to demurrer.  (People ex rel. Dept. of Transportation v.
Superior Court (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1486.) 
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where
a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
A.  Meet and Confer
 
Defense counsel has complied with the meet and confer
requirement.¿ (Feng Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
B.  Gross
Negligence
 
Under the heading of “Gross Negligence” and in
connection with the Second Cause of Action for General Negligence, the
Complaint alleges as follows:
 
“Plaintiffs are informed, believe and allege that defendant
Alberto Reyes Cruz, in a conscious disregard of the safety of others, after
drinking alcohol to excess, such that his blood alcohol content was above the
legal limit of 0.08, and being aware of the probable dangerous consequences of
his conduct of driving under the influence, and the risk he posed to other
drivers, pedestrians and the general good of the community, and knowing that
driving under the influence was unlawful under Vehicle Code§ 23152(a), did
drive a vehicle on Balboa Blvd. failed to stop at and ran a red light at
Victory Blvd. in violation of Vehicle Code § 21453, and collided with an
on-duty police vehicle traveling westbound on Victory Blvd. Plaintiffs are
informed, believe and allege that defendant Alberto Reyes Cruz knowing that it
was not safe for him to drive, that it was illegal for him to drive under the
influence and that he reasonably and foreseeable would either injury or kill a
pedestrian or another drivers, wilfully and deliberately failed to avoid those
consequences by driving a vehicle while intoxicated.”  (Complaint, p. 5.)
 
Defendant demurs to the gross negligence allegations
on the basis that gross negligence is not an independent cause of action, but
rather is a species of negligence.  “Gross
negligence is a subspecies of negligence; it is not a separate tort.  (Joshi
v. Fitness Int'l, LLC (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 814, 825.)  The demurrer fails
for two interrelated reasons.  First, the
gross negligence allegations appear as a part of Plaintiffs’ Second Cause of
Action for General Negligence.  Although
Defendant correctly states the general rule that gross negligence is not an
independent cause of action, there is no authority which stands for the
proposition that gross negligence cannot be alleged as part of a general
negligence claim.  As courts have
observed, gross negligence is merely a degree of negligence.  (See, e.g., Swigart v. Bruno (2017) 13
Ca.App.5th 529, 541.)  Defendant effectively
argues that the Court should construe the gross negligence allegations separate
and apart from its context.  The Court
declines to do so.  Read in context, the
gross negligence allegations support the Second Cause of Action for General
Negligence.  And because the Court does
not read the gross negligence allegations in isolation, the demurrer fails for the
additional reason in that it fails to dispose of the entire cause of action of
General Negligence.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.50.) 
 
In sum, the Complaint sufficiently states a
cause of action for General Negligence and a claim for gross negligence.[2]   Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
C. Motion to
Strike[3]
 
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) On a motion to strike,
the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b); Stafford v.
Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.) 
 
In ruling on a
motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading
subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and
assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1255.) To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff
must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code
section 3294. (College Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 721.) Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (a).) Under Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b), “[a]n employer shall
not be eligible for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an
employee of the employer unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.” 
 
“[T]he imposition
of punitive damages upon a corporation is based upon its own fault. It is not
imposed vicariously by virtue of the fault of others.” (City Products Corp.
v. Globe Indemnity Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.) “Corporations are
legal entities which do not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or
intent to injure or deceive. An award of punitive damages against a corporation
therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees. But the law
does not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation. Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate leaders: the
officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].) 
 
Further, a
plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a conclusion that a
defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice. To wit, there is a heightened
pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages. (See Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.) “When nondeliberate
injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was wrongful,
willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for exemplary
damages; such allegations do not charge malice. When a defendant must produce
evidence in defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he
receive adequate notice
of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co. v.
Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].) In Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the
plaintiffs’ assertions related to their claim for punitive damages were
“insufficient to meet the specific pleading requirement.” (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only
must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be
alleged in the pleading to support such a claim”].) 
 
Plaintiffs’ claim
for punitive damages is based upon Defendant allegedly driving while
intoxicated.  Specifically, the Complaint
alleges:
 
Defendant Alberto Reyes Cruz, in a
conscious disregard of the safety of others, after drinking alcohol to excess,
such that his blood alcohol content was above the legal limit of 0.08, and
being aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct of driving
under the influence, and the risk he posed to other drivers, pedestrians and
the general good of the community, and knowing that driving under the influence
was unlawful under Vehicle Code§ 23152(a), did drive his vehicle on Balboa
Blvd. southbound, failed to stop at and ran a red light at Victory Blvd., in
violation of Vehicle Code § 21453, and collided with an on-duty police vehicle
traveling Westbound on Victory Blvd. Plaintiffs are informed, believe and
allege that defendant Alberto Reyes Cruz, knowing that it was not safe for him
to drive, that it was illegal for him to drive under the influence and that he
reasonably and foreseeable would either injury or kill a pedestrian or other
drivers, wilfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences by
driving a vehicle while intoxicated. Such conduct by defendant was with want of
even scant care and with an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of
conduct, including violating Vehicle Code § 23152, in the operation of a motor
vehicle such that his conduct constituted gross negligence, and he acted with
malice within the meaning of Civil Code § 3294, resulting in significant
injuries to plaintiffs, who were in a marked police vehicle and on duty police
officers. (Complaint, p. 6.)
 
 
            Defendant argues punitive damages should
be stricken because merely alleging “intoxication” and/or “reckless” conduct is
insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  
 
            The leading case is Taylor v.
Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892.) 
There, the California Supreme Court held that punitive damages may be
imposed for driving while intoxicated under certain circumstances, but has not
held that punitive damages are always appropriate in cases involving
driving while intoxicated.  (Taylor, 24 Cal.3d at p. 892.)  In
Taylor, the defendant had previously caused a serious automobile
accident while driving under the influence, had been arrested and convicted for
drunken driving on numerous prior occasions, had recently completed a period of
probation following a drunk driving conviction, and was presently facing an
additional pending criminal drunk driving charge at the time of the
accident.  (Id. at p. 893.)  Further, the defendant accepted
employment which required him both to call on various commercial establishments
where alcoholic beverages were sold, and to deliver or transport such beverages
in his car.  (Ibid.)  Finally, the complaint alleged that at
the time of the accident, defendant was transporting alcoholic beverages and
simultaneously driving while consuming an alcoholic beverage.  (Ibid.) 
The California Supreme Court found these circumstances to be circumstances of
aggravation or outrage and there was “no valid reason whatever for immunizing
the driver himself from the exposure to punitive damages given the demonstrable
and almost inevitable risk visited upon the innocent public by his voluntary
conduct as alleged in the complaint.”  (Id. at p. 898.) 
 
            Subsequently, the appellate court in
Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, clarified that “[t]he
risk of injury to others from ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly
foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable,” and punitive damages may be
warranted where the circumstances surrounding the defendant’s decision to drive
while intoxicated made the risk of harm to others probable.  (Dawes, supra, 111 Cal.App.3d at
p. 89.)  In Dawes, the
circumstances constituted more than the “ordinary driving while intoxicated,”
where there was a probable risk of injury to others due to the defendant’s
driving while intoxicated, at a high rate of speed, zigzagging through traffic,
in the middle of the afternoon, and in locations of heavy pedestrian and
vehicle traffic.  (Id. at pp. 88-89.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs
have not set forth insufficient allegations as to the probable rather than
possible risk of harm based on the circumstances of the accident or conduct by
Defendant. Unlike Taylor or Dawes, the Complaint does not allege
that Defendant had a history of drunken driving, prior convictions for drunken
driving, or of unsafe driving leading up to the accident.  Absent any like allegations, the Court cannot
conclude that Plaintiffs’ injuries as a result of Defendant’s intoxication
while driving were more than merely possible.
 
The Complaint is
deficient.  As such, the motion to strike
punitive damages is GRANTED.   Leave to amend is DENIED.
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer to the gross negligence allegations is overruled.
 
The motion to strike punitive damages is granted.  Leave to amend is denied.  If Plaintiffs later discovers facts
supporting punitive damages, Plaintiffs may seek leave to amend.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to file a First Amended Complaint
consistent with this order within 10 days of this order. 
 
Defendant is ordered to serve and file its responsive
pleading within 30 days of service of the First Amended Complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  
 
 
Dated:   October 5, 2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


