 Case Number:  21STCV12551    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
5, 2023                                 TRIAL
DATE:  March 6, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Frank Perez v. Carparts.com, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV12551
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO AMEND THE PLEADINGS
 
MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Frank Perez 
                                                
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant
Carparts.com
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On April 2, 2021, Plaintiff, Frank Perez, initiated this
action against Defendant, Carparts.com (erroneously sued as “Carparts.com,
Inc.”), for injuries arising from a March 23, 2021, fall from an “order picker”
at Defendant’s warehouse in Grand Prairie, Texas.  Plaintiff was in the course and scope of his
employment for Defendant’s subcontractor, labor management company nGroup Performance
Partners (“nGroup”), and was working in Defendant’s auto parts warehouse. 
 
            On May 19,
2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Negligence, (2)
Willful Failure to Warn, (3) Dangerous Condition of Public Property, and (4) Premises
Liability.  Defendant answered the FAC on
July 18, 2023.
 
            On April 4,
2022, Defendant filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint against nGroup for
indemnity, breach of contract, and declaratory relief.
 
Motion for Leave to Amend
 
            On July 25,
2023, Plaintiff attempted to file the Second Amended Complaint (SAC”).  The pleading was rejected on August 1, 2023
for failure to obtain leave of court.
 
            On August
16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Leave to File A Second Amended
Complaint.  Defendant has filed an
opposition.  Plaintiff has not filed a
reply.
            
            Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
            On July 19,
2023, Defendant filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the
FAC.  Defendant filed an Amended Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings on August 9, 2023.  Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies.
 
II.        LEGAL PRINCIPLES
 
            A. 
Leave to Amend
            
            The court may, in its discretion and after notice to
the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading, including adding or striking out the name of any party, or correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)¿ “Public policy dictates that leave to amend
be liberally granted.”¿ (Centex Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co.
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23, 32.)¿ “Although courts are bound to apply a policy
of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of
the proceedings, up to and including trial . . . this policy should be applied
only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party.’¿ [Citation].¿ A
different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice
to the opposing party’ is shown.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)¿¿ 
¿ 
            A
motion to amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by
page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿ The motion shall also be accompanied by a
declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is
necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 1.324, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
¿ 
            In
ruling on a motion for leave to amend a pleading, the court does not consider
the merits of the proposed amendment, because “the preferable practice would be
to permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate
proceedings.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)¿ While the court may deny leave to amend where the
proposed amendment is insufficient to state a valid cause of action or defense,
such denial is most appropriate where the insufficiency cannot be cured by
further amendment—i.e., where the statute of limitations has expired or the
insufficiency is established by controlling caselaw. (California Casualty
Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281,
disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines
Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿¿ 
 
B.  Judgment on the Pleadings
 
“A motion for
judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and
hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters
that can be judicially noticed.  [Citations.]”  (Burnett v.
Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057 1064.)  The court must assume the truth of all
properly pleaded material facts and allegations, but not contentions or
conclusions of fact or law.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318; Wise v. Pacific Gas and Elec. Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725,
738.)  “A judgment on the pleadings in favor of the defendant is
appropriate when the complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(3)(B)(ii).)”  (Kapsimallis v. Allstate
Ins. Co. (2002) 104
Cal.App.4th 667, 672.)  “Presentation of extrinsic evidence is therefore
not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings. [Citation.]”  (Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) 
Allegations are to be liberally construed. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  
 
If the motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted, it
may be granted with or without leave to amend. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438,
subd. (h)(1).)  “Where a demurrer
is sustained or a motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted as to the
original complaint, denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
if the pleading does not show on its face that it is incapable of
amendment.”  (Virginia G. v. ABC
Unified School Dist. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1852 (emphasis
added).)
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff seeks leave to file a
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) to correct an error in Paragraph 17 of the
FAC.  Paragraph 17 of the FAC alleges: 
 
“Defendant, CARPARTS.COM, INC., in employing PEREZ,
recognized that the work contracted to be performed was likely to create,
during its progress, a peculiar or special risk of harm to others, such as
plaintiff, unless special precautions were taken.”  
 
Plaintiff states this is the sole
allegation identifying Plaintiff as an employee of Defendant.  The FAC otherwise prominently states Plaintiff
was an employee of nGroup.  (FAC, ¶¶ 5,
21.)  Plaintiff also points out that
Defendant’s First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) also refers to nGroup as
Plaintiff’s employer.  (FACC, ¶ 4.)  
 
Plaintiff seeks to strike
Paragraph 17 of the FAC and include the following proposed amendment in its
place: 
 
“Defendant, CARPARTS.COM, INC., in line with their
labor contract with nGroup, had an obligation to provide a safe environment for
nGroup's employees and that the work contracted to be performed was likely to
create, during its progress, a peculiar or special risk of harm to others, such
as plaintiff, unless special precautions were taken., CARPARTS.COM, INC., knew
that it was required to provide equipment that was safe and in working
condition, but failed to do so. As a direct result, Defendant affirmatively
contributed to Plaintiff PEREZ’s injuries.” 
 
The effect of the amendment would “conform
the parties mutual understanding of the facts concerning the relationship of
all litigants.”  (Henley Decl., ¶ 5.)  This also accords with Plaintiff’s original
form Complaint.  There, Plaintiff alleged
that he “was in the course of his employment for a subcontractor under the
control of Defendant [Carparts.com, Inc.] and was working in one of Defendant’s
auto parts warehouses on an elevated “cherry picker” used to reach upper
shelves where inventory is stored.” (Complaint, p. 4.)  The point being that Plaintiff was nGroup’s
employee.  Further, the amendment is
necessary because Plaintiff will suffer prejudice if leave is denied.  (Henley Decl., ¶ 5.)  If Paragraph 17 is left uncorrected, it would
“eviscerate[]  Plaintiff’s cause of
action based on the statutes barring suit against employers insured by workers
compensation insurance.” (Motion, p.5:10-12.) 
 
The Court cannot grant Plaintiff’s
motion.  As Defendant correctly points
out, Plaintiff’s motion is not in proper form.  The motion must be accompanied by a
declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is
necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 1.324, subd. (b).)¿ ¿Here,
the declaration accompanying Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend does not explain
why the request for amendment was not made earlier.[1]  Plaintiff
has not submitted a reply to argue otherwise or to cure this defect. 
 
Having said that, the Court is
inclined to grant Plaintiff leave to amend. 
The Court notes the FAC was filed on May 19, 2023.  Thereafter, Plaintiff attempted to file the
SAC on July 25, 2023.  The SAC was
rejected for failure to obtain leave of court on August 1, 2023.  This motion then followed on August 16,
2023.  Whether utilizing July 25, 2023 or
August 16, 2023, the Court finds Plaintiff did not inexcusably delay in seeking
leave to file an amended pleading.  Nor
does Defendant establish prejudice. 
Defendant argues that allowing Plaintiff to file the proposed SAC would provide
a moving target for Defendant’s summary judgment motion, which Defendant has
already filed.  However, Defendant does
not explain how Plaintiff’s sole proposed amendment to Paragraph 17 of the FAC
would prejudice the merits of Defendant’s summary judgment motion.  After all, notwithstanding Paragraph 17, the
FAC clearly alleges Plaintiff to be nGroup’s employee.  This is consistent with the parties’
understanding of the relationship between Plaintiff, Defendant, and nGroup as
evidenced by Defendant’s First Amended Cross-Complaint.  (See, e.g., FACC, ¶ 5.)  Under these facts, there is no inexcusable
delay or prejudice that would result from granting Plaintiff leave to file the
proposed SAC.[2]
 As a procedural matter, the Court will rule
on the motion for leave to amend before turning to the motion for judgment on
the pleadings.   
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the hearing for the Motion for Leave to File the Second
Amended Complaint is CONTINUED to October 31, 2023 at 1:30 PM in Department 27
of Spring Street Courthouse.  Plaintiff
is ordered to submit an amended Motion and supporting declaration no later than
9 court days before the hearing. 
Defendant may file a response no later than 5 court days before the
hearing.
 
            Depending
upon the Court’s disposition of Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File the Second
Amended Complaint, the Court will hear from counsel regarding the need for further
briefing on Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.  Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings is also CONTINUED to October 31, 2023 at 1:30 PM in Department of
Spring Street Courthouse. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice. 
 
 
Dated:   October 5, 2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


