 Case Number:  BC692559    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
5, 2023                                 TRIAL
DATE:  Disposed
                                                           
CASE:                         Jaleel Melendez v. Pinetree Terrace Apartments, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC692559
 





















 
MOTION
FOR A NEW TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Jaleel Melendez
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Pinetree Terrace
Apartments, et. al.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On February 1, 2018, Plaintiff, Jaleel Melendez[1],
initiated this action against Defendants, Pinetree Terrace Apartments and Mabry
Management Co., Inc., for injuries arising from a slip and fall on the common
area staircase of Defendants’ premises.  Plaintiff
filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on April 17, 2018.  The FAC asserted causes of action for (1) General
Negligence and (2) Premises Liability.  
 
            Deemed
Admissions
 
            On August 24, 2022, Defendants filed a Motion to Have Requests
for Admissions Deemed Admitted against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff failed to file an opposition.  The Court granted the motion on December 20,
2022. 
 
            On March 7,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion to be Relieved from Deemed Admission.  The motion was heard on May 4, 2023.  At the hearing, Plaintiff represented he was
involved in an unrelated accident which resulted in temporary disability and
prevented him from responding to the Requests for Admissions.  However, for a variety of reasons, including Plaintiff’s
failure to provide any medical records or information that informed the
analysis regarding his injury, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion.
 
            Motion
for Summary Judgment
            On January
12, 2023, Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment.  Plaintiff did not file an opposition.  The motion was heard on May 5, 2023.  Plaintiff appeared at the hearing and
proceeded to recite portions of deposition testimony in an effort to raise triable
issues of material fact.  The Court
continued the hearing to consider the narrow question whether the oral presentation
of discovery excerpts recited at the hearing may be considered and defeat a
summary judgment motion when such information was not presented in any
opposition or separate statement of disputed facts.  Indeed, neither a separate statement nor an
opposition had been filed. The Court directed the parties to submit further
briefing.  The parties submitted
additional briefing.  On May 17, 2023,
after consideration of the briefing, the Court granted Defendants’ motion for
summary judgment.
 
            On July 27,
2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for a new trial based on newly discovered
evidence.  Defendants oppose and
Plaintiff replies.
 
            On August
7, 2023, judgment was entered in favor of Defendants.
 
 II.       LEGAL STANDARD FOR NEW TRIAL
 
            A motion
for new trial asks the trial court to reexamine one or more issues of fact or
law after a trial and decision by judge or jury.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 656,
657.)  A new trial motion is also available to challenge judgments
disposing of an action without trial where an issue of fact or law has been
decided, such as in the case of summary judgment.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 858.)  “The right to a new trial is purely statutory,
and a motion for a new trial can be granted only on one of the grounds
enumerated in the statute.”  (Fomco,
Inc. v. Joe Maggio, Inc. (1961) 55 Cal. 2d 162, 166.)  “As the motion for a new trial finds both its
source and its limitations in the statutes, the procedural steps prescribed by
law for making and determining such a motion are mandatory and must be strictly
followed.”  (Mercer v. Perez (1968)
68 Cal.2d 104, 118 [cleaned up]; Pacific Trends Lamp & Lighting
Products, Inc. v. J. White Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1131, 1135.)
 
            As set
forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 657, the grounds upon which a new
trial may be ordered include:
 
1.     
Irregularity in the proceedings of
the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of
discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial.
2.     
Misconduct of the jury; and whenever
any one or more of the jurors have been induced to assent to any general or
special verdict, or to a finding on any question submitted to them by the
court, by a resort to the determination of chance, such misconduct may be
proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors.
3.     
Accident or surprise, which ordinary
prudence could not have guarded against.
4.     
Newly discovered evidence, material
for the party making the application, which he could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial.
5.     
Excessive or inadequate damages.
6.     
Insufficiency of the evidence to
justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is
against law.
7.     
Error in law, occurring at the trial
and excepted to by the party making the application.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 657.)
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff moves
for a new trial based on newly discovered evidence.[2]
 “Code of Civil Procedure section 657,
subdivision 4, authorizes the grant of a new trial when the moving party has
discovered new, material evidence which it could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered and produced at trial.  The moving party must establish (1) the
evidence is newly discovered; (2) he or she exercised reasonable diligence in
discovering and producing it; and (3) it is material to the moving party’s
case.”  (Plancarte v. Guardsmark, LLC (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 640, 646.)  For the reasons
stated herein, Plaintiff fails to show a new trial is warranted.[3]

 
            Whether
the Evidence is Newly Discovered
 
            A new trial
is not granted if a party knew, or should have known, about the pertinent
evidence before trial but did not exercise due diligence in producing it. 
(Doe v. United Air Lines, Inc. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1500,
1509.)    
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion references medical records purportedly showing he suffered severe brain
damage in an unrelated motor vehicle accident in 2021.  Plaintiff appears to argue that such medical evidence
explains why he failed to serve responses to Defendants’ Requests for Admission
and establishes excusable neglect, thereby undermining the basis for Defendants’
summary judgment motion.  For at least two
reasons, Plaintiff’s arguments fail to make the requisite showing.  First, Plaintiff did not submit any evidence,
let alone the medical records he references, in support of this motion for a
new trial.  Second, Plaintiff appears to
rely on a filing from July 10, 2023, which contains (1) a report from Dr.
Daniel Franc, M.D., dated November 28, 2022, evaluating Plaintiff’s physical
complaints from a car accident in 2021 (“Dr. Franc Report”); and (2) MRI scans
of Plaintiff’s brain from November 17, 2022 (“MRI Scans”).  Nowhere in this motion or in the July 10,
2023, filing does Plaintiff explain adequately when he discovered this evidence.  
 
            In sum,
Plaintiff fails to demonstrate the Dr. Franc Report and MRI Scans are newly
discovered evidence.  
 
            Whether
Plaintiff Acted with Reasonable Diligence
 
            A party
makes a showing that it exercised reasonable diligence to discover and produce
the evidence at trial when it states the particular acts or circumstances that
establish diligence.  (Marriage of Liu
(1987) 197 Cal.App.3d 143, 154.)  A general averment of diligence is
insufficient.  (Ibid.)            
 
            Here,
Plaintiff states in his declaration that he “attempted to obtain Medical Proof
before all hearings.”  (Plaintiff’s
Decl., ¶ 1.)  In the Motion, Plaintiff
represents he displayed reasonable diligence through “Constant persistence in
obtaining Medical Records.”  (Motion, p.
4:11.)  At most, these are general
averments of diligence.  As such, they fail
to demonstrate Plaintiff exercised reasonable diligence to discover and produce
the Dr. Franc Report and the MRI Scans.  Absent
from the Motion and Plaintiff’s accompanying declaration are any statements
regarding the particular acts or circumstances that constitute Plaintiff’s
diligent efforts.  (Marriage of Liu,
197 Cal.App.3d at p. 154.)  Nor does
Plaintiff explain why he did not submit this evidence in December 2022 in
opposition to Defendants’ motion to deem the Requests for Admission admitted,
or in March 2023 when Plaintiff sought relief from the deemed admissions, or in
May 2023 when the Court considered and granted Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment.  These failings also preclude
relief under Code of Civil Procedure, section 657, subdivision (4). 
 
             Whether the Evidence is Material
 
            “Evidence
is material when it is likely to produce a different result.”  (Santillan v. Roman Cath. Bishop of Fresno
(2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 708, 728.) 
 
            Here, as
Defendants point out, Plaintiff merely submits his lay opinion on the
significance of the Dr. Franc Report and MRI Scans.  Plaintiff states in his declaration “Medical
proven diagnosed symptoms makes the Plaintiff suffer every day.  Medical proof of symptoms would have deemed
excusable neglect.  Lack of Legal
Capacity to Make Decisions after a second accident caused to me deems excusable
neglect and toll of statute.” 
(Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) 
However, the foregoing statements are not supported by a declaration
from Dr. Franc or another qualified medical provider that explains the
significance of the Dr. Franc Report or MRI Scans and how the 2021 car accident
impacted Plaintiff and his ability to prosecute his case and respond to
discovery.[4]  Plaintiff’s lay opinion regarding these
medical records and his medical condition does not alone establish the severity
of his medical conditions.  Nor does his
opinion provide a basis to determine the materiality of the 2021 accident
vis-à-vis the presentation and prosecution of his case.  Because Plaintiff fails to provide a
sufficient medical explanation demonstrating the materiality of the Dr. Franc Report
or the MRI scans, these documents fail to provide an evidentiary foundation that
might animate Plaintiff’s arguments.  
 
            Additionally,
the materiality of the Dr. Franc Report or MRI Scans is not self-evident.  The Dr. Franc Report states, in relevant part,
that Plaintiff “has a history and examination findings consistent with having suffered
a traumatic brain injury leading to subsequent postconcussive syndrome and the
symptoms of headaches, dizziness, memory impairment, concentration impairment,
deceased thinking speed, depression, irritability, frustration, restlessness,
impaired sleep, and fatigue.... His current symptoms are consistent with
diagnosis of persistent postconcussive syndrome, and we discussed that symptoms
of postconcussive syndrome can persist for weeks to months.  In certain circumstances, symptoms can be
prolonged or even permanent.”  (Dr. Franc
Report, p. 5.)  Missing from Dr. Franc’s
Report is any indication that these symptoms persisted and did prevent Plaintiff
from responding to discovery over the course of the case or prevented him from informing
the Court of his conditions at the operative times or prevented him from being
able to participate in his case.[5]  The Court cannot draw the conclusion from Dr.
Franc’s Report that Plaintiff lacked the ability or capacity to participate in
his case. The MRI Scans are compromised of scans of Plaintiff’s brain imaging and
half a page of “Findings” which do little to support Plaintiff’s
representations.  Plaintiff fails to show
these medical records would likely produce a different result.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            In sum, Plaintiff fails to establish that the medical
records regarding his 2021 car accident are newly discovered evidence within
the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 657, subdivision (4).    
 
            The Motion
for a New Trial is Denied. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
Dated:   October 5, 2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


