 Case Number:  22STCV06775    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
KEOINA FORD,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC, ET AL.
 
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.: 
  22STCV06775 
 
 Hearing Date: April 3, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND
 
 
 



 
Background
            On November 4, 2020, Plaintiff
purchased a 2019 Chevrolet Impala, VIN # 1G11Z5SA2KU123817.  Plaintiff alleges the vehicle was delivered
to Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities and developed other
serious defects and nonconformities. 
Plaintiff delivered the vehicle to Defendant for repair on the
nonconformities.  Plaintiff alleges  Defendant wrongfully denied warranty coverage
for certain nonconformities and was unable to conform the vehicle to the
applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts.  Despite being unable to conform the vehicle
to the express warranties after a reasonable amount of time as set forth in the
Song Beverly Act (“SBA”), Defendant allegedly failed to either promptly replace
the new motor vehicle or promptly make restitution under the SBA.  
            On February 24, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendant General Motors, LLC (“GM”) as the
manufacturer of the vehicle alleging (1) SBA—Breach of Express Warranty; (2)
SBA—Breach of Implied Warranty; and (3) SBA-Civil Code §1793.2.
            On February 14, 2023, GM filed the
instant Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative Summary
Adjudication.  On September 13, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an Opposition to GM’s Motion for Summary Judgment or
Adjudication.  On September 20, 2023, GM
filed a Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition. 
On September 20, 2023, Plaintiff also filed a Motion for Leave to File
First Amended Complaint.  
            On September 27, 2023, GM’s Motion
For Summary Judgment came on for hearing, as well as Plaintiff’s Ex Parte
Application to Advance the Hearing Date on Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to
Amend.  The Court granted the Ex Parte in
part, setting Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File FAC for December 7,
2023.  The Court continued GM’s Motion
for Summary Judgment to April 3, 2024.  
            On January 2, 2024, the Court continued
the Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File FAC to April 3, 2024 to be heard with
GM’s Motion for Summary Judgment. 
Parties were instructed to brief the applicability of the California
Supreme Court’s opinion reviewing Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 209 (“Rodriguez”).
            On April 11, 2024, the Court denied GM’s
Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
Legal Standard
            “A party may amend its pleading
once without leave of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or
motion to strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but
before the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is
filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the
demurrer or motion to strike.” (CCP §472.)
            “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”  (CCP §473(a)(1).)
            The policy favoring amendment is so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified:  “If the motion to amend is
timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party, it is error to refuse permission to amend; and, where the refusal also
results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of
action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.”  (Morgan v. Sup.Ct.
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530 (emphasis added).)  Courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint "at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial," absent prejudice to the adverse
party. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.)
            Prejudice exists where the amendment
would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence or
added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)  Delay
alone is insufficient grounds for denial of leave of amend.  If the delay in seeking the amendment has not
misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments
prevails. Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case
even if sought as late as the time of trial. 
(Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.)
Analysis
I.  Parties’ Positions
            Plaintiff’s Position
            Plaintiff asks that the Court grant
leave to file a First Amended Complaint adding a cause of action under the
federal Magnuson Moss Warranty Act. 
Plaintiff argues the amended complaint would be based on the exact same
facts as alleged in the original complaint and will not prejudice Defendant for
that reason.
            Defendant’s Position
            Defendant argues leave to amend
should be denied because Plaintiff’s cannot prevail on the three causes of
action alleged in the complaint regardless of whether an action under the Magnuson
Moss Warranty Act can be stated.  Defendant
argues that leave to amend including these three causes of action under the SBA
would be futile.  Defendant argues leave
to amend should also be denied because Plaintiff waited two years to seek leave
and Plaintiff provides no excuse for doing so. 
Defendant argues the motion for leave to amend is merely an attempt to
avoid its motion for summary judgment.  
            Plaintiff’s
Reply 
            Plaintiff argues leave to amend should be granted liberally.  Plaintiff argues there has been no ruling on
Defendant’s MSJ, and it should not be assumed that Plaintiff cannot prevail on
the three SBA claims alleged in the complaint. 
Plaintiff also argues a Magnuson Moss claim can be pursued independently
of SBA claims.  Plaintiff argues no
prejudice will result if leave to amend is granted.  Plaintiff argues leave to amend must be
granted.  
II.  Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to File FAC is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part
            Although
GM’s Motion
for Summary Judgment has been denied, the Court is not inclined to grant leave
to amend the SBA claims.  Plaintiff has waited over two years to seek to
amend and the trial is about a month away. Plaintiff does not adequately
address the prejudice claim made by Defendant.  Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an FAC
that includes the three SBA claims is denied.
            However,
Defendant fails to establish prejudice if leave is granted as to the proposed
Magnuson Moss cause of action which is based on the same set of facts underlying
the other claims. Defendant argues Plaintiff inexcusably delayed in seeking
leave.  Delay alone is insufficient
grounds to deny leave to amend, and Defendant does not establish any prejudice
if leave is granted as to the Magnuson Moss claim, e.g. delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or increased discovery burden. If required, a trial
continuance can also be requested.  
            Moreover,
nearly the identical procedural situation was presented in Dagher v. Ford
Motor Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 905.  The plaintiff in Dagher filed a motion
for leave to amend in addition to an opposition to a pending defense motion for
summary judgment.  The trial court heard
both plaintiff’s motion for leave and the defendant’s motion for summary
judgment together, and granted the motion for summary judgment and denied the
motion for leave.  The Court of Appeals
affirmed the order granting summary judgment but reversed the order denying
leave to amend as an abuse of discretion. 
(Dagher, supra, 238 Cal.App.4th at 929.)  
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED as to the
proposed Magnuson Moss claim and DENIED as to the claims under the SBA.  
Conclusion and ORDER
            Plaintiff Ford’s Motion for Leave to
File FAC is GRANTED as to the claim under Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act (Fourth
Cause of Action in FAC) and DENIED as to the claims under the SBA (First
through Third Causes of Action in FAC).  
            Moving Party to give notice.
 
DATED:  April 17, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court