 Case Number:  23STCV04488    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Babakitis
v. Al Malaikah Auditorium Company
23STCV04488
Motion of Staff Pro, Inc. to file Cross-Complaint
Tentative
The motion
denied without prejudice, for the reasons set forth below.
Background
On March 1, 2023, John
William Babakitis (“Plaintiff”) filed his complaint against Al Malaikah
Auditorium Company (“Auditorium”); The Anschutz Corporation; Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc.; AXS; Allied Universal Executive Protection and
Intelligence Services, Inc.; Staff Pro; and Does 1 through 100, asserting
causes of action for negligence and premises liability arising from an injury
that occurred at a Judas Priest concert at the Shrine Auditorium on March 15,
2022, when an unidentified person gained access to the stage, jumped into the
crowd, and struck Plaintiff.
On April 3, 2023, Plaintiff
amended his complaint to name Goldenvoice LLC (“Goldenvoice”) as Doe 26.
On April 6, 2023, the
Court, at the request of Plaintiff, dismissed The Anschutz Corporation;
Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc.; and AXS.
On May 4, 2023, Goldenvoice
an answer to the complaint and a cross-complaint against Staff Pro, Inc. dba
Allied Universal Event Services (“Staff Pro”) and Roes 1 through 50.  Goldenvoice subsequently filed an amended
answer to the complaint.
On May 12, 2023, Auditorium
filed an answer to the complaint and a cross-complaint against AXS; Allied
Universal Executive Protection and Intelligence Services, Inc.; Staff Pro; and
Moes 1 through 50. On May 19, 2023, Auditorium filed an amended
cross-complaint, this time against only Staff Pro and Moes 1 through 50.  Auditorium subsequently filed an amended
answer to the complaint.
On June 5, 2023, Staff Pro,
Inc. (on its own behalf and as erroneously sued as Allied Universal Executive
Protection and Intelligence Services, Inc.) filed an answer to the
complaint.  On July 17, 2023, Staff Pro filed answers to the
cross-complaints of Goldenvoice and Auditorium.
On October 20, 2023,
Plaintiff amended his complaint to name AEG Presents LLC (“AEG Presents”) as
Doe 1.
On November 22, 2023, AEG
Presents filed an answer to the complaint and a cross-complaint against Staff
Pro and Zoes 1 through 50.  
On April 19, 2024,
Plaintiff amended his complaint to name A-One Security Services, Inc as Doe 51,
and INEED Staffing Events LLC as Doe 52.
On May
29, 2024, Staff Pro filed an answer to the cross-complaint of AEG
Presents.  The same day, Staff Pro filed
a cross-complaint against AEG Presents and Foes 1 through 50.
On June
28, 2024, AEG Presents filed an answer to Staff Pro’s cross-complaint.
On
August 15, 2024, Staff Pro filed this motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint against Goldenvoice. 
No opposition
has been filed.
Legal
Standard
The Code
of Civil Procedure distinguishes between compulsory and permissive cross-complaints.
A
compulsory cross-complaint, under Code of Civil Procedure section 426.30, is
one that asserts (1) a “related cause of action”; (2) that a party against whom
a “complaint” has been filed and served has against the “plaintiff”; and (3)
that exists as of the time the answer to the “complaint” is served. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)
As used
in section 426.30, a “related cause of action” is defined as “a cause of action
which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions
or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his
complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).) “Complaint” is defined to
include a cross-complaint, and “Plaintiff” is defined as “a person who files a
complaint or cross-complaint.” (Id., subds. (a) & (b).)
Subject
to the exceptions set forth by statute, if a party fails to assert fails to
assert a related cause of action against the plaintiff that exists as of the
time the party answers the complaint, “such party may not thereafter in any
other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action not
pleaded.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)
A
permissive cross-complaint, in contrast, may include a much broader group of
pleadings. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 428.10, in a permissive
cross-complaint a party may assert an unrelated cause of action “against any of
the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.10, subd. (a).) Alternatively, in a permissive cross-complaint a
party may assert a “cause of action he has against a person alleged to be
liable thereon, whether or not such a person is already party to the action, if
the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property
or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.” (Id.,
subd. (b).) Cross-complaints for contribution or indemnity against new parties
fall within the definition of a permissive cross-complaint in section 428.10.
A party
must file a compulsory cross-complaint at the same time as (or before) the
answer to the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).) If a party
fails to do so, and then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the
court “after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may
be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint,
to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good
faith.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) The “good faith” standard must “be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” (Ibid.)
A party
must file a permissive cross-complaint before the court has set a date for
trial, or, if the causes of action in the cross-complaint are asserted against
“any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or
her,” at or before the party files the answer to the complaint or
cross-complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subds. (a) & (b).) If a party
fails to do so, and then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the
court may grant leave “in the interests of justice.” (Id., subd. (c).)
Cross-complaints
against a person or entity that is not already a party in the action are always
permissive, rather than compulsory. (Insurance Co. of North America v. Liberty
Mutual Ins. Co. (1982) 128 Cal.App.3d 297, 303; 1 Weil & Brown, California
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial [The Rutter Group 2023], ¶ 6:524.)
Discussion
Staff
Pro seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Goldenvoice, LLC. 
As an initial
matter, it is unclear (as Staff Pro recognizes) whether this is a compulsory or
a permissive cross-complaint.  Staff Pro
seeks to assert causes of action against a party (Goldenvoice) that asserted its
own claims, in its cross-complaint, against Staff Pro; in addition, Staff Pro’s
causes of action arise out of the same transaction or occurrence as the causes
of action asserted in Goldenvoice’s cross-complaint against Staff Pro.  This would support a determination that Staff
Pro’s cross-complaint is compulsory.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).) But it is not clear whether the
indemnity claims were in existence at the time that Staff Pro filed its answer
to the Goldenvoice’s cross-complaint.  (See
Civ. Code § 2778; E.L. White, Inc. v. City of Huntington Beach (1978) 21
Cal.3d 497, 505-506.)  If not, then the
cross-complaint is permissive.
In
either event, however, Staff Pro has shown a basis for the relief requested.  To the extent that the proposed cross-complaint
is compulsory, the Court finds that Staff Pro has acted in good faith.  (Kane Decl., ¶¶ 6-11.)  To the extent that the proposed
cross-complaint is permissive, the Court finds that allowing the
cross-complaint is in the interests of justice. 
(Id., ¶¶ 6-13.)
The one issue
not addressed in the moving papers, however, is why Staff Pro is seeking to
file a new and separate cross-complaint, rather than amending the existing
cross-complaint it filed in this action on May 29, 2024.  The Court can perceive of no reason why
having two cross-complaints on file in the same action would be appropriate,
particularly when the substantive rights of Staff Pro can be equally well
protected through filing an amended cross-complaint.
For that
reason, the motion is denied.  The denial
is without prejudice to a motion by Staff Pro for leave to amend its already
existing cross-complaint to add causes of action against Goldenvoice.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES the motion of Staff
Pro for leave to file a new cross-complaint. 
The denial is without prejudice to any motion that Staff Pro may file to
amend its already existing cross-complaint in this matter.
Moving
Party to give notice.