 Case Number:  21STCV19502    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Donat v. Santiago
21STCV19502
Motion for Leave to Intervene Filed by West American Insurance Company
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background
 
These
two consolidated cases arise out of a vehicle accident on December 12, 2019 on Nordhoff
Street in Los Angeles, California. 
 
In
the first-filed matter (Case No. 21STCV19502), on May 24, 2021, William Donat (“Donat”)
filed the complaint asserting causes of action for general negligence and motor
vehicle negligence against Defendants Jose Santiago, Young’s Food Services,
Inc., B&R Group Logistics Holding LLC (“B&R”), and Does 1 through 50. On
August 13, 2021, Young’s Food Services, Inc. and Jose
Manuel Santiago-Garcia (erroneously sued as Jose Santiago) (collectively
“Defendants”) filed their answer.
 
In
the second-filed matter (Case No. 21STCV42882), on November 19, 2021, Old
Republic General Insurance Corporation (“Old Republic”) filed a complaint
against Jose Manuel Santiago-Garcia and Does 1
through 25 for subrogation. On May 8, 2023, Old Republic filed the First
Amended Complaint adding Young’s Food Service, Inc as a defendant.  On February 1, 2024, Old Republic amended its
complaint to name B&R as Doe 1.  Young’s
Food Services filed an answer on July 2, 2024. 

 
On
January 26, 2024, the Court determined that the two actions are related. On
August 2, 2024, these matters were consolidated.
 
On
August 13 and 15, 2024, B&R filed answers to both complaints.
 
On August 13, 2024, West American Insurance Company (“West
American”) filed this motion to intervene on behalf of Young’s Food Services,
Inc. No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
“An intervention takes place
when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party to an action or
proceeding between other persons” and joins a plaintiff in seeking relief,
unites with a defendant in resisting the claims of a plaintiff, or demands
relief adverse to both a plaintiff and a defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 387,
subd. (b).)
 
Subdivision (d) of Code of
Civil Procedure section 387 provides as follows:
(1) “The court shall, upon
timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding
if either of the following conditions is satisfied:
(A)
A provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.
(B)
The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated
that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability
to protect that interest, unless the person’s interest is adequately
represented by one or more of the existing parties.
(2) The court may, upon
timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if the person has
an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the
parties, or an interest against both.”
 
“It is well settled that the
intervener's interest in the matter in litigation must be direct, not
consequential, and that it
must be an interest which is proper to be determined in the action in which
intervention is sought.” (Simpson Redwood Co. v. State of California
(1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1192, 1199-1200.) To establish a direct and immediate
interest in the litigation for purposes of permissive intervention, a non-party
seeking intervention must show that he or she stands to gain or lose by direct
operation of the judgment, even if no specific interest in the property or
transaction at issue exists. (Id. at p. 1201.) It is sufficient that
there is “a substantial probability” that the proposed intervenor’s interests
will be affected by the judgment. (Timberidge Enterprises, Inc. v. City of
Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 881-882.)
 
As one court has explained,
a proposed intervenor must show: [1] that the proposed intervenor as “an interest
relating to the property or transaction which is the subject of the action”;
[2] that the proposed intervenor is “so situated that the disposition of the
action may as a practical matter impair or impede that person's ability to
protect that interest”; and [3] that the proposed intervenor “is not adequately
represented by existing parties.” (Edwards v. Heartland Payment Sys., Inc.
(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 725, 732.)
 
“Whether the intervener’s
interest is sufficiently direct must be decided on the facts of each
case.” (Simpson Redwood
Co., supra, 196 Cal.App.3d at p. 1200.) “[S]ection 387 should be
liberally construed in favor
of intervention.” (Ibid.)
 
Procedurally, subdivision
(c) of section 387 requires that a motion to intervene “shall include a copy of
the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth
the grounds upon which intervention rests.”
 
Discussion
 
In connection with the accident at
issue in this litigation, Defendant Young’s Food Services, Inc. is insured
under a policy underwritten by proposed intervenor West American. (Motooka
Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Counsel states that Young’s Food is a suspended
corporation and lacks the capacity to defend itself. (Id., ¶ 4; see Exh.
B.)
 
Insurance Code section 11580,
subdivision (b)(2), states that insurance policies covered by the statute must
contain:
 
“A provision that whenever judgment
is secured against the insured or the executor or
administrator of a deceased insured
in an action based upon bodily injury, death, or property damage, then an
action may be brought against the insurer on the policy and subject to its
terms and limitations, by such judgment creditor to recover on the judgment.”
 
Accordingly, under the terms of the
policy and Insurance Code section 11580, West American is potentially liable
for any judgment in this action entered against Defendant Young’s Food
Services, Inc. This provides West American with a sufficient basis to intervene
under Code of Civil Procedure section 387. 
 
West American attaches a copy of its
proposed answer in intervene. (Exh. C.)
 
West American has satisfied all
substantive and procedural requirements for its motion. The motion is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS West American Insurance Company’s motion
for leave to intervene.
 
The Court GRANTS West American
leave to file the answer in intervention attached to the moving papers within 7
days of the hearing.
 
Moving
Party is to give notice.
 