 Case Number:  22STCV13766    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 4/16/24                                                          
TRIAL DATE: 10/21/24
Case #22STCV13766
 
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Motion filed on 2/1/24.  
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant William S. Hart Union High School
District
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff John Doe
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
granting summary judgment in favor of Defendant William S. Hart Union High
School District (the District) and against Plaintiff John Doe (Plaintiff).  In the alternative, the District seeks
summary adjudication of the following issues: 
 
(1) Plaintiff’s 3rd
and 5th causes of action for negligent supervision and retention must
be dismissed because the District and its employees had neither actual nor constructive
notice of Defendant Marguerite Lagnado’s (Lagnado) propensity to sexually abuse
minors  (Issue No. 1) (3rd and
5th causes of action); 
 
(2) The District
did not breach any duty to report Lagnado’s sexual misconduct because its employees
had no reasonable suspicion that Lagnado was sexually abusing Plaintiff (Issue
No. 2) (4th cause of action); 
 
(3) The District
was not negligent regarding its hiring of Lagnado (Issue No. 3) (3rd
cause of action); 
 
(4) The District
properly trained its employees, including Lagnado, that sexual interactions with
a minor are unlawful (Issue No. 4) (6th cause of action); and 
 
(5) Plaintiff’s claim
that the District failed to warn Plaintiff about the potential dangers posed by
Lagnado must fail because the District had no knowledge of any such danger (6th
cause of action) (Issue No. 5).

 
RULING: The request for summary judgment is
denied.  The
request for summary adjudication is granted, in part, and denied, in part, as
set forth below.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises from allegations that Plaintiff John
Doe (Plaintiff) was sexually abused in the 1980s by his junior high school
teacher, Defendant Marguerite Lagnado (Lagnado), an employee of Defendant
William S. Hart Union High School District (the District) at the time.
 
On 5/4/22, Plaintiff filed this action against the
District, Lagnado and Doe Defendants.  As
against the District, the operative First Amended Complaint contains causes of
action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention of Unfit Employee (3rd
cause of action), Breach of Mandatory Duty: Failure to Report Suspected Child
Abuse (4th cause of action), Negligent Supervision of a Minor (5th
cause of action), and Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate (6th
cause of action).  
 
On 2/1/24, the District filed and served the instant
motion seeking an order granting summary judgment in favor of the District and
against Plaintiff.  In the alternative,
the District seeks summary adjudication of the following issues: 
 
(1) Plaintiff’s 3rd
and 5th causes of action for negligent supervision and retention
must be dismissed because the District and its employees had neither actual nor
constructive notice of Lagnado’s propensity to sexually abuse minors  (Issue No. 1) (3rd and 5th
causes of action); 
 
(2) The District did not breach
any duty to report Lagnado’s sexual misconduct because its employees had no
reasonable suspicion that Lagnado was sexually abusing Plaintiff (Issue No. 2)
(4th cause of action); 

 
(3) The District was not negligent regarding its hiring
of Lagnado (Issue No. 3) (3rd cause of action); 
 
(4) The District properly trained its employees,
including Lagnado, that sexual interactions with a minor are unlawful (Issue
No. 4) (6th cause of action); and 
 
(5) Plaintiff’s claim that the District failed to warn
Plaintiff about the potential dangers posed by Lagnado must fail because the
District had no knowledge of any such danger (6th cause of action)
(Issue No. 5).
 
On 4/2/24, Plaintiff filed and served an opposition to
the motion.  In the opposition, Plaintiff
agrees to dismiss the 6th cause of action for Negligent Failure to
Warn, Train or Educate.  (See
Opposition, p.7:24-25).  On 4/11/24, the
District filed and served a reply to the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Procedural Defects
 
The District failed to electronically bookmark the
exhibits attached to the moving and reply papers as required.  CRC 3.1110(f)(4).
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The District’s objections to Ex.1, excerpts of John Doe’s
deposition (Nos. 1-5); Ex.2, excerpts of Lagnado’s deposition (Nos. 6-13);
Ex.6, Lagnado’s Felony Complain and Guilty Plea; and the declaration of Marian
Stephens, Ed.D. (Nos. 15-27) are overruled. 
The District failed to cite any authority to support its evidentiary
objections.  See CRC
3.1354(b)(4).  While the District cites People
v. Sanchez to support its objections to 
the declaration of Marian Stephens, Ed.D., it failed to provide an
actual case citation  (See
Objections Nos. 15-27).  Additionally,
the Court finds the objections to otherwise be without merit.   
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The District’s Request for Judicial Notice is denied.  The District requests, pursuant to Evidence
Codde 452(c), (d) and (h) and 453 that the Court take judicial notice of (1) print-out
of from the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing as it relates to Lagnado
and her California teaching credential, and (2) a January 5, 1987 letter from
the Los Angeles County Office of Education regarding Lagnado’s employment and
teaching credential.   
 
The District has failed to establish that the documents
and/or the information contained therein are “[o]fficial acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States [or] of
any state of the United States” (Evidence Code 452(c)); “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States” (Evidence Code 452(d)), and/or “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy” (Evidence Code 452(h)).
 
Issue 1: Plaintiff’s 3rd and 5th
causes of action for negligent supervision and retention must be dismissed
because the District and its employees had neither actual nor constructive
notice of Lagnado’s propensity to sexually abuse minors. 
 
According to Plaintiff, the 3rd and 5th
causes of action are based on the school/the District
employees’ failure to adequately respond to inappropriate behavior and red
flags of sexual abuse.  (See
Opposition, p.8:9-11).  The elements
of both claims are: (1) defendant’s duty to use due care, (2) breach of that
duty, (3) the breach was the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury
to plaintiff.  See Doe v.
Lawndale Elementary School District (Lawndale) (2021) 72 CA5th 113,
125.  
 
Generally, employees of a public entity, such as the
District, are liable for their torts to the same extent as a private person and
the public entity is vicariously liable for any injury which its employees
cause to the same extent as a private employer. 
See C.A. (2012) 53 C4th 861, 868; Government Code 815(b),
815.2(a), 820(a).  The District and all
of its employees have a special relationship with the District’s students which
mandate adequate supervision for the protection of the students.  See Lawndale, supra at
125-126; M.W. (2003) 110 CA4th 508, 524-525; J.H. (2010) 183
CA4th 123, 139.  
 
The duty of care owed by school personnel to students
includes the duty to use reasonable measures to protect students from
foreseeable injury by third parties acting negligently or intentionally,
including injuries to a student as a result of a teacher’s sexual assault.  Lawndale, supra at 126.  School administrators have a duty to protect
students from sexual abuse by school employees, even if the school does not
have actual knowledge of a particular employee’s history of committing, or
propensity to commit, such abuse.  Id.
at 119.
 
The negligence standard for hiring, supervising or
retaining an assaultive employee is “knew or should have known” or “know or
have reason to know.”  See Roe
v. Hesperia Unified School District (Hesperia) (2022) 85 CA5th 13,
26 citing C.A., supra. 
Therefore, liability is imposed on a school district on the basis of
supervisory personnel’s constructive knowledge that an employee is prone to
harm students.  Id.  Constructive knowledge may be shown by
circumstantial evidence which is one or more inferences which arise reasonably
form a series of proven facts.  Id.  With regard to a claim for negligent
supervision of students, a plaintiff must show that school personnel failed to
exercise “ordinary prudence.”  Id.
at 29.  
 
“Administrators who fail to notice, identify, and respond
to warning signs that suggest an employee is sexually abusing or will sexually
abuse a student bear some moral responsibility for the abuse.”  Lawndale, supra at 135.  “In the school context, such monitoring may
include implementing reasonable measures to keep track of employee-student
interactions to identify potentially problematic situations and inappropriate
relationships, even before school administrators know a specific employee has
engaged in sexual misconduct.”  Id.
at 136.  
 
Here, Plaintiff has provided sufficient evidence to
create a triable issue of material fact as to whether school personnel had
constructive notice of an inappropriate relationship between Plaintiff and
Lagnado and/or whether school personnel exercised ordinary prudence with regard
to same.  (See Stephens
Decl.).  For example, Plaintiff has
provided evidence that school personnel were aware that Lagnado was giving
preferential treatment to Plaintiff, that she was driving him to and from
school, that she was taking him off campus during the school day, and that she
was frequently spending lunch in her classroom alone with the Plaintiff with
the door closed.  (Plaintiff’s Additional
Material Disputed Facts (PAMDF) 6-28, 45-57, 59-60).
 Lagnado testified that she did not try
to hide the sexual relationship with Plaintiff and that “the rest of the world
knew” about the relationship.  (PAMDF
59-60).  In turn, a triable question of
material fact exists as to whether the District breached its duty to Plaintiff
by failing to protect Plaintiff from Lagnado’s abuse.    
 
Issue 3: The District was not negligent regarding
its hiring of Lagnado (3rd cause of action). 
 
As noted above, Plaintiff concedes that the 3rd
cause of action is based on the school/the District employees’ failure to
adequately respond to inappropriate behavior and red flags of sexual
abuse.  (See Opposition,
p.8:9-11).  Plaintiff does not argue or
provide any evidence that the District acted negligently in its hiring of
Lagnado.  Rather, in a footnote,
Plaintiff argues that the negligent hiring of Lagnado cannot be separately
adjudicated because a motion for summary adjudication cannot adjudicate a portion
of a cause of action.  (See
Opposition, p.8, fn.1 citing CCP 437c(f)(1) and Rooz (1997) 55 CA4th
573, 593-594).
 
However, it has been held that the legislative intent of
CCP 437c(f) “is effectuated by applying the section in a manner which would
provide for the determination on the merits of summary adjudication motions
involving separate and distinct wrongful acts which are combined in the same
cause of action. To rule otherwise would defeat the time and cost saving
purposes of the amendment and allow a cause of action in its entirety to
proceed to trial even where, as here, a separate and distinct alleged
obligation or claim may be summarily defeated by summary adjudication.”  Hindin (2004) 118 CA4th 1247, 1256
citing Lilienthal & Fowler (1993) 12 CA4th 1848, 1854-1855.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that it is appropriate to
summarily adjudicate Issue 3, or the negligent hiring claim contained within
the 3rd cause of action, in favor of the District.  
 
Issue 2: The District did not breach any duty to
report Lagnado’s sexual misconduct because its employees had no reasonable
suspicion that Lagnado was sexually abusing Plaintiff (4th cause of
action). 
 
Under the Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act (CANRA),
school employees are mandated reporters of child abuse.  Penal Code 11166, et seq.  “CANRA requires a ‘mandated reporter,’ which
includes teachers and certain other school employees, ‘to make a report to law
enforcement agency or a county welfare department ‘whenever the mandated
reporter, in his or her professional capacity or within the scope of his or her
employment, has knowledge of or observes a child whom the mandated reporter
knows or reasonably suspects has been the victim of child abuse or neglect.”  Lawndale, supra at 138.  “A mandated reporter has a ‘reasonable
suspicion’ when ‘it is objectively reasonable for a person to entertain a
suspicion, based upon facts that could cause a reasonable person in a like
position, drawing, when appropriate, on his or her training and experience, to
suspect child abuse or neglect.’” Hesperia, supra at 32.
“‘Reasonable suspicion’ does not require certainty that child abuse or neglect
has occurred nor does it require a specific medical indication of child abuse
or neglect; any ‘reasonable suspicion’ is sufficient.”  Id.; See also Lawndale, supra
at 143.
 
Here, Plaintiff has presented evidence that several
school employees were aware that Lagnado was giving Plaintiff preferential
treatment, that she was spending significant time alone with him behind closed
doors, and that she was taking him off campus in her car.  (See PAMDF 13-14, 18-20, 24-27, 36,
44-47, 49, 58-59).  The evidence also
shows that Lagnado’s frequent writing of late passes for Plaintiff and for Jeff
Selph, who was not even in her class, also raised suspicions with teachers, who
failed to report their suspicions pursuant to their mandatory duty.  (PAMDF 51, 53-57).
 
The foregoing creates a triable issue of material fact
with regard to Issue 2 and/or Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action.  
  
Issue 4: The District properly trained its
employees, including Lagnado, that sexual interactions with a minor are
unlawful (6th cause of action); and Issue 5: Plaintiff’s claim that
the District failed to warn Plaintiff about the potential dangers posed by
Lagnado must fail because the District had no knowledge of any such danger (6th
cause of action).
 
Plaintiff has not addressed Issues 4 and 5 in the
opposition and, as noted above, Plaintiff has agreed to dismiss the 6th
cause of action.  (See Opposition,
p.7:24-25).  Therefore, if Plaintiff has
not dismissed the claim by the time of the hearing, the District is entitled to
summary adjudication in its favor of Issues 4 and 5, or as to the 6th
cause of action in Plaintiff’s complaint.   

 
CONCLUSION
The request for summary judgment is denied.  The request for summary adjudication is
granted as to Issues 4 and 5, or as to the 6th cause of action.  The request for summary adjudication is
granted as to Issue 3 with regard to the claim for negligent hiring, only,
contained within the 3rd cause of action.  The request for summary adjudication is
denied as to Issues 1 and 2, or as to the claims for negligent supervision and
retention of an unfit employee in the 3rd cause of action, and as to
the entirety of the  4th and 5th
causes of action.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 