  Case Number:  19SMCV01836    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Creditors Adjustment Bureau v.
Common Are Maintenance Services, et al. 



Case No.:


19SMCV01836


Complaint Filed:


10-17-19         




Hearing Date:


10-31-23 


Discovery C/O:


4-25-22




Calendar No.:


8


Discovery Motion C/O:


5-9-22




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


12-4-23



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Common Area
Maintenance Services, Inc., et al. 
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Creditors
Adjustment Bureau, Inc. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant
Common Area Maintenance Services, Inc., et al.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or
in the alternative Summary Adjudication is DENIED. Defendant does not meet
their burden of showing that Plaintiff cannot prove one or more elements of
Plaintiff’s causes of action. Plaintiff has met their burden of raising a
triable issue of material fact as to each of the four causes of action.
            
Plaintiff’s objections to Herrera
Decl., ¶ 6, lines 21–23, Katsuyama Decl., ¶ 2, lines 10–12, ¶ 5, lines 18–19,  and Exhibit 9, February 14, 2023 Audit Chart are
OVERRULED.
  
Defendant’s objections to the Gowery
Decl. ¶7, Innis Decl. ¶8) and Larsen Decl. Nos 1-2 (¶18),  3 (¶19) are OVERRULED.  
 
Where a defendant seeks summary
judgment or adjudication, they must show that either “one or more elements of
the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or
that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.” (See Code of Civil
Procedure §437c(o)(2).) A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the
claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential
element of the claim. (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.) Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts
to plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists
as to that cause of action or defense thereto.” (Id.) If unable to prove
the existence of a triable issue of material fact, summary judgment or summary
adjudication in favor of the defendant is proper. (Id.)  
The court's assessment of whether
the moving party has carried its burden—and therefore caused a shift in the
burden —occurs before the court's evaluation of the opposing party's papers.
Therefore, the burden on the motion does not initially shift as a result of
what is, or is not, contained in the opposing papers.” (Mosley v. Pacific
Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 (landlord’s
failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana
growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party
failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher v. Lucky
Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot grant
summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine
if the moving party has satisfied its burden). In addition, the evidence and
affidavits of the moving party are construed strictly, while those of the
opponent are liberally read. See Government Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct.
(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100. Finally, “All doubts as to the propriety of
granting the motion (whether there is any issue of material fact [Code of Civil
Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing the motion
(i.e., a denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)
 
I.               
Triable Issues of Fact Remain as to Plaintiff’s
First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
 
“A cause of action for breach of
contract requires proof of the following elements: (1) existence of the
contract; (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3)
defendant's breach; and (4) damages to plaintiff as a result of the breach.” (Miles
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.)  
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff cannot
establish that Defendant breached the terms of the first, Policy No.
9083976-14, covered January 1, 2014 through January 1, 2015, and the second
Policy No. 9083976-15, covered January 1, 2015 through January 1, 2016
(collectively, the “Policies”) because Plaintiff cannot prove their that
forty-eight alleged independent contractors should be classified as employees,
a classification that would increase the premium amount allegedly owed on the
Policies. (Motion, p. 5.)  For this
motion, however, the initial burden is on the Defendant employer to produce
evidence that shows the forty-eight alleged independent contractors are in fact
independent contractors and not employees.  Defendants provided evidence of an alleged
independent contractor agreement they require all subcontractors to sign,
however, the only signed agreement they submit is from a subcontractor whose
payroll is not applicable to the determination of additional premium.  (See Separate Statement (“SS”) ¶ 4; Herrera
Decl., ¶, Ex. 2; see also Larson Decl., ¶ 20.)  Defendants have not met their burden to show that
all forty-eight alleged independent contractors should be affirmatively
classified as independent contractors.  
 
Even if Defendants could affirmatively
show that the forty-eight alleged independent contractors were in fact
independent contractors, Plaintiff has met its burden of raising a trial issue
of material fact as to the alleged independent contractor’s status under Borello.  Under Borello, "the principal
test of an employment relationship [was] whether the person to whom service is
rendered ha[ d] the right to control the manner and means of accomplishing the
result desired." (Ayala v. Antelope Valley Newspapers, Inc. (2014)
59 Cal.4th 522, 531, quoting Borello, supra, 48 Cal.3d at p. 350.)
Borello set forth several "secondary indicia" which inform the
task of classifying workers as employees including: “(a) whether the one
performing services is engaged in a distinct occupation or business; (b) the
kind of occupation, with reference to whether, in the locality, the work is
usually done under the direction of the principal or by a specialist without
supervision; (c) the skill required in the particular occupation; (d) whether
the principal or the worker supplies the instrumentalities, tools, and the
place of work for the person doing the work; (e) the length of time for which
the services are to be performed; (f) the method of payment, whether by the
time or by the job; (g) whether or not the work is a part of the regular
business of the principal; and (h) whether or not the parties believe they are
creating the relationship of employer-employee.” Ayala, supra, 59
Cal.4th at p. 532; see Borello, supra 48 Cal.3d at p. 351.)
 
These "individual factors
cannot be applied mechanically as separate tests; they are intertwined and
their weight depends often on particular combinations." (Borello, supra
48 Cal.3d at p. 351; Ayala, supra, 59 Cal.4th at p. 539 [the
hirer's right of control, together with the skill which is required in the
occupation, is often of almost conclusive weight.”].) “Significantly, what
matters under the common law is not how much control a hirer exercises,
but how much control the hirer retains the right to exercise. (Ayala,
supra, 59 Cal.4th at p. 533.) “[S]trong evidence in support of an
employment relationship is the right to discharge at will, without cause.” (Borello,
supra, 48 Cal.3d at p. 350; see also Ayala, supra,
59 Cal.4th at p. 533 [“Perhaps the strongest evidence of the right to control
is whether the hirer can discharge the worker without cause, because [t]he
power of the principal to terminate the services of the agent gives him the
means of controlling the agent's activities.” (internal cites omitted)].)
 
Plaintiff points to Defendants’
Maintenance Subcontracts which Defendants required each of its alleged independent
contractors to sign prior to commencing work. (SS, ¶ 4; Herrera Decl., ¶ 6, Ex.
2.)  The Maintenance Subcontracts provide
multiple examples of how Defendant retains control over the alleged independent
contractors including:
 
1.    
“Upon expiration of the Initial Term, this Agreement
shall continue on a month-to-month basis . . .” (Larson Decl., ¶¶ 18–19, Ex. 5,
Art. 2.) 
2.    
“Any request for extras which appears to be based
either on the lack of specific details in the plans or specific reference in
the specifications will not be approved as an extra if in the sole opinion of
CAM the work in question is a required item under the Work." (Larson
Decl., ¶¶ 18–19, Ex. 5, Art. 3(e).)
3.    
"PROSECUTION OF THE WORK.[ ... ] (b) Subcontractor
shall proceed with the performance of the Work as directed by CAM. [ ...
]" (Larson Decl., ¶¶ 18–19, Ex. 5, Art. 6(b).)
4.    
Subcontractor acknowledges and guarantees that it is
not permitted to directly perform any of the Work described herein or related
services similar to those described in this Agreement to Owner without prior
written consent of CAM." (Larson Decl., ¶¶ 18–19, Ex. 5, Art. 13(c).)
5.    
CAM shall have the authority and discretion to
terminate this Agreement with forty-eight (48) hours advance notice for any
cause whatsoever." (Larson Decl., ¶¶ 18–19, Ex. 5, Art. 17(i).)
 
These provisions show Defendant retained enough control over
the work relationship as to consider each alleged independent contractor as an
employee. Plaintiff points to evidence of Defendants inability to establish the
forty-eight alleged independent contractors had valid workers compensation
coverage during the 2014 and 2015 policy years. (Larson Decl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff
argues there are various irregularities with the certificates of insurance including
falsified or fabricated policy numbers submitted by Defendants leading
Plaintiff to believe they were either “forged, falsified, or fabricated in an
attempt to show worker’s compensation coverage that did not exist.” (Id.,
¶ 16, Ex. 4.) 
 
            Additionally,
Plaintiff points out all other Borello factors point to employment status for the
forty-eight alleged independent contractors including:
 
1.     Borello Factor (a): Defendants provide “cleaning, janitorial, landscaping, and
other maintenance services.” Defendants hired the forty-eight alleged
independent contractors as gardeners, janitors and handymen thus they were
hired to perform, the same services as the regular business of the employer.
(Plaintiff’s Additional Facts in the Separate Statement (“PAF”) ¶ 35.)
2.     Borello Factor (c): Cleaning, janitorial and landscaping work which Defendant
provides falls into the unskilled workers category. 
3.     Borello Factor (e): Defendant provided steady full-time employment for many of
their alleged independent contractors, several of which worked for Defendant
for decades. (Id.)
4.     Borello Factor (f): Defendants paid alleged independent contractors on a
monthly basis. (Id.)
5.     Borello Factor (g): Defendants admit that “most of the cleaning, janitorial,
landscaping, and other maintenance services are provided by subcontractors.”
(Herrera Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff has met their burden of raising a triable
issue of material fact as to the employment status of the alleged independent
contractors. Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of the first cause of
action for breach of contract is DENIED.
 
II.            
Triable Issues of Fact Remain as to Plaintiff’s Second
Cause of Action for Open Book Account
 
The elements of an open book
account cause of action are: (1) that plaintiff and defendant had financial
transactions; (2) that plaintiff kept an account of the debits and credits
involved in the transactions; (3) that defendant owes plaintiff money on the
account; and (4) the amount of money that defendant owes plaintiff.  (State Compensation Insurance Fund v.
ReadyLink Healthcare, Inc. (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 422, 449.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
cannot meet the third element because Plaintiff cannot prove that the alleged
independent contractors were employees. This argument fails, as analyzed above,
because Defendants provided no affirmative evidence showing the alleged
independent contractors were in fact independent contractors.
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff cannot
meet the second and fourth elements since Plaintiff did not keep an “account of
debits and credits involved,” and there is no finalized amount owed. (SS, ¶ 13.)
 However, Plaintiff issued Defendants
Final Audit Statements for the Policies detailing all charges, payments and
credits on the account on 12-17-18 and 12-18-18. (Innis Decl., ¶¶ 6–8 Ex. 3,
4.) Plaintiff argues Defendant has failed or refused to make any payments
toward either of the outstanding balances for the 2014 and 2015 policy years (Id.,
¶ 8.) Thus, Plaintiff has met their burden of raising a triable issue of
material fact as to the second cause of action for Open Book Account. 
 
 
 
III.          
Triable Issues of Fact Remain as to Plaintiff’s
Third Cause of Action for Account Stated
 
The essential elements of an
account stated are: (1) previous transactions between the parties establishing
the relationship of debtor and creditor; (2) an agreement between the parties,
express or implied, on the amount due from the debtor to the creditor; (3) a
promise by the debtor, express or implied, to pay the amount due. (Zinn v.
Fred R. Bright Co. (1969) 271 Cal.App.2d 597, 600, internal citation
omitted)
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff cannot prove
the second or third elements for Account Stated because “at no time has there
been any agreement about the amount of premiums owed for the polices,” and no
promise to pay an amount due since Plaintiff continuously changed the amount
owed after multiple audits. (SS, ¶¶ 2, 11, 22, 25.) However, Plaintiff provided
evidence of the signed 2014 Policy showing an agreement between the parties to
pay an amount due, specifically an amount due determined after the policy ends by
using “the actual premium basis and proper classifications, rates, and rating
plans that lawfully apply to the business and work covered by the policy.”
(Innis Decl., ¶¶ 5, Ex. 2 at p. 4, Sections C, D. and E.) This signed agreement
is therefore an express promise to pay an amount owed after the policy ends
upon Plaintiff’s determination of the actual premium.  Thus, Plaintiff has met their burden of
raising a triable issue of material fact as to the third cause of action for
Account Stated. 
 
 
IV.          
Triable Issues of Fact Remain as to Plaintiff’s
Fourth Cause of Action for Reasonable Value or Quantum Meruit
 
“To recover on a claim for the
reasonable value of services under a quantum meruit theory, a plaintiff must
establish both that he or she was acting pursuant to either an express or
implied request for services from the defendant and that the services rendered
were intended to and did benefit the defendant.” (Ochs v. PacifiCare of
California (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 782, 794, internal citation omitted.)
 
Defendants argue that
reasonable value is not a cause of action in California, but they are
incorrect, as it is a claim for Quantum Meruit, or the common count for goods
and services rendered. Defendant argues Plaintiff has failed to show Plaintiff
was unpaid for services rendered. (Motion, p. 10.) Plaintiff points out, and
provides evidence, that Defendants were sent final audited invoices as per the
policy agreement for both the 2014 and 2015 policy years, which Defendants have
failed to pay the total amount due. (Innis Decl., ¶¶ 6–8, Ex. 3, 4.) Thus,
Thus, Plaintiff has met their burden of raising a triable issue of material
fact as to the fourth cause of action for Reasonable Value. 