  Case Number:  23STCV08344    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   August
16, 2024                                              
 
CASE NAME:           Quetzal Salcido, et al v. Eric
Martirosyan, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV08344

 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:  Cross-Defendant
Quetzal Salcido, individually and as Administrator of Patricia
Salcido-Alvonistis’ estate
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Cross-Complainants Erik
Martirosyan and E&E Ristorante Group, Inc.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the entire First Amended Cross-Complaint for failing to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      The
Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety;
2.      Cross-Complainants
shall have an opportunity to argue reasonable possibility to amend the FACC to
correct the identified deficiencies.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On April 14, 2023, Plaintiff Quetzal Salciso, as
Administrator of Patricia Salcido-Alvonistis’s estate (Plaintiff) filed a
Complaint against Defendants Eric Maritrosyan and E&E Ristorante Group,
Inc. (Defendant) for breach of contract. According to the Complaint, the
parties entered into a written lease on July 12, 2013.[1]
Defendants failed to pay rent since October 2020 and failed to pay any property
taxes as required by the lease. Plaintiff attached a copy of the lease.
 
Cross-Complainants filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint
(FACC) on August 8, 2023, with two causes of action for: (1) Breach of Lease;
and (2) Fraud in the Inducement. 
 
Cross-Complainants allege that they entered a lease with
Patricia Salcido Alvonitis (Patricia) on July 15, 2013, to operate a restaurant
at 2861 W. Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90026 (Premises).
Cross-Complainant alleges that due to a confidentiality term they did not
attach the lease to their Cross-Complaint. The Premises needed serious and
substantial capital improvements and repairs. Cross-Complainants allege that
prior to entering into the lease, they and Patricia discussed the Premises’
condition in person and by phone. During these conversations, Patricia told
Cross-Complainants that if they were willing to finance full remodeling of the
Premises, then (a) they would be given the right to extend the lease a
five-year option term, (b) if any repair (not maintenance) was necessary during
the tenancy it would be split 50/50, and (c) any repair or replacement of any
part of the Premises apart from the building would solely be Lessor’s
responsibility (collectively, the Representations). 
 
Cross-Defendant untimely filed the instant demurrer to the
First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) on September 26, 2023. Cross-Complainants timely
filed an opposition on November 8, 2023. 
 
On November 22, 2023, the court CONTINUED the hearing on the
demurrer to the FACC.
 
On January 19, 2024, Cross-Complainants filed a supplemental
opposition. 
 
On January 31, 2024, Cross-Defendant filed a declaration in
support of the demurrer.
 
On February 5, 2024, Counsel for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel which the court GRANTED.
 
On April 23, 2024, Cross-Defendant filed a reply in support
of the demurrer. 
 
On May 10, 2024, Cross-Defendant filed a brief in support of
demurrer. On May 24, 2024, Cross-Complainants filed a second supplemental
opposition.
 
On June 4, 2024, the parties stipulated to continue the
hearing on the demurrer to the FACC.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Timeliness
 
A defendant can demur within the same period
of time it has to answer the complaint – i.e., 30 days after
service, unless extended by stipulation or court order. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
(CCP) § 430.40(a).) Because the statutory language setting the time limit after
service of the complaint states “may” and not “must” the court can still
consider a general demurrer. (CCP § 473(a)(1); McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 280; Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th
742, 750 [concluding that the late-filed demurrer did not affect plaintiff’s
“substantial rights” because plaintiff did not take steps to obtain a default
judgment or otherwise demonstrate prejudice from the delay.])
 
Here, Cross-Complainants did not demonstrate prejudice by
Cross-Defendant’s late-filing of the demurrer. Cross-Complainants
note that the FACC was filed and served electronically on August 8, 2023. (Mitilian
Decl. ¶ 2.) The time to respond to the FACC was 30 calendar days plus 2 court
days for electronic service, resulting in a due date of September 11, 2023. Cross-Complainants
filed a Request for Entry of Default on September 26, 2023, which was rejected
on September 28, 2023, due to Cross-Defendant’s filing of the demurrer. Cross-Complainants
timely filed an opposition to the instant demurrer. Indeed, the parties had
ample opportunity to provide additional briefing.
 
Accordingly, the court exercises its discretion to rule on
the merits of the demurrer.
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states
a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿ 
 
Meet & Confer
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a)(2) & (3). According to the declaration of RoseAnn
Frazee, Cross-Defendant attempted to meet and confer with Cross-Complainants
via email on June 7, 2023. (Frazee Decl. ¶ 1-2.) Cross-Complainants contend
that this did not happen and is materially false. (Mitilian Decl. ¶ 5.) The
court is inclined to agree with Cross-Defendants because Cross-Defendant represents
to have attempted to meet and confer on a FACC that was filed two months later.[2]
(Frazee Decl. ¶ 1.) Still, failure to meet and confer is not a sufficient ground
to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract & Statute of Frauds[3]
 
Cross-Defendant contends that
this cause of action fails because they are not required to share equally in
all repair expenses under the terms of the lease. Additionally, Cross-Defendant
contends that the alleged representations are not in the written lease
agreement and there is no way to confirm or deny whether these representations
were made because Patricia, the person allegedly making the representations,
has since died. Cross-Defendant cites no authority supporting their position.
Cross-Complainants argue that they sufficiently alleged breach of contract.
 
Cross-Complainants contend the Statute of Frauds does not
apply to the first or second causes of action to the FACC because they arise
from the written lease. Conversely, Cross-Complainants contend that the
Pre-Lease Representations are a standalone agreement separate and apart from
the lease meant to induce Cross-Complainants to execute the lease.
Cross-Defendants argue the Statute of Frauds does apply because the Pre-Lease
Representations could not be performed within one year, are not based on the
lease, and extended over a 10-year period.
 
“To establish a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of the contract, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s
breach, and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff. [Citation.]” (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98.) “A written contract may be pleaded either by its terms
– set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the
complaint and incorporated therein by reference – or by its legal effect.
[Citation.] In order to plead a
contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its
relevant terms.’” (Heritage Pacific
Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 993.)  “The elements of
a breach of oral contract are the same as those for breach of a written
contract. [Citations.]” (Stockton
Mortgage, Inc. v. Tope (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 437, 453.)
 
“An agreement that by its terms is not to be performed
within a year from the making thereof” is invalid under the Statute of Frauds.
(Civ. Code § 1624(a)(1).) Our courts interpret this section interpreted
“literally and very narrowly.” (Plumlee
v. Poag (1984) 150 Cal.App.3d 541, 548.) If the terms indicate performance
is possible within one year even though it is probable to extend beyond one
year, then it does not fall within the statute. (Id. at 548-549.) The contract is invalid only if, by its terms, it
is impossible to perform within one year. (Id.
at p. 549.) “It is not invalid unless it contains language whose reasonable
interpretation shows a clear intention that it cannot be performed within the
year.” (Id. [internal citations
omitted].) 
 
Here, the alleged oral contract falls within the statute. The
Pre-Lease Representations consist of Cross-Complainants’ “full remodeling of
the building on the Premises with their own finances and without any monetary
payment from Alvonitis as a ‘tenant allowance’” (FACC ¶ 8.) This clause does
not fall within the statute because it is possible to complete within one year.
(Plumlee, supra, 150 Cal.App.3d at p.
548-549.) In exchange, Alvonitis promised three things: “(a) Cross-Complainants
would be given the right to extend the Lease a five-year option term; (b) if
any repair [as opposed to maintenance] was necessary during the tenancy
then repair costs incurred by Cross-Complainants during the tenancy
would be shared equally [50/50] as between Alvonitis as Lessor, and
Cross-Complainants; and (c) any repair or replacement of any part of the
Premises apart from the building on the Premises would solely be the financial
responsibility of Alvonitis as Lessor.” (Ibid.
(bolding added.)) Cross-Complainants allege these agreements were incorporated
into the Lease. (Ibid.) The court is
hard-pressed to conclude that the parties clearly intended performance within
one year. Specifically, the parties allegedly agreed to necessary repairs
“during the tenancy” which was for a ten-year period. It reasonably follows
that the promised repair split identified as the second Pre-Lease
Representation must occur after one year. The same logic applies to the third
representation.[4]
Indeed, Cross-Complainants allege breach by Cross-Defendants’ “failing to share
equally in all repair expenses incurred by Cross-Complainants, and failing to
make necessary repairs and/or replacements on or to the Premises.” (FACC ¶ 12.)
As such, the Pre-Lease Representations at issue here cannot be enforced.[5]
 
The court declines to develop the argument concerning the
parol evidence rule and fraud exception in light of the above discussion on the
statute of frauds.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the first
cause of action.
 
Second Cause of
Action - Fraud
 
Cross-Defendant contends this cause of action fails to plead
fraud with the necessary specificity because Cross-Complainants do not allege
when the representations were made (except to say they were made prior to
entering the lease), do not explain justifiable reliance on those
representations, or specific damages as a result. Cross-Complainants argue that
they have sufficiently alleged the ultimate facts supporting a claim for fraud
and that they are not required to go into minute detail.
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay
v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184; Reeder, supra, 52 Cal.App.5th at p. 803.) “The particularity
demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and
by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469; Perlas v. GMAC Mort., LLC (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 429, 434 [requiring plaintiffs who claim fraud against a
corporation to allege the names of the persons who made the misrepresentations,
their authority to speak for the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they
said or wrote, and when it was said or written.]) Fraud allegations need not be
liberally construed, general pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is
insufficient, and every element of the cause of action for fraud must be
alleged fully, factually and specifically. (Wilhelm
v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal. App. 3d 1324, 1331.) A plaintiff’s claim
does not depend on whether the defendant’s promise is ultimately an enforceable
contract. (Reeder, supra, 52
Cal.App.5th at p. 803.)
 
Upon
reviewing the FACC, Cross-Complainants have insufficiently plead a claim for
fraud. Cross-Complainants have identified the subject representations: “(a)
Cross-Complainants would be given the right to extend the lease a five-year
option term; (b) if any repair [as opposed to maintenance] was necessary during
the tenancy then repair costs incurred by Cross-Complainants during the tenancy
would be shared equally [50/50] as between Alvonitis as Lessor, and
Cross-Complainants; and (c) any repair or replacement of any part of the
Premises apart from the building on the Premises would solely be the financial
responsibility of Alvonitis as Lessor. . . These obligations and agreement were
incorporated into the Lease [and Cross-Complainants’ tenancy arrangement] by
agreement of Cross-Complainants and Lessor.” (FACC ¶ 8.) However, Cross-Complainants
allege that Patricia did not intend to act in accordance with those
representations and that she intended Cross-Complainants’ reliance. (FACC ¶¶ 16,
17.) These are not facts. (Reeder, supra,
52 Cal.App.5th at p. 804, citing Riverisland
Cold Storage, Inc. v. Fresno-Madera Production Credit Assn. (2013) 55
Cal.4th 1169, 1183 (“It is insufficient to show an unkept but honest promise,
or mere subsequent failure to perform.”)) 
 
Accordingly,
the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the second cause of action.
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend should be liberally granted if there is a
reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the defect.¿ (County of Santa Clara v. Superior Court
(2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 1018,1035.)¿ The Plaintiff has the burden of
demonstrating that leave to amend should be granted, and that the defects can
be cured by amendment. (“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can amend his
complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”
(Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349). 
 
Here,
Cross-Complainants have requested leave to amend. While the court is skeptical
that Cross-Complainants could reasonably amend the FACC to cure the above
defects, in
an exercise of caution, the court will allow Cross-Complainants to present oral
argument at the hearing.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      The
Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety;
2.      Cross-Complainants
shall have an opportunity to argue reasonable possibility to amend the FACC to
correct the identified deficiencies.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             August
16, 2024                      __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


