 Case Number:  20STCV27665    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SANDRA NORLUND, an individual, and SANDRA NORLUND, Trustee of
  the Norlund Family Trust Dated September 15, 2000,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
RICHARD L. NORLUND; SHARON K. BACON-NORLUND; RICHARD L. NORLUND
  as Successor Trustee of “Trust A” of the “Norlund Family Trust dated March
  16, 1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Successor Trustee of “Trust B” of the
  “Norlund Family Trust dated March 16, 1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Trustee of
  “Richard L. Norlund Separate Property Trust dated December 11, 1997”; RICHARD
  L. NORLUND and SHARON K. BACONNORLUND, as Trustees of the “Norlund Family
  Trust dated May 13, 2019”, and DOES 6 through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants,
NANCY
  HYMAS, as Trustee for Trust A
FBO
  Nancy Hymas and Trust B FBO Nancy
Hymas,
                        Nominal
  Defendants.


 Case No.:                           20STCV27665
 Hearing Date:   5/9/24
 Trial Date:         8/20/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff-Intervenors
  Nancy Hymas, an individual, Nancy Hymas, Trustee of Trust A FBO Nancy Hyman
  and Trust B FBO Nancy Hymas, and Nancy Hymas, Beneficiary of Trust A FBO
  Nancy Hyman and Trust B FBO Nancy Hymas’ Motion to Vacate Expungement and/or
  for Leave to Re-Record Lis Pendens; and
Plaintiffs Sandra
  Norlund, an individual, and Sandra Norlund, Trustee of The Norlund Family
  Trust Dated September 15, 2000’s Motion for Order and Appointment of Receiver.



 
I. Background
A.
Pleadings at Issue
On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff-Intervenors Nancy Hymas, an
individual, Nancy Hymas, Trustee of Trust A FBO Nancy Hyman and Trust B FBO
Nancy Hymas, and Nancy Hymas, Beneficiary of Trust A FBO Nancy Hyman and Trust
B FBO Nancy Hymas (collectively, Nancy Hymas or Nancy) filed a First Amended
Complaint in Intervention (FACI) alleging claims of (1) Judicial Foreclosure,
(2) Breach of Contract; Specific Performance and Enforcement of Settlement
Agreement Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 664.6, (3) Actual Fraud, (4)
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, (5) Declaratory
Relief, and (6) Quiet Title.
B.
Motion to Vacate Expungement of Lis Pendens or for Leave to Re-Record Lis
Pendens
On March 28, 2024, Nancy filed a motion to vacate this Court’s February
15, 2024, order expunging lis pendens notices recorded by Nancy in relation to
this action or, in the alternative, granting Nancy leave to re-record a lis
pendens notice as based on the real property claims allegedly stated in the
FACI.
On April 2, 2024, Nancy Hymas filed an ex parte application to advance
the hearing on her March 29th motion.
On April 3, 2024, the Court denied Nancy’s ex parte application.
On April 23, 2024, Defendants Richard L. Norlund and Sharon K. Norlund,
in their various capacities (the Norlund Defendants) filed an opposition to
Nancy’s motion.
On April 29, 2024, Nancy Hymas replied to the Norlund Defendants’
opposition.
Nancy Hymas’s motion is now before the Court.
C.
Motion for Order Appointing Receiver
On March 29, 2024, Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund, an individual, and Sandra
Norlund, Trustee of The Norlund Family Trust Dated September 15, 2000 (Sandra
Norlund or Sandra) filed an ex parte application for an order appointing a
receiver over the real property at issue in this action, i.e., 14924 Arrow
Highway, Baldwin Park, California (the Baldwin Park property).
On April 2, 2024, the Norlund Defendants filed an opposition to Sandra
Norlund’s ex parte application.
On April 3, 2024, the Court set Sandra’s application on calendar as a
motion set for hearing on May 6, 2024, later continued to May 9, 2024.
On April 23, 2024, the Norlund Defendants filed an opposition to Sandra’s
motion.
On April 29, 2024, Sandra Norlund replied to the Norlund Defendants’
opposition.
Sandra Norlund’s motion is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion
to Vacate Expungement of Lis Pendens or for Leave to Re-Record Lis Pendens:
DENIED, without prejudice.
A. Legal
Standard
A
party in an action asserting a real property claim may record a lis pendens. (§
405.20; J & A Mash & Barrel, LLC v. Superior Court (Jan. 19, 2022)
74 Cal.App.5th 1, 15 (J & A Mash).) It notifies “prospective
purchasers, encumbrancers and transferees that there is litigation pending that
affects the property.” (Amalgamated Bank v. Superior Court (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 1003, 1011.) It “acts as a cloud against the property, effectively
preventing sale or encumbrance until the litigation is resolved or the [notice]
is expunged.” (Ibid.) Once a party records a lis pendens, any party with
an interest in the property may move to expunge the notice under section
405.30. (J & A, [supra,] at p. 16.) Section 405.30 is
intended to prevent an unwarranted clouding of a party’s title with an
inappropriate or void notice of pending action. (McKnight v. Superior Court
(1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 291, 303.)
Once
a notice of pending action has been expunged, the claimant may not record
another notice of pending action as to the affected property without leave of
the court in which the action is pending. (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.36.)
Useful
to a determination on whether leave to re-record a lis pendens notice are the
grounds for expunging a lis pendens notice, which comprise the grounds upon
which a court can determine that a lis pendens notice is or is not supported:
(1)
The lis pendens is “void or invalid” because the requirements of service or
recording the affidavit of service are not satisfied (Civ. Proc. Code, § 405.23;
see McKnight v. Superior Court (2016) 170 Cal.App.3d 291, 301-303);
(2)
The action does not involve a real property claim (Civ. Proc. Code, § 405.31;
see, e.g., Kirkeby v. Superior Court of Orange County (2004) 33 Cal.4th
642, 651-652 (Kirkeby) [explaining that the court should engage in a
demurrer-like analysis of the pleadings under Civ. Proc. Code, § 405.32, and
holding that a particular fraudulent conveyance claim satisfied the
requirements for a real property claim]);
(3)
The claimant has not proven the probable validity of the claim by a
preponderance of the evidence (Civ. Proc. Code, § 405.32; see also Amalgamated
Bank v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1003 [holding that the
probable validity standard applies not only before trial, but also after trial
and on appeal];
(4)
Even if the claimant alleges a real property claim and proves its probable
validity, monetary relief is adequate (Civ. Proc. Code, § 405.33); or
(5)
After a prior expungement motion granted on condition that the claimant file an
undertaking, the claimant failed to file a undertaking ordered by the court as
a condition to maintaining the lis pendens (Civ. Proc. Code, § 405.34; Kirkeby,
supra, 33 Cal.4th at p. 647, fn. 2).
B.
Analysis
1. Real Property Claim
a.
Relevant Law
A
“real property claim” involves a cause or causes of action in a pleading that,
if meritorious, affect (a) title to, or the right to possession of, specific
real property or (b) the use of an easement identified in the pleading, other
than an easement obtained pursuant to statute by any regulated public utility.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 405.4.)
Whether a party fails to state a real property claim for
lis pendens purposes is decided solely by an analysis of the pleadings without
the admission of extrinsic evidence because the lis pendens is expunged if the
court finds that “the pleading” does not set forth a real property claim. (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 405.31; see Kirkeby v. Superior Court of Orange County
(2004) 33 Cal.4th 642, 650-651 [rejecting the assertion that a court shall
“look through the pleadings” and consider the merits of the claim in
considering expungement under Code Civ. Proc., § 405.31, and contrasting it
with the issues of “factual merit” for expungement under Code Civ. Proc., §
405.32].) The demurrer-like analysis of the court in considering expungement of a
lis pendens for failure to state a real property claim should occur without the
taking of evidence, other than possibly such evidence which may be judicially
noticed as on a demurrer. (Park 100 Inv. Group II v. Ryan (2009) 180
Cal.App.4th 795, 808 (Park 100).)
b.
Court’s Determination
The
Court determines that various allegations and claims alleged in Nancy Hymas’s FACI
amount to a real property claim.
The
FACI alleges claims for specific performance on the parties’ settlement
agreement in Butte County, quiet title, and declaratory relief relating to
rights in the Baldwin Park property. The prayer for these claims involves
orders that would require the Norlund Defendants to re-record the title
documents for the Baldwin Park property in conformity with the parties’
settlement agreement, would permit the trustee of the deed of trust to
foreclose on the Baldwin Park property, would place Nancy Hymas’s interest in
the property in first position along with Sandra Norlund’s, and would dispose
of the proceeds of the sale to Nancy Hymas in order of lien interest. The
prayer bases this relief on various allegations as follows. The parties entered
a settlement agreement making Nancy Hymas and Sandra Norlund the beneficiaries of
a promissory note tied to a deed of trust recorded on the Baldwin Park property
by Richard Norlund. The Norlund Defendants breached the settlement agreement by
recording a deed of trust containing a promissory note that did not match the
promissory note executed in favor of Nancy Hymas and Sandra Norlund. Richard
Norlund also inappropriately withheld a portion of the monthly payment due to
Nancy Hymas. These and other actions amounted to breaches of the settlement
agreement. However, because Nancy Hymas’s promissory note did not match the
promissory note recorded with the County Recorder’s Office, Nancy and Sandra
could not foreclose based on any breach. Neither did Richard Norlund obtain
title insurance. The Norlund Defendants have also refused to re-record the deed
of trust on the Baldwin Park property to conform with the parties’ settlement
agreement. Based on these defects, Nancy has not been able to pursue her rights
under the parties’ settlement agreement. (See, e.g., FACI, ¶¶ 30-31, 62-63, Prayer,
¶¶ 1, 5-13.)
Actions
that affect title to or possession of real property include, among others,
actions to cancel a deed or other instrument affecting real property rights (Martin
v. Lawrence (1909) 156 Cal. 191) and to foreclose a mortgage or deed of
trust (Bolton v. Logan (1938) 30 Cal.App.2d 30). Here, the specific
performance requested would necessitate the superseding of the current deed of
trust on the property with a new deed of trust conforming with the parties’
settlement agreement. Moreover, Plaintiff prays for an order permitting a
foreclosure sale of the Baldwin Park property after their promissory note is
secured by a new deed of trust. These allegations thus clearly state a real
property claim in at least two ways.
The
Norlund Defendants’ opposition heavily relies on this Court’s analysis of the
real property claim viability in Nancy Hymas’s original pleading in this
action. (See, e.g., Opp’n, p. 6 at § I.C.) However, because the demurrer-like analysis
for real property claim sufficiency involves only the operative pleadings, the
Norlund Defendants’ reliance on the February 15, 2024, order is misplaced. (Park 100, supra, 180 Cal.App.4th at p. 808.) Moreover,
the Norlund Defendants are incorrect in arguing that “[c]hanging cause of
action title does not change” the facts underlying the Court’s February 15,
2024, order. (Opp’n, p. 6) The type of relief sought based on the facts before
the Court controls whether a real property claim is stated. (Park 100, supra, 180 Cal.App.4th at p. 808.)
Moreover, the Norlund Defendants’ argument that Nancy and
Sandra do not have a title claim on the Baldwin Park property is not on point. The
claims here involve a beneficiary’s right to a foreclosure sale after breach of
a promissory note to be secured by a deed of trust conforming with the parties’
settlement agreement, as effected by orders that will lead to the recording of
a new or amended deed of trust to conform with a settlement agreement between
the parties and an order permitting a subsequent foreclosure sale of the
Baldwin Park property based on breaches of the note assigned to Sandra and
Nancy.
2. Probable Validity of Claims
a.
Relevant Law
A
court will order a notice to be expunged if it finds that the claimant has not
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the probable validity of the
real property claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.32.) “Probable validity” means
that it is more likely than not that the claimant will obtain a judgment
against the defendant on the claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.3.)
The
resolution of this issue, unlike the “failure to plead” grounds for
expungement, requires the court to examine the factual merits of the claim.
Written evidence or declarations may be filed, and the court may permit oral
testimony; the court also may authorize discovery by the party moving to
expunge. (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.30) It is not sufficient for the claimant
merely to make a prima facie showing of probable validity; the demonstration of
“probable validity” requires a determination that it is more likely than not
that the claimant will obtain a judgment against the defendant on the claim. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 405.32.) The court is required to weigh the evidence and make a
preliminary determination based on the evidence submitted, of whether it is
more probable than not, that the claimant will prevail on its real property
claim (Mix v. Superior Court (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 987, 994-995),
taking into account the nature of the claim and relevant law as well as the
factual allegations and proofs adduced by the parties. (See, e.g., J & A
Mash, supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at pp. 31-43 [reversing trial court’s
findings of “no probable validity” where trial court erred in its application
of the law governing rights of first refusal and enforceability of contracts in
concluding the tenant failed to establish valid claim of right to purchase
property].) This determination must be made based on a preponderance of
evidence, with the claimant bearing the burden of proof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
405.32.)
b.
Court’s Determination
The
Court determines Nancy Hymas does not show probable validity that she will more
likely than not obtain a judgment on her claims.
Here,
there is evidence to support the allegations that:
(1)
The Norlund Defendants’ conduct impeded Sandra—and thus Nancy, who stands in a
similar position—from obtaining a lender’s policy (Lis Pendens Mot., Ex. 1, Okerland
Decl., ¶¶ 1-10); and
(2)
The promissory note attached to the deed of trust recorded on the Baldwin Park
property by Richard Norlund was not the same as that assigned to Nancy and
Sandra. (Compare Lis Pendens Mot., Ex. 1, Okerland Decl., Sub-Exs. 1-2, with id.
at Sub-Ex. 3.)
However,
other crucial pieces of evidence are missing. For example, the settlement
agreement is not attached to the moving papers. Indeed, the only new evidence
attached to the moving papers is the declaration of counsel, which is comprised
of three paragraphs that do not expound on evidence supporting the above
summarized allegations. The attached Okerland declaration, filed by Sandra
Norlund in relation to a prior motion strictly relates to title insurance. The
attachments to the Okerland declaration are helpful but do not point the Court to
the exact location of the evidence supporting the FACI’s allegations. 
As
for vacating the February 15, 2024, order, the Court finds that no grounds
exist to grant such relief. Nancy Hymas does not present new facts or indeed
any reasons why the February 15, 2024, order was incorrect. More than anything,
Nancy Hymas’s motion centers on the FACI’s sufficiency in stating real property
claims, the probability of success of which may be shown by preponderance of
the evidence. 
3. Disposition
Based
on the above, Nancy Hymas’s motion is DENIED, without prejudice.
The
Court therefore does not reach the other points raised in the Norlund Defendants’
opposition, e.g., unclean hands.
 
III. Motion for Order
Appointing Receiver: DENIED, without prejudice.

A. Legal Standard
A mortgage does not entitle the
mortgagee to the possession of the property, unless authorized by the express
terms of the mortgage. (Civ. Code, § 2927.)
Upon default of the assignor under
the obligation secured by the assignment of leases, rents, issues, and profits,
the assignee shall be entitled to enforce the assignment in accordance with Civil
Code section 2938. On and after the date the assignee takes one or more of the
enforcement steps described in this subdivision, the assignee shall be entitled
to collect and receive all rents, issues, and profits that have accrued but
remain unpaid and uncollected by the assignor or its agent or for the
assignor’s benefit on that date, and all rents, issues, and profits that accrue
on or after the date. The assignment shall be enforced by, among other things,
the appointment of a receiver and the obtaining possession of the rents,
issues, or profits. (Civ. Code, § 2938.)
Moreover, the court may appoint a
receiver in an action or proceeding pending where the action involves an action
by a secured lender for the foreclosure of a deed of trust or mortgage and sale
of property upon which there is a lien under a deed of trust or mortgage, where
it appears that the property is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially
injured, or that the condition of the deed of trust or mortgage has not been
performed, and that the property is probably insufficient to discharge the deed
of trust or mortgage debt. (Code Civ. Proc., § 564, subd. (b)(2).)
However, “[b]ecause the appointment
of a receiver transfers property—or, in this case, a business—'out of the hands
of its owners’ and into the hands of a receiver (Golden State, supra,
13 Cal.2d at p. 393), the appointment of a receiver is a very ‘drastic,’ ‘harsh,’
and costly remedy that is to be ‘exercised sparingly and with caution.’ (Morand
v. Superior Court (1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 347, 351 [113 Cal. Rptr. 281]; see (Jackson
v. Jackson (1967) 253 Cal.App.2d 1026, 1040 [62 Cal. Rptr. 121] (Jackson);
Golden State, at p. 393; Cohen v. Herbert (1960) 186 Cal.App.2d
488, 495 [8 Cal. Rptr. 922].) Due to the “extraordinary” nature of this remedy
and the special costs it imposes, courts are strongly discouraged—although not
strictly prohibited—from appointing a receiver unless the more intrusive
oversight of a receiver is a “necessity” because other, less intrusive remedies
are either “ ‘inadequate or unavailable.’ ” 
(Medipro Medical Staffing LLC v. Certified Nursing Registry, Inc. (2021)
60 Cal.App.5th 622, 628.)
 
B. Court’s Determination
The Court finds in favor of the
Norlund Defendants.
Sandra Norlund provides sufficient
evidence to show a breach of the promissory note and entitlement to rents due
and paid on the Baldwin Park property after default.
Sandra Norlund provides a copy of
the promissory note, the terms of which have been breached. (Receiver Mot.,
Second Plummer Decl., Ex. 1 [settlement agreement between the parties attaching
promissory note and assignment to Sandra and Nancy].) A review of the
settlement agreement confirms the representations that the promissory note required,
among other things, certain monthly payments and a balloon payment. (Ibid.
at Promissory Note, §§ 1-2 & Assignment of Promissory Note, § 1 [assignment
of these rights to Sandra and Nancy].) While the opposition disputes whether
the withholding of part of the monthly payments was justified based on
necessary and applicable tax withholdings, the opposition admits that the balloon
payment was never made on its due date of June 1, 2022. (Opp’n, ¶ 31 at p. 32
[“Regarding the June 1, 2022, payment, it was not paid because of Sandra’s and
Nancy’s [1] [sic] Lis Pendens.”].) The Norlund Defendants thus admit to a
breach of the promissory note. The only reason given for such a breach is that
Sandra Norlund and Nancy Hymas filed lis pendens notices. However, the Norlund
Defendants do not explain how the filing of the lis pendens notices amounted
to, for example, a breach of the promissory note by Sandra and Nancy, thus
excusing Richard Norlund’s performance—and Sharon K. Norlund as applicable.
Neither do the Norlund Defendants cite authority holding that a party is not
obligated to perform in accordance with its contractual obligations under a
promissory note where the beneficiary of the promissory note files a lawsuit
and files a lis pendens notice on the property.
Sandra Norlund also provides a copy
of the December 17, 2019, deed of trust, which allows the beneficiary to
appoint a receiver to collect the rents due and paid for the Baldwin Park
property on default. (Receiver Mot., Second Plummer Decl., Ex. 3, ¶ 10.)
However, the motion is otherwise defective
as to notice, an argument raised by the Norlund Defendants in a filing made
prior to counsel withdrawing. (4/2/24 Opp’n to Ex Parte, p. 3.)
The notice for the ex parte
application as filed on March 29, 2024, does not identify the scope of the powers
to be given to the receiver. The notice merely states that the receiver is to
be appointed over the Baldwin Park property and that Plaintiff requests a
preliminary injunction restraining the Norlund Defendants’ conduct around the
Baldwin Park property profits. This is not sufficient for ex parte and motion
purposes because the Norlund Defendants are not put on notice as to the powers
of the receiver they may want to oppose, nor the nature of the restrictions to
be imposed on them under the TRO. (Cal. Rules of Court, rules 3.1110(a)
[motions], 3.1204(a)(1)-(2) [ex parte applications].)
Moreover, the motion, filed as an
ex parte application, did not attach a proposed order, only a declaration from
counsel, thus failing to specify the relief requested here.
Only the conclusion in the moving
papers’ points and authorities summarizes relief in any detail but includes
arguments that are not sufficiently supported, e.g., an injunction, its
purpose, its scope, and a balancing of benefits. (Mot., pp. 16 [injunction
arguments], 16-17 [conclusion].)
The appointment of a receiver is an
extreme remedy and is sought here for the first time close to the date of trial.
Alternative measures may be more advisable given the expense of a receiver. For
all these reasons, the Court denies Sandra Norlund’s motion, without prejudice.
Sandra Norlund’s motion is thus
DENIED, without prejudice.
 
IV. Conclusion
A. Motion
to Vacate Expungement of Lis Pendens or for Leave to Re-Record Lis Pendens
Plaintiff-Intervenors Nancy Hymas,
an individual, Nancy Hymas, Trustee of Trust A FBO Nancy Hyman and Trust B FBO
Nancy Hymas, and Nancy Hymas, Beneficiary of Trust A FBO Nancy Hyman and Trust
B FBO Nancy Hymas’ Motion to Vacate Expungement and/or for Leave to Re-Record
Lis Pendens is DENIED, without prejudice.
B. Motion for Order Appointing
Receiver
Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund, an
individual, and Sandra Norlund, Trustee of The Norlund Family Trust Dated
September 15, 2000’s Motion for Order and Appointment of Receiver is DENIED,
without prejudice.