  Case Number:  20STCV13703    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



DANNY BAKEWELL, SR.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KEVIN COHEE; ONEUNITED BANK, and DOES 1 to 20, Inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          20STCV13703
 Hearing Date:   5/9/24
 Trial Date:        5/20/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Danny Bakewell, Sr.’s Motion
  for Fees and Costs in the Sum of $45,905.00 Pursuant to the Court’s Order
  Granting Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Robert Cooper.



 
I. Background
A. Relevant
Procedural History
On August 25, 2022,
Plaintiff Danny Bakewell, Sr. served a deposition notice on Defendant OneUnited
Bank’s General Counsel, Robert Cooper.
On March 13, 2023,
Plaintiff again served a deposition notice on Robert Cooper.
On March 28, 2023,
Plaintiff again served a deposition notice on Robert Cooper.
On May 11, 2023,
Plaintiff again served a deposition notice on Robert Cooper.
On May 12, 2023,
defense counsel objected to the deposition of Robert Cooper based on Robert
Cooper’s medical condition, which required a medical leave of absence.
On July 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a motion to compel the deposition of Robert Cooper.
On August 21, 2023,
Defendants Kevin Cohee and OneUnited Bank filed a motion for protective order
against the deposition of Robert Cooper. The motion was premised on Robert
Cooper’s medical condition.
On September 19, 2023,
the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion, in part, as to compelling the deposition
of Robert Cooper, and denied the motion for protective order. As to compelling
Robert Cooper’s deposition, the Court ordered Defendants to provide a letter
from Robert Cooper’s doctor explaining the limitation on Robert Cooper’s
ability to testify and the reasonably foreseeable timeframe for those
limitations.
On October 20, 2023,
the Court signed an order extending the discovery cutoff for the deposition of
Robert Cooper or a person most knowledgeable in Robert Cooper’s place.
On November 20, 2023,
counsel for the parties met and conferred, at which time defense counsel
indicated that OneUnited Bank’s person most knowledgeable would be offered for
deposition if Robert Cooper was medically unavailable.
On November 21, 2023,
Plaintiff hired a private investigator to confirm the veracity of Robert
Cooper’s medical condition.
On December 12, 2023,
counsel for the parties met and conferred, at which time defense counsel
indicated that Robert Cooper’s medical condition remained the same and that
John Trotter, Chief Financial Officer, would be provided in Robert Cooper’s
place, with limitations as to his ability to answer questions relating to the
General Counsel’s (Robert Cooper’s) knowledge of certain facts.
On December 13, 2023,
Plaintiff received videos from the private investigator, which allegedly showed
Robert Cooper driving and shoveling snow with a heavy shovel.
On February 6, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an ex parte application for an order to compel the deposition
of Robert Cooper based on the investigator’s video evidence showing that Robert
Cooper was traveling in his car to work and was even shoveling snow, thus putting
Robert Cooper’s medical condition in doubt.
That same day, defense
counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel an updated letter from Robert Cooper’s
doctor relating to Robert Cooper’s physical and mental capacities.
On March 1, 2024,
defense counsel emailed a further letter from Robert Cooper’s counsel relating
to Robert Cooper’s decreased concentration and lapses in memory cognition.
On March 8, 2024, at a
status conference regarding Robert Cooper’s deposition, the Court determined that
there was good cause to grant the September 19, 2023, motion to compel the
deposition of Robert Cooper, that the doctor’s notes provided by Defendants
were insufficient to prevent the deposition from occurring, and that the
deposition could proceed on Zoom.
On March 15, 2024,
Plaintiff met and conferred relating to his intent to file a motion for
attorney’s fees based on this Court granting Plaintiff’s July 28, 2023, motion.
On March 21, 2024,
counsel met and conferred again but were unable to reach an agreement.
B. Motion Before the
Court and Deposition
On March 26, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a motion for attorney’s fees in relation to its July 28, 2023,
motion to compel the deposition of Robert Cooper. The proposed order filed in
relation to this motion clarifies that sanctions are sought against OneUnited
Bank and its counsel.
On April 9, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel deposed Robert Cooper.
On April 26, 2024,
Defendants Cohee and OneUnited Bank filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion.
On May 2, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply to Defendants’ opposition.
Plaintiff Bakewell’s
motion is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion for Attorney’s Fees
[Sanctions]: DENIED, without prejudice.
A.
Legal Standard
If
a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the
party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(g)(1).)
B.
Analysis
1. Parties’ Arguments
In the moving papers, Plaintiff
Bakewell summarizes parts of the above Background and argues that because he
prevailed on his motion to compel Robert Cooper’s deposition, Robert Cooper
should be ordered to pay $45,905, comprised of $11,760 in incurred and
to-be-incurred legal fees, investigator fees, and medical expert fees.
In opposition, Defendants Cohee and
OneUnited Bank argue that Plaintiff’s motion should be denied on various
grounds. Most important, Defendants argue that the notice for this motion to
compel the deposition of Robert Cooper was defective as to sanctions because it
did not identify the party to be sanctioned, citing California authority in
support of this defect as a ground for denying sanctions (the fees and costs at
issue), and with the instant motion only identifying Robert Cooper as the party
to be sanctioned on page six (in the Conclusion). Defendants also argue that
they have submitted ample evidence justifying the opposition to Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Robert Cooper’s deposition, including medical notes.
Defendants add that Robert Cooper should not be sanctioned for following first
his doctor’s order and then this Court’s order relating to releasing medical
letters, offering a PMK, and submitting to a deposition. Defendants
characterize Robert Cooper as having a delicate medical condition, where Robert
Cooper could not attend the originally noticed depositions based on heart
problems. Defendants note that in the past, Plaintiff Bakewell objected to his
deposition for five months and only submitted to a deposition after an informal
discovery conference at which no sanctions were imposed, where a similar result
should occur here. Defendants next argue that the fees and costs are excessive.
Defendants object to the investigator fees based on alleged discrepancies
between the costs of the investigator at different points in the litigation, a
discrepancy between the amount billed by the investigator and the amount sought
by Plaintiff, and alleged contradictions in the investigator’s report. Defendants
object to the medical expert fees where the medical expert did not medically
check Robert Cooper and did not address the issues raised in Defendants’
opposition to the motion to compel Robert Cooper’s deposition. Last, Defendants
object to the legal fees based on the excessive hours sought for a short
motion, which are unsupported by an itemized breakdown of tasks and time
expended per task.
In reply, Plaintiff argues that
sanctions are proper here. Plaintiff cites unpublished California authority for
the proposition that it is sufficient to identify the party to be sanctioned in
the points and authorities and not in the notice, thus making the July 2023
motion procedurally sufficient as to sanctions. 
Plaintiff also argues that the
instant motion is a continuation of the July 2023 motion, which also related to
the deposition of Robert Cooper.  Plaintiff
adds that the opposition is incorrect in arguing sanctions are sought against
Robert Cooper, which is a typographical error in the conclusion of the points
and authorities. Instead, Plaintiff contends that the proposed order filed with
his motion shows that sanctions are sought against OneUnited Bank and counsel.
Next, Plaintiff argues that Defendants reargue the merits of whether the
deposition should have proceeded, that Defendants ignore that any
contradictions in the investigator’s report are attributable to mistake rather
than bad faith, and that Robert Cooper’s ability to sit through his deposition
belies the contention that he was medically unable to do so in the past. Plaintiff
then argues that sanctions are warranted because Defendants and counsel
violated a discovery order by failing to produce Robert Cooper for
deposition—seemingly arguing that Robert Cooper should have been produced
following the Court’s September 19, 2023, order. 
Last, Plaintiff argues that the
fees and costs are justified. Plaintiff justifies the investigator fees through
the records provided with the moving papers. Plaintiff justifies the expert
fees by arguing that Robert Cooper failed to submit medical documents,
restricting the information on which the medical expert could rely. Plaintiff
justifies fees by arguing that the fees here are reasonably supported by a
declaration from counsel, which breaks down the basis for fees. Defendants add
that relief is not limited to attorney’s fees by statute, instead extending to
reasonable expenses, which includes attorney’s fees, in part citing unpublished
case law for this proposition.
 
2. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of Defendants
Cohee and OneUnited Bank.
As an initial note, unpublished
California decisions may not be cited except in very limited circumstances not
applicable here. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a).) The Court will not consider
any unpublished California authorities. 
Turning to whether notice was
defective, Blumenthal v. Superior Court (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d 317 (Blumenthal)
is directly on point.
In Blumenthal, the
plaintiff, Blumenthal, filed a motion for sanctions against the defendants for
failure to appear for a scheduled deposition. The notice of motion stated an
intention to move the court for an order striking the answers of the defendants
and/or rendering a judgment by default against the defendants and/or ordering
the defendants to compensate plaintiffs in the sum of $2,500 for attorney’s
fees and expenses. No mention was made of sanctions against counsel. The trial
court ultimately granted fees on the grounds that counsel for the defendants
did not appear at the hearing and the defendants had failed to oppose the
motion for sanctions or to explain the cancellation of the deposition a day
before it the deposition, resulting in expenses to plaintiff. 
The defendants appealed and the
court of appeal reversed. The court of appeal noted that due process rights
preclude the taking of property without notice of an intention to do so, for
which reason an award of sanctions against counsel was improper where counsel
had no reason to suspect from the moving papers’ notice that sanctions would be
awarded against him individually. (Blumental, supra, 103
Cal.App.3d at pp. 318-321.)
Here, as with Blumental, the
notice for Plaintiff Bakewell’s instant motion fails to identify the party
against whom fees are being sought, instead generally stating that fees are
being sought in connection with the deposition of Robert Cooper. (3/26/24 Mot.,
pp. 1-2.) The July 2023 motion, similarly included a notice that failed to
mention monetary sanctions although such sanctions were raised in the points
and authorities—though as with the more recent motion,  the points and authorities for the July 2023 motion
fails to mention the party against whom sanctions are being sought. (7/28/23
Mot., pp. 2 [mentioning only evidentiary sanctions in notice], 7-8 [seeking
monetary sanctions but failing to identify party against whom sanctions are
sought].) As argued by Plaintiff, the proposed orders for both those motions
identify the party to be sanctioned. (7/28/23 Proposed Order, p. 2 [sanctions
against defendants and counsel]; 3/26/24 Proposed Order, p. 2 [sanctions
against OneUnited Bank and counsel].) However, the inclusion of the party to be
sanctioned in the proposed orders does not cure the lack of notice and
violation of due process that results from the failure to include these
individuals or entities as the named parties to be sanctioned in the notice of
motion. And while it is true that the July 2023 motion did mention in the
caption that the party to be sanctioned was “Defendant and its Counsel,” it did
not specify which defendant, and its request was for $5,026.75. Finally, since Bakewell
subsequently filed another motion seeking sanctions for the Motion to Compel
the Cooper Deposition on March 26, 2024, Defendants have not been reasonably
put on notice that any of the language in that preceding July 2023 motion would
apply to this motion.
This conclusion is illustrated by the
confusion highlighted in the reply. Defendants’ opposition argued that
sanctions should be imposed against Plaintiff because the notice of motion
failed to identify the party to be sanctioned, which, according to the moving
papers, was Robert Cooper. (Opp’n, pp. 1, 8.) The moving papers do in fact name
Robert Cooper as the person to be ordered to pay the fees and costs. (3/26/24
Mot., p. 6 at Conclusion.) In reply, seeking to rebut the opposition’s argument
characterizing sanctions as being sought against Robert Cooper, Plaintiff
Bakewell cited the proposed orders filed by Plaintiff as identifying the
Defendant(s) as the parties to be sanctioned along with counsel. (Reply, p. 4.)
However, instead of showing that Plaintiff put Defendants on notice as to the
party to be sanctioned, this only highlighted the contradiction between the
points and authorities and the proposed order in Plaintiff’s papers, as well as
the fact that Defendants’ opposition was unclear as to whom Plaintiff sought
sanctions, i.e., Robert Cooper as opposed to Defendant(s) and counsel.
Moreover, even though Plaintiff characterizes the points and authorities’
reference to Robert Cooper as the party to be sanctioned as a typographical
error, that error does not cure the due process deficiencies in the lack of
notice here. (Reply, p. 4.)
Based on this reasoning, the Court
DENIES Plaintiff’s motion.
However, as requested by Plaintiff
Bakewell, the Court’s denial is without prejudice. (Reply, p. 4.) This result
is proper following Blumental. (Blumental, supra, 103
Cal.App.3d at pp. 320-321 [“Let a peremptory writ of prohibition issue
restraining the Marin County Superior Court from taking any further action in
connection with paragraph 14, subdivision b, of the December 7, 1979, sanctions
order in action No. 82648, Corey v. Wood Producers, Limited, et al., other than
to vacate that subdivision of the order and entertain such properly presented
motion to reinstate the sanctions as may be filed.”].) 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff Danny
Bakewell, Sr.’s Motion for Fees and Costs in the Sum of $45,905.00 Pursuant to
the Court’s Order Granting Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of
Robert Cooper is DENIED without prejudice.