 Case Number:  21STCV12320    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
April 1, 2021, Plaintiff Shelley Wertz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants 756 Ridgeley, LLC, Moss Management Services, Inc. dba Moss & Company
Property Management, and Does 1-350 for negligence and premises liability.  On September 30, 2022, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to include Defendant Farid
Rahnamay Barmaki (“Barmaki”) as Doe 336. 
On November 14, 2022, Barmaki filed an answer. 
On
July 29, 2021, Defendants Moss Management Services, Inc.
dba Moss & Company Property Management and 756 Ridgeley, LLC (“Defendants”)
filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roes 1-50 for
equitable indemnity, contractual indemnity, contribution, apportionment, and
declaratory relief.  On May 6, 2022, Defendants
amended the cross-complaint to include Cross-Defendant Moustafa Rahmani as Roe 1.  On August 19,
2022, Defendants amended the
cross-complaint to include Cross-Defendant Barmaki as
Roe 2.  On October 11, 2023, Barmaki filed an answer. 
On
September 26, 2022, Barmaki filed a cross-complaint against Defendants and Moes
100 for general negligence, premises liability,
breach of the implied warranty of habitability, breach of contract, and breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  On October 26, 2022, Defendants filed an
answer. 
On
September 4, 2023, the parties signed a stipulation to continue the case.  The stipulation stated that “All discovery
completion dates, including those related to expert designations (which were
waived), will not be extended and will continue to be determined by the
existing trial date of October 16, 2023.” 
The Court continued the trial to January 22, 2024. 
On
October 30, 2023, new counsel associated into the case for Defendants. 
On
November 13, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to continue the trial and related
dates.  On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff
and Barmaki filed oppositions.  On
December 8, 2023, Defendants filed a reply. 
The
trial is currently scheduled for January 22, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court to continue the trial and all related dates for four months. 
Plaintiff
and Barmaki ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Request to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b), provides that “a party seeking a continuance of
the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by
the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an
ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” 
          Under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), the Court may grant a continuance
only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.
Circumstances that may indicate good cause include “a party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts,” or the unavailability of a party, counsel, or expert due to
death, illness or other excusable circumstance. The Court should consider all
facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as proximity of the
trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are served.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
B.   Request to continue or reopen discovery 
 Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except
as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial
date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 provides: “A
meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” 

DISCUSSION 
Defendants
ask the Court to grant a new trial and reopen discovery because Defendants’ previous
counsel provided deficient representation. 
According to Defendants, their previous counsel failed to conduct basic
discovery, serve a demand for expert designation, or update the insurer paying
for the defense. 
Plaintiff
and Barmaki argue that Defendants have failed to establish good cause for a
continuance and, in seeking to reopen discovery, Defendants are violating their
agreement, contained in the September stipulation, to keep discovery closed.  Plaintiff and Barmaki also argue they will be
prejudiced by a continuance. 
The
Court finds that Defendants have established good cause for a continuance.  Defendants have presented evidence that it
was only after they retained new counsel – and after they stipulated that discovery
would remain closed – that they learned the extent of prior counsel’s failure
to prepare the case for trial.  The
deficiencies that new counsel identified may deprive Defendants of the ability to present a defense absent a continuance and reopening of discovery. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Defendants Moss Management Services, Inc. dba Moss
& Company Property Management and 756 Ridgeley, LLC to continue the trial.  The Court continues the trial from January 22,
2024, to May 22, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street
Courthouse.   The Court continues the Final Status
Conference from January 8, 2024 to May 8, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. in Department 28
of the Spring Street Courthouse.  All
related dates will trail the new trial date.  No further continuances will be granted without a compelling showing of good cause.
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file a proof of service of this ruling within five days.