  Case Number:  19STCV10866    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
March 29, 2019, Plaintiff Carmela Tyson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Walmart, Inc. (“Walmart”) and Does 1-100 for premises liability and
negligence. Plaintiff later amended the complaint to include Defendants Tammy
Cannon, Robin Abbott, Brenda Robert, J.T. Doe, Isabell Doe, Julio Doe, Gilbert
Doe and Vincent Doe. 
On
December 9, 2020, Walmart filed an answer. 
On
November 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a motion to continue the trial and
all related dates.  No opposition has
been filed. 
On
December 6, 2023, the Court granted Walmart’s motion for terminating sanctions
and dismissed Plaintiff’s claims against Walmart with prejudice. 
On
December 14, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved
as counsel. 
The
trial is currently scheduled to begin on January 8, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to continue the trial and all related dates to an unspecified future time.  
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Request to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b), provides that “a party seeking a continuance of
the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by
the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an
ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” 
          Under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), the Court may grant a continuance
only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.
Circumstances that may indicate good cause include “a party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts,” or the unavailability of a party, counsel, or expert due to
death, illness or other excusable circumstance. The Court should consider all
facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as proximity of the
trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are served.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
B.   Request to continue or reopen discovery 
 Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except
as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial
date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 provides: “A
meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” 

DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to continue the trial to allow any new attorney she retains time
to prepare for trial.  However, the Court
has no information that Plaintiff has retained new counsel or that Plaintiff
has served or plans to serve the summons and complaint on any of the
non-dismissed defendants. 
The
Court does not find good cause for a continuance and denies the motion without
prejudice. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES without prejudice motion of Plaintiff Carmela Tyson to continue
the trial and related dates. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is to file a proof of service of this ruling within five days.