 Case Number:  21STCV38092    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  74 Jane Doe v. Empire View Homes, LLC,
et al.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Continue Trial
and Related Dates
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from a dispute
between a landlord and a tenant.
            On October 15, 2021, Plaintiff Jane
Doe (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Empire View Homes, LLC and
CREI Manager, LLC.
            On
July 5, 2022, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint. In it, Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of
implied warranty of habitability, (3) breach of implied warranty of quiet
enjoyment, (4) negligence, (5) retaliation, (6) sexual harassment, (7)
violation of Unruh Civil Rights Act, and (8) violation of the Unfair
Competition Law.
            On
September 30, 2022, Plaintiff further amended the operative complaint to add
Defendant Christina Development Corporation.
            On
April 26, 2023, Defendants Empire View Homes, LLC, CREI Manager, LLC, and
Christina Development Corporation (Defendants) filed a motion for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication.
            On
July 14, 2023, the court granted Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of
every cause of action except the seventh (violation of Unruh Civil Rights Act).
            On
January 3, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to continue trial.
DISCUSSION
            Defendants wish to continue the
trial so that the court may hear their second motion for summary judgment.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (b).) To obtain a continuance,
Defendants must make an affirmative showing of good cause. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c).) The court finds Defendants have not done so. On
July 14, 2023, the court denied Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of
the cause of action at issue in the proposed second motion for summary
judgment. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (f)(2), “A
party shall not move for summary judgment based on issues asserted in a prior
motion for summary adjudication and denied by the court unless that party
establishes, to the satisfaction of the court, newly discovered facts or
circumstances or a change of law supporting the issues reasserted in the
summary judgment motion.” Defendants contend they have propounded additional
discovery on Plaintiff, but they have not provided any detail about what new
facts or circumstances support a second motion for summary judgment. Moreover,
the court is obligated to continue trial to accommodate only a timely
motion for summary judgment but, with a trial date less than 75 days away on
March 18, 2024, Defendants have not filed their proposed motion for summary
judgment. A trial continuance is not warranted.
CONCLUSION
                The court denies Defendants’ motion
to continue trial.
            Defendants
shall give notice.