  Case Number:  21NWCV00291    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  C PADILLA v. MENDOZA, ET AL.
CASE
NO.:  21NWCV00291
HEARING:
 3/20/24 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#1
TENTATIVE RULING
 
I.            
Plaintiff Marcel P. Padilla’s motion to lift stay is DENIED.  
 
II.           
Defendants’ motion for nonstatutory dismissal is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff to give NOTICE. 
 
 
This is a breach of contract action. On
January 18, 2023, the Court stayed the instant action pending institution and
final determination of this action in the alternative forum of Mexico. Defendant
Hermenegildo Espinoza Mendoza waived any statute of limitations defense in this
action. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A
judge has discretion to stay its case pending the outcome of a foreign action.
(Dial 800 v. Fesbinder (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 32, 47.)
 
Discussion
 
1.    Plaintiff’s
Motion to Lift Stay
 
Plaintiff
Marcel P. Padilla argues that this action cannot be pursued in Mexico due to
current Mexican laws, which do not provide adequate remedies for Plaintiff.  
 
In
opposition, Defendants Hermenegildo Espinoza Mendoza, Jose Luis Espinoza, and
Alejandra Romero Oceguera argue that Plaintiff has not shown that he has
exhausted his legal remedies available in Mexico. 
 
Plaintiff
advances the declaration of his counsel, who states, “Mexican courts do not
provide remedies for some of Plaintiff’s causes of action.” (Davis Decl., ¶ 4.)
However, Plaintiff’s counsel does not state what remedies are available and why
they are inadequate.  Plaintiff states
that Mexico does not acknowledge the rights of litigants to bring any legal
action past the date of the cases’ maturity. (Mot, pg. 5, lines 21-22.) However,
Plaintiff does not explain what affect, if any, this rule has on Plaintiff’s
claims.  
 
Plaintiff
fails to demonstrate a change in circumstances following this Court’s January
26, 2022 order granting, in part, Defendants’ motion to dismiss the action
based on inconvenient forum.  The Court’s
January 26, 2022 order stated: “[t]he other forum's law need not be as
favorable to plaintiff as local law. (Stangvik v. Shiley, Inc., supra, 54
Cal.3d at 754 -- advantages of California procedural or substantive law 'cannot
be considered as a factor'.) The alternative forum's law is irrelevant unless
the remedy provided is so clearly inadequate or unsatisfactory that it is no
remedy at all. (Stangvik v. Shiley, Inc., supra, 54 Cal.3d at 764.) The “no
remedy at all” exception applies only in rare circumstances, “such as where the
alternative forum is a foreign country whose courts are ruled by a
dictatorship, so that there is no independent judiciary or due process of law.”
(Shiley, Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (1992) 4 CA4th 126, 133134.)” (Minute Order, January
26, 2022.) Once again, Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate that the remedy available
in Mexico “is so clearly inadequate or unsatisfactory that it is no remedy at
all.” This is a high bar – one that Plaintiff still does not overcome.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Lift Stay is DENIED.  
 
2.   
Defendants’
Motion to Dismiss
 
Defendants
move for nonstatutory dismissal on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to
diligently prosecute this action nor applied for a lift of stay of the action. 
 
The Court has
inherent authority to dismissal an action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.150.) 
 
Plaintiff has
applied for a lift of stay of the instant action for California to prosecute
it. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
Motion to Dismiss is DENIED.   
 
 
 