 Case Number:  22NWCV00630    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  C STARNET INSURANCE COMPANY v. MICHAEL ESQUIBEL
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV00630
HEARING:
 3/20/24 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#3
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff Starnet Insurance Company’s motion for terminating sanctions is
GRANTED.  Defendant Michael Esquibel’s
Answer is stricken.  
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE. 
 
This motion is unopposed as of March 18, 2024. 
 
 
This is a complaint about failure to pay
insurance premiums. Plaintiff Starnet Insurance Company moves to strike the
answer of Defendant Michael Esquibel. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“The trial court may order a terminating
sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of the
circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were
willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and
informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390.)  
 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial
court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los Defensores,
supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390.)   
 
“Under this standard, trial courts have
properly imposed terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed
one or more discovery orders.” (Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th
at p. 390.) The court may impose a terminating sanction by an order striking
out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d)(1).) 
 
Terminating Sanctions
 
Plaintiff argues that the Court may grant
terminating sanctions because Defendant failed to obey the Court’s order
compelling discovery responses. 
 
On August 8, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motions to compel Defendant’s responses to Request for Production
of Documents, Set One and Form Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff’s counsel
testifies that Defendant has not responded to discovery to date. (Gaba Decl., ¶
6.) 
 
The Court may grant Plaintiff’s motion to
dismiss because the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce
compliance with the discovery rules. Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s
discovery requests were originally due in November 2022. Defendant has now
delayed responding to Plaintiff’s discovery requests for more than one year. Defendant did
not respond to Plaintiff’s request, did not oppose the March 2023 discovery
motions, and did not oppose this motion. It appears Defendant is no longer
interested in litigating this matter.
 
Plaintiff’s motion
for terminating sanctions is GRANTED. 
Defendant Michael Esquibel’s Answer is stricken.
 
 