 Case Number:  21STCV34647    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  C ALONDRA &
PIONEER PROPERTY, LLC v. H MART NORWALK LLC
CASE NO.: 21STCV34647
HEARING:  03/20/24
 
#7
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant H MART NORWALK LLC’S Motion for
Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
This is a breach of lease action between a commercial lessor
and lessee. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Alondra & Pioneer Property, LLC
leased the building to H Mart Norwalk, LLC on August 22, 1989. On October 8,
2019, a fire ignited at the subject property. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant seeks
compensation for the resulting property damage and loss of rental income.
Defendant/Cross-Complainant seeks compensation for abatement of rent on the grounds
that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant did not repair the subject property following
the fire. 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant seeks summary adjudication of
the breach of lease and constructive trust causes of action in its
cross-complaint. 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant/Cross-Complaint seeks judicial notice
of Los Angeles County Department of Public Health Official Inspection Report
dated October 8, 2019 under Evidence Code sections 452 and 453. However,
Defendant/Cross-Complaint does not specify which grounds it seeks judicial
notice. A legal proposition asserted without apposite authority
fails. (People v. Taylor (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 628, 643.)
Thus, the Court denies the request. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant seeks judicial notice of Declaration
of Craig McKenna filed in Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 20NWCV000588
under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d). The Court grants the request.

 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant objects to statements in the
Declaration of Jason Joo Park. The Court rules as follows:  
 
1.   
Overruled
2.   
Overruled
3.   
Overruled
4.   
Sustained
5.   
Overruled
6.   
Overruled
7.   
Overruled
8.   
Sustained
9.   
Sustained
10.  
Overruled
11.  
Sustained
12.  
Sustained
 
Legal Standard
 
“[A] motion for summary judgment
shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code of
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  The
moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie
showing no triable material fact issues.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  If the
moving party meets this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make
a converse prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact
exists. (Ibid.)  
 
Plaintiffs may shift the burden
of proof by submitting evidence as to every element of the cause of action. (Code
Civ. Pro., §437c, subd. (p)(1); WRI Opportunity Loans II, LLC v. Cooper (2007)
154 Cal.App.4th 525, 532.)
 
Implied Warranty
of Habitability
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
asserts that it can seek retroactive reimbursement for the period in which the
rented premises was in an unfit condition for use. However,
Defendant/Cross-Defendant did not plead breach of implied warranty of habitability in
the cross-complaint. The pleadings serve as the “outer measure of materiality” in
a summary judgment motion, and the motion may not be granted or denied on
issues not raised by the pleadings. (Laabs
v. City of Victorville (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th
1242, 1258.) Thus, the Court does not adjudicate this issue. 
 
Breach of Lease
 
The Court denies summary adjudication as to this cause of
action because Defendant/Cross-Complainant has not pleaded excuse of
performance or proven material breach. 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant asserts that the express terms of
the lease require abatement of rent and “make clear” that
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant was responsible for the repairs.
Defendant/Cross-Complaint also asserts that Alondra's failure to repair
the fire damage rendered the property unusable; thus, it had no right to
collect rent from October 2019 through January 2021. Nonetheless,
Defendant/Cross-Complaint states that it paid no less than $408,961.29 of rent
during this period. 
 
To prevail on a cause of action
for breach of lease, the plaintiff must prove the following: (1) the contract,
(2) the plaintiff’s performance of the lease or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff. (See Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant submits the lease as evidence.
(UMF #1.) The Court finds Defendant/Cross-Complainant met its burden of proof
as to the first element. 
 
The Court adjudicates the second and third elements together
because Defendant/Cross-Complaint
asserts that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s failure to repair the fire
damage rendered the property unusable, and it had no right to collect rent from
October 2019 through January 2021. Whether a breach of an obligation is a
material breach to excuse performance by the other party is a question of fact.
(Brown v. Grimes (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 265, 277.) The Court determines
that Defendant/Cross-Complainant has failed to demonstrate that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s failure to repair the fire
damage was a material breach of the lease.  A material breach is one that is substantial
enough to excuse non-performance. 
Whether Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s failure to repair the fire damage
was a material breach is a question of fact. 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant has not met its burden of proof as to the
second and third elements.  
 
Further, the pleading of excuse or waiver of performance of
conditions precedent requires specific, not general allegations. (Careau
& Co. v. Sec. Pac. Bus. Credit (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1391.) Here,
Defendant/Cross-Complaint has not pleaded specific allegations about excuse or
waiver of performance of conditions precedent. It states, “Cross-Complainant
performed all conditions, covenants, and obligations on its part to be
performed pursuant to the Lease except where excused, released, or waived by Cross-Defendant.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 8.)
These general allegations are not adequate. (See, e.g. Careau & Co. v. Sec. Pac.
Bus. Credit, Inc. (1990) 222
Cal.App.3d 1371, 1390.) The issues framed by the pleadings are the only issues
a motion for summary judgment must address. (Physicians Comm. For
Responsible Medicine v. McDonald’s Corp. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 554, 568.) 
 
Thus, on two separate grounds, Defendant/Cross-Complaint has
not met its burden on the second and third elements. 
 
The Court will not adjudicate the fourth element of damages.

 
Thus, Defendant/Cross-Complaint
has not met its burden to prove that no triable issue of material facts exists
that breach of lease occurred.
 
The Court denies summary
adjudication as to the breach of lease cause of action. 
 
Constructive
Trust
 
Defendant/Cross-Complaint
asserts that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant obtained the rent during the
abatement period due to mistake and that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant continues to
detain that money today. 
 
In an action for constructive
trust, Plaintiff must prove the following: 1) a wrongful act
(underlying claim incorporated into the cause of action), 2) specific,
identifiable property or property interest, or excuse for inability to describe
it, 3) plaintiff’s right to the property; and 4) defendant’s title to the
property or property interest. (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220
Cal.App.3d 59, 76.) Plaintiff need only show that the acquisition of the property
was wrongful and that the keeping of the property by the defendant would
constitute unjust enrichment. (Calistoga Civic Club v.
Calistoga (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 111,116.)
 
The premise
of Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s argument seems to be that
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s failure to repair the fire damage rendered the
property unusable, and it had no right to collect rent from October 2019
through January 2021. As discussed above, Defendant/Cross-Complainant has not
proven that a breach of the obligation to repair is a material breach that
excuses performance by the other party. Thus, on this ground,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant has not met its burden for summary adjudication as
to constructive trust. 
 
Further, Defendant/Cross-Complaint pleads, “Cross-Defendant,
has not returned to Cross-Complainant the over payments of rent or
consideration for the Release.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 29.) However, Defendant/Cross-Complainant does not argue
consideration of the release. 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant also pleads, “Cross-Defendant
obtained this money due and owing to Cross-Complainant as a result of improper
receipt, delivery, or possession of such sums.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 30.) However, Defendant/Cross-Complainant
does not plead mistake. As discussed above, the issues framed by the pleadings are the only issues a
motion for summary judgment must address. (Physicians Comm. For Responsible
Medicine v. McDonald’s Corp., supra, 187 Cal.App.4th 554, 568.)
 
Thus, Defendant/Cross-Complaint
has not met its burden to prove that no triable issue of material facts exist
that a constructive trust formed. 
 
Hence, the Court denies the motion
for summary adjudication as to the constructive trust cause of action. 
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Court DENIES Defendant/Cross-Complainant H MART NORWALK LLC’S Motion for
Summary Adjudication. 
 