 Case Number:  22VECV02007    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Michele Bidinger,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Ralph,
  Estate of Shaffer, et al.,
 
Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  22VECV02007         107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: Motion to Strike
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
Grant with leave to amend.
 
 
I.
BACKGROUND
 

Factual

 
Plaintiff Michele Bidinger “Plaintiff” resided in an
apartment building (the “Apartment”), which was owned by defendant Ralph
Shaffer (“Ralph”), for which defendant Abrienne Schaffer (“Abrienne”) was the
“acting landlord,” which was managed by defendants Vivian Sypien (“Vivian”) and
Andrew Sypien (“Andrew” and, together with, Abrienne, and Vivian, “Moving
Parties”), and for which defendant Isaac Stewart (“Isaac” and, together with
Ralph and Moving Parties, “Defendants”) was “acting resident manager.” (FAC p.
2.) Plaintiff vacated the Apartment on November 15, 2021. (Id. at p. 3.)
During her tenancy at the Apartment, she alleges she was subject to various
harassment related to her tenancy by Defendants in violation of The City Of Los
Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance, Los Angeles, Cal. Mun. Code
§ 45.33, et seq. (Ibid.)
 
We refer to the parties by first name for clarity, not
out of familiarity or disrespect. (See In re Marriage of Schaffer (1999)
69 Cal.App.4th 801, 803, fn. 2.)
 

Procedural

 
On November 15, 2022, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by
filing a complaint (the “Complaint”). On December 29, 2023, Moving Parties
moved to strike punitive damages from the Complaint and on January 5, 2024,
Plaintiff served and filed an amended complaint (the “FAC”), thereby mooting
the motion to strike.
 
On February 2, 2024, Moving Parties filed the instant
motion to strike (the “Motion”), which seeks to strike punitive damages from
the FAC. On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition (the “Opposition”)
to the Motion and on March 4, 2024, Moving Parties replied to the Opposition
(by filing the “Reply”).
 
II. PARTIES’ ARGUMENTS 
 
Moving Parties move to strike paragraph 19 from the FAC,
which reads,
 
19. Plaintiff is informed and believes and based thereon
alleges that Defendants, excluding the Estate of Ralph Shaffer, in doing the
things alleged above, have been guilty of oppression, fraud and malice
Moreover, Defendants' conduct, in which they placed their own economic gain and
self-interest above their obligations to Plaintiff and attempted to exclude
Plaintiff from her home and personal possessions, constitutes fraud, malice and
oppression sufficient to justify an award of punitive damages. As a result of
Defendants' outrageous conduct, Plaintiff is entitled to recover damages for
the sake of example and by way of punishing Defendants.
 
(FAC p. 8.) and the FAC’s prayer for punitive damages.
Moving Parties make this motion on the grounds that “the punitive damage
allegations of the FAC are unsupported by the required specific factual showing
of [Moving Parties’] malice, oppression or fraud.” 
 
In the Motion, Moving Parties argue that “Plaintiff fails
to state how the alleged violations show [Moving Parties’], malice, oppression,
or fraud or any ill intent” and there are therefore “insufficient facts alleged
to rise to the level of warranting punitive damages.” (Motion p. 3.) The
conduct that the FAC describes “essentially rise to negligence” and “merely
alleging that [Moving Parties] acted with oppression, malice, or fraud is not
sufficient to allege punitive damages with the requisite particularity.” (Id.
at p. 4.) Moving Parties further argue that Plaintiff fails to plead “any facts
that would support the underlying contentions and request for punitive damages”
and instead pleads only ““all conclusory and are founded on self-serving
statement instead of actual facts” (Id. at p. 7.) “In California, claims
for punitive damages must be pled with specificity,” which Plaintiff fails to
do. (Ibid.) 
 
In the Opposition, Plaintiff lists the descriptions of
specific events that were added to the Complaint by the FAC and that allege
malice and oppression. (Opposition p. 2–5.) Plaintiff argues that punitive
damages are available remedies for violations of Los Angeles, Cal. Mun. Code §
45.33 like that pleaded in the FAC’s first cause of action and for intentional
torts like that pleaded in the FAC’s third cause of action. (Id. at p. 6.) “The
extent of the conduct and the fact that landlords engaged in the conduct could
be found to be a breach of habitability, which authorizes an award of punitive
damages.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff contends that the FAC sufficiently pleads ultimate
facts and is not required to plead evidentiary facts to overcome a motion to
strike. (Id. at p. 7.) As a “last resort,” Plaintiff seeks leave to amend if
the Motion is granted. (Id. at pp. 7–8.)
 
In the Reply, Moving Parties argue that the specific
events added by the FAC and reiterated in the Opposition show either “show
alleged violations of ordinances” or “actions of [Isaac]” and do not show
“actions conducted by these Defendants [i.e. the Moving Parties] to
support punitive damages.” (Reply p. 2, emphasis original.) Moving Parties
advise this court that it “must carefully review whether the allegations in the
pleading meets the requirements for entitlement to punitive damages as opposed
to generic, boilerplate allegations that have no substance in fact.” (Ibid.)
Moving Parties reiterate that “the basis for punitive damages must be pled with
specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are
insufficient.” (Ibid.) Moving Parties contend that “Plaintiff has made no
showing that these actions were intentional rather than negligent,” which
negligence is insufficient to justify an award of punitive damages. (Id. at pp.
2–3.) “Nowhere in the FAC are non-conclusory facts that show Defendants'
oppression, fraud or malice. Any conclusion to the contrary could only be made
by applying presumptions instead of clear and convincing facts. Unsupported
conclusions are insufficient to maintain a claim for punitive damages.” (Id. at
p. 3.)
 
III.
 ANALYSIS 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Id., § 437.)
 
            A.
Punitive Damages
 
A motion to strike is appropriate to attack a claim for
punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159,
164.) “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive
damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled
by a plaintiff. In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to
strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as
a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clausen v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (internal citations
omitted).) “Further, even though certain language pleads ultimate facts or
conclusions of law, such language when read in context with the facts alleged
as to defendants' conduct may adequately plead the evil motive requisite to
recovery of punitive damages.” (Monge v. Superior Court (1986)
176 Cal.App.3d 503, 510.)
 
“In order to state a prima facie claim
for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as
stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code
section 3294.” (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc.
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes
the recovery of punitive damages “[i]n an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice….”  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) “In
order to justify an award of punitive damages, the defendant must be
guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. He must act with the intent to vex,
injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the plaintiff's rights.” (Silberg
v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 452, 462 (internal citations
omitted).) “[M]alice in fact is required rather than implied
malice. However, malice does not require actual intent to
harm. Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient
where the defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or
her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 (internal citations
omitted).) “In order to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the
plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his conduct, and that he wilfully and deliberately failed
to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 895–96.) 
 
“Punitive damages may not
be pleaded generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.)
“The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to
warrant an award of punitive damages.” (Grieves, supra
at 166.) And, “conclusory characterization of defendant's conduct as
intentional, wilful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of
“oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied,” within the meaning
of section 3294.” (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)
“Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts
must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves, supra
at 166; Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority, supra at 1193 [“In addition to the requirement that the
operative complaint set forth the elements as stated in section 3294, it
must include specific factual allegations showing that defendant's
conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim
for punitive damages.”].)
 
Plaintiff’s general allegations in Paragraph 19 of the
FAC that Defendants “have been guilty of oppression, fraud and malice” are
insufficient by themselves to plead the existence of oppression, fraud, or
malice. These allegations must be accompanied by pleadings of specific facts
supporting such claim. And, the specific facts that Plaintiff cites in the
Reply from Paragraph 12 of the FAC do not support such a claim as to the Moving
Parties. The Moving Parties’ actions are generally not described so that we are
left to infer that it is their failure to act that generates their liability in
this case, but nothing in Paragraph 12 describes the intentions of the Moving
Parties in either acting or failing to act or lets us infer that they acted
with specific intent or conscious disregard toward Plaintiff. We agree with
Moving Parties that the specific facts described in Paragraph 12 give rise to
an inference of negligence on the part of Moving Parties at most and therefore
do not show “oppression, fraud, or malice.” We therefore do not find that the
FAC pleads any facts that could possibly entitle Plaintiff to punitive damages.
 
            B.
Leave to Amend
 
“Where the defect raised by
a motion to strike or by demurrer is reasonably capable of
cure, leave to amend is routinely
and liberally granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the
defect in question.” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004)
120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) “[An order granting a motion to strike] is
analogous to an order sustaining a demurrer.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) “If the plaintiff has not had an opportunity to amend
the complaint in response to the demurrer, leave to amend is liberally allowed
as a matter of fairness, unless the complaint shows on its face that it is
incapable of amendment.” (City of Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42
Cal.4th 730, 747.) Courts generally allow at least one time to amend a
complaint, after sustaining a demurrer, even without any request for leave to
amend. (McDonald v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 297, 303.)
 
We note that because Plaintiff amended the Complaint in
response to the first motion to strike before this court ruled on it, this is
the first time a motion to strike has been granted in this case. We also see
the possibility for Plaintiff to amend the FAC to add facts alleging the Moving
Parties’ actions and intentions that may point to oppression, fraud, or malice.
We therefore believe that leave to amend should be liberally allowed and do
allow it.
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the Motion in its
entirety. Plaintiff may amend her complaint.
 
 
 
Dated:             March
12, 2024                                               _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court