  Case Number:  22VECV01505    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
  Rachel Rabizadeh, et al.,
      
 
Plaintiffs,
 
   v.
 
GMP Associates, Inc., et al.
 
 
          Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    22VECV01505     107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING:
Motion
  to Compel
 
 
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
In April 2018, plaintiff Rachel Rabizadeh (“Rachel”) contracted
defendants Gabriel Martin Perez (“Perez”) and GMP Associates, Inc. (“GMP”) to
remodel her home, including by installing a certain glass bathtub and shower
door. (FAC p. 4.) Perez and GMP sub-contracted the work of installing the glass
shower door to defendants Adan Negrete (“Negrete”) and High-Definition Glass,
Inc. (“High-Definition”). (Ibid.) 
 
On March 16, 2021, Rachel was bathing her son, plaintiff Asher Rabizadeh
(“Asher” and, together with Rachel, “Plaintiffs”), when the glass bathtub and
shower door “suddenly, and without warning, exploded and shattered into
countless sharp pieces inside the tub.” (Ibid.) Plaintiffs thereby
sustained injuries.
 
On October 10, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a complaint and initiated this
lawsuit. 
 
On March 16, 2023, Negrete propounded interrogatories on Rachel
individually and on Rachel as guardian ad litem for Asher. (Motion p. 3.) On
May 17, 2023, Rachel responded. (Ibid.)
 
On September 29, 2023, Negrete filed four motions to compel further responses
(the “Motions”), one against Rachel as guardian ad litem for Asher seeking
further responses to form interrogatories (“Motion #1”), one against Rachel as
guardian ad litem for Asher (in such capacity, “Asher”) seeking further
responses to special interrogatories (“Motion #2”), one against Rachel
individually (in such capacity, “Rachel”) seeking further responses to form
interrogatories (“Motion #3”), and one against Rachel individually seeking
further responses to special interrogatories (“Motion #4” and, together with
Motion #1, Motion #2, and Motion #3, the “Motions”).
 
On January 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint (the
“FAC”) alleging causes of action for (1) negligence, (2) negligent infliction
of emotional distress, (3) breach of contract, (4) breach of express
warranties, (5) breach of implied warranties, and (6) negligent products
liability.
 
On February 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed oppositions (the “Oppositions”) to
three of the Motions, and on March 5, 2024, Negrete replied to the Oppositions.
 
 
PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 
I. Timeliness
 
All motions to compel further responses to written discovery must be
brought within 45 days of receiving the challenged responses, or as otherwise
agreed upon in writing.  (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(c),
2031.310(b)(1), 2033.290(c).)  This deadline is jurisdictional, and courts
are without authority to grant untimely motions.  (Vidal Sassoon, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)
 
Here, parties agreed in writing to extend the deadline for the motions to
compel further to September 29, 2023, which deadline was met. (Graham Decl. Exh.
4.)
 
II. Meet and Confer Requirement
 
Motions to compel further responses must always be accompanied by a “meet
and confer” declaration evidencing a “reasonable and good faith attempt an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2030.300(b), 2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).) 
 
This requirement has been met. (Graham Decl. p. 2.)
 
III. The Standing Order
 
Plaintiffs argue that the General Order Re: Temporary Suspension of
Local Rules Applicable to PI Cases and, consequently, the Eighth Amended
Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Courts — Central District
(the “Standing Order”) govern this case. (Opposition p. 4.) Plaintiffs contend
that because parties have not yet engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference
(an “IDC”), per the Standing Order, this court may not hear the Motions.
Negrete rebuts that the Standing Order is inapplicable because “[t]his case is
not and never has been a PI Hub case.” (Reply p. 2.) 
 
The Standing Order
reads, in relevant part, “PI Hub Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further
Discovery Responses to Discovery until the parties have engaged in an Informal
Discovery Conference (IDC). PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and complete
an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Discovery.” (Standing Order p. 7.) However, the Standing Order is not
applicable to this case because the Standing Order also specifies, “[o]n or after
October 10, 2022, all newly filed PI cases assigned to the Central District
shall be assigned to a Personal Injury Hub court unless the case type is one of
the following: • 2401 Product Liability (not asbestos or toxic/environmental) …
These cases will be assigned to Independent Calendar Courts which will handle
such cases for all purposes, including trial.” (Standing Order p. 3.)
 
Although this case
was filed on October 10, 2022 and does allege personal injury, it is also
classed as “2401 Product Liability (not asbestos or toxic/environmental).” It
is thus excluded from its rules regarding PI Hub Courts cases, and was instead
assigned to this court, which is an Independent Calendar Court. Its provision
that PI Hub Courts shall not hear motions to compel further until after parties
have engaged in an IDC is therefore inapplicable, and we therefore need not deny
or continue the Motions on those grounds.
 
ANALYSIS
Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) Discovery may
relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the
action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
“Relevant evidence is defined in Evidence Code section
210 as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any
disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.’ The
test of relevance is whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by
reasonable inference to establish material facts. The trial court has broad
discretion in determining the relevance of evidence but lacks discretion to
admit irrelevant evidence.” (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 138, 148, internal quotations and citations omitted; see also
Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 97 [“[I]n the context of
discovery, evidence is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in
evaluating its case, preparing for trial, or facilitating a settlement.”].)
A court “retains the discretion to weigh the burden of compliance against
the likelihood of producing helpful information, to avoid duplicative
production, and to narrow demands if appropriate to balance the reasonable
concerns of both parties.” (Volkswagen of America, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1497.) “[Discovery] statutes must be construed
liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request is clearly improper by
virtue of well-established causes for denial.” (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior
Court In and For Merced County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355, 377.) But, “discovery,
like all matters of procedure, has its ultimate and necessary boundaries.” (Columbia
Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1968)
263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19.)
 
I. The Interrogatories
 
A party on whom interrogatories are propounded is required to refer to
all sources of information that are under the party's control. CCP §
2030.220(a)–(b). A responding party’s duty also encompasses the requirement
that it make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information
sought by the interrogatory, except where that information is readily available
to the propounding party. (Regency Health Services, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 64 Cal. App.4th 1496, 1504; Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 782 [“If a party is unable to fully answer it should set forth
the efforts made to secure the information.”].) If an interrogatory cannot be
answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible. (CCP §
2030.220(b).) “Where the question is specific and explicit, an answer
which supplies only a portion of the information sought is wholly insufficient.”
(Deyo v. Kilbourne, supra at 783.) “If only partial answers can
be supplied, the answers should reveal all information then available to the
party. If a person cannot furnish details, he should set forth the efforts made
to secure the information.” (Id. at 782.)
 
If the responding party responds with inappropriate objections or evasive
or incomplete answers, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300.) A motion to compel further
is properly brought to challenge “boilerplate” responses to special
interrogatories. (Best Products, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 119
Cal.App.4th 1181, 1190; see also Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003) 112
Cal.App.4th 285, 294.) The responding party bears the burden of justifying any
objection or insufficient answer to a special interrogatory. (Coy v.
Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–21 [“Defendants here had the
burden of showing facts from which the trial court might find that the
interrogatories were interposed for improper purposes. The statute does not
require any showing of good cause for the serving and filing of
interrogatories.”].) “Nevertheless, if interrogatories are reasonably subject
to objection as calling for the disclosure of matters so remote from the
subject matter of the action as disclosed by the issues framed by the pleadings
as to make their disclosure of little or no practical benefit to the party
seeking the disclosure or if to answer them would place a burden and expense
upon the parties to whom the interrogatories are propounded which should be
equitably borne by the propounder or if the interrogatories are so framed as to
require the disclosure of relevant as well as irrelevant matter, the trial
court in the exercise of its discretion may refuse to order such
interrogatories answered.” (Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior
Court for Los Angeles County, supra at 19.)
 
A. Motion #1 (Form Interrogatories Propounded on
Asher)
 
Motion #1 is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART.
 
The form interrogatories at issue seek background information that
parties are generally entitled to in any action. Form interrogatories are
approved by the Judicial Council and entail “fundamentally routine” discovery
information.  (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th
1242, 1250.)
 
Form Interrogatory No. 12.4
 
This interrogatory seeks photographs and video of the incident and
Asher’s injuries. Its subparts additionally seek the number of photographs or
feet of video, the contact information of the photographer, and the contact
information of anyone with a copy of the photographs or video. Asher objects on
the grounds that the interrogatory seeks information subject to the
attorney-client privilege and attorney work product, but he agrees to produce “all
responsive photographs.” Negrete contends that this response is “woefully
incomplete.” We agree. Each subpart of the interrogatory should be answered. 
 
Accordingly, Motion #1 is granted as to Form Interrogatory No. 12.4.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 14.1
 
This interrogatory is a contention question asking if Asher contends that
any person “violated any statute, ordinance, or regulation and that the
violation was a legal (proximate) cause of the [incident]” and, if so, the
interrogatory seeks that person’s contact information and the specific statute,
ordinance, or regulation that was violated. Asher objects on the grounds that
this interrogatory seeks his legal reasoning and theories and that he “is not
required to prepare the defendant’s case.” Asher observes that “[w]hile it is
proper to discover a plaintiff’s legal contentions, the legal reasoning or
theories behind the contentions are not discoverable.” Asher further objects on
the grounds that this interrogatory is premature, but he nonetheless answers in
the affirmative. Negrete contends that this response is inadequate because it
fails to answer the subparts of the interrogatory that ask after the contact
information of the person who violated the statute, ordinance, or regulation
and identification of the statute, ordinance, or regulation violated. We agree.
Each subpart of the interrogatory should be answered. 
 
Accordingly, Motion #1 is granted as to Form Interrogatory No. 14.1.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1
 
This interrogatory asks whether Asher’s response to eight requests for
admission are qualified or not and, if so, seeks facts upon which response is
based, the contact information of anyone with knowledge of those facts, and
identification of documents that support that response. Asher replied with a
single response to all eight requests for admission, answering each subpart of
the question as to all eight requests for admission. Negrete contends that this
single response “entirely defeats the purpose” of the form interrogatory and
seeks a separate response to each request for admission. We disagree. Asher
fully responds to each subpart of the interrogatory with an identical response
to each of the eight requests for admission. He is not required to copy the
answer out eight times.
 
Accordingly, Motion #1 is denied as to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1.
 
B. Motion #2 (Special Interrogatories Propounded on
Asher)
 
Motion #2 is GRANTED.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 55
 
This interrogatory asks what physical activity Asher engaged in prior to
the incident that he alleges he is no longer able to do. In response, among
other objections, Asher objects that the phrase “physical activity” is vague
and ambiguous. Asher contends that he lacks sufficient information to respond
to the interrogatory as phrased. Negrete replies that the phrase “physical
activity” is “easily understood using the dictionary definitions of the words”
and points out that Asher’s objections are inapplicable. Negrete contends that
it is “impossible for [Rachel] to lack sufficient information to respond.” We
agree that “physical activity” is not ambiguous, that Asher’s objections are
inapplicable, and that the phrasing of the interrogatory asking about only what
Asher currently alleges about changes in his physical ability puts the answer
in Asher’s possession. Asher’s response is therefore incomplete and inadequate.
 
Accordingly, Motion #2 is granted as to Special Interrogatory No. 55.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 58
 
This interrogatory asks what physical activity Asher engaged in prior to
the incident that he alleges he is now limited in his ability to perform. In
response, among other objections, Asher objects that the phrase “physical
activity” is vague and ambiguous. Asher contends that he lacks sufficient
information to respond to the interrogatory as phrased. Negrete replies that
the phrase “physical activity” is “easily understood using the dictionary
definitions of the words” and points out that Asher’s objections are
inapplicable. Negrete contends that it is “impossible for [Rachel] to lack
sufficient information to respond.” We agree that “physical activity” is not
ambiguous, that Asher’s objections are inapplicable, and that the phrasing of
the interrogatory asking about only what Asher currently alleges about changes
in his physical ability puts the answer in Asher’s possession. Asher’s response
is therefore incomplete and inadequate.
 
Accordingly, Motion #2 is granted as to Special Interrogatory No. 58.
 
C. Motion #3 (Form Interrogatories Propounded on
Rachel)
 
Motion #3 is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART.
 
The form interrogatories at issue seek background information that
parties are generally entitled to in any action. Form interrogatories are
approved by the Judicial Council and entail “fundamentally routine” discovery
information.  (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th
1242, 1250.) 
 
Form Interrogatory No. 12.4
 
This interrogatory seeks photographs and video of the incident and
Rachel’s injuries. Its subparts additionally seek the number of photographs or
feet of video, the contact information of the photographer, and the contact
information of anyone with a copy of the photographs or video. Rachel objects
on the grounds that the interrogatory seeks information subject to the
attorney-client privilege and attorney work product, but she agrees to produce
“all responsive photographs.” Negrete contends that this response is “woefully
incomplete.” We agree. Each subpart of the interrogatory should be answered. 
 
Accordingly, Motion #3 is granted as to Form Interrogatory No. 12.4.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 14.1
 
This interrogatory is a contention question asking if Rachel contends
that any person “violated any statute, ordinance, or regulation and that the
violation was a legal (proximate) cause of the [incident]” and, if so, the
interrogatory seeks that person’s contact information and the specific statute,
ordinance, or regulation that was violated. Rachel objects on the grounds that
this interrogatory seeks his legal reasoning and theories and that she “is not
required to prepare the defendant’s case.” Rachel observes that “[w]hile it is
proper to discover a plaintiff’s legal contentions, the legal reasoning or
theories behind the contentions are not discoverable.” Rachel further objects
on the grounds that this interrogatory is premature, but she nonetheless
answers in the affirmative. Negrete contends that this response is inadequate
because it fails to answer the subparts of the interrogatory that ask after the
contact information of the person who violated the statute, ordinance, or
regulation and identification of the statute, ordinance, or regulation
violated. We agree. This interrogatory does not seek any legal reasoning or
theories, only identification of the statute, ordinance, or regulation that she
alleges is violated. Each subpart of the interrogatory should be answered. 
 
Accordingly, Motion #3 is granted as to Form Interrogatory No. 14.1.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1
 
This interrogatory asks whether Rachel’s response to eight requests for
admission are qualified or not and, if so, seeks facts upon which response is
based, the contact information of anyone with knowledge of those facts, and
identification of documents that support that response. Rachel replied with a
single response to all eight requests for admission, answering each subpart of
the question as to all eight requests for admission. Negrete contends that this
single response “entirely defeats the purpose” of the form interrogatory and
seeks a separate response to each request for admission. We disagree. Rachel
fully responds to each subpart of the interrogatory with an identical response
to each of the eight requests for admission. She is not required to copy the
answer out eight times.
 
Accordingly, Motion #3 is denied as to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1.
 
D. Motion #4 (Special Interrogatories Propounded on
Rachel)
 
Motion #4 is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 74
 
This interrogatory
asks when Rachel retained her counsel to represent her in connection with the
incident. Rachel responds with a number of objections, including that it is
vague and ambiguous, that the request is “oppressive, compound, harassing, and
burdensome,” that it seeks Rachel’s “counsel’s legal analysis and theories,”
and that it invades privileges. Negrete contends that the interrogatory “cannot
reasonably be considered vague and ambiguous or oppressive, compound,
harassing, or burdensome. Nothing about this fact implicates the
attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product doctrine, or any other
conceivable privilege.” We agree. The interrogatory is not compound, and
clearly and explicitly seeks a simple date that should be readily accessible to
Rachel in response.
 
Accordingly, Motion #4 is granted as to Special Interrogatory No. 74.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 86
 
This interrogatory
asks whether Rachel has taken any vacations following the incident. Rachel
objects on the grounds that it violates both her and third parties’ privacy
rights and on the grounds that it is “overbroad, harassing in nature,
irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” Negrete contends that this seeks information within the broad scope
of discovery, does not invade Rachel’s “reasonable expectation of
privacy against a serious invasion” (emphasis original), and is relevant
to Rachel’s “claim of continuing impact from the subject incident.” However, we
do not believe that this explanation of relevance is adequate to overcome
Rachel’s reasonable expectation of privacy.
 
Accordingly, Motion #4 is denied as to Special Interrogatory No. 86.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 87
 
This interrogatory
asks the dates of any vacations Rachel has taken since the incident. Rachel
objects on the grounds that it violates both her and third parties’ privacy
rights and on the grounds that it is “overbroad, harassing in nature,
irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” Negrete contends that this seeks information within the broad scope
of discovery, does not invade Rachel’s “reasonable expectation of
privacy against a serious invasion” (emphasis original), and is relevant
to Rachel’s “claim of continuing impact from the subject incident.” However, we
do not believe that this explanation of relevance is adequate to overcome
Rachel’s reasonable expectation of privacy.
 
Accordingly, Motion #4 is denied as to Special Interrogatory No. 87.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 88
 
This interrogatory
asks the location of any vacations Rachel has taken since the incident. Rachel
objects on the grounds that it violates both her and third parties’ privacy
rights and on the grounds that it is “overbroad, harassing in nature,
irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” Negrete contends that this seeks information within the broad scope
of discovery, does not invade Rachel’s “reasonable expectation of
privacy against a serious invasion” (emphasis original), and is relevant
to Rachel’s “claim of continuing impact from the subject incident.” However, we
do not believe that this explanation of relevance is adequate to overcome
Rachel’s reasonable expectation of privacy.
 
Accordingly, Motion #4 is denied as to Special Interrogatory No. 88.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 89
 
This interrogatory asks what physical activity Rachel engaged in prior to
the incident that she alleges she is no longer able to do. In response, among
other objections, Rachel objects that the phrase “physical activity” is vague
and ambiguous. Rachel contends that she lacks sufficient information to respond
to the interrogatory as phrased. Negrete replies that the phrase “physical
activity” is “easily understood using the dictionary definitions of the words”
and points out that Rachel’s objections are inapplicable. Negrete contends that
it is “impossible for [Rachel] to lack sufficient information to respond.” We
agree that “physical activity” is not ambiguous, that Rachel’s objections are
inapplicable, and that the phrasing of the interrogatory asking about only what
Rachel currently alleges about changes in his physical ability puts the answer
in Rachel’s possession. Rachel’s response is therefore incomplete and
inadequate.
 
Accordingly, Motion #4 is granted as to Special Interrogatory No. 89.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 91
 
This interrogatory asks, for each physical activity Rachel engaged in
prior to the incident that she alleges she is no longer able to do, for
documents supporting that allegation. In response, among other objections,
Rachel objects that the phrase “physical activity” is vague and ambiguous.
Rachel contends that she lacks sufficient information to respond to the
interrogatory as phrased. Negrete replies that the phrase “physical activity”
is “easily understood using the dictionary definitions of the words” and points
out that Rachel’s objections are inapplicable. Negrete contends that it is “impossible
for [Rachel] to lack sufficient information to respond.” We agree that
“physical activity” is not ambiguous, that Rachel’s objections are
inapplicable, and that the phrasing of the interrogatory asking about only what
Rachel currently alleges about changes in his physical ability puts the answer
in Rachel’s possession. Rachel’s response is therefore incomplete and
inadequate.
 
Accordingly, Motion #4 is granted as to Special Interrogatory No. 91.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 92
 
This interrogatory asks what physical activity Rachel engaged in prior to
the incident that she now alleges she is now limited in her ability to perform.
In response, among other objections, Rachel objects that the phrase “physical
activity” is vague and ambiguous. Rachel contends that she lacks sufficient
information to respond to the interrogatory as phrased. Negrete contends that
it is “impossible for [Rachel] to lack sufficient information to respond.” We
agree that “physical activity” is not ambiguous, that Rachel’s objections are
inapplicable, and that the phrasing of the interrogatory asking about only what
Rachel currently alleges about changes in his physical ability puts the answer
in Rachel’s possession. Rachel’s response is therefore incomplete and
inadequate.
 
Accordingly, Motion #4 is granted as to Special Interrogatory No. 92.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 94
 
This interrogatory asks for each physical activity Rachel engaged in
prior to the incident that she now alleges she is now limited in her ability to
perform, for documents supporting that allegation. In response, among other
objections, Rachel objects that the phrase “physical activity” is vague and
ambiguous. Rachel contends that she lacks sufficient information to respond to
the interrogatory as phrased. Negrete contends that it is “impossible for [Rachel]
to lack sufficient information to respond.” We agree that “physical activity”
is not ambiguous, that Rachel’s objections are inapplicable, and that the
phrasing of the interrogatory asking about only what Rachel currently alleges
about changes in his physical ability puts the answer in Rachel’s possession.
Rachel’s response is therefore incomplete and inadequate.
 
Accordingly, Motion #4 is granted as to Special Interrogatory No. 94.
 
II. Sanctions
 
Unless it would be
unjust to do so under the circumstances, the court may impose monetary
sanctions against parties and/or attorneys that unsuccessfully make or oppose
motions to compel further responses without substantial justification. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(d), 2031.310(h), 2033.290(d).) Here,
both parties request monetary sanctions against each other. Because the motions
to compel further are granted for some interrogatories but denied for others,
NO SANCTIONS shall issue.
 
 
 
 
Dated:             March
12, 2024                                               _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                                            Hon. Eric Harmon  Judge
of the Superior Court