 Case Number:  23SMCV01492    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Andrino v. City of Santa
Monica, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   23SMCV01492
MOTION:                     Demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint  
HEARING DATE:   9/25/2024
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore
Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations
omitted.) 
 
A special demurrer for uncertainty is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that
defendant cannot reasonably respond – i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)  
 
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
  
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant the City of
Santa Monica demurs to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for dangerous
condition of public property. Defendant argues that the first amended complaint
(FAC) fails to state particularized facts in support of this cause of action.
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff is confined to the factual allegations
made in the government claim for damages against the City of Santa Monica. (Gov.
Code § 945.4.) Defendant argues that the FAC fails to explain a plausible
reason for supplementing the description of the dangerous condition and is
therefore a sham pleading. 
 
California Government
Code section 815 provides that “[a] public entity is not liable for an injury,
whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a
public employee or any other person” except as provided by statute. (Govt.
Code, § 815(a); see Hoff v. Vacaville Unified School Dist. (1998) 19
Cal.4th 925, 932.)  “[D]irect tort liability of public entities must be
based on a specific statute declaring them to be liable, or at least creating
some specific duty of care, and not on the general tort provisions of Civil
Code section 1714. Otherwise, the general rule of immunity for public entities
would be largely eroded by the routine application of general tort
principles.”  (Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.)  
 
A public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if: 1) the
property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury; ¿2) the
dangerous condition caused the injury; ¿3) the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred; ¿and 4)
either a negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public
entity within the scope of his employment created the condition, or the entity
had actual or constructive notice of the condition in time to have taken
measures to protect against it.  (Govt. Code § 835; see Moncur v. City of
Los Angeles, Dept. of Airports (1977) 68 Cal.App.3d 118.) “ ‘Dangerous
condition’ means a condition of property that creates a substantial (as
distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such
property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is
reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (Gov. Code § 830(a).) A
claim alleging a dangerous condition, as required to support a public entity's
liability as a property owner for injuries sustained on the property, may not
rely on generalized allegations, but must specify in what manner the condition
constituted a dangerous condition. (Cerna v. City of Oakland (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 1340.)
 
Here, the second cause
of action states in relevant part: Plaintiff sustained injuries when he was
injured as a result of unsafe, unreasonable, hazardous, and/or defective
conditions on Defendants' property, located at or near 28th St. and Donald
Douglas Loop N., Santa Monica, CA 90405, causing injuries and damages to be
proven at the time of trial. Defendants, and each of them are negligent for
their failure to provide a safe, suitable and adequate premises. Plaintiff was
injured because of an unsafe, unreasonable, hazardous, and/or defective conditions
on Defendants’ property. Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges
that said unsafe, unreasonable, hazardous, and/or defective conditions were caused
by Defendants, and each of them, and/or existed for a sufficient time prior to
the incident for Defendants to have corrected, removed, and/or warned Plaintiff
of the existence of said conditions, which Defendants negligently and
carelessly failed to do, causing serious injuries to Plaintiff. Defendants had
actual and/or constructive notice of said unsafe, unreasonable, hazardous,
and/or defective conditions. (FAC, Prem.L-1.) The City of Santa Monica had notice
of the existence of the dangerous condition in sufficient time prior to the
injury to have corrected it, and the condition was created by employees of the
defendant public entity. (Prem.L-4.) 
 
Otherwise, the FAC provides generic negligence allegations
against the other Defendants. (See FAC, GN-1.) Plaintiff alleges
“he was injured due to an unsafe, unreasonable, hazardous, and/or defective
conditions on Defendants' property, that was created by Defendants.” (Id.) He
alleges damages due to the “negligence of
defendants in maintaining, inspecting, repairing, managing, supervising,
controlling and/or operating the premises located at or near 28th St. and
Douglas Loop N., Santa Monica, CA 90405; including, but not limited to fixtures
and appliances, adequate lighting, entrance and exit ways, surrounding parking
lots and alleys, aisles, floors, stairs, steps, gates and any other surfaces
and areas upon which individuals may move about; negligently hiring, training, supervising,
controlling and/or monitoring employees and agents responsible for the maintenance,
inspections, repairing, supervision, control and operations; failing to provide
a safe, suitable and adequate premises for individuals using said premises.”
(Id.)
 
            Both of these generalized
allegations fail to identify in what particular manner
the condition constituted a dangerous condition. Thus, the FAC
fails to support a claim with the required particularized facts.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends that the subject intersection
was a dangerous condition of public property due to its design, layout, lack of
maintenance, inadequate road markings, inadequate signage, and more. Plaintiff,
however, does not cite to where this is alleged. To the extent that this is a
proffer of evidence to support leave to amend, the City cites to Plaintiff’s
government claim, which specifically identifies defective traffic lights as the
basis for liability against the City. A complaint is vulnerable to demurrer if
it alleges a factual basis that is not fairly reflected in the claim. (Stockett
v. Association of Cal. Water Agencies Joint Powers Ins. Authority (2004) 34
Cal.4th. 441, 447; see California-America Water Co. v. Marina Coast Water
Dist. (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1272, 1290 [purpose of pre-suit notice
requirements is to provide the public entity with the opportunity to discover
and correct the condition, investigate the incident when memories are fresh and
witnesses are available, and to avoid litigation costs by settling early].) A
complaint may expound on the factual basis provided in the claim, so
long as the complaint is not based on an entirely different set of facts (Koussaya
v. City of Stockton (2012) 54 Cal.App.5th 909, 929) or contradict the facts
alleged in the government claim (Hernandez v. Stockton (2023)
90.Cal.App.5th 1222, 1231). Here, instead of elaborating on the facts pled in
the claim form, the FAC’s facts omits them entirely and fails to identify a dangerous
condition with any specificity. Further, Plaintiff’s new theory that the dangerous
condition was the design, layout, lack of maintenance, inadequate road
markings, and inadequate signage of the subject road is not fairly reflected in
the claim form. These new claims form an entirely new basis for liability apart
from the stoplight power-outage alleged in the claim form. Thus, the Court is
not inclined to grant leave to amend. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED tentatively without leave
to amend. 
 