 Case Number:  23SMCV00566    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  M 23SMCV00566
MOTION:                  Motion to
Continue Trial
HEARING DATE:   9/25/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
Pursuant to California Rules of
Court (CRC), rule 3.1332(a), “To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases,
the dates assigned for a trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.” Under CRC Rule 3.1332(b), “A party seeking a continuance of the date
set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” 
            
Under CRC Rule 3.1332(c),
“[a]lthough continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.  Circumstances that may
include good cause include:   
 
(1) The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
 
(2) The unavailability of a
party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
 
(3) The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
 
(4) The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice; 
 
(5) The addition of a new party
if: 
 
(A) The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
 
(B) The
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
 
(6) A party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or 
 
(7) A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.” 
 
            CRC
Rule 3.1332(d) sets forth other factors that are relevant in determining
whether to grant a continuance. 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Diyaco LLC moves to
continue trial from October 21, 2024, to April 21, 2025, with all related dates
to follow the new trial date. Defendant Carlos Cuellar joins the motion,
stating that counsel has conflicting trial dates and that this action is quite
likely to settle once discovery has been completed. Plaintiff opposes, arguing
that there is no good cause for a continuance, but in the spirit of
cooperation, agrees to a shorter continuance of trial to January 2025. 
 
Following supplemental briefing,
Defendants limit the discovery grounds for a continuance to the deposition of
third-party witness Miachel Zelman. (9/18/24 Mahbubani Decl. ¶2.) Mr. Zelman is
a tenant of the Subject Property and Plaintiff was visiting Mr. Zelman’s office
at the time of the incident. (Id. ¶3.) Diyaco requires Mr. Zelman’s deposition
as the only identified third-party witness to the Subject Incident in order to substantiate
Plaintiff’s version of how the Subject Incident occurred and to obtain
additional information as to what Plaintiff’s initial complaints of pain were,
if any, immediately following the Subject Incident. (Id. ¶ 4.) Diyaco
previously noticed Mr. Zelman’s deposition for September 20, 2024. (Id. ¶¶5-6.)
However, Mr. Zelman was unavailable for that deposition date and counsel will
need to confer with him as to his availability. (Id. ¶ 7.) Defendants cite the
now-passed September 21, 2024, cutoff, rendering it impossible to take the
deposition on a date prior to the discovery cut-off absent a trial continuance
in this matter. (Mahbubani Decl. ¶8.) However, the court may permit leave to
conduct the deposition as remedy. If the deposition can be conducted prior to
the currently set trial date, then the Court would be inclined simply to grant
leave to conduct the deposition after the cutoff. Thus, the outstanding
discovery alone does not weigh heavily in favor of a trial continuance. 
 
Defendants also explain that they
are interested in entering this matter into private mediation. Plaintiff
explains that there is a currently pending mediation date of October 1, 2024.
Thus, the mediation will be completed before the currently set trial date. The
desire for mediation therefore does not weigh in favor of a continuance. 
 
However, counsel for Diyaco
explains that he is the sole associate in charge of this case for the firm and
that his father recently passed away on September 3, 2024. Counsel is
understandably taking time off for bereavement, and will not be able to work
until October 10, 2024, as he is traveling out of the country for reasons
related to his father’s death. (2nd Supp. Mahbubani Decl., ¶ 3.) Counsel will
therefore be unable to effectively prepare this action for trial until October
10, 2024.  The Court is unclear whether
the October 1, 2024, mediation date is going forward or if will be rescheduled.
 
Given counsel’s unavailability, and
the need to depose a third-party witness, good cause is shown for a shorter
continuance. The Court concurs that the outstanding issues should be resolved
by the end of the year. Thus, a January 2025 trial date would be a fair
compromise which balances Plaintiff’s need for a speedy resolution of the
issues, and Defendants’ right to counsel and discovery.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
The Court will discuss with the parties a mutually convenient trial date.  All related dates (discovery, expert
disclosures) are to follow the new trial date.
 