 Case Number:  23LBCV00974    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs Jesus Renteria (“Mr.
Renteria”), by and through his guardian ad litem Benjamin Zazueta, and Diana
Renteria (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants Pinner
Construction Co., Inc.; Kern Steel Fabrication, Inc.; Mr. Crane, Inc.; B.A.
Sims Engineering, Inc.; CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc.; PMCS Group, Inc.; the City
of Long Beach by and through the Port of Long Beach Commission; and Does 1 to
50 on June 1, 2023.
Plaintiffs filed their operative
third amended complaint (“TAC”) on April 4, 2024. The TAC alleges the
defendants provided negligent drawings, plans, specifications, safety
instructions, and designs for the “Boat House No. 20” construction project in
Long Beach (“the Project”). Plaintiffs allege that due to the defendants’
negligence, the building Plaintiff was working on collapsed, causing him to
sustain grave injuries. His wife sues alongside him for loss of consortium.
The defendants have
cross-complained against each other for breach of contract, indemnity,
apportionment, and contribution, in various combinations. 
As relevant for this motion,
defendant Mr. Crane, Inc. (“Mr. Crane”) cross-complained against a new party,
cross-defendant Rika Corporation dba Diversified Metalworks (“Diversified”), on
October 20, 2023. Mr. Crane asserts claims for express indemnity, breach of
contract, and declaratory relief.
At the time of Mr. Renteria’s
accident, he was working as an employee of Diversified. Diversified rented
equipment and labor from Mr. Crane to support Diversified’s work. Diversified
and Mr. Crane’s rental agreement was memorialized in daily “job tickets”
(“Tickets”). The back of each Ticket lists twelve paragraphs of “Terms and
Conditions”, including clauses wherein Mr. Crane contends Diversified (1)
indemnified it for all liability arising from the arrangement, including
liability for Mr. Renteria’s injury; (2) promised to add Mr. Crane as an
additional insured to relevant policies for the Project; and (3) agreed to
defend Mr. Crane in the event of litigation.
On August 1, 2024, Diversified
moved for summary judgment and/or summary adjudication of each of Mr. Crane’s
claims in its cross-complaint. On October 8, 2024, Mr. Crane filed its
opposition. On October 16, 2024, Diversified replied.
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment and/or Adjudication
Diversified argues it is entitled
to summary judgment and/or adjudication because:
(1)          
Labor Code section 3864 precludes a duty for Diversified
to indemnify Mr. Crane for injuries to Diversified’s employees absent a written
agreement to the contrary, and Mr. Crane did not execute such an indemnity
agreement as required by statute; and
(2)          
Diversified’s insurer has defended Mr. Crane
throughout this action, so Diversified has not breached any duty to insure or
defend.
 
a.    
Legal Standard
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to enable summary
dismissal without the need for trial where an opposing party cannot show
evidentiary support for a pleading or claim. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Ritchfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Summary judgment is granted when, after
the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all
reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist, and the
moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c (c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  
Summary
judgment analysis proceeds in three steps: “(1) identify the issues framed by
the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
At
the second step, as to each claim as framed by a complaint, the defendant
moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting enough facts to negate an essential element of the plaintiff’s
claims or to establish a full defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(o)(2); Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) “When a summary
judgment motion prima facie justifies a judgment, the third and final step is
to determine whether the opposition demonstrates the existence of a triable,
material factual issue.” (AARTS Productions, Inc. v. Crocker National Bank
(1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 1061, 1065.) 
 
b.    
Evidentiary Objections
Mr. Crane’s objections to
Diversified’s Exhibits Nos. 9 and 11 are sustained. Mr. Crane’s objection to Diversified’s
Exhibit 10 is overruled.
Diversfied asserted no evidentiary
objections to Mr. Crane’s evidence in opposition.
 
c.    
First Cause of Action for Express
Indemnity
“Express indemnity
refers to an obligation that arises ‘by virtue of express contractual language
establishing a duty in one party to save another harmless upon the occurrence
of specified circumstances.’ (Bay Development, Ltd., v. Superior Court (1990)]
50 Cal.3d [1012,] 1029.) …  [I]t is
enforced in accordance with the terms of the contracting parties’ agreement. (Markley
v. Beagle (1967) 66 Cal.2d 951, 961 … .)” (Prince v. Pacific Gas &
Electric Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151, 1158.) Causes of action for express
indemnity are treated “as contract based, as are … causes of action for breach
of contract and warranties … .” (Ranchwood Communities Limited Partnership
v. Jim Beat Construction Co. (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1417.) Thus, an
action for express indemnity shares elements with an action for breach of
contract: (1) existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse;
(3) defendant’s breach; and (4) resulting damages. (See C.W. Howe Partners
Inc. v. Mooradian (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 688, 699-700.) 
Mr. Crane cites the first paragraph
of the Tickets’ “Terms and Conditions”, titled “Indemnification”, and argues it
should be treated as an express agreement for Diversified to indemnify Mr.
Crane against Mr. Renteria’s claims. 
Diversified argues that even if the
“Indemnification” paragraph is otherwise enforceable, the Labor Code precludes
its application to suits brought by Diversified’s employees.
Labor Code section 3850 et seq.
establish an employer’s right to subrogation in the event its employee is
injured on the job and recovers damages from a third party. Section 3852 reads,
in relevant part:
“The claim of an
employee . . . for compensation does not affect his or her claim or right of
action for all damages proximately resulting from the injury or death against
any person other than the employer. Any employer who pays, or becomes obligated
to pay compensation . . . may likewise make a claim or bring an action against
the third person. . . .”
Diversified relies on the language
of Labor Code section 3864, which limits circumstances where an employer must
indemnify a third party for injuries to an employee:
“If an action as
provided in this chapter prosecuted by the employee, the employer, or both
jointly against the third person results in judgment against such third person,
. . . the employer shall have no liability to reimburse or hold such third
person harmless on such judgment or settlement in absence of a written
agreement so to do executed prior to the injury.”
The parties do not dispute that
Plaintiffs’ action against Mr. Crane falls within the ambit of section 3864.
Mr. Renteria, Diversified’s employee, has sued Mr. Crane, a third party, for
injuries suffered on the job. 
Because section 3864 applies, Mr.
Crane may not make a claim to indemnity from Diversified, Plaintiffs’ employer,
unless Diversified and Mr. Crane executed a written agreement to do so prior to
Mr. Renteria’s injury.
The Job Tickets relevant to Mr.
Renteria’s claims were executed on May 5 and May 6, 2022. (See DUMF 5
[undisputed in relevant part].) A representative for Diversified, David Stinson,
signed the agreements, which were prepared by Mr. Crane. (See Def. Exh. 7 [Job
Tickets].)
Diversified contends that because
the Tickets’ indemnity clause was not separately signed by Mr. Crane prior to
Mr. Renteria’s injury, the agreements were not “executed prior to [Renteria’s]
injury” as required by section 3864.
Section 3864 does not define the
term “executed”. But case law confirms that an “executed” agreement, for
purposes of section 3864, must be signed by both parties. (See Hansen
Mechanical, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 722, 731 [for
purposes of section 3864, “ ‘a written agreement is “executed” when all parties
sign the agreement’ ”].) An agreement like a purchase order, signed by one
party and fully executed upon performance, does not satisfy section 3864. (Ibid.)
The job tickets are signed by a David
Stinson on behalf of Diversified. They are also initialed in two places by
Brett Dean and Nick Snyder, employees of Mr. Crane. (See Pl. Exh. B
[Cross-Complaint], pp. 8-11].) Mr. Crane contends Dean and Snyder’s initials
satisfy section 3864. The Court disagrees.
The Tickets’ headings identify them
as “Job Ticket Time Card[s]”. Dean and Snyder are identified as “Operator” and
“Oiler”, not as representatives of Mr. Crane. Diversified is identified as
“Customer”, and its representative signed on a line that confirmed
Diversified’s agreement to the indemnity clause. But there is no space for
cross-signature by Mr. Crane. Dean and Snyder’s initials appear in “Employee
Signature”, confirming the hours they spent on the job, with form language
confirming that Dean and Snyder have agreed to certain terms “By signing this timecard”.
Their initials only otherwise appear under a line reading “Tool Box
Meeting/[Job Hazard Analysis] Employee Initial”. (See Pl. Exh. B, at p. 10.)
Diversified has carried its burden.
Dean and Snyder are identified as Employees multiple times on the Tickets.
Nothing in the record suggests they were authorized to bind Mr. Crane to an
indemnity agreement. Their initials on other portions of the form clearly refer
to different matters: hours worked and safety certifications. Diversified also
points out in its Reply that Dean and Snyder verified their hours worked after
the fact, meaning the Tickets could not have been executed prior to Mr.
Renteria’s accident, which occurred during the work day. In fact, an
explanatory note at the bottom of the May 6, 2022 Ticket states: “Overtime
Happened because of Accident”, confirming that the initials appeared subsequent
to work performed. (Pl. Exh. B, p. 10.)
In opposition, Mr. Crane raises no
triable issue. It asserts that Dean and Snyder had the authority to bind it to
the indemnity agreement, but offers no evidence to support that assertion. In
fact, Diversified’s undisputed facts suggest that Dean and Snyder were “rented
… labor from Mr. Crane”, signing the agreements only in that capacity. (DUMF 4
[undisputed].) Mr. Crane also contends “[i]t is Mr. Crane’s custom and practice
to have Job Tickets signed by the customer [Diversified] before the work
is performed.” (PUMF 5, italics added.) But the question is whether and when Mr.
Crane signed the Ticket, not Diversified.
Labor Code section 3864 precludes
Diversified’s duty to indemnify Mr. Crane for injuries to Diversified’s own
employees, because Diversified shows Mr. Crane did not sign the purported
indemnity agreement prior to Mr. Renteria’s accident. Mr. Crane fails to raise
a triable issue otherwise.
The motion is granted as to Mr.
Crane’s first cause of action for express indemnity.
 
d.    
Second Cause of Action for Breach of
Contract
A plaintiff asserting breach of
contract must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance or
excuse, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) damages. (Richman v. Hartley
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
In its second cause of action, Mr.
Crane contends Diversified breached the parties’ written contract to provide
crane operation services at the Construction Project. (XC, ¶ 16.) Specifically,
Mr. Crane argues the Tickets obligated Diversified “to defend and indemnify”
Mr. Crane and “to keep and maintain insurance … [and] to name [Mr. Crane] as an
additional insured on [its] insurance policies” (XC, ¶¶ 17-18), and Diversified
did not do so.
As to the first alleged breach: for
reasons discussed above, Diversified is not obligated to indemnify Mr. Crane
for Mr. Renteria’s injuries. Their written agreement was not executed, nor
executed timely, in the manner required by Labor Code section 3864.
The remainder of Mr. Crane’s claim
requires further discussion. The parties do not dispute that the contract is
enforceable but for Labor Code section 3864, and section 3864 only precludes
enforcement of the indemnity clause.
Diversified contends it is entitled
to summary adjudication because (1) Mr. Crane cannot show Diversified did not
add it as an insured (and Diversified’s insurer is providing Mr. Crane’s
defense), and (2) Mr. Crane cannot show it was damaged.
Diversified carries its threshold
burden to show it upheld its agreement to insure Mr. Crane. Mr. Crane does not
dispute that it tendered its defense to Vela Insurance Services and “[o]n or
about January 20, 2024, Vela Insurance Services issued a response to Mr.
Crane’s tender for defense, in which it communicated that Gemini [Insurance
Services] agreed to defend Mr. Crane in connection with the instant lawsuit,
subject to a reservation of rights.” (DUMF 7 [undisputed].) Although this fact
is not dispositive of the breach by itself, it carries Diversified’s threshold
burden to show Mr. Crane was added as an additional insured, and that Mr. Crane
has been defended pursuant to Diversified’s policy.
Diversified prevails on this
showing, because Mr. Crane raises no triable issue in response. Mr. Crane
proffers two exhibits in support of its opposition: (1) its own responses to
Diversified’s interrogatories, which assert only that “Defendant has not been
provided with proof” that Diversified has not breached the contract; and
(2) its own Cross-Complaint, which is not probative. The fact that Diversified
did not prove its claim to Mr. Crane’s satisfaction during discovery has no
bearing on this motion. Diversified is not obligated to prove Mr. Crane’s case;
Mr. Crane must produce evidence that raises a triable issue. It has not.
The Court does not need to proceed
to the question of damages, but if it did so, Diversified would also prevail on
that ground. The undisputed facts show it provided Mr. Crane a defense. Mr.
Crane does not offer any evidence supporting its contention that it has
expended resources in its own defense. The motion also prevails on this
separate sufficient ground.
The motion is granted as to Mr.
Crane’s second cause of action for breach of contract.
 
e.    
Third Cause of Action for Declaratory
Relief
“To qualify for declaratory relief
under section 1060, [a party must show] their action … present[s] two essential
elements: ‘(1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual
controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the rights or
obligations of a party.’ [Citation.] ‘The “actual controversy” language in ...
section 1060 encompasses a probable future controversy relating to the legal
rights and duties of the parties.’ [Citation.] It does not embrace
controversies that are ‘conjectural, anticipated to occur in the future, or an
attempt to obtain an advisory opinion from the court.’ [Citation.]” (Lee v.
Silveira (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 527,
546.) Claims of ongoing breach, when a contractual relationship continues
between the parties, are appropriate for declaratory relief. “One of the
purposes of a declaratory relief judgment is to hold the parties steadfast to
the definite provisions of a contract by a reasonable interpretation of its
terms justifying a decree that will make definite the true intent of the
parties to perform even upon the happening of a condition.” (Moklofsky v.
Moklofsky (1949) 93 Cal.App.2d 585, 587.) 

As with the rest of its causes of
action, Mr. Crane’s declaratory relief claim depends on two different disputes:
Diversified’s duty to insure and defend, and its duty to indemnify. For reasons
discussed above, Diversified has established it has no standalone duty to
indemnify Mr. Crane. But it has not carried its threshold burden on its duty to
insure and defend.
Diversified asserts in its motion
that it is providing Mr. Crane a defense. This contention does not
dispose of the parties’ dispute over the extent of its duty to do so. In
order to show no declaratory relief is warranted, Diversified would have to show
either that the parties do not dispute the extent of Diversified’s duty, or
that Diversified’s position about the extent of its duty is correct as a matter
of law. Diversified only argues that it has no duty to indemnify. (See
Mot., 10:5-11:3.) Its moving papers do not discuss its other obligations under
the agreement except to claim its carrier “agreed to defend, and is defending,
Mr. Crane”. (Id., 11:4-6.) Although that showing defeats Mr. Crane’s
claim for breach of contract, it does not settle the ongoing dispute over the
scope of Diversified’s duty.
The motion is denied as to Mr.
Crane’s third cause of action for declaratory relief.
 
3.     Conclusion
The motion for summary judgment is
denied.
The motion for summary adjudication
is granted as to Cross-Complainant’s first and second causes of action.
The motion for summary adjudication
is denied as to Cross-Complainant’s third cause of action.
Moving Cross-Defendant to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.