 Case Number:  23LBCV02216    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff Cendi Curistal Zelaya
(“Plaintiff”) filed this lemon law action against defendant Mercedes-Benz USA,
LLC (“Defendant”) on November 20, 2023. 
On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff moved to
compel responses to her requests for production of documents and to deem
admitted the matters referred to in her requests for admission. Defendant filed
its opposition on June 27, 2024.
The parties appeared for hearing on
July 11, 2024. Defendant sought a continuance based on personnel changes at
Defendant’s counsel’s firm. The Court continued the hearing to September 5,
2024.
The parties appeared on September
5, 2024 and indicated their willingness to meet and confer. The Court continued
the hearing to this date and ordered the parties to submit a Joint Status
Report regarding any further issues in advance of the hearing.
The parties filed their Joint
Status Report on September 20, 2024. They concede Defendant has served
responses to Plaintiff’s discovery since Plaintiff filed her motion. Plaintiff
argues Defendant continues to assert waived objections and suggests the Court
should treat her motions as motions to compel further, rather than initial,
responses. Defendant contends Plaintiff’s motions are moot and she must resort
to a motion to compel further responses.
 
2.     Motions
to Compel Discovery
a.
Legal Standard
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, “[i]f a party to whom a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely
response to it . . . [t]he party to whom the demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010.  . . .   [and] The party
making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the
demand.  (Id., § 2031.300(a)-(b).)  
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (a), “[i]f a party to
whom requests or admission are directed fails to serve a timely response…[t]he
party to whom the requests for admission are directed waives any objection to
the requests, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product[.]”  (Id., §
2033.280(a).)  Where a party fails to
respond to requests for admissions, the propounding party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.  (Id.,
§ 2033.280 (b).)  The court
“shall” grant a motion to deem admitted the matters specified in the requests
for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Id., § 2033.280(c).) 
 
            b.
Discussion
            The
parties agree Defendant has served responses to both sets of discovery. The
substance of Plaintiff’s motion is moot. Sanctions remain unresolved.
 
c. Sanctions
“The court
shall impose a monetary sanction under [section 2023.010 et seq.] against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel [initial responses] ... unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290(c)
[interrogatories], 2031.300(c) [requests for production].) The sanction shall
“order[ ] that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Id.,
§ 2023.030(a).) “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor
of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to
the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the
requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was
filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
Defendant has demonstrated no
substantial justification for its failure to respond to standard lemon-law
discovery. Sanctions are granted in full in the amount of $3,220.00 (RPDs) and
$2,904.00, which also accounts for Plaintiff’s multiple court appearances
regarding this matter.
 
            d.
Time for Motion to Compel Furthers
            The
Court declines to treat Plaintiff’s motion as a motion to compel further
responses to discovery. Plaintiff is correct that Defendant’s objections stand
waived. But the Court cannot review the sufficiency of Defendant’s responses
unless Plaintiff files a Separate Statement as required by the Rules of Court.
            The
Court regards the parties’ in-court stipulations to meet and confer as
stipulations to extend Plaintiff’s discovery motion deadline. As to the subject
discovery, the forty-five day timeline in Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.310(c)
and 2033.290(c) run from the date of this order.
            Defendant’s
continued improper assertion of waived objections will be considered should
future sanctions orders become necessary.
 
3.     Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motions are granted as
to sanctions only. Defendant is ordered to pay $6,124.00 to Plaintiff and/or
her counsel within fifteen (15) days of this order.
Moving Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.