 Case Number:  SC128992    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Saghafi v.
Access Specialty Animal Hospitals, et al.
CASE NO.:                SC128992
MOTION:                  Motion
to Dismiss
HEARING DATE:   1/25/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 583.130 provides
that it “is the policy of the state that a plaintiff shall proceed with
reasonable diligence in the prosecution of an action but that all parties shall
cooperate in bringing the action to trial or other disposition. Except as
otherwise provided by statute or by rule of court adopted pursuant to statute,
the policy favoring the right of parties to make stipulations in their own
interests and the policy favoring trial or other disposition of an action on
the merits are generally to be preferred over the policy that requires
dismissal for failure to proceed with reasonable diligence in the prosecution
of an action in construing the provisions of this chapter.” 
 
CCP section 583.310 requires that an “action shall be
brought to trial within five years after the action is commenced against the
defendant.”  Further, section 583.360
provides, in relevant part: “(a) An action shall be dismissed by the
court on its own motion or on motion of the defendant, after notice to the
parties, if the action is not brought to trial within the time prescribed in
this article. [¶] (b) The requirements of this article are mandatory and are
not subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as expressly
provided by statute." (Emphasis added.) 
 
In computing the time within which an action must be
brought to trial there shall be excluded the time during which any of the
following conditions existed:
 
(a) The jurisdiction of the court to try the action was
suspended.
(b) Prosecution or trial of the action was stayed or enjoined
(c) Bringing the action to trial, for any other reason,
was impossible, impracticable,
or futile.
 
(CCP §583.340.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendants Richard Mills, Howard Liberson, Advanced
Critical Care, Emergency and Specialty Services – Los Angeles, Advanced
Critical Care, Emergency and Specialty Services – South Bay, Advanced Critical
Care, Emergency and Specialty Services – San Fernando Valley, Advanced Critical
Care, Emergency and Specialty Services – Bakersfield, and Advanced Critical
Care & Internal Medicine Inc. (Defendants) move for an order dismissing Plaintiff
Roya Saghafi’s action for failure to prosecute under CCP section 583.360.
 
This action was filed more than five years and six months
ago on March 13, 2018. There is no dispute that this action was not brought to
trial within the times prescribed. Further, the Court observes no
grounds for extension under section 583.340. The record shows that the action
was never suspended or stayed. Plaintiff offers no persuasive evidence that it
was impossible, impracticable or futile to bring this action to trial at any
point. Plaintiff complains that Defendants had multiple counsel throughout this
action, hindering the prosecution of this matter. (Buckley Decl., ¶¶ 9-11.)
However, Defendants change of counsel did not make it impossible, impracticable
or futile to bring the action forward to trial. Plaintiff also does not explain
how any acts in a separate action would affect Plaintiff’s ability to prosecute
this action. (Id., ¶ 10.) Plaintiff has further failed to establish reasonable
diligence at all stages of this proceeding. 
(See Bruns v. E-Commerce Exchange Inc., (2011) 51 Cal. 4th
717 at 73.)  Thus, dismissal is mandatory without exception.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends
that there was an oral stipulation by prior Defendants’ counsel. (Buckley
Decl., ¶11.) More specifically, counsel claims that Defendants’ third counsel
of record, Dona Abdo, “stipulated with me and agreed we would waive the
five year rule.” (Id. ¶ 11, emphasis added.) At best, this shows that counsel
intended to stipulate at some point in the future, but fails to establish the
length of the waiver. In any event, Plaintiff provides no corroborating,
objective evidence that the parties ever agreed to such a stipulation.
Plaintiff only supports this fact with counsel’s vague recollection regarding
this purported stipulation. Counsel explains that “[t]his stipulation occurred
during the Plaintiff’s deposition of one of the individual veterinary
Defendants.” (¶ 12.) Counsel recollects “that this discussion had occurred on
the record but upon reviewing the deposition transcript I realize the
discussion occurred while off the record during one of the breaks.” (¶ 17.)
Counsel promises that he relied on this purported representation, and if there
had not been this representation, counsel would have forced this matter
forward. (¶¶ 11, 19.) Plaintiff also provides that they “recall there was
discussion about a five year rule” at a deposition, and that the attorneys
“indicated” they would waive this rule so the case could be fully prepared.
(Saghafi Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.) Plaintiff also admits to not having an independent
recollection of this, as he relied on counsel’s explanation after the fact.
(Id. ¶ 6.) This evidence is insufficient to show that there was, in fact, a
stipulation by Defendants. If the parties actually stipulated to waiving the
five year rule, the Court would expect there to be some kind of paper trial or
discussion by counsel. At a minimum, Plaintiff’s counsel should have reduced
this stipulation to writing or put it on the record at the deposition. The fact
that there is no record of this critical stipulation weighs heavily against
Plaintiff’s arguments.
 
Furthermore, the May 18, 2022,
stipulation between the parties to continue the trial undercuts Plaintiff’s
contention that Ms. Abdo stipulated to continue the five year limitation
period.  (Opp., Exh. 6.) The stipulation
specifically identified September 13, 2023, as the deadline.  (Id.) 
Defendant is correct that, logically, if Ms. Abdo had previously agreed
to waive the five year rule, that would have been set forth in this stipulation.
 At the least, the Court would have
expected some email or letter exchanges between the parties addressing the
deadline.  
 
Plaintiff has also failed to establish
her diligence in prosecuting this case.  On
May 20, 2022, the Court vacated the existing trial date and ordered the parties
to submit long cause trial documents by the week of July 11, 2022, and to participate
in a Mandatory Settlement Conference on July 5, 2022.  Neither occurred and Plaintiff then failed to
attend a July 25, 2022, status conference.  Other than a motion to consolidate this case
to a number of other cases – which had never been related – nothing of
substance occurred on the matter for well over a year.  Thus, Plaintiff cannot meet the required
impossible, impracticable, or futile standard.
Here, Plaintiff has failed to
establish his own due diligence and, in addition, whether it was impossible,
impracticable, or futile for the plaintiff to comply with the statutory five
year constraint due to causes beyond his or her control.  Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.  The matter is DISMISSED pursuant to section
583.340.