  Case Number:  20STCV10828    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



john a. carr,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
lucy m. johnson, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV10828




Hearing Date:


July 17, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION TO
  SUBSTITUTE CO-EXECUTORS IN PLACE OF DECEASED PLAINTIFF/COUNTER DEFENDANT JOHN
  A. CARR
 



 
Background
            On March 18, 2020, Plaintiff John A.
Carr filed this action against a number of defendants. On July 28, 2020,
Plaintiff filed an amendment to the Complaint naming Eric Walker (“Walker”) in
place of “Doe 4.” The operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) was filed on
October 13, 2020, and alleges causes of action for (1) quiet title and (2)
cancellation of deed. On May 20, 2021 Walker filed a “Crossclaim” against a
number of “Crossclaim Defendants.” The “Crossclaim” alleges cases of action for
(1) quiet title and (2) quiet title. 
            On January 27, 2023, John A. Carr,
now deceased, by and through the Estate of John Allen Carr, Rose M. Carr and
Patrick E. Carr (the “Carrs”) filed a motion to substitute “Co-Executors” in
place of John A. Carr. No opposition to this motion was filed. 
            The Court’s June 18, 2024 minute
order in this action provides, inter alia, that “[p]ursuant to the
request of the moving party the Motion to Substitute Co-Executors in Place of
Deceased Plaintiff/Counter Defendant John A. Carr filed on January 27, 2023,
reservation number 459681554569, is restored back to calendar and set as follows:
Hearing on Motion - Other Motion to Substitute Co-Executors in Place of
Deceased Plaintiff/Counter Defendant John A. Carr is scheduled for 07/17/24 at
10:00 AM in Department 50 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.” 
Discussion
In
the motion, the Carrs cite to Code of Civil
Procedure section 377.20, which provides in part that “[e]xcept as
otherwise provided by statute, a cause of action for or against a person is not
lost by reason of the person’s death, but survives subject to the applicable
limitations period.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.20,
subd. (a).)
 “On motion after the death of a person who commenced an action or
proceeding, the court shall allow a pending action or proceeding that does not
abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by
the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
377.31.) “A pending action or proceeding does not abate by the death of a
party if the cause of action survives.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.21.) 
The Carrs indicate that John A. Carr died during the pendency of this
action on July 5, 2021. (Declaration By Successors in Interest, ¶ 2.) 
In the TAC in this action, it is alleged that John A. Carr “is the
owner by adverse possession of the Subject Property and specifically owns the
fee simple absolute title to the Subject Property.” (TAC, ¶ 17.) The Carrs assert that John A. Carr’s
adverse possession claim to such property is not impaired by his death. The
Carrs cite to Code of Civil Procedure section 327,
which provides that “[t]he
right of a person to the possession of real property is not impaired or
affected by a descent cast in consequence of the death of a person in
possession of such property.” The Court notes that Code
of Civil Procedure section 327 does not appear to demonstrate that John
A. Carr’s causes of action survive
his death. 
In addition, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32, subdivision (a),
“[t]he person who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a
pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest under this
article, shall execute and file an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of
perjury under the laws of this state stating all of the following:
 
(1) The decedent’s name.
 
(2) The date and place of the
decedent’s death.
 
(3) “No proceeding is now pending
in California for administration of the decedent’s estate.”
 
(4) If the decedent’s estate was
administered, a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the
decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest.
 
(5) Either of the following, as
appropriate, with facts in support thereof:
 
(A) “The affiant or declarant is
the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section
377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the
decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.”
 
(B) “The affiant or declarant is authorized
to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure)
with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.”
 
(6) “No other person has a superior
right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the
decedent in the pending action or proceeding.”
 
(7) “The affiant or declarant
affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of
California that the foregoing is true and correct.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).)
            In
addition, “[a]
certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the
affidavit or declaration.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).) 
With
regard to the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32, subdivision (a), the
Carrs list the decedent’s name (John A. Carr). The Carrs state that John A.
Carr died on July 5, 2021, in Carlsbad, California. (Declaration By
Successors in Interest, ¶ 2.) 
The
Carrs do not indicate in their Declaration that “[n]o
proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s
estate.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a)(3).) 
Rather,
Rose M. Carr and Patrick E. Carr state that they were appointed as Co-Executors
for the Estate of John A. Carr on May 3, 2022 in Cause No.
37-2021-00051182-PR-PW, Superior Court of California, County of San Diego, and
that “[s]uch estate remains open and has not been closed.” (Declaration By
Successors in Interest, ¶ 3.) 
            The Carrs also do not specifically
provide in their declaration that “[t]he affiant or declarant is the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section
377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the
decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding,” nor are facts provided in
support thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a)(5)(A).) Rather, the Carrs state that
they “succeed to the decedent’s interest in this action or proceeding.” (Declaration
By Successors in Interest, ¶ 4.)
            In addition, a death
certificate is attached to the Declaration by Successors in Interest, but
it is not authenticated in the Declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
            Lastly,
the Court notes that the Carrs seek to substitute the Co-Executors in place of
“Counter Defendant John A. Carr.” As set forth above, Walker filed a
“Crossclaim” in this action on May 20, 2021. However, John A. Carr does not appear to have
been named as a Cross-Defendant in Walker’s “Crossclaim.” 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court denies the Carr’s motion, without prejudice. 
Conclusion
Based
on the foregoing, the Motion to Substitute Co-Executors in Place of Deceased
Plaintiff/Counter Defendant John A. Carr is denied without prejudice. 
The Court orders the Clerk to give notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  July 17, 2024                                  
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court