 Case Number:  23STCV29419    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



ISAAC COHEN,
et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
TESLA, INC., et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 23STCV29419




Hearing Date:


July 17, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANT
  TESLA, INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL BINDING ARBITRATION



            
Background
Plaintiff Isaac Cohen
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on December 1, 2023 against Defendant Tesla,
Inc. (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) violation of
“lemon law,” (2) breach of implied warranty of merchantability, (3) negligent
repair, 
(4) misrepresentation, and (5)
violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that on or about April 10, 2022, he purchased a
2022 Tesla Model Y automobile. (Compl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges that “[s]oon
after purchase of the automobile, Plaintiff began experiencing nonconformities
with the automobile that required Plaintiff to return to TESLA’s authorized
repair facilities on several occasions during the warranty period.” (Compl., ¶
28.) Plaintiff alleges that “[s]uch nonconformities included defects that
substantially impaired the automobile’s use, safety, and/or value.” (Compl., ¶
30.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants have failed and refused, and continue
to fail and refuse, to replace the automobile or make restitution.” (Compl., ¶
47.) 
Defendant
now moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate his
claims, and for an order staying this action pending the outcome of
arbitration. Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion.  
Request for Judicial Notice
The Court grants Defendant’s request
for judicial notice. 
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel
arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the
existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the
agreement. The burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance
of evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). ((Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414.)   
Generally, on a petition
to compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting rulings on common issues. ((Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2); ((Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California has a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” ((Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of
California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
677, 686.) “This strong policy has
resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be upheld unless it can be
said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an
interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This is in accord with the
liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements under the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to arbitrate in contracts
“involving interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. section 2,
et seq.; ((Higgins
v. Superior Court (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
 
            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
In support of the
motion, Defendant submits the Declaration of Raymond Kim, who is a “Manager,
Business Resolution” with Defendant. (Kim Decl., ¶ 2.) 
In his declaration, Mr. Kim states that “Plaintiff initially ordered a
2022 Tesla Model Y with VIN 7SAYGDEF0NF485321 (the ‘Subject Vehicle’) from
Tesla on or about April 10, 2022. In placing that order, Plaintiff agreed to
the terms of a Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (‘Order Agreement’), thereby
agreeing to be bound by its terms and conditions, which included an agreement
to arbitrate. Attached hereto as Exhibit ‘1’ is a true and correct copy of the
Order Agreement between Plaintiff and Tesla, Inc. detailing the terms and
conditions of Plaintiff’s purchase of the Subject Vehicle that I obtained from
Tesla, Inc.’s electronic document storage kept in the ordinary course of
business.” (Kim Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Mr. Kim states that “Plaintiff placed the order by
clicking a Place Order button on Tesla’s website. Plaintiff would not have been
able to place the order without clicking this button on Tesla’s website or
authorizing someone to do so on Plaintiff’s behalf. Prior to placing the order,

Plaintiff would see text and be advised that Plaintiff are [sic]
agreeing to the Order Agreement’s terms and conditions. There would be a
hyperlink to the Order Agreement terms and conditions that the Plaintiff could
click on and view prior to proceeding with the order. If a customer clicks on
this hyperlink, a new window would open revealing the Order Agreement. Further,
once executed, the Order Agreement would become visible to the customer on the
customer’s mytesla.com account for as long as the customer owns the vehicle.
Once an Order Agreement is executed, as was done here, the Order Agreement is
automatically saved to the electronic document storage system containing all of
the documents related to the subject transaction. Given my knowledge and understanding
of Tesla’s procedures, the Order Agreement only ends up in the electronic file
(as it did here) after a consumer has executed the Order Agreement.” (Kim
Decl., ¶ 4.) The “Motor Vehicle Order Agreement” attached as Exhibit 1 to Mr.
Kim’s declaration provides, inter alia, as follows:  
 
“Agreement to
Arbitrate. Please carefully read this provision, which applies to any
dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates, (together “Tesla”). 
 
If you have a
concern or dispute, please send a written notice describing it and your desired
resolution to resolutions@tesla.com. 
 
If not resolved
within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to any
aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be decided by a judge
or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration administered by
the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer Arbitration
Rules. This includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as claims
related to statements about our products. 
 
We will pay all
AAA fees for any arbitration, which will be held in the city or county of your
residence. To learn more about the Rules and how to begin an arbitration, you
may call any AAA office or go to www.adr.org. 
 
The arbitrator
may only resolve disputes between you and Tesla, and may not consolidate claims
without the consent of all parties. The arbitrator cannot hear class or representative
claims or requests for relief on behalf of others purchasing or leasing Tesla
vehicles. In other words, you and Tesla may bring claims against the other only
in your or its individual capacity and not as a plaintiff or class member in
any class or representative action. If a court or arbitrator decides that any
part of this agreement to arbitrate cannot be enforced as to a particular claim
for relief or remedy, then that claim or remedy (and only that claim or remedy)
must be brought in court and any other claims must be arbitrated. 
 
If you prefer,
you may instead take an individual dispute to small claims court. 
 
You may opt out
of arbitration within 30 days after signing this Agreement by sending a letter
to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O. Box 15430; Fremont, CA 94539-7970, stating your name,
Vehicle Identification Number, and intent to opt out of the arbitration
provision. If you do not opt out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any
different arbitration agreement between us, including any arbitration agreement
in a lease or finance contract.” (Kim Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.) 
In his supporting declaration, Mr. Kim states that “[w]hile the
customer may opt out of the Agreement to Arbitrate by sending a letter to Tesla
stating that intention within thirty days of execution of the Order Agreement,
Plaintiff did not do so. Tesla maintains letters in which its customers opted
out of the Agreement to Arbitrate, but it did not receive any such letter from
Plaintiff.” (Kim Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Defendant asserts that “all of Plaintiff’s Claims fall well within the
scope of the Agreement to Arbitrate. The relevant language in the arbitration
provision provides that the parties agree: ‘any dispute arising out of or
relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be
decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration
administered by the American Arbitration Association (‘AAA’) under its Consumer
Arbitration Rules.’…All of the Plaintiff’s claims arise out of the relationship
between Plaintiff and Tesla.” (Mot. at p. 10:8-14, citing Kim Decl., ¶ 3, Ex.
1.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff states that he opposes the instant motion
with respect to Plaintiff’s fourth and fifth causes of action. Thus, Plaintiff
does not appear to dispute that he agreed to the subject Agreement or that it
covers the first, second, and third causes of action of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
In the opposition, Plaintiff first asserts that “[f]ederal law
precludes pre-dispute binding arbitration of warranty disputes.” (Opp’n at p.
3:10.) Plaintiff appears to be arguing that federal law precludes arbitration
of Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty
Act. 
Plaintiff cites to 16 C.F.R. § 703.5, subdivision (j), which provides that “[d]ecisions of the Mechanism shall not be legally binding
on any person. However, the warrantor shall act in good faith, as provided in § 703.2(g) of this part. In any civil action arising
out of a warranty obligation and relating to a matter considered by the
Mechanism, any decision of the Mechanism shall be admissible in evidence, as
provided in section 110(a)(3) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2310(a)(3).” 16 C.F.R. § 703.1,
subdivision (e) provides that “[m]echanism means an informal
dispute settlement procedure which is incorporated into the terms of a written
warranty to which any provision of Title I of the Act applies, as provided in section 110 of the Act, 15
U.S.C. 2310.” Plaintiff appears to assert that under these
provisions, “pre-dispute binding mandatory arbitration of any warranty claim is
unlawful.” (Opp’n at p. 3:14.) 
In the reply, Defendant counters that “the instant matter does not
involve a mandatory pre-dispute arbitration provision. The Magnuson-Moss
Warranty Act requires resort to an informal dispute resolution if the
manufacturer makes one available to its customers.” (Reply at p. 3:14-16,
emphasis omitted.) Defendant cites to 15 U.S.C. § 2310, which provides in part that “Congress hereby declares it to be its policy to encourage
warrantors to establish procedures whereby consumer disputes are fairly and
expeditiously settled through informal dispute settlement mechanisms.” (15 U.S.C. § 2310, subd. (a)(1).) 
Plaintiff also cites to Exhibit “D” to Plaintiff’s counsel’s
declaration, which is the “Federal Register/Vol. 80, No. 138,” dated July 20,
2015. (Davoodi Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. D.) This document concerns, inter alia,
the Federal Trade Commission’s “final action concerning review of
interpretations of Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act.” 
(Davoodi Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. D, p. 1.) The document provides, inter alia,
that “[s]ince the issuance of the 1999 FRN, courts have reached different
conclusions as to whether the MMWA gives the Commission authority to ban
mandatory binding arbitration in warranties…In particular, two appellate courts
have questioned whether Congress intended binding arbitration to be considered
a type of [informal dispute settlement mechanism], which would potentially
place binding arbitration outside the scope of the MMWA…Nonetheless, the
Commission reaffirms its long-held view that the MMWA disfavors, and authorizes
the Commission to prohibit, mandatory binding arbitration in warranties.”
(Davoodi Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. D, p. 10.) 
However, Plaintiff does not appear to cite to binding legal authority
demonstrating that Plaintiff’s cause of action for violation of the
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act may not be subject to arbitration. In addition,
Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff seems to argue that the Magnuson-Moss Act
preempts the FAA and creates an unqualified right of access to the courts for
consumers claiming breach of warranty claims, and further, that the Federal
Trade Commission (FTC) has promulgated rules and that the Court should follow
the FTC’s construction of the statute…Here, as in Epic, the FTC is not
responsible for administering the FAA and their interpretation of the
Magnuson-Moss Act as it applies to that statute is therefore not subject to
deference.” (Reply at p. 3:1-9.) In Epic Sys. Corp. v. Lewis (2018) 584 U.S. 497,
502-503, cited by
Defendant, the United States Supreme Court noted, “[s]hould
employees and employers be allowed to agree that any disputes between them will
be resolved through one-on-one arbitration? Or should employees always be
permitted to bring their claims in class or collective actions, no matter what
they agreed with their employers? As a matter of policy these questions are
surely debatable. But as a matter of law the answer is clear…In the Federal
Arbitration Act, Congress has instructed federal courts to enforce
arbitration agreements according to their terms—including terms providing for
individualized proceedings. Nor can we agree with the employees’ suggestion
that the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) offers a conflicting command…It is
this Court’s duty to interpret Congress’s statutes as a harmonious whole rather
than at war with one another. And abiding that duty here leads to an
unmistakable conclusion. The NLRA secures to employees rights to organize
unions and bargain collectively, but it says nothing about how judges and
arbitrators must try legal disputes that leave the workplace and enter the
courtroom or arbitral forum. This Court has never read a right to class actions
into the NLRA—and for three quarters of a century neither did the National
Labor Relations Board. Far from conflicting, the Arbitration Act and the NLRA
have long enjoyed separate spheres of influence and neither permits this Court
to declare the parties’ agreements unlawful.” 
As noted by Defendant, the Epic Court found
that “the
employees say we must rule for them anyway because of the deference this Court
owes to an administrative agency’s interpretation of the law. To be sure, the
employees do not wish us to defer to the general counsel’s judgment in 2010
that the NLRA and the Arbitration Act coexist peaceably; they wish us to defer
instead to the Board’s 2012 opinion suggesting the NLRA displaces the
Arbitration Act. No party to these cases has asked us to reconsider Chevron deference. But
even under Chevron’s
terms, no deference is due. To show why, it suffices to outline just a few of
the most obvious reasons. The Chevron Court justified deference on the premise that a statutory
ambiguity represents an implicit delegation to an agency to interpret a
statute which it administers. Here, though, the Board hasn’t just sought to
interpret its statute, the NLRA, in isolation; it has sought to interpret this
statute in a way that limits the work of a second statute, the Arbitration Act.
And…on no account might we agree that Congress implicitly delegated to an
agency authority to address the meaning of a second statute it does not
administer.” ((Id. at pp. 519-520.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has
shown that the fifth cause of action is not subject to the arbitration
provision in the subject Agreement.
Plaintiff also asserts that “the misrepresentation claim is not
included in the scope of the arbitration provision.” (Opp’n at p. 5:1-2.) In
the fourth cause of action for misrepresentation, Plaintiff alleges that
“Defendants…represented to Plaintiff that the automobile was safe to drive,”
“Defendants…represented to Plaintiff after each service attempt that the
automobile was serviced properly and that there would be no further problems
with the automobile,” “Defendants…represented to Plaintiff that Plaintiff’s
automobile did not qualify for repurchase,” “Defendants…represented to
Plaintiff that Plaintiff’s automobile was not subject to repurchase under the
Lemon Law,” and that “Defendants…represented to Plaintiff that there was
nothing they could do to assist Plaintiff other than offer to re-inspect the
automobile.” (Compl., ¶¶ 98-102.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he representations
made by Defendants…were false.” (Compl., ¶ 104.) 
Plaintiff contends that he “has alleged that Tesla sought to avoid
warranty coverage by committing fraud and misrepresenting the terms of the
warranty coverage to Plaintiff. In essence, Tesla avoided and attempted to deny
the relationship between Plaintiff, as the subject consumer, and Tesla, as
warrantor. Given this, Tesla cannot turn to an arbitration provision that seeks
to cover ‘any dispute arising out of or relating to any aspect of the
relationship between you and Tesla’…to compel arbitration of an [sic] claim
arising from the fact that Tesla avoided its relationship with Plaintiff by way
of fraud.” (Opp’n at p. 5:13-19, emphasis omitted.) The Court notes that
Plaintiff does not cite any legal authority to support this proposition.
Moreover, the Court does not see how the allegations of the Complaint show that
Defendant purportedly “attempted to deny the relationship between Plaintiff.” (Opp’n
at p. 5:15.) The Court agrees with Defendant that the fourth cause of action
for misrepresentation “arise[s] out of and relate[s] to the relationship
between the parties.” (Mot. at p. 10:26-27.) 
Next, Plaintiff argues that “[b]ecause the possibility of fraud was
simply not foreseeable at the time the parties agreed to the arbitration
provision, Tesla cannot force the provision to cover the unforeseeable claim.”
(Opp’n at p. 6:25-27.) However, Plaintiff cites to non-binding federal
authority in support of such assertion. (See Opp’n at pp. 6:27-7:14.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has
shown that the fourth cause of action is not subject to the arbitration
provision in the subject Agreement. The
Court finds that Defendant has established that an arbitration agreement exists and that
it covers the causes of action asserted by Plaintiff in this action.  
Conclusion
For the foregoing
reasons, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted. The entire action
is stayed pending completion of arbitration of Plaintiff’s arbitrable claims. 
The Court sets an
arbitration completion status conference on July 17, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. in
Dept. 50. The parties are ordered to file a joint report regarding the status
of the arbitration five court days prior to the status conference, with a
courtesy copy delivered directly to Department 50. 
Defendant is ordered to
provide notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  July 17, 2024                                  
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court