 Case Number:  23STCV30316    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



OPERA BRIGHT, LLC, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
HILLS ONE, LLC, et
  al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 
  23STCV30316




Hearing Date:


July 17, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
DEMURRER OF
  DEFENDANT HILLS ONE, LLC TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT; 
 
DEMURRER OF
  DEFENDANT HILLS GROUP, LLC TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 



            
Background
Plaintiff Opera Bright, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
on December 12, 2023 against Defendants Hills One, LLC (“Hills One”), Key
Compounds, LLC, Hills Group, LLC (“Hills Group”), Alex Reyter, Jay Rifkin, and Paul Fiore (collectively,
“Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) fraud, (2)
fraudulent transfer, (3) conspiracy to defraud, (4) aiding and abetting fraud,
(5) negligent misrepresentation, and (6) breach of contract.  
Hills One now demurs to
each of the causes of action of the Complaint. Hills Group also demurs to each
of the causes of action of the Complaint. Plaintiff opposes both.  
            Legal
Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]t various times from
about July to October 2019, HILLS ONE took loans from Claimant’s
predecessors-in-interest in varying amounts, from $5,000 up to $250,000. For
each of those loans, HILLS ONE executed four separate written documents with
the lender, entitled ‘Promissory Note,’ ‘Security Agreement,’ ‘Pledge
Agreement’ and ‘Corporate Guaranty’ (collectively, the ‘Loan Documents’).”
(Compl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges that “[a] true and correct copy of one set of
Loan Documents is attached hereto as Exhibits ‘A’ through ‘D’” (Compl., ¶ 12.) “For
each loan memorialized by the Loan Documents, the loan was secured by
designated assets (the ‘Equipment’) purportedly owned by HILLS ONE.” (Compl., ¶
14.) 
“HILLS ONE defaulted on each loan memorialized by the Loan Documents.”
(Compl., ¶ 16.) “Between about August and November 2020, the lender entities on
each loan memorialized by the Loan Documents executed written assignments,
assigning their respective interests and rights under the Loan Documents to
Claimant OPERA BRIGHT.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) “In about April 2021, OPERA BRIGHT
exercised its rights under the Loan Documents to foreclose on the Equipment.
After providing all due notices and fulfilling all required prerequisites for
the foreclosure, OPERA BRIGHT caused the Equipment to be sold at auction to a
third party.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
“On about December 22, 2022, KEY COMPOUNDS filed a judicial complaint
against OPERA BRIGHT in the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon for the County
of Linn, designated as Case No. 22CV42152, initiating the Oregon Litigation…In
the Oregon Litigation, KEY COMPOUNDS alleges that it is a wholly owned
subsidiary of HILLS ONE. KEY COMPOUNDS also alleges that it, not HILLS ONE, was
the owner of the Equipment when OPERA BRIGHT foreclosed on the Equipment and
caused it to be sold at auction.” (Compl., ¶¶ 19-20.) Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s
a consequence of being forced to defend itself in the Oregon Litigation, OPERA
BRIGHT has had to retain counsel and has incurred, and will continue to
significant attorney’s fees and litigation costs.” (Compl., ¶ 22.)
Hills One’s Demurrer 
A.    Standing 
Hills One first asserts that “[a]ll
of Plaintiff’s Causes of Action fail as against Hills One because Plaintiff
lacks standing to bring this lawsuit.” (Demurrer at p. 5:22-23.) 
“Standing is the threshold
element required to state a cause of action and, thus, lack of standing may be
raised by demurrer. To have standing to sue, a person, or those whom he
properly represents, must have a real interest in the ultimate adjudication because
[he] has [either] suffered [or] is about to suffer any injury of sufficient
magnitude reasonably to assure that all of the relevant facts and issues will
be adequately presented. Code of Civil Procedure section 367
establishes the rule that [e]very action must be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided by statute. A real
party in interest is one who has an actual and substantial interest in the
subject matter of the action and who would be benefited or injured by the
judgment in the action.” ((Martin v. Bridgeport Community
Assn., Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th
1024, 1031-1032 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “OPERA BRIGHT is the assignee
of all rights of the lenders under the Loan Documents, including the right to
bring this claim against Defendants.” (Compl., ¶ 36.) Hills One asserts that
this allegation is “unsupported by the Exhibits attached to the Complaint. In
fact, those Exhibits reveal that any such assignment requires the consent of
Hills One, and Plaintiff does not allege any such consent occurred…” (Demurrer
at p. 5:25-27.) 
As set forth above, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]t various times from
about July to October 2019, HILLS ONE took loans from Claimant’s
predecessors-in-interest in varying amounts, from $5,000 up to $250,000. For
each of those loans, HILLS ONE executed four separate written documents with
the lender, entitled ‘Promissory Note,’ ‘Security Agreement,’ ‘Pledge
Agreement’ and ‘Corporate Guaranty’ (collectively, the ‘Loan Documents’). A
true and correct copy of one set of Loan Documents is attached hereto as Exhibits
‘A’ through ‘D’ and incorporated herein.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) 
Hills One notes that the “Promissory Note” attached as Exhibit “A” to
the Complaint states that it is “made by Hills One, LLC…in favor of Primus
Trust Corp., located in Budapest, Hungary, in its capacity as the trustee of
the AC Trust…” (Compl., ¶ 12, Ex. A.) The “Security Agreement” attached as
Exhibit “B” to the Complaint lists the “Creditor” as “Primus Trust Corp., as
the trustee of The AC Trust” and the “Debtor” as “Hills One, LLC.” (Compl., ¶
12, Ex. B.) The “Pledge Agreement” attached as Exhibit “C” to the Complaint is
“between Primus Trust Corp., located in Budapest, Hungary, in its capacity as
the trustee of The AC Trust…and Hills One, LLC…” (Compl., ¶ 12, Ex. C.) The
“Corporate Guaranty” attached as Exhibit “D” to the Complaint is “entered into
by Hills One, LLC…for the benefit of Primus Trust Corp., located in Budapest,
Hungary, as the trustee of the AC Trust.” (Compl., ¶ 12, Ex. D.) 
Hills One notes that Exhibits A and B to the Complaint contain the
following provision: “[t]he rights, duties and obligations of this [Note/Agreement]
may not be assigned in whole or in part by either arty [sic] without the prior
written consent of the non-assigning party. Any assignment without such consent
shall be void.” (Compl., ¶ 12, Ex. A, § 17; Ex. B, § 13.) Hills One asserts that “Plaintiff’s Complaint
does not allege that it obtained the necessary ‘prior written consent’ of Hills
One. Plaintiff thus has no rights, duties, or obligations under the written
agreements – to which it is not a party – and Plaintiff’s lack of standing bars
the Complaint entirely.” (Demurrer at p. 6:12-15.) 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that Hills One does not appear
to assert that Exhibits “C” or “D” to the Complaint contain any non-assignment
provision. Thus, Hills One’s standing argument only appears to apply to the
documents attached as Exhibits “A” and “B” to the Complaint. As set forth
above, the Complaint refers to Exhibits “A” through “D” collectively as the
“Loan Documents.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) Each of the causes of action of the Complaint
refer to the collective term “Loan Documents.” (See Compl., ¶¶ 30, 34, 36,
40, 41, 43, 48, 52, 56, 60, 64, 67, 68, 71, 73, 74.) The Court notes that “¿¿¿a demurrer
cannot rightfully be sustained to part of a cause of action or to a particular
type of damage or remedy.¿¿¿” (¿Kong ¿v.
¿City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002)
108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047¿¿¿; ¿see
also ¿PH ¿II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682 [“A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of
action.”]¿¿¿.)
Hills One also asserts that “without the alleged assignment documents,
it is impossible to determine the scope of the rights Plaintiff has allegedly
been assigned.” (Demurrer at p. 6:21-22.) But in each of the causes of action,
Plaintiff alleges that “OPERA BRIGHT is the assignee of all rights of the
lenders under the Loan Documents, including the right to bring this claim
against Defendants.” (Compl., ¶¶ 36, 43, 52, 60, 68, 74.) The Court notes that “[i]t is well settled that a general demurrer admits the truth
of all material factual allegations in the complaint and that the question of
plaintiff’s ability to prove these allegations, or the possible difficulty in
making such proof, does not concern the reviewing court.” ((Nagy
v. Nagy (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d
1262, 1267.) 
B.    First, Second,
Third, Fourth, and Fifth Causes of Action 
Next, Hills One asserts that Plaintiff fails to “sufficiently allege
falsity as to the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action.”
(Demurrer at p. 7:26-27.) Hills One asserts that “Plaintiff’s First (Fraud),
Second (Fraudulent Transfer), Third (Conspiracy to Defraud), Fourth (Aiding And
Abetting Fraud), and Fifth (Negligent Misrepresentation) Causes of Action all
require that Plaintiff sufficiently allege falsity of the alleged representations
made by Hills One in the ‘Loan Documents.’” (Demurrer at pp. 7:28-8:3) 
With regard to the element of “falsity,” “[t]he
elements of fraud or deceit…are: a representation, usually of fact, which is false,
knowledge of its falsity, intent to defraud, justifiable reliance upon the
misrepresentation, and damage resulting from that justifiable reliance.”
(Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d
59, 72-73 [emphasis added].) “The
elements of negligent misrepresentation are similar to intentional fraud except
for the requirement of scienter; in a claim for negligent misrepresentation,
the plaintiff need not allege the defendant made an intentionally false
statement, but simply one as to which he or she lacked any reasonable ground
for believing the statement to be true.” ((Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.)

            In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges
that “in the Loan Documents, HILLS ONE represented that it owned the Equipment
which was pledged as security for the underlying loans, and that it would not
transfer or hypothecate the Equipment to harm the lenders’ rights,” and that
“[a]s alleged by KEY COMPOUNDS in the Oregon Litigation, those representations
by HILLS ONE were false because KEY COMPOUNDS was actually the owner of the
Equipment.” (Compl., ¶¶ 30, 32.) In the demurrer, Hills One asserts that
“Plaintiff’s Complaint and the Exhibits thereto reveal that Hills One made no
false representations about ownership of the ‘Equipment’: Hills One represented
that it and/or its wholly-owned subsidiaries owned the ‘Equipment’ which
comprised the ‘Collateral’.” (Demurrer at p. 8:9-11.) However, in support of
this assertion, Hills One only cites to certain language of Exhibit “C” to the
Complaint. (See Demurrer at p. 8:16-21.) As discussed, Plaintiff refers
to Exhibits “A” through “D” collectively as the “Loan Documents,” and each of
the causes of action of the Complaint refer to the collective “Loan Documents.”
Hills One does not appear to argue or show that the definition of “Collateral”
in Appendix A to Exhibit “C” pertains to each of the other exhibits to the
Complaint. 
As set forth above, “¿¿¿a demurrer cannot rightfully be sustained
to part of a cause of action or to a particular type of damage or remedy.¿¿¿” (¿Kong ¿v.
¿City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency,
supra, 108
Cal.App.4th at p. 1047¿¿¿; ¿see also ¿PH ¿II, Inc. v. Superior Court,
supra, 3 Cal.App.4th at p. 1682 [“A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of
action.”]¿¿¿.)
 
 
C.    First Cause of Action for Fraud
Hills One also asserts that
the fraud cause of action fails. In the first cause of action for fraud, Plaintiff
alleges that “in the Loan Documents, HILLS ONE represented that it owned
the Equipment which was pledged as security for the underlying loans, and that
it would not transfer or hypothecate the Equipment to harm the lenders’
rights,” and that “[a]s alleged by KEY COMPOUNDS in the Oregon Litigation,
those representations by HILLS ONE were false because KEY COMPOUNDS was
actually the owner of the Equipment.” (Compl., ¶¶ 30, 32.)
“Every element of the cause of
action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner and the facts
constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient specificity to allow
defendant to understand fully the nature of the charge made…This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” (Stansfield v. Starkey,
supra, 220 Cal.App.3d at p. 73 [internal quotations and emphasis
omitted].) 
In the demurrer, Hills One asserts, inter alia, that “Plaintiff
does not allege…any of the ‘when, where, to whom’ beyond pointing to one set of
loan documents.” (Demurrer at p. 9:25-26, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiff does not
appear to respond to this point in the opposition. Rather, Plaintiff concedes
that “but for Defendants’ pending anti-SLAPP motions, OPERA BRIGHT probably
would have amended its complaint to add more specificity to the fraud claims.”
(Opp’n at p. 7:27-28.) 
In addition, Hills One notes that the Complaint alleges that
“Defendants made those false representations in the Loan Documents with the
intent to induce the lenders to make the underlying loans to HILLS ONE, and
those lenders reasonably relied on HILLS ONE’s false representations in making
the loans.” (Compl., ¶ 34.) Hills One asserts that “Plaintiff offers no factual
support for either of these legal conclusions.” (Demurrer at p. 10:3-4.) The
Court agrees that paragraph 34 is conclusory. Moreover, Plaintiff does not
respond to or dispute this point in the opposition. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Hills One’s demurrer to the
first cause of action for fraud. 
D.    Second Cause of
Action for Fraudulent Transfer 
In the second cause of action for fraudulent transfer, Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendants caused HILLS ONE to transfer the Equipment to KEY
COMPOUNDS in an effort to deprive the lenders on the Loan Documents of the
value and security of the underlying loans, and to place the Equipment beyond
the lenders’ reach.” (Compl., ¶ 41.) Plaintiff alleges that “[w]hen HILLS ONE
transferred the Equipment to KEY COMPOUNDS, HILLS ONE did not receive
reasonably equivalent value for the Equipment and HILLS ONE was left insolvent.”
(Compl., ¶ 42.) 
Hills One
cites to Optional Capital, Inc. v. DAS Corp. (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1401-1402,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “California has adopted the
Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act (Civ. Code §§
3439–3439.12). The purpose of the Act is to prevent debtors from placing
property which legitimately should be available for the satisfaction of demands
of creditors beyond their reach…Civil Code section 3439.04 provides
two methods of establishing a fraudulent transfer. Actual fraud, as defined in
subdivision (a)(1), is a transfer made with actual intent to hinder, delay, or
defraud any creditor of the debtor. Constructive fraud, as defined in
subdivision (a)(2), requires a showing that the debtor did not receive reasonably
equivalent value for the transfer, and the transfer was made when the debtor
(A) [w]as engaged or was about to engage in a business or a transaction for
which the remaining assets of the debtor were unreasonably small in relation to
the business or transaction; or (B) the debtor [i]ntended to incur, or believed
or reasonably should have believed that he or she would incur, debts
beyond his or her ability to pay as they became due. Section
3439.04 is construed to mean a transfer is fraudulent if the provisions of
either subdivision (a)(1) or subdivision (a)(2) are satisfied.” (Internal
quotations omitted.)
In
the demurrer, Hills One notes that “Plaintiff’s Complaint fails
to allege any details surrounding the purported fraudulent transfers. Plaintiff
fails to allege the value of the assets, when the transfers were made, how they
were made, or any other details that would transform an ordinary transfer of
assets routinely done by businesses into a fraudulent transfer.” (Demurrer at
p. 10:15-19.) Plaintiff does not appear to dispute this point in the
opposition.[1]
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Hills One’s demurrer to the
second cause of action for fraudulent transfer. 

E.     Third Cause of
Action for Conspiracy to Defraud
The third cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]ll Defendants
were aware that HILLS ONE represented in the Loan Documents that it had pledged
the Equipment as security for the underlying loans…All Defendants knew those
representations were false, and intended for the lenders to rely on those false
statements…All Defendants except KEY COMPOUNDS directed and caused HILLS ONE to
make those false statements.” (Compl., ¶¶ 48-50.) Plaintiff further alleges
that “KEY COMPOUNDS, under the direction and management of all Defendants,
planned to use the lenders’ deception and HILLS ONE’s default on the loans to
set up the Oregon Litigation, to fraudulently collect money from the lenders or
their assignees.” (Compl., ¶ 51.) 
In the demurrer, Hills One asserts that “Plaintiff’s cause of action
for conspiracy to defraud fails because as a matter of law under the ‘agent’s
immunity rule’, Hills One cannot conspire with its own agents.” (Demurrer at p.
11:4-5.) Hills One cites to Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia
Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 512, footnote 4, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he agent’s immunity rule emanates from a further holding
in Wise that:
‘Agents and employees of a corporation cannot conspire with their corporate
principal or employer where they act in their official capacities on behalf of
the corporation and not as individuals for their individual advantage.’” Hills
One notes that Plaintiff alleges that “HILLS ONE, as the sole member and
manager of KEY COMPOUNDS, directed all actions and conduct of KEY COMPOUNDS
which is alleged herein.” (Compl., ¶ 24.) As noted by Hills One, Plaintiff also
alleges that “HILLS GROUP was the designated manager of HILLS ONE,” and that
“[a]t all times relevant, FIORE, RIFKIN and REYTER together were the designated
‘management team’ of HILLS ONE.” (Compl., ¶¶ 8-9.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that
the “agent’s immunity rule” is inapplicable here because “OPERA BRIGHT
alleges the other Defendants were primarily managers of HILLS ONE, not its
agents.” (Opp’n at p. 6:7-8.) However, as Plaintiff acknowledges, the Complaint
alleges that “at all times herein mentioned each of the defendants, including
each of the unidentified and fictitiously named defendants, was the agent,
principal, employer or employee of each other defendant, and they were acting
within the course and scope of such relationship in doing the things herein
alleged, or they ratified, acquiesced in, consented to or approved each and all
of the acts of each of the other defendants, so that each defendant is jointly
and severally responsible and liable for the acts alleged herein.” (Compl., ¶
11, emphasis added.) In addition, in the reply, Hills One cites to Western Surety
Co. v. La Cumbre Office Partners, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 125, 131, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[t]he management of a
limited liability company may be vested in the company’s members. Where such
vesting occurs, every member is an agent of the limited liability company for
the purpose of its business or affairs, and the act of any member…binds
the limited liability company, unless the member so acting has, in fact, no
authority to act for the limited liability company in the particular matter,
and the person with whom the member is dealing has actual knowledge of the fact
that the member has no such authority.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted)
Plaintiff also asserts that “to the extent there was an
agent/principal relationship between HILLS ONE and other Defendants, HILLS ONE
played the role of principal, not agent.” (Opp’n at p.
6, fn. 2.) But here, Hills One is arguing that “Hills One cannot conspire
with its own agents.” (Demurrer at p. 11:5.) Moreover, Plaintiff does not cite
to any legal authority demonstrating that such circumstances would mean that
the “agent’s immunity rule” is inapplicable here. 
Hills One also asserts that “[e]ven assuming arguendo that the
‘agent’s immunity’ rule might be applicable, it still would not shield HILLS
ONE or any Defendant from liability in this case because that rule does not
apply when the agents are acting ‘as individuals for their individual
advantage’… In this case, OPERA BRIGHT alleges that Defendants each worked to
defraud their lenders (OPERA BRIGHT’s predecessors) for their separate and
collective benefit.” (Opp’n at pp. 6:17-7:2.) But Plaintiff does not point to
any allegations of the Complaint stating that Defendants each worked to defraud
their lenders for their “separate benefit.” Plaintiff does not point to any
allegations that the Defendants acted “as individuals
for their individual advantage.” ((Applied Equipment
Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd.,
supra, 7 Cal.4th at p. 512, fn. 4.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Hills One’s demurrer to the
third cause of action for conspiracy to defraud. 
F.     Fourth Cause of
Action for Aiding and Abetting Fraud 
In the fourth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]ll
Defendants were aware of the fraudulent statements HILLS ONE made in the Loan
Documents about the Equipment, and were aware of how those statements would
damage the lenders or their assignees…All Defendants were aware of how KEY
COMPOUNDS would use and is using the Oregon Litigation to continue the fraud on
the lenders or their assignees and to fraudulently collect money from the
lenders or their assignees…All Defendants participated in, aided and abetted
the other Defendants in perpetrating that fraud.” (Compl., ¶¶ 56-58.)
“California has adopted the common law rule
for subjecting a defendant to liability for aiding and abetting a tort.
Liability may…be imposed on one who aids and abets the commission of an
intentional tort if the person (a) knows the other’s conduct constitutes a
breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement to the other
to so act or (b) gives
substantial assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the
person’s own conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to
the third person.” ((Austin B. v. Escondido Union School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 879 [internal
quotations omitted].)  
In the demurrer, Hills One asserts, inter alia, that
“Plaintiff’s allegation that Hills One ‘participated in, aided and abetted the
other Defendants’ is merely a legal conclusion.” (Demurrer at p. 13:6-7.)
Plaintiff does not respond to or dispute this point in the opposition. Indeed,
the fourth cause of action does not appear to include factual allegations demonstrating
how Defendants purportedly “participated in, aided and abetted the other
Defendants in perpetrating that fraud.” (Compl., ¶ 58.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Hills One’s demurrer to the
fourth cause of action for aiding and abetting fraud. 
G.    Fifth Cause of
Action for Negligent Misrepresentation 
In the fifth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “in the Loan
Documents, HILLS ONE represented that it owned the Equipment which was pledged
as security for the underlying loans, and that it would not transfer or
hypothecate the Equipment to harm the lenders’ rights…As alleged by KEY
COMPOUNDS in the Oregon Litigation, those representations by HILLS ONE were
false because KEY COMPOUNDS was actually the owner of the Equipment…Defendants
failed to act in a reasonably prudent manner to ensure the representations by
HILLS ONE in Loan Documents were true.” (Compl., ¶¶ 64, 66-67.) 
In the demurrer, Hills One asserts that the negligent
misrepresentation cause of action fails “because Plaintiff fails to identify
what, if any, legal duty Hills One owed either to Plaintiff or its alleged
predecessor in interest.” (Demurrer at p. 13:20-22.) Plaintiff does not appear
to address this point in the opposition. Hills One notes that “[a]s is true of negligence, responsibility for
negligent misrepresentation rests upon the existence of a legal duty, imposed
by contract, statute or otherwise, owed by a defendant to the injured person.
The determination of whether a duty exists is primarily a question of law.”
((Eddy v. Sharp (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 858, 864 [internal citation omitted].)
Here, the fifth cause of action does not appear to allege the existence of any
legal duty owed by any of the Defendants to Plaintiff.  
In light of
the foregoing, the Court sustains Hills One’s demurrer to the fifth cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation. 
H.    Sixth Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract 
In the Demurrer, Hills One asserts that “Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract is deficient because it fails to attach or even
reference all of the ‘Loan Documents’ purportedly at issue.” (Demurrer at p.
14:25-26.) Hills One asserts that “the Complaint attaches only one set of ‘Loan
Documents’ that were purportedly breached – not all of the loan documents that
it is now seeking to collect on.” (Demurrer at p. 15:3-4.) Hills One argues
that “[i]t is impossible for Hills One to defend this litigation when Plaintiff
refuses to identify the documents allegedly at issue – Defendant cannot infer
how much it is being sued for or to articulate defenses to the breaches of loan
documents without Plaintiff alleging the critical terms of those purported
contracts.” (Demurrer at p. 15:10-13.) 
As set forth above, paragraph 12 of the Complaint alleges that “[a]t
various times from about July to October 2019, HILLS ONE took loans from
Claimant’s predecessors-in-interest in varying amounts, from $5,000 up to
$250,000. For each of those loans, HILLS ONE executed four separate written
documents with the lender, entitled ‘Promissory Note,’ ‘Security Agreement,’
‘Pledge Agreement’ and ‘Corporate Guaranty’ (collectively, the ‘Loan
Documents’). A true and correct copy of one set of Loan Documents is
attached hereto as Exhibits ‘A’ through ‘D’ and incorporated herein.” (Compl.,
¶ 12, emphasis added.) The Court agrees that Plaintiff’s reference to “one
set of Loan Documents” makes it unclear what loan documents are purportedly
at issue. (Ibid.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff appears to concede that other loan
documents in addition to those attached as Exhibit “A” through “D” of the
Complaint are at issue here. Plaintiff states that it “attached only one set of
loan documents to its complaint for efficiency and because, again, this case
was supposed to be resolved through ADR. Of course OPERA BRIGHT can and will,
if necessary, attach the other loan documents to an amended pleading.” (Opp’n
at p. 8:7-9.) As noted by Hills One, “[i]f the action
is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out
verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must
be attached and incorporated by reference.” ((Harris v. Rudin,
Richman & Appel (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) 
Plaintiff also
asserts in the opposition that it “alleges the effect of the loan
documents…” (Opp’n at p. 8:20.) In McKell v.
Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489, cited by
Plaintiff, the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] cause of action for breach of
contract requires pleading of a contract, plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
failure to perform, defendant’s breach and damage to plaintiff resulting
therefrom. A written contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out
verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint
and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect. In order to plead
a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must allege the substance of its
relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of
the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal
conclusions.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) Plaintiff does not appear
to point to any allegations of the substance of the relevant terms of the
purported loan documents that are not attached to the Complaint. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Hills One’s demurrer to the
sixth cause of action for breach of contract.  
Hills Group’s Demurrer 
Hills Group also demurs to each of the causes of action of the
Complaint. In its demurrer, Hills Group asserts that “instead of Hills Group
submitting an identical Memorandum of Points and Authorities here that mainly
changes Hills One to Hills Group, Hills Group incorporates by reference the
Memorandum of Points And Authorities filed by Defendant Hills One as if fully
set forth herein…” (Demurrer at p. 1:10-13.) In light of the foregoing
discussion pertaining to Hills One’s demurrer, the Court also sustains Hills
Group’s demurrer to the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of
action of the Complaint. 
Conclusion
Based
on the foregoing, the Court sustains Hills One’s demurrer to the first, second,
third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action of the Complaint. In addition,
the Court sustains Hills Group’s demurrer to the first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action of the Complaint. 
The
Court orders Plaintiff to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within
20 days of the date of this order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20
days, the Court orders Hills One and Hills Group to file and serve proposed
judgment(s) of dismissal within 30 days of the date of this Order.¿¿¿ 
Hills One is ordered
to give notice of this Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  July 17, 2024                                  ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


