 Case Number:  24STCV15682    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



KB SLAUSON, LLC, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RICH HONEY, INC., et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  24STCV15682




Hearing Date:


July 17, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEMURRER TO
  COMPLAINT



 
Background
On June 21, 2024
Plaintiff KB Slauson, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant
Rich Honey, Inc. (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges one cause of action for
unlawful detainer. 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that it is the owner of the property commonly known as
919 East Slauson Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90011 (the “Realty”). (Compl., ¶
1(b).) “On or about September 29, 2014, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a
written lease (Lease), whereby, inter alia, the Defendant leased the
Realty…” (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant has breached the
Lease in that Defendant failed to pay when due [certain] Rent payments due
under the Lease…” (Compl., ¶ 9.) 
Plaintiff further alleges that “[o]n June 14, 2024, Plaintiff caused
to be served upon Defendants, and each of them, by substitute service (by post
and mail at the Realty), a written notice stating the reasonably estimated
amount of rent due (pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1161.1) and requiring Defendants to pay the whole thereof or deliver up
possession of the Realty and forfeit the Lease within three (3) business days
after service of said notice.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that “[m]ore
than three (3) days have elapsed since the service of said Rent Notice.
Defendants have not tendered the amount demanded in the Rent Notice.
Accordingly, Plaintiff is entitled to possession of said Realty.” (Compl., ¶
11.) Plaintiff seeks, inter alia, “restitution of the Realty,”
“forfeiture of the LEASE,” “rent in the sum of $103,181.05,” and “damages in
the sum of $265.16 per day from July 1, 2024 through the date of entry of
judgment…” (Compl., p. 6.)
Defendant now demurs to
the Complaint. Plaintiff opposes. 
Discussion 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff's proof need not be alleged.” ((C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow
Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
In the demurrer, Defendant cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 1161, subdivision (2).
This provision provides that “[a] tenant of real property, for a term
less than life, or the executor or administrator of the tenant’s estate heretofore qualified
and now acting or hereafter to be qualified and act, is guilty of unlawful
detainer:
 
2. When the tenant
continues in possession, in person or by subtenant, without the permission of the
landlord, or the successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, after default
in the payment of rent, pursuant to the lease or agreement under which the
property is held, and three days’ notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and
other judicial holidays, in writing, requiring its payment, stating the amount that is
due, the name, telephone number, and address of the person to whom the rent
payment shall be made, and, if payment may be made personally, the usual days
and hours that person will be available to receive the payment (provided that,
if the address does not allow for personal delivery, then it shall be
conclusively presumed that upon the mailing of any rent or notice to the owner
by the tenant to the name and address provided, the notice or rent is deemed
received by the owner on the date posted, if the tenant can show proof of
mailing to the name and address provided by the owner), or the number of an
account in a financial institution into which the rental payment may be made,
and the name and street address of the institution (provided that the
institution is located within five miles of the rental property), or if an
electronic funds transfer procedure has been previously established, that
payment may be made pursuant to that procedure, or possession of the property,
shall have been served upon the tenant and if there is a subtenant in actual
occupation of the premises, also upon the subtenant.
 
The notice may
be served at any time within one year after the rent becomes due. In all cases
of tenancy upon agricultural lands, if the tenant has held over and retained
possession for more than 60 days after the expiration of the term without any
demand of possession or notice to quit by the landlord or the successor in
estate of the
landlord, if applicable, the tenant shall be deemed to be holding by permission
of the landlord or successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, and shall be
entitled to hold under the terms of the lease for another full year, and shall
not be guilty of an unlawful detainer during that year, and the holding over
for that period shall be taken and construed as a consent on the part of a
tenant to hold for another year.
 
An unlawful
detainer action under this paragraph shall be subject to the COVID-19 Tenant
Relief Act of 2020 (Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
1179.01)) if the default in the payment of rent is based upon the COVID-19
rental debt.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1161, subd.
(2).) 
Defendant asserts that “[i]n this
case, the three-day notice served by Plaintiff demanded not only rent but also
other charges. Such a demand exceeds the statutory requirements and is
therefore defective. Because the notice is defective, Plaintiff cannot maintain
an unlawful detainer action based on it.” (Demurrer at p. 4:3-6.) The Court
notes that Defendant does not cite to legal authority to support this
proposition. 
            In
addition, in the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he Complaint
alleges that all of the amounts set forth in the Notice are rent.” (Opp’n at p.
4:9-10.) Indeed, the Complaint attaches as Exhibit “A” a “Three Business Days
Notice to Pay Rent or Quit.” (Compl., ¶ 10, Ex. A.) This document alleges that “[t]he Lease defines all monetary
obligations due under the Lease as rent. You have breached this obligation by
failing to pay monthly rent as follows…” (Ibid.)
As noted by Defendant, “[i]t is well settled that a
general demurrer admits the truth of all material factual allegations in the
complaint and that the question of plaintiff’s ability to prove these
allegations, or the possible difficulty in making such proof, does not concern
the reviewing court.” ((Nagy v. Nagy (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 1262, 1267.)

            Next, Defendant asserts that “[a] complaint
based on a written contract, such as a lease agreement, must include a copy of
the contract or set forth its terms verbatim. Plaintiff’s failure to attach the
lease agreement or to adequately allege its essential terms renders the
Complaint fatally defective.” (Demurrer at p. 4:8-10.) Defendant does not cite
any legal authority to support this argument. The Court notes that in McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489, the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]
cause of action for breach of contract requires pleading of a contract,
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for failure to perform, defendant’s breach
and damage to plaintiff resulting therefrom. A written contract may be pleaded
either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract
attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal
effect. In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must allege
the substance of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a
careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and
avoidance of legal conclusions.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.)  
            In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “[h]ere,
the Landlord has quoted the actual language of the Lease or plead its legal
effect thereby identifying the basis of its claims for breach of lease.” (Opp’n
at p. 3:17-18.) In the first cause of action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that “[o]n or about September 29, 2014, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a
written lease (Lease), whereby, inter alia, the Defendant leased the
Realty upon the following terms: a. The term of the Original Lease was five (5)
years (‘Lease Term’). b. Pursuant to Section 1.5 of
the Basic Lease Provision, Paragraphs 4 of the Lease, and Section 2.02 of the Lease Addendum, Defendant agreed,
inter alia, to pay Plaintiff base monthly rent in the sum of $5,564.44, with
yearly increases. In addition, the Defendant agreed to pay as ‘additional rent’
certain expenses associated with Common Area Maintenance (‘CAM’) charges, Fire
Monitoring, and Property Insurance property.” (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff further
alleges that “[a]ll relevant times, the monthly rent had increased by terms of
the Lease to $6,262.82.” (Compl., ¶ 8.) 
            Defendant did not file any reply in
support of the demurrer, and thus does not dispute Plaintiff’s assertion that
it properly pled the legal effect of the subject lease. 
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
overrules Defendant’s demurrer. 
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
demurrer to the Complaint is overruled. Defendant is ordered to file and serve its
answer to the Complaint within 10 days of the date of this Order.¿ 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this Order.¿ 
 
 
DATED:  July 17, 2024                                  ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court