  Case Number:  23TRCV01059    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  SWP 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. P




 
GWENDY
  KETTING,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01059




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MIKE
  SHEPARD, EDWARD CASTRO d/b/a NEW STARBOARD ATTITUDE DOES 1 to 100, 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 
EDWARD
  CASTRO dba NEW STARBOARD ATTITUDE
 
 
 
 
 
 
vs.
 
 
ROES 1
  TO 100
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Cross-Complainant
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cross-Defendants
 
 


 


 



 
 
Hearing
Date:              March
15, 2024
 
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff
Gwendy Ketting 
Responding
Party:       Defendant Edward Castro dba
New Starboard Attitude 
MOTION FOR TRIAL
SETTING
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers. 
 
RULING
The
MOTION FOR TRIAL SETTING is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND
On
4/6/2023, plaintiff Gwendy Ketting (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants
Mike Shepard, Edward Castro dba New Starboard Attitude, and Does 1 to 100,
asserting two causes of action for (1) general negligence and (2) premises
liability. 
 
The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff tripped and fell due to a dangerous condition
at Starboard Attitude, a bar in Redondo Beach, California. The alleged
dangerous condition was a multiple-inch difference in height between the
walking path leading to the entry of the bar and the bottom of the door
allowing patrons entry to the bar. The defendants allegedly negligently owned,
maintained, managed, and operated the bar, failed to correct the dangerous
condition and failed to warn invitees of the dangerous condition. 
 
On
8/14/2023, defendant Edward Castro dba New Starboard Attitude (“Defendant”)
filed a Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 to 100, asserting causes of action for
(1) indemnity, (2) apportionment of fault, and (3) declaratory relief. 
 
On
12/27/2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for trial preference.  
 
On
2/15/2024, Plaintiff dismissed without prejudice defendant Mike Shepard. 
 
On
3/5/2024, Defendant filed his opposition to the motion for trial preference. 
 
On
3/11/2024, Plaintiff filed a reply to the opposition. 
 
4/14/2026
is the date set for trial. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
 “A party to a civil action who is over 70
years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall
grant if the court makes both of the following findings: ¶ (1)
The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole. ¶ (2)
The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36,
subd. (a).)
 
However,
the Court “[i]n its discretion, … may also grant a motion for preference that
is accompanied by clear and convincing medical documentation that concludes
that one of the parties suffers from an illness or condition raising
substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond six months, and that
satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served by granting
the preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).)
 
Once
the trial court grants a motion for preference, the trial must be set within
120 days. (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (f).) 
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
            
No
requests for judicial notice were filed. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            
No
separate document of evidentiary objections was filed. However, in his
opposition, Defendant raises hearsay objections to the declaration and medical
reports submitted in support of the moving papers. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, “[u]nless the court otherwise
orders: ¶ (1) A party may file and serve a motion for
preference supported by a declaration of the moving party that all essential
parties have been served with process or have appeared.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36, subd. (c).)
 
Here,
the only remaining named parties are Plaintiff and Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff
has submitted proofs of service showing she served Defendant with the moving
papers. 
 
Plaintiff moves for trial preference under the
discretionary provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 36 (“Section 36”),
arguing that (1) she suffers from an illness or condition that raises
substantial medical doubt of her survival beyond six months and (1) the
interests of justice will be served by granting preference in this matter. 
            
A
“heightened clear and convincing proof standard is required for motions seeking
discretionary grants of preference under subdivision (d), but not for motions
seeking mandatory preference under subdivision (a) [of Section 36].” (Fox v.
Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534.)
 
“‘“Clear
and convincing” evidence requires a finding of high probability [, or] evidence
... ‘“‘so clear as to leave no substantial doubt’; ‘sufficiently strong to
command the unhesitating assent of every reasonable mind.’”’ [Citation.]” (Katie
V. v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 586, 594.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel attests to the following facts in support of the motion. Plaintiff
has cancer and other serious conditions that raise substantial medical doubt about
her survival beyond six months. (Motion, declaration of Mary L. Caruso (“Caruso
Decl.”), ¶ 5; Exhibit A – a copy of Plaintiff’s relevant medical records.) On
November 16, 2023, Plaintiff’s brother contacted counsel’s office to inform
them that Plaintiff had been placed on life support and a breathing machine. (Caruso
Decl., ¶ 5.) Counsel’s office was also told that the Plaintiff had a
dangerously low platelet count, was receiving blood transfusions, and her
family feared she would not survive beyond six months. (Caruso Decl., ¶ 5.) Based
on that medical diagnosis and prognosis, a trial setting is necessary to
prevent prejudicing the Plaintiff’s interests since she may pass away or become
too ill to participate in this lawsuit. (Caruso Decl., ¶¶ 6, 7.)  
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues, among other things, that the motion does not
satisfy the clear and convincing standard for the following reasons. First, it is
based on hearsay information since an unnamed person in Plaintiff’s counsel’s
office was allegedly contacted by an unnamed brother of Plaintiff who related
information from an unknown source regarding Plaintiff’s medical condition.
(Opposition, p. 3:5-17.) Second, the copies of medical records Plaintiff’s
counsel has attached to her declaration do not show “any form of staging of the
cancer [or] any prognosis,” any “indication she is receiving palliative care or
in hospice,” and any “ongoing treatment and follow-up visit schedule[ed].”
(Opposition, pp. 3:26-4:3.) Finally, Plaintiff has not submitted any document
showing her alleged recent hospitalization wherein she was placed on life
support and breathing machine. (Opposition, p. 4:7-10.) For those reasons,
Defendant asks the Court to deny the motion. 
 
In
reply, Plaintiff’s counsel highlights several conditions in Plaintiff’s medical
records to highlight Plaintiff’s health condition. Below are some of the
highlighted facts.
 
·        
Exhibit
A, p. 5: 11/11/2023 – ED to Hosp-Admission
 
Gwendy Miranda Kelling is a 62 y.o.
female who presents to the ED for evaluation of vomiting and shortness of
breath. Patient presents with vomiting and shortness of breath. Patient has
known history of cirrhosis and GI cancer. 
 
·        
Exhibit
A, p. 248: 11/11/2023 – ED to Hosp-Admission: 
 
Dr.
Esmail clarified and expanded on Harold’s [i.e., Plaintiff’s brother’s] understanding.
The doctor’s candid update included informing him that his sister’s (pts)
recent gall bladder scan was negative for disease, but that her liver cancer
was not operable. The doctor informed Harold that his sister was critically ill
as indicated by her need for artificial life support that included mechanical
ventilation, blood pressure medicines, and IV antibiotics for an infection of
(as yet) undetermined origin that had caused her internal organs to go into
shock. Additionally, she let Harold know that the neuro-intensivist had been
consulted due to signs of seizure activity. 
 
Harold
was given the opportunity to ask questions, all of which were answered. He
talked about his own awareness in recent changes he had observed in his sister
due to disease progression, and lamented that he had hoped that she would be
able to recover sufficiently to go home to spend ‘one last Christmas’ with her
family. He expressed concern that she might be suffering and that the
interventions currently occurring in the ICU may serve merely to prolong her
life without benefit of returning her to a meaningful quality of life. The PC
team offered empathy and validated his feelings.
 
Next, the team provided education
on code status and suggested that it would be appropriate for the family to
consider placing a DNR boundary on the patient’s care at this time.”
 
            As stated above, clear and
convincing evidence requires a finding so clear as to leave no substantial
doubt. 
 
Here,
as dire as Plaintiff’s condition appears to be paper, Plaintiff has not
submitted a declaration from her doctors or other expert with requisite medical
background, indicating substantial
medical doubt of her survival beyond six months. Indeed, some of the medical
records counsel has submitted have the notation “11/11/2023.” To the extent
that notation represented November 11, 2023, then it has been at least five (5)
months since that date and Plaintiff is still alive and the motion is silent as
to her current condition. 
 
Therefore, the Court denies the motion since Plaintiff
has failed to meet her burden of showing she is entitled to a discretionary grant
of preference under Section 36(b). 
 
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice.