 Case Number:  21STCV09876    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  57 State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“State
Farm”) issued an automobile insurance policy (“the Policy”) to Hicham Zerhouni
and Wafae Benchekroun.  The Policy was in
effect on July 26, 2020.  It provided
coverage for a 2018 Bentley Bentayga sports wagon (“the Bentley”) that was leased
in the name of Benchekroun.   Zerhouni
permitted his friend Adam Lowe to drive the Bentley.  On July 26, 2020, Lowe was driving the
Bentley when it crashed into parked cars on a street in Los Angeles and rolled
over (“the Crash”).  Zerhouni sought
coverage under the Policy for the damage to the Bentley arising from the
Crash.  After conducting an
investigation, State Farm denied coverage.  
Subsequently, State Farm filed a declaratory relief action (“the DRA”)
against Zerhouni, Benchekroun, and Lowe (collectively, “the Defendants”)
seeking an order from the Court that the Defendants are not entitled to
coverage under the Policy for damage to the Bentley arising from the Crash.
The Court conducted a bench trial on the DRA over several
days in the autumn of 2023.  Following
receipt of the parties’ post-trial briefs, the Court issued a Statement of
Decision in which it found that State Farm carried its burden in the DRA of
demonstrating that the Defendants are not entitled to coverage under the Policy
for damage to the Bentley arising from the Crash.  The Court reached that conclusion based on its
(i) evaluation of the evidence surrounding the Crash from the Electronic Data
Recorder (“EDR”) in the Bentley and expert testimony as to what the EDR
evidence showed that led the Court to find that the Crash did not occur as the
Defendants say it did; (ii) assessment of the credibility of the witnesses that
led the Court to doubt the force of the testimony of Lowe and another witness
for the Defendants, Daniel Bax, regarding the circumstances surrounding the
Crash; and (iii) review of State Farm’s requests for information from the
Defendants to assist State Farm’s investigation of the Crash that led the Cout
to find that the Defendants breached their obligation under the Policy by
failing to provide State Farm with material information. 
Pending before the Court is the Defendants’ motion for a
new trial under Code of Civil Procedure Section 657(6) based on the asserted
insufficiency of the evidence to justify the Court’s Statement of Decision
(“the New Trial Motion”).   The Court is denying the New Trial Motion.   The Defendants have failed to show that that
the evidence adduced at trial does not justify the Court’s Statement of
Decision.  
The New Trial Motion rests primarily on attempt to
rehabilitate Lowe’s credibility.  Defendants’
effort fails.  After reviewing the trial
record anew, the Court stands by its assessment of Lowe’s credibility.   There was nothing “capricious” (as
Defendants contend) about the Court’s finding that critical aspects of Lowe’s
testimony cast doubt on his credibility.   Defendants’ critique in the New Trial Motion
of the Court’s assessment of Bax’s testimony also misses the mark.   Here,
too, the Court has looked again at Bax’s testimony.  The Court stands by its assessment of his
credibility as well.
The New Trial Motion is deficient in an additional
fundamental respect.  It overlooks the
Court’s review of the evidence from the EDR and expert testimony about that evidence
that led the Court to find that the Crash did not occur as the Defendants say
it did.  The Court’s review of that
evidence formed a separate and distinct basis, independent from the Court’s assessment
of the credibility of Lowe and Bax, supporting the Statement of Decision. 
Finally, the New Trial Motion fails in its challenge to
the sufficiency of the evidence that led the Court to find that the Defendants
breached their obligation under the Policy by withholding material information
from State Farm.  The evidence of what
the Defendants provided to State Farm, and did not provide to State Farm, adequately
supports the Court’s finding on this issue.