  Case Number:  22SMCV01124    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           W.W. Westwood
v. Mansour Zakhor
CASE NO.:                22SMCV01124
MOTION:                  Motion
to be Relieved
HEARING DATE:   12/13/2023
 
Legal
Standard
 
The
court may order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before
or after judgment or final determination upon request by either client or
attorney and after notice from one to the other. (CCP §
284(2).) The attorney seeking to withdraw must take “reasonable steps to
avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the client, including
giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment of other
counsel.” (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, 3-700(A)(2). See, e.g., Vann v. Shilleh
(1975) [holding withdrawal prejudicial where attorney withdraw from the
representation of defendant on the Friday before trial began the following
Monday].) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as
counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)  
 
An
application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form
MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (CRC 3.1362(a), (c), (e).) The
requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have
appeared in the case.” (CRC, 3.1362(d).)
When a client is served by mail, the attorney’s declaration must indicate that
the client’s address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it was
confirmed. (Id.) If the attorney is
unable to confirm the client’s current address, the declaration must state the
reasonable efforts made within the last 30 days to obtain the client’s current
address. (Id.) 
 
Additionally,
the declaration “must state in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney client relationship why” a motion is brought
instead of filing a substitution of attorney. (CRC, 3.1362(c).)
 
Analysis
 

Counsel Christopher Frost of Frost
LLP moves to be relieved as counsel for Defendant Mansour Zakhor, D.D.S. Counsel
states that Defendant has been unwilling and unable to pay his legal fees and
costs.  The declaration notes the trial
setting conference on calendar, but not the motion to be relieved from deemed
admissions or the demurrer hearing. 
Also, counsel failed to file a proposed order.  
 
 While the record does not show that the client
would be prejudiced by the withdrawal, counsel’s failure to include all forms
and hearing dates mandates denial. 
Accordingly, the motion is denied without prejudice.  
 