 Case Number:  23TRCV03439    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 31, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV03439
 
CASE NAME:                        Citibank N.A. v. Karen S. Okihara 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Citi Bank, N.A.
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Karen S. Okihara (No Opposition)
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.                 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for an Order that Requests be Deemed Admitted Against
Plaintiff, Karen S. Okihara
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
            
            On October 17,
2023, Plaintiff, Citibank, N.A. (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant, Karen S. Okihara (“Defendant”) alleging a cause of action for: (1)
Common Counts. Plaintiff alleges that it lent money in the amount of $25,036.04
to Defendant and that Defendant still owes this amount in unpaid debt despite
Plaintiff’s demand. 
 
            On March 19,
2024, Plaintiff served Defendant with Requests for Admission. Plaintiff
contends that Defendant has failed to respond to discovery by the date it was
due, and has not served any responses even as of the date it filed this motion,
or per representations of counsel at the recent Case Management Conference,
even as of early May of 2024. As such, Plaintiff has brought this Motion to
Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On May 2, 2024, Defendant filed a
Motion to Deem the Truth of the Matters Specified in  that Requests for Admission, Set One,
Admitted. To date, no opposition has been filed. 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS 
 
A. Legal Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2033.280(c), the court shall make the order deeming the truth of the matters
admitted unless the responding party serves before the hearing a proposed
response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with
Code Civ. Proc § 2033.220. Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.220 requires that
each answer either admits, denies or specifies that the responding party lacks
sufficient information or knowledge.   The
moving party is not required to meet and confer before bringing such a motion
where no response of any kind was received. (Demyer v. Costa Mesa Mobile
Home Estates, 36 Cal.App.4th 393, 395.)¿¿ 
 
            B.
Discussion  
 
Plaintiff’s
moving papers indicate that on March 19, 2024, it served its Requests for
Admission, Set One on Defendant. However, Plaintiff contends that Defendant has
failed to serve any objections, admissions, denials, or any other written
responses. Because of this, the Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT
Defendant’s motion. The Court also notes that Defendant is represented by
counsel per the single-page Answer filed by said counsel on February 22,
2024.  Despite this, Defendant failed to
respond to the responses as well as failed to respond via opposition to this
motion. However, Plaintiff has attached the Proof of Service of the Request on
Defendant’s attorney. As of the day before the hearing, the Court has no evidence
of any response to the RFAs nor the motion. 
Thus, this Court GRANTS this motion and deems the subject RFA to be
admitted.  
¿ 
III. CONCLUSION  
¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motions to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted is GRANTED. 
¿¿ 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
 
 