 Case Number:  23TRCV00974    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 31, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ ¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00974
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Giuseppe
Sanzone; Caroline Petersen v. FCA US LLC, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 (1) Plaintiffs, Giuseppe Sanzone; Caroline Petersen
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Defendants, FCA US LLC
 
TRIAL DATE:                        May 27, 2025¿ MOTION:¿                           (1)
Motion for Additional Sanctions
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) ARGUE
 
 
¿¿ 
 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On April 3, 2023, Plaintiffs, Giuseppe Sanzone and
Caroline Petersen (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant, FCA US LLC, and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of
action for: (1) Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Breach of
Express Warranty; (2) Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act –
Breach of Implied Warranty; (3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act – Breach of § 1793.2(b); and (4) Violation of Business and Professions Code
§ 17200. 
 
Plaintiffs’ motion in this
case notes that on August 11, 2023, they served on Defendant, Requests for
Production of Documents, Special Interrogatories, Requests for Admission, and
Form Interrogatories, Set One. Despite this, Plaintiffs contend that as of the
filing of this motion, Plaintiffs had not received any of Defendant’s
responses. Plaintiffs even contend that although not required prior to filing a
motion to compel initial responses, on October 24, 2023, Plaintiffs attempted
to meet and confer with defense counsel, requesting verified substantive
responses before filing this motion. However, Plaintiffs assert that despite
multiple follow up attempts, Defendant has failed to provide any substantive
responses to the discovery. As a result, Plaintiff brought a Motion to Compel
Initial Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Special
Interrogatories, Requests for Admission, and Form Interrogatories Set One. 
 
On January 16, 2024, the
Court GRANTED the motion, except that the Court DENIED the motion for to deem
the requests for admission as admitted. The Court ordered FCA to provide
verified amended or further responses, without objection, including responses to
the RFAs within twenty (20) days. This Court also awarded Plaintiff sanctions
in the amount of $2,500 to be paid by Defendant FCA to Plaintiffs’ counsel,
within 20 days, with the sanctions ordered payable by defense counsel’s office
given the declaration of attorney neglect explaining why the responses were not
prepared until after service of the subject motion. These responses and
sanctions were due to Plaintiff’s counsel no later than February 5, 2024.
Plaintiff also contends that Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to meet and confer
with Defendant to avoid this continuous cycle of motions to no avail, but that
as of the date of Plaintiff’s filing of this motion, no verified discovery
responses had been served by Defendant, and no sanctions paid. 
 
On March 29, 2024,
Plaintiff brought a Motion for Terminating Sanctions based on Defendant’s
failure to comply with the Court’s Order. This Court DENIED that Motion for
Terminating Sanctions but GRANTED Monetary Sanctions in the amount of $2,500 payable
to counsel for the Plaintiff by April 19, 2024. 
 
However, Plaintiffs now
bring this Motion for Additional Monetary Sanctions as they assert that
Defendant has once again failed to comply with this Court’s order. As of the
date of the filing of this motion, Plaintiffs assert that Defendant has not
paid any of the sanctions ordered by this Court’s March 29, 2024 order. Plaintiffs
contend that they believe monetary sanctions are ineffective at compelling
Defendant’s adherence to this Court’s orders, and thus under the concept of
progressive discipline the Court should impose stiffer or additional sanctions
to secure compliance with the Discovery Act and with the Court’s discovery
orders. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On April 30, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a Motion for Additional Monetary Sanctions. On May 22, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a notice of non-opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion.  Also on May 22, 2024, less than two hours
after Plaintiff’s statement of non-opposition, Defendants’ counsel filed a
tardy opposition brief, which the Court elects to consider on the merits.  It was five days late, 3 court days late.
 
On May 23, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
 If a party fails to comply
with a court order compelling discovery responses or attendance at a
deposition, the court may impose monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating
sanctions. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (h) (depositions); § 2030.290,
subd. (c) (interrogatories); § 2031.300, subd. (c) (demands for production of
documents); § 2033.290, subd. (e) (requests for admission). Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030 provides that, “[t]o the extent authorized by the
chapter governing any particular discovery method . . . , the court, after
notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for
hearing, may impose . . .  [monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating]
sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery
process . . .” Section 2023.010 provides that “[m]isuses of the discovery
process include, but are not limited to, the following: . . . (d) Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery. . . (g) Disobeying a
court order to provide discovery. . .”  
  
“The trial court may order a terminating sanction for
discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the]
conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to
the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain
the discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
377, 390, quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made
lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and
the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.’” (Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390
[citation omitted].)    
    
“Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed
terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more
discovery orders.” (Id., citing Lang, supra, 77 Cal. App.
4th at pp. 1244-1246 [discussing cases]; see, e.g., Collisson &
Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622 [terminating
sanctions imposed after defendants failed to comply with one court order to
produce discovery]; Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 481, 491, disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v. McCutchen
(1997) 16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n. 4 [terminating sanctions imposed against
plaintiff for failing to comply with a discovery order and for violating
various discovery statutes].)  
 
Discussion
 
            Preliminarily, this Court notes that
Defendant’s opposition brief is untimely. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1005(b), “[a]ll papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with
the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court
days.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) Here, Defendant’s opposition
papers were filed nine days before this hearing, including non-court days, which
was thus five days late.  Despite this,
the Court uses its discretion to review the opposition brief and consider it on
its (tardy) merits.  On the merits, it is
apparent why the opposition papers were late: defense counsel did not take
whatever steps were necessary to ensure compliance with the Court’s very clear
order on the deadline for payment of the monetary sanctions.  Ms. Dao’s declaration and opposition brief
urge the Court to find that defense counsel’s failure to comply with a Court
Order is mooted by the late payment of the earlier-ordered monetary sanctions.  One full moth late.  Perhaps before the hearing defense counsel
will take a more conciliatory stance given the record before the Court.  
 
            The chronology of events on this motion
is as follows: On March 29, 2024, this Court ordered that Defendant pay $2,500
in monetary sanctions to Chad David, counsel for Plaintiff by April 19, 2024.  The Court even had defense counsel make an
entry in counsel’s personal calendar to ensure no law firm calendaring snafu
might cause that deadline to be missed.  But
it was.  Per the Opposition brief, the monetary
sanctions were not paid until May 20, a month late.  When Defendant failed to pay the Court-ordered
monetary sanctions, which is a failure to obey a court order, Plaintiffs
brought a Motion for Terminating Sanctions and Request for Additional Monetary Sanctions
on April 30, 2024.   As of service of the
instant motion on defense counsel, the monetary sanctions were already nearly
two weeks overdue.  It was not until three
more weeks later that Defense counsel paid Plaintiff’s counsel. As such, this
Court will not deny Plaintiffs’ motion outright as Defendant has requested in
its opposition brief. 
 
            In this Court’s March 29, 2024
minute order, it CLEARLY indicated that although at the last hearing,
Defendant’s abuse of the discovery process was not enough to warrant
terminating sanctions, the conduct of Defendant or defense counsel may warrant more
serious sanctions in the future. Despite this Court’s explicit warning from the
Court, Defendant nonetheless failed to abide by this Court’s March 29, 2024
order. The excuse provided is, quite simply, not acceptable.  Defense Counsel is blaming the failure to abide
by this Court’s order on the asserted fact that Defense Counsel’s office department
that processes checks was allegedly backlogged. No law firm could effectively
operate if its check-processing department were backed up for an entire
month.  
 
            
The Court is aware that law
firms handling high-volume litigation like Song-Beverly Act cases creates
pressures especially on junior lawyers.  Often
the dockets for junior lawyers can be daunting or even overwhelming, and the Court
makes allowances for such things when deadlines are missed and delays
occur.  To have opposing counsel calling
for severe sanctions against lawyers or clients adds to the pressures.  But at the same time, even junior lawyers
must accept responsibility for tracking deadlines, managing dockets, and
complying with orders especially once a prior mistake or neglect has been the
subject of law and motion activity in a pending litigated case.  Missing deadlines is big deal, but can often
be fixed.  Missing deadlines imposed by a
judge is a bigger deal.  The Court is not
sure that this has been acknowledged by the Opposition.  Plaintiffs here argue that monetary sanctions
have not been effective in securing Defendant’s compliance with this Court’s
lawful orders.  The Court is not sure
that argument is accurate, which is why the Court did not consider it proper to
punish the client with something like a terminating sanction for the misconduct
of counsel.  But it would be accurate to argue
that monetary sanctions have not been effective in securing the timeliness of
defense counsel’s compliance with court orders including an order to pay
monetary sanctions by a date certain.  
 
The Court’s tentative is to allow
defense counsel to ARGUE the appropriate judicial response to this unfortunate chronology
of events.  The Court’s intention is to
allow defense counsel, whether Ms. Dao or someone else from her office, to propose
to the Court a proper judicial response to the rather astonishing set of facts
that includes an entire month’s delay in payment of Court-ordered monetary
sanctions with no justification or excuse offered besides a backlog in the law
firm’s accounting department.  It is not
surprising that Plaintiff’s counsel would bring a further sanctions motion
after the payment deadline passed.  Whether
defense counsel will offer to defray some, most or all of the legal fees Plaintiffs
expended in bringing this motion, or compose a letter of apology, and / or some
other option, the Court will put this matter on the second call of the docket
so as to avoid the need for other counsel in other cases to hear the substance
of the argument.
¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 