  Case Number:  22TRCV00525    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 31, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV00525
 
CASE NAME:                        Sikder Holdings International, Inc., et al. v. Michael Ball,
et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs, Sikder Holdings
International, Inc., R & R Beverages Group PTE, LTD., Lisa Haque, and Nasim
Sikder.  
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Ultracor, Inc. (No Opposition)
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.                 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for an Order that Requests be Deemed Admitted, Set Two,
Against Defendant, Ultracor
                                                (2) Request for
Sanctions
                                                
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED
                                                (2) DENIED without
prejudice. 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
 
On June 29, 2022, Plaintiffs, Sikder
Holdings International, Inc, R&R Beverages Group PTE, LTD, Lisa Haque, and
Nasim Sikder filed a Complaint against Defendants, Michael Ball, Marsha NA
Nongkhai, aka Asha Kai, Ultracor, inc., and DOES 1 through 25. The Complaint
alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty (CWater); (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty (Denim Technologies); (4)
Fraud/Concealment; (5) Conversion; and (6) Declaratory Relief. 
 
Per the moving papers, on March 28, 2024,
Plaintiffs served Defendant, Ultracor with Requests for Admission, Set Two.
Plaintiffs contend that Ultracor has completely ignored their requests, having
failed to serve any responses to the RFAs which are now long overdue. As such,
they have brought this Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On May 6, 2024, Defendant filed a
Motion to Deem the Truth of the Matters Specified in  that Requests for Admission, Set One,
Admitted. To date, no opposition has been filed. 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS 
 
A. Legal Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2033.280(c), the court shall make the order deeming the truth of the matters
admitted unless the responding party serves before the hearing a proposed
response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with
Code Civ. Proc § 2033.220. Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.220 requires that
each answer either admits, denies or specifies that the responding party lacks
sufficient information or knowledge. As stated in Demyer v. Costa Mesa
Mobile Home Estates, the moving party is not required to meet and confer
before bringing this action. (Demyer v. Costa Mesa Mobile Home Estates,
36 Cal.App.4th 393, 395.)¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court
may impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery
process includes failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of
discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)¿¿ 
 
            B.
Discussion  
 
Plaintiffs
note that on March 28, 2024, they served its Requests for Admission, Set Two on
Defendant Ultracor. However, Plaintiffs assert that Ultracor did not respond in
any way to the RFAs, neither with objections, admission nor denials.   Because
of this, the Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT Defendant’s motion. However,
the Court also notes that on July 3, 2023, it granted Ultracor’s former
counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. There is nothing in the Court’s
records to indicate whether Ultracor has obtained new counsel since July of
last year. However, even if Ultracor has not replaced counsel, the Motion to
Relieve its former counsel was almost a year ago. Ultracor is responsible for
responding to discovery even if it does not have counsel. As such, this Court
GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion and deems the Requests in the RFA set to be deemed
admitted.  
 
            C. Sanctions 
 
            Code of Civil
Procedure § 2023.030(a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose
a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone
because of that conduct.  Misuse of discovery includes “failing to respond
or submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§¿2023.010(d)). 
 
            Along with Plaintiffs’ Motion to Deem Requests for
Admission, Set Two, as admitted, Plaintiffs also included a Request for
Monetary Sanctions in the amount of $936.25. This amount is based on counsel
for Plaintiffs, Rosa Kwong’s hourly rate of $250, spending 2.5 hours preparing Plaintiffs,
a projected 0.5 hours to review the opposition to the motion, and prepare the
reply papers, and 0.5 hours to attend and participate in the hearing as well as
$61.25 in filing fees. Here, the Court notes that it finds the amount of hours
and the hourly rate to be reasonable. However, this Court also notes that no
opposition has been filed and thus, the 0.5 hours allotted to analyzing the
opposition brief and reply papers was not utilized as projected. Thus, the
Court would be inclined to grant the Request for Monetary Sanctions in the
lowered amount of $811.25. However, this Court notes that the granting of this
motion is devastating to Defendant, Ultracor’s claim. The Requests for
Admission that this Court is tentatively inclined to deem as admitted are
nearly tantamount to admitting Ultracor’s liability, and thus this Court denies
this request for monetary sanctions, without prejudice to be reasserted if and
when Ultracor seeks relief from the deemed admissions.    
¿ 
III. CONCLUSION  
¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs’
Motions to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted is GRANTED. Requests for
Monetary Sanctions are Denied without prejudice. 
¿¿ 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice.
 
 
 
 