 Case Number:  22NWCV00697    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  C VELASCO v. DYNO
AUTOSALES, INC.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00697
HEARING:  12/06/23
 
#6 
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
     I.       
Defendant DYNO AUTOSALES, INC’s motion for
summary judgment or alternatively summary adjudication is DENIED in its entirety. 
 
    II.       
Plaintiff ELIZABETH A. VELASCO’s motion for
summary adjudication is CONTINUED to December
13, 2023. Defendant DYNO AUTOSALES,
INC. is instructed to refile its opposition papers that are to comply
with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350 and Code of Civil Procedure §
437c(b)(3) within one court day of this order.
 
Moving party(s) to give notice. 
 
Background
 
On August 11, 2022, Plaintiff Elizabeth A. Velasco
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendant Dyno Autosales, Inc.
(Defendant), asserting the following causes of action: (1) Violation of
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation
of Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; (3)
Negligent Repair; and (4)  Declaratory
Relief.
 
The facts, as alleged, are as follows. On November 2, 2021,
Plaintiff purchased a used 2014 Hyundai Veloster with the VIN: KMHTC6AE1EU204030.
(Compl. ¶ 8.) Defendant provided a thirty day or 1,000 mile express warranty
associated with the sale of the subject vehicle, which covered its engine and
transmission. (Id. at ¶ 9.) Plaintiff also purchased a thirty-six month
or 50,000 mile extended warranty from Defendant at the time of sale. (Id.
at ¶ 13.) An implied warranty of merchantability was attached at the time of
sale. (Id. at ¶ 11.) 
 
Within a week after the purchase of the subject vehicle,
Plaintiff presented the subject vehicle to Defendant for repair and soon
discovered that the engine needed to be replaced, which was covered under the
express warranty. (Id. at ¶¶ 14-22.) Defendant outsourced the repair to
a third-party mechanic shop without Plaintiff’s consent or knowledge. (Id.
at  ¶ 23.) On November 29, 2021,
Plaintiff picked up the subject vehicle, and she was made to signed a DMV
Statement of Fact that stated Defendant was no longer responsible for any
issues arising from the subject vehicle’s engine. (Id. at ¶¶ 25-26.) On
December 15, 2021, the subject vehicle’s check engine light came on, and
Defendant disclaimed any responsibility despite Plaintiff’s purchase of the
extended warranty. (Id. at ¶ 27.) Thereafter, Plaintiff has had to
replaced the engine a second time as well as the turbo kit, purge kit, and axle
within less than two years since purchasing the subject vehicle. (Id. at
¶ 28.) Within the applicable warranty period, Plaintiff presented the subject
vehicle to Defendant at least four times for engine related problems. (Id.
at ¶ 29.) By June 9, 2022, Plaintiff requested Defendant to repurchase the
subject vehicle, which was denied on July 30, 2022. (Id. at ¶¶ 34-35.)
 
On September 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed her motion for
summary adjudication directed at Defendant’s various affirmative defenses. 
 
On September 21, 2023, Defendant filed its motion for
summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication directed at
Plaintiff’s complaint. Plaintiff opposes.
 
On November 11, 2023, the parties stipulated for both of
their motions to be heard on December 6, 2023. 
 
Discussion
 
A.  
Defendant Dyno Autosales, Inc.’s motion for
summary judgment or alternatively summary adjudication:
 
Defendant moves for summary adjudication as to each cause of
action on the following grounds: (1) the first cause of action for Violation of
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Breach of Express Warranty fails as a
matter of law because Plaintiff did not sue under the proper statute; (2) the
second through fourth causes of action fails because Defendant complied with
its warranty obligations; and (3) Plaintiff is not entitled to civil penalties.
(Notice of Motion re: Defendant’s MSJ at pp. 1-2.) Therefore, Defendant
contends that it is entitled to summary judgment. (Ibid.) The Court
shall address these arguments in turn. 
 
First Cause of Action – Breach
of Express Warranty Under the Song-Beverly Act.
 
First, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s first cause of
action for breach of express fails on a technicality because Plaintiff has sued
under the incorrect statute. (Motion re: Defendant’s MSJ at pg. 5.) Defendant
reasons that the first cause of action is premised under Civil Code § 1793.2,
which applies to express warranties extended by manufacturers, not Civil Code §
1795.51, which applies to express warranties of used good offered by “buy-here-pay-here”
dealer. (Ibid.) However, this argument is not persuasive. Pursuant to
the complaint, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant is a “buy-here-pay-here dealer”
and a retailer, not a manufacture. (Compl. ¶¶ 41-42.) Thus, any relief pursuant
to Civil Code § 1793.2 was likely included by mistake. Regardless, Civil Code §
1794 permits a buyer’s damages to include the right of replacement or
reimbursement for any violation under the Song-Beverly Act. After all,
Plaintiff has sued generally under the Song-Beverly Act, and this Act
encompasses several statutes, ranging from Civil Code § 1790 to § 1795.8.
Therefore, the Court declines to interpret Plaintiff’s express warranty claim
as narrowly as Defendant argues it should be. 
 
Second, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s express warranty
claim fails because it replaced the subject vehicle’s engine within the 30-day
express warranty period by outsourcing the repair to a third-party mechanic,
and because the replacement engine gave rise to a separate and distinct
warranty from that of Defendant’s, any further repairs were outside the
coverage period of Defendant’s warranty. (Motion re: Defendant’s MSJ at pg. 6;
UMF Nos. 7-10.) 
 
Based on this evidence, the Court finds that Defendant has
met its burden in showing that there is no triable issue of material fact as to
whether Defendant satisfied its contractual obligations under the applicable
express warranty. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).) Thus, the burden now shifts
to Plaintiff to show that there is a triable issue of material fact as to this
issue. (Ibid.)
 
In support of her burden, Plaintiff presents evidence that,
after Defendant replaced the engine, it proved to be unsuccessful because the
replacement engine failed soon after it had been installed. (PUMF No. 19) Also,
Plaintiff points out that she had purchased an extended warranty. (PUMF No.
14.) Thus, Plaintiff asserts that, because the defect existed during the
applicable warranty period, the express warranty did not expire because
Defendant did not ultimately correct the defect. (Opposition at pg. 6, relying
on Civ. Code § 1793.1(a)(2).) Based on this evidence, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has met her burden to show that there is a contradictory inference as
to whether Defendant satisfied its obligations under the express warranty
because the engine defect was present during the warranty period. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action. 
 
Second Cause of Action – Breach
of Implied Warranty Under the Song-Beverly Act
 
“Unless disclaimed in the manner prescribed by this chapter,
every sale of consumer goods that are sold at retail in this state shall be
accompanied by the manufacturer's and the retail seller's implied warranty that
the goods are merchantable.” (Civ. Code § 1792, relying on American Suzuki
Motor Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th
1291, 1295-1296.) 
 
Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s second cause of
action fails as a matter of law because the subject vehicle was fit for the
basic purpose for when it was purchased as it was drivable. (Motion re:
Defendant’s MSJ at pg. 6.) However, this argument is not persuasive because the
mere fact that a vehicle provides transportation is not dispositive in
determining whether a defendant has met its obligations under the implied
warranty of merchantability. (See Isip v. Mercedes–Benz USA, LLC (2007)
155 Cal.App.4th 19, 27.) Rather, it must be shown that the subject vehicle is “
‘substantially free of defects,’ ” but in particular that “a vehicle ... is ‘in
safe condition.’ ” (Ibid.) Furthermore, as alleged in the complaint, the
subject vehicle had serious defects relating to the engine when it was first
delivered to Plaintiff. (Compl. ¶ 13.) Even though Defendant provided
subsequent repairs relating to the engine and oil leak, Defendant’s motion
fails to address whether the subject vehicle was still fit for the ordinary
defect despite having these defects. Regardless, this issue is best left to be
determined by the trier of fact. (Brand v. Hyundai Motor America (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 1538.)
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as
to the second cause of action is denied. 
 
Third Cause of Action – Negligent
Repair
 
Next, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s third cause of
action for negligent repair fails because Defendant acted reasonably in using a
third-party mechanic to replace the subject vehicle’s engine. (Motion re:
Defendant’s MSJ at pg. 7.) This argument lacks merit because, as stated above,
Plaintiff has presented evidence to show that the replacement engine failed
soon after it had been installed. Thus, it calls into question whether
Defendant acted reasonably in using the third-party mechanic that it had chosen.
Also, because there is an issue of material fact as to whether Defendant
breached the implied warranty of merchantability, it calls into question
whether Defendant properly inspected the subject vehicle and whether it was
negligent in failing to repair the subject vehicle sooner. 
 
Accordingly, because Defendant has not met its burden in
showing that there is no triable issue of material fact that it was negligent
in repairing the subject vehicle, the Court denies Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication as to the third cause of action. 
 
          Fourth
Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief
 
“The fundamental basis for declaratory relief is the
existence of an actual, present controversy over a proper subject.” (City of
Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal. 4th 69, 79.)
 
Defendant argues that the fourth cause of action for
declaratory relief is derivative of the previous causes of action and because
those fail, it follows that there is no actual controversy. (Motion re:
Defendant’s MSJ at pg. 7.) As the Court has found there are triable issues of
material as to the first through third causes of action, it follows that there
exists an actual controversy between the parties. 
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to
the fourth cause of action is denied. 
 
          Civil
Penalties (Civ. Code § 1794)
 
Lastly, Defendant argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to
civil penalties under Civil Code § 1794 because Plaintiff’s breach of express
warranty claim fails. (Motion re: Defendant’s MSJ at pp. 7-8.) However, because
Plaintiff’s breach of express warranty claim has survived summary adjudication,
it follows that Plaintiff’s ability to recovery civil penalties under Civil
Code § 1794 remains available. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as
to Plaintiff’s request for civil penalties under Civil Code § 1794 is denied.
 
B.  
Plaintiff Elizabeth A. Velsaco’s motion for summary
adjudication:
 
Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to Defendant’s first
through thirty-seven affirmative defenses on the ground that they each lack
merit. (Notice of Motion re: Plaintiff’s MSA at pp. 1-2.) As a preliminary
matter, it is noted that Defendant has withdrawn Affirmative Defenses Nos. 1,
6, 8, 9, 10, 20, 21, 25, 33, 35 and 37. (Reply at pg. 2.) While this withdrawal
is represented within Plaintiff’s reply, it is noted that Defendant has failed
to file its opposing memorandum with the Court. Further complicating matters,
Defendant’s responsive separate statement violates California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1350 in that Defendant does not state whether Plaintiff’s material facts
are “disputed” or “undisputed.”  Notably,
the version that has been filed with the Court lacks any information at all
that would inform the Court what Defendant’s response and supporting evidence
consists of.  In such instances, the
Court has discretion to grant the motion for failure to comply with these
requirements.  (Civ. Proc. Code §
437c(b)(3).)  However, under the
circumstances, it would be more appropriate to continue the matter briefly in
order to allow Defendant to correct the procedural defects that have been
identified here.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication is
continued to December 13, 2023. Defendant is instructed to refile its
opposition papers that are to comply with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1350 and Code of Civil Procedure § 437c(b)(3) within one court day of this
order. 
 
 