 Case Number:  23NWCV01545    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  C maravilla v. zapata,
et al.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01545
HEARING:   12/6/23 @ 10:30 AM
#7
 
Defendant Eva Ferris’ Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages is GRANTED with leave to amend.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendant Eva Ferris (Defendant Ferris) moves
for an order striking Plaintiff Marisa Maravilla’s (Plaintiff) claim for
punitive damages.
Background
Plaintiff
filed a Complaint against Defendants Scarlet Zapata, Francisco Lopez, and Eva
Ferris (collectively Defendants) alleging negligence and strict liability for a
dog bite incident. Plaintiff is making a claim for punitive damages.
Legal
Standard
 
Discussion

Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were
the owners of dogs which had previously escaped Defendants’ residence and
killed another dog and attacked a person. Plaintiff claims that Defendants
“were aware of the probability the Subject Dogs attacking people and animals
[at] the time of the subject incident, yet Defendants consciously disregarded
such dangers. Such conduct constitute a conscious disregard of the safety of
others and constitutes malice.” (Compl., p. 6.) “In order to survive a motion
to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an
entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Sup.
Ct. (1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) “‘Nonintentional conduct comes
within the definition of malicious acts punishable by the assessment of
punitive damages when a party intentionally performs an act from which he
knows, or should know, it is highly probable harm will result.’” (SKF Farms
v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 907.) Here, Plaintiff’s
allegations fail to rise to the level of conduct subject to punitive damages. Plaintiff
claims that Defendants failed to properly house and restrain the dogs and that
the prior incident on November 8, 2021, is sufficient to establish that
Defendants’ conduct is worthy of punitive damages. However, Plaintiff’s
allegations fail to demonstrate through ultimate facts that Defendants knew or
should have known that there was a high probability of harm and not
merely a potential for harm. Thus, Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently plead a
claim for punitive damages. Therefore, Defendant Ferris’ Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages is granted with leave to amend. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant
Eva Ferris’ Motion to Strike Punitive Damages is GRANTED with leave to amend.
Plaintiff is granted 30 days leave to amend.
 
 