 Case Number:  23NWCV01739    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  C moreno v. american honda Motor
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01739
HEARING:   12/6/23 @ 9:30 AM
#3
 
Defendant’s Demurrer is OVERRULED and its
Motion to Strike is DENIED.
Defendant to Answer within 30 days.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendant American Honda Motor, Co. (Defendant)
demurs to the First Amended Complaint’s (FAC) Fifth Cause of Action for Fraud
and moves to strike the Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages.
Background
Plaintiff
Juan Moreno (Plaintiff) alleges Defendant violated the Song-Beverly Act and
fraudulently induced Plaintiffs into purchasing a 2020 Honda Pilot manufactured
by Defendant. They allege that Defendant knew about a sensing system defect and
knew that the cooling system installed in Plaintiffs’ vehicle had that defect.
Legal
Standard
The party against whom
a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings which are not
challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages, etc.).
(CCP §§ 435, 436 & 437.) A motion to strike lies only where the pleading
has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. (C.C.P. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must
appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (C.C.P. §
437.)
Discussion

First, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s fraud
cause of action is preempted by federal law. Defendant claims that Defendant’s
necessary public disclosures are within the exclusive authority of the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and that a California jury should
not be determining whether Defendant has properly warned of or disclosed
defects to Plaintiff. The NHTSA is tasked with Early Warning Reporting and
collection of related data. “The Early Warning Reporting rule, establishes categories
of vehicle manufacturers by size, proscribes the reporting frequency,
information contained within the reports, organization of data, scope of
comparison data (past nine model years), and vehicle component categories
subject to reporting requirements.” (Early Warning Reporting, Foreign Defect
Reporting, and Motor Vehicle and Equipment Recall Regulations: 78 Fed. Reg.
161, 51383-51384.) Thus, the NHTSA is concerned with analyzing aggregate data
and determining whether warning should be issued in general and not regarding
specific vehicles. Here, the fraud action is concerned with whether Defendant
knew or should have known that Plaintiff’s vehicle specifically was defect and
failed to then disclose the defect to Plaintiff to induce Plaintiff to purchasing
that vehicle. Therefore, Plaintiff’s fraud claim is not preempted by the NHTSA.
Second, Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed
to allege facts sufficient to establish Defendant had a duty to disclose. A
duty to disclose material facts arises in four circumstances: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts. (LiMandri v. Judikins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th
326, 336.) Defendant argues that a fiduciary relationship is necessary to give
rise to a duty to disclose. “Ordinarily, failure to disclose material facts is
not actionable fraud unless there is some fiduciary relationship giving rise to
a duty to disclose [citation], and an insurer does not owe a fiduciary duty to
its agents. ‘The duty to disclose may arise without any confidential
relationship where the defendant alone has knowledge of material facts which
are not accessible to the plaintiff. [Citations.]’” (Magpali v. Farmers
Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 482.) Thus, Plaintiff need only
plead that Defendant had exclusive knowledge of a material fact not known to
Plaintiff to support a fraud cause of action. Plaintiff has pled that Defendant
had extensive and exclusive knowledge of the alleged sensing defects. (Compl.
¶¶ 27-64.) Thus, Plaintiff has sufficiently pled a duty to disclose. 
The fraud claim is also not barred by the
economic loss rule. “[T]he economic loss rule provides: Where a purchaser’s
expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not
working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has
suffered only ‘economic losses.’ The economic loss rule requires a purchaser to
recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations,
unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.
Quite simply, the economic loss rule ‘prevents the law of contract and the law
of tort from dissolving one into the other.” (Food Safety Net Services v.
Eco Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130 [citing
Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979,
988].) A party alleging fraud or deceit in connection with a contract may
recover in tort if he or she can “establish tortious conduct independent of a
breach of the contract itself, that is violation of some duty arising from tort
law.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged facts to establish
tortious conduct independent of a breach of the contract itself. Thus, the
economic loss rule does not bar Plaintiff’s fraud claim.
Finally, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
claim for punitive damages should be struck from the FAC because there are no
supporting allegations of fraud. However, this Court finds that Plaintiffs
properly alleged a fraud cause of action. Thus, Defendant’s Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages is denied.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Demurrer is OVERRULED and its Motion to Strike is DENIED. Defendant to Answer
within 30 days.
 
 