  Case Number:  20STCV42299    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  C MICHELLE
PROVOST-SIERKS v. PRN AMBULANCE, LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:  20STCV42299
HEARING:  12/6/23
 
#4
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the
Third Cause of Action for Violation of Ralphs Civil Rights Act is DENIED.
 
Moving party(s) to give notice. 
 
On November 4, 2020, Plaintiff Michelle Provost-Sierks filed
an action against Defendants PRN Ambulance, LLC and Fidel Mojica alleging (1)
sexual battery in violation of Civil Code section 1708.5; (2) gender violence
in violation of Civil Code section 52.4; (3) violation of Ralphs Civil Rights
Act; (4) assault; (5) battery; (6) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; and (7) negligent hiring, supervision, retention.
 
Plaintiff alleges that she was sexually assaulted by an EMT
in an ambulance when she required transported from one hospital to another on
November 10, 2018. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendants seek an order granting summary adjudication of
the following issues: 
 
ISSUE 1: That Plaintiffs’ Third
Cause of Action for Ralph Civil Rights Act (Violation of Civil Code Section
51.7) against these Defendants was untimely filed and thus lacks merit and
fails to present any triable issues of material fact.
ISSUE 2: That Plaintiff’s Third
Cause of Action for Ralph Civil Rights Act (Violation of Civil Code Section
51.7) against these Defendants fails to state a viable cause of action and thus
lacks merit and fails to present any triable issues of material fact.
 
Timeliness
 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for
Ralph Civil Rights Act (Violation of Civil Code Section 51.7) is subject to the
one-year statute of limitations, and is now barred as the incident occurred on
November 10, 2018 and Plaintiff filed the action on November 4, 2020. 
 
Defendants rely on Gatto v. County of Sonoma (2002)
98 Cal.App.4th 744 to argue that the statute of limitations period is one year
for claims brought under the Ralph Act. Defendants state: “While Gatto dealt
with consideration of determining the statute of limitations for an Unruh
claim, the Court identified the Ralph Act to carry the same one-year as the
Unruh Act.” (Mot. p. 4:24-26.) Defendants also cite West Shield
Investigations and Sec. Consultants v. Superior Court (2000) 82 Cal App.
4th 935, where the court held that Unruh Civil Rights Act Claims are subject to
the one-year statute of limitations, without regard to the nature of the
liability sought to be imposed under that Act, such that the one-year personal
injury statute was deemed to be the applicable statute of limitations. Gatto
relied on West Shield which applied the one-year statute of
limitations to causes of action “that evolved from the common law” and “the
three-year statute … to others.” (Gatto, supra, 98 Cal.App.4th at
p. 759.) Defendants argue that the consensus in California is that the deadline
to file a Complaint under the Ralph Act is one year after the “hate crime”
victim learns of the perpetrator’s identity, as long as it is no more than
three years after the victim was injured. Defendants assert that the cause of
action is rooted in common law as an anti-discrimination law, similar to the
principle of the Unruh Act. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the applicable statute
of limitations for a cause of action under Civil Code section 51.7 is two years
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 335.1, which took effect on January
1, 2003 and extended the limitations period for personal injury suits to two
years. Plaintiff claims that Gatto does not apply because it was decided
before section 335.1 was enacted. Since she filed her complaint on November 4,
2020, two years after her sexual assault on November 10, 2018, she claims her
claim is timely. 
 
In reply, Defendants argue that the two-year statute of
limitations does not apply because this cause of action under Civil Code
section 51.7 falls under a hate crime and is distinguishable from assaults,
batteries, or injuries or death caused by wrongful acts or negligence that
would normally fall within the two-year statute of limitations. Defendants
point to the Directions for Use of CACI Jury Instruction 3063 Acts of Violence
– Ralph Act – Essential Factual Elements Civil Code Section 51.7 which describes
acts of violence in response to a perceived protected class: “Under the Ralph
Act, a plaintiff must establish the defendant threatened or committed violent
acts against the plaintiff or their property and a motivating reason for doing
so was a prohibited discriminatory motive…” 
 
First, the Court finds that Defendants misstate Gatto’s
application of defining the statute of limitations to claims brought under the
Ralph Act. Defendants fail to point out where “the Court identified the Ralph
Act to carry the same one-year as the Unruh Act.” (Mot. p. 4:24-26.) In fact,
this interpretation is unsupported as explained by another court: “ Although
the Gatto court does not unequivocally hold that sections 51.7 and 52.1
are not part of the Unruh Act, we are not so reserved: We conclude neither
section is part of a properly denominated Unruh Act.” (Stamps v. Superior
Court (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1451.) “Although the Ralph Act and the
Unruh Act are codified near each other in the Civ.Code, and both share the same
remedy statute, Civ.Code, § 52, there are significant differences
between them. The Ralph Act focuses on violence or intimidation by threat of
violence, while those concepts are absent in the Unruh Act. The Unruh Act, Civ.Code,
§ 51, is a public accommodations statute that focuses on discriminatory
behavior by business establishments, while the Ralph Act has nothing to do with
public accommodations or business establishments.” (Id. at 1452.) Thus, Gatto
fails to establish the statutory time frame for bringing claims under the
Ralph Act. 
 
Second, although Defendants attempt to distinguish this
claim from personal injury suits with two-year statute of limitations,
Defendants fail to prove that the one-year statute of limitations would apply.
Defendants only rely on cases which contemplated whether “a one-year (personal
injuries) or three-year (liability founded on a statute) statute of limitations
applied to claims under [the Unruh Act].” (Stamps, supra, 136
Cal.App.4th at 1453; see also WestShield Investigations and Sec. Consultants
v. Superior Court (2002) 82 Cal.App.4th 935; Gatto, supra, 98
Cal.App.4th 744.) Since Defendants claim that the Ralph Act carries the same
one-year limitations as the Unruh Act, their argument hinges on the following:
“ ‘[t]he Unruh [Civil Rights] Act seeks to protect against personal injury.
Thus a one-year statute of limitations period must be applied to plaintiff's
Unruh [Civil Rights] Act claim.’ [Citation.]” (Gatto, supra, 98
Cal.App.4th at 755.) Even though Gatto does not specifically apply to
Ralph Act claims, for purposes of determining the limitations period, the Court
finds that the limitations period may be determined by the statutory time frame
for personal injury suits. The alternative would be the three year statute of
limitations, which would still make this claim timely. Further, Defendants fail
to adequately explain how the enactment of Code of Civil Procedure section
335.1, which extended the limitations period for personal injury suits does not
change the holding in Gatto. Thus, the Court finds that the third cause
of action is timely.
 
Sufficiency 
 
Defendants argue that there are insufficient facts to
support a cause of action under the Ralph Civil Rights Act. In the case at
hand, Plaintiff testified under oath in her deposition as to the details of the
events that transpired from the moment she first met Defendant Mojica at the
time she was being picked up from the hospital for medical transport until the
time she was effectively transported to the receiving hospital and she last saw
Mojica. (See Provost-Sierks Depo.) Plaintiff testified that Mojica assisted her
onto the gurney and not the ambulance; Defendant was seated next to her in the
back of the ambulance; Mojica told her that he was studying to be a nurse and
that he liked his job; Mojica inquired of her as to her recent history of
hives; Mojica examined her and wrote notes onto his clipboard; Mojica asked her
to bend her legs at the knee; Mojica inserted a finger into her vagina; Mojica removed
his finger and used it to rub her clitoris; Mojica did not say anything during
this alleged assault; Mojica remained seated at all times during the alleged
assault; Plaintiff closed her legs and Mojica stopped the activity; Mojica advised
Plaintiff that they were arriving soon to the receiving hospital; Plaintiff was
removed from the ambulance by Mojica and wheeled by way of the gurney into the
receiving hospital; thereafter Mojica left. Defendants argue that these facts
fail to show that there was a violent act of threat or harm or a discriminatory
nature that was the driving force of the alleged act of Mojica.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the evidence shows that
Plaintiff was sexually violated by Mojica, which supports a cause of action
under the Ralph Act. Plaintiff argues that her allegations constitute an act of
violence because he used physical force as to injure, abuse, damage, or
destroy. Plaintiff states “the unwanted penetration of a woman's vagina amounts
to a much more severe act than a simple slap. There was some physical force
necessary to penetrate Ms. Sierks' vagina. The unwanted act caused emotional
injury and damage and constituted abuse.” (Opp. p. 4:22-26.) 
 
In reply, Defendants argue that the Ralph Act was created as
an “anti hate” statute to protect against violence against persons based upon
discriminatory attitudes, and that the evidence does not support such a cause
of action in this case. 
 
Civil Code section 51.7 states, "[a]ll persons within
the jurisdiction of this state have the right to be free from any violence, or
intimidation by threat of violence, committed against their persons or property
because of political affiliation, or on account of any characteristic listed or
defined in subdivision (b) or (e) of Section 51, or position in a labor
dispute, or because another person perceives them to have one or more of those
characteristics." (Civ. Code, § 51.7(a).) Section 51 characteristics
include sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, disability,
medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation,
citizenship, primary language, or immigration status. (Id., § 51(a).) To
plead a claim for violation of section 51.7, a plaintiff must allege (1) the
defendant threatened or committed violent acts against the plaintiff; (2) the
defendant was motivated by his perception of plaintiff's protected
characteristic; (3) the plaintiff was harmed; and (4) the defendant's conduct
was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff's harm. (See Austin B. v.
Escondido Union School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 880-81.)   
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s allegations and deposition
testimony are sufficient to show that Mojica committed violence against
Plaintiff on account of her sex. (Compl. ¶¶ 27-36, Provost-Sierks Depo.) Defendants
fail to satisfy their burden in showing that no reasonable person would feel
that Mojica committed violence or threatened violence standing in Plaintiff’s
shoes. 
 
Thus, the Court DENIES summary adjudication as to the third
cause of action for Violation of Ralph Civil Rights Act. 
 