 Case Number:  22NWCV00489    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  C Tran v. metro home design
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00489
HEARING:   12/6/23 @ 9:30 AM
#2
Defendants’ Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel is taken under submission.
Plumtree & Brunner LLP to give NOTICE.
 
Defendants’ Counsel, A. Maria Plumtree of Plumtree
& Brunner LLP moves to be relived as counsel for Defendants Mansour Moravej
and Metro Home and Design (collectively Defendants).
Background
This
is a breach of contract action regarding a home improvement contract between
Plaintiff Mackara Tran and Defendants.
Discussion
There has not been a showing of good cause through the attached
declaration. However, counsel has requested that she may present such evidence
at the hearing. Good cause exists to grant the motion based on any of the
grounds under Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c)
provides that an attorney may withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The
client (a) insists upon presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an
illegal course of conduct, or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of
conduct that is illegal or that is prohibited under these rules or the State
Bar Act, or (d) by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not
pending before a tribunal, that the member engage in conduct that is contrary
to the judgment and advice of the member but not prohibited under these rules
or the State Bar Act, or (f) breaches an agreement or obligation to the member
as to expenses or fees. (2) The continued employment is likely to result in a
violation of these rules or of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work
with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the client likely will be
served by withdrawal; or (4) The member's mental or physical condition renders
it difficult for the member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6)
The member believes in good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal,
that the tribunal will find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal. An
attorney may request to withdraw from representation of a corporate client. (Thomas
G. Ferruzzo, Inc. v. Superior Court (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 501, 504.)
 