 Case Number:  22STCV36629    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO INTERVENE
Hearing Date: 11/20/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV36629 ADAN DELGADILLO
GONZALEZ vs  PABLO LOPEZ BALTODANO, et
al.
Moving Party: Defendant Hertz Vehicles
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: GRANTED 
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP section 387(d) provides the
following: 
 
(1) The court shall, upon timely
application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if
either of the following conditions is satisfied:  
 
(A) A provision of law confers an
unconditional right to intervene. 
 
(B) The person seeking intervention
claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject
of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action
may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless
that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties. 
 
(2) The court may, upon timely
application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the
person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either
of the parties, or an interest against both. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 387(d).)  
 
Whether the petitioner has an interest
in the matter in litigation is a question of fact that must be determined by
the court before leave to file is granted. (Muller v. Robinson (1959)
174 Cal.App.2d 511, 515; In re Yokohama Special Bank (1948) 86
Cal.App.2d 545.) The burden rests on the one seeking to intervene to show that
this is a proper case for intervention. (Muller, supra, 174 Cal.App.2d
at 515.) 
 
With respect to permissive
intervention, “[w]hen the proper procedures are followed, the trial court has
the discretion to permit a nonparty to intervene in litigation pending between
others, provided that (1) the nonparty has a direct and immediate interest in
the action; (2) the intervention will not enlarge the issues in the litigation;
and (3) the reasons for intervention outweigh any opposition by the parties
presently in the action.”  (Noya v. A.W. Coulter Trucking (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 838, 842 (quoting Truck Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court
(1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 342, 346).)
 
Discussion
 
On November 21, 2022,
Plaintiffs Adan Delgadillo Gonzales, Ana Rodriguez, Ariel Rodriguez, and Fabela
Salome filed a Complaint against Defendants Pablo Lopez Baltodano and Hertz
Vehicles, LLC. Mr. Baltodano’s employer rented a 2020 Chevrolet Cruz (“Rental
Vehicle”) from Defendant Hertz, and Mr. Baltodano was operating the rental
vehicle at the time of the incident. On May 3, 2023, counsel for Defendants
Baltodano and Hertz filed an Answer, generally and specifically denying all
liability and raising appropriate affirmative defenses. Plaintiffs subsequently
served discovery requests on Defendant Baltodano. Despite defense counsel’s
repeated efforts over the course of several months to contact Baltodano, he
failed to respond. Defendant Hertz now moves the Court for leave to intervene
in the action as the insurer for Pablo Lopez Baltodano so that Hertz may
exercise its right to defend its interests and the interests of its insured,
Baltodano.
Hertz Vehicles, LLC
("Hertz") has demonstrated a direct interest in the litigation,
satisfying both mandatory and permissive intervention standards under Code of
Civil Procedure section 387. Under the rental agreement, Hertz may owe a duty
to defend and indemnify Defendant Pablo Lopez Baltodano. Hertz is potentially
liable for any judgment against its renter, Mr. Baltodano, stemming from the
motor vehicle accident involving a Hertz-owned vehicle. Given Mr. Baltodano’s
lack of cooperation, Hertz's ability to protect its own interests would be
severely impaired without intervention.
Hertz’s motion is
timely, as it was filed promptly upon realizing that Mr. Baltodano was
unresponsive despite extensive efforts to contact him via phone, text, and
email over several months. Hertz has also shown that no existing party can
adequately represent its interests because Mr. Baltodano has effectively
abandoned his defense. Without intervention, Hertz could face irreparable harm,
including potential liability for a default judgment under Insurance Code
section 11580, without the opportunity to present defenses or respond to
discovery on behalf of its insured.
Additionally,
permissive intervention is appropriate because Hertz’s participation will not
enlarge the issues in this case. Hertz seeks only to stand in the shoes of its
insured and raise defenses that Mr. Baltodano would have raised had he
cooperated. There is no indication that intervention would prejudice existing
parties, and Hertz has complied with all procedural requirements, including the
submission of a proposed complaint-in-intervention. Given the weight of Hertz's
interest in defending its potential liability, the absence of opposition to its
motion, and the lack of adequate representation by existing parties, the motion
for intervention is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 