  Case Number:  18STCV00258    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon.
Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
DEMURRER
AND MOTION TO STRIKE
Hearing
Date: 11/1/24[1]  
CASE
NO./NAME: 18STCV00258 MERCED MALDONADO vs BARRETT WISSMAN, et al.
Moving
Party: Defendants Barrett Wissman and Nina Wissman
Responding
Party: Plaintiff
Notice:
Insufficient  
Ruling:
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE DENIED
 
On October 10,
2018, Plaintiff filed the present case. After numerous efforts to serve
Defendants and several motions to quash service, Plaintiff effected service by
publication on Procedure section 415.50. Plaintiff submits the affidavit of
Melinda Marguez of the Los Angeles Times showing that the summons was published
starting on September 18, 2023, September 25, 2023, October 02, 2023 and
October 09, 2023, and filed Proof of Publication on November 9, 2023.  
On December 20,
2023, Defendants’ Fifth Motion to Quash came on for hearing. No one appeared on
behalf of the Defendants, and the Court adopted its tentative ruling denying
Defendants’ Motion to Quash, set a trial setting conference for February 26,
2024, and ordered Defendants to file an answer within 30 days from the Notice
of Ruling.  Rather than answering, Defendants
filed their sixth motion to quash and a motion to dismiss. On June 10, 2024, the
Court denied Defendants' sixth motion to quash and mailed Notice of its ruling
to Defendants on that same day.
On August 19,
2024, Defendants filed a Declaration Regarding Meet and Confer.  On October 18, 2024, Defendants filed the
demurrer and motion to strike now at issue.
The demurrer and motion
to strike are procedurally defective for at least two reasons. 
First, and most
significantly, the demurrer was filed after the deadline for demurrer.  California Code of Civil Procedure §
430.40(a) provides: "A person against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may, within 30 days after service of the complaint, demur to the
complaint." The same applies to a motion to strike which must be brought within the time allowed to respond to a
pleading. CCP § 435 (b)(1).
If the parties
are not able to meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the
responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic
30-day extension of time to file a responsive pleading by filing and serving,
on or before the date on which the demurrer would be due, a declaration stating
under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made
and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer. The
30-day extension shall commence from the date the responsive pleading was
previously due. (CCP § 430.41(a).)
Here, the complaint
was served by publication on no later than October 9, 2023.  Assuming Defendants contend that the deadline
for demurrer is stayed or extended due to the filing of their many  motions to quash, the Court issued a ruling on
the last such motion on June 10, 2024. Even if the declaration of the demurring
parties grants an additional 30 days, the deadline for demurrer was July 10,
2024.  Defendants’ demurrer and motion to
strike was served on October 16, 2024, well beyond any applicable extensions. 
Second, the
demurrer and motion to strike were not properly served.  C.C.P. §1010.6(b)(3) states, “Before first
serving a represented person electronically, the person effecting service shall
confirm the appropriate electronic service address for the counsel being
served.” Defendants did not serve the demurrer and motion to strike on the
electronic address that had been confirmed by Plaintiff’s counsel.  
On or about
October 16, 2024, Defendants served Plaintiff’s counsel with three 3)
Documents: 1) Demurrers to Complaint with Motion to Strike; 2) Demurrers to
Complaint; and 3) Motion to Strike. See Exhibit “E” attached to the
Youmtobian Decl. These documents were not mailed to Plaintiff’s counsel’s
office or properly served via electronic service. See Youmtobian Decl.
at ¶11. Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike were only electronically
served to mn@novaklawfirm.com. However, as previously addressed in court, this
address is not the proper electronic address to serve documents on Plaintiff’s
counsel.  Plaintiff raised this issue
with the Court on May 14, 2024, hearing where the Court requested that Defendants’
counsel properly serve Plaintiff’s counsel. Defendants’ counsel then electronically
served Plaintiff with a copy of Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss at the email address
of service@novaklawfirm.com, which is the proper electronic address for
Plaintiff’s counsel. See Exhibit “F” attached to the Youmtobian
Decl.  
Thus, the
demurrer and motion to strike failed to give sufficient notice and are untimely.  Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled and
the motion to strike denied.  Defendants
are ordered to answer the Complaint within 30 days of this order or be subject
to default judgment.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email
to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely
(encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should assume that
others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.
 


