..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24SMCV03828
Plaintiff's Name: Los Trancos Management, LLC
Defendant's Name: 2XMD Partners, LLC, et al.
People Names: None
Company Names: Los Trancos Management, LLC, 2XMD Partners, LLC, Jilk Construction, Inc.
Places: Malibu, California, Broad Beach Road, 31430 Parcel, 31444 Parcel
Dates: July 2, 2024, July 12, 2024, September 5, 2024, September 9, 2024, October 4, 2024, October 7, 2024, November 1, 2024
Events: Violations of the California Coastal Act, issuance of Notice of Violation, administrative proceedings by the California Coastal Commission and State Lands Commission
Money: None
Intentions: To determine whether the primary jurisdiction doctrine applies and whether the court should stay the action pending the conclusion of the administrative proceedings
Facts: The California Coastal Commission and State Lands Commission are investigating alleged violations of the California Coastal Act by 2XMD and Jilk; the Commission has issued a Notice of Violation and is considering penalties and injunctive relief
Disputes: Whether the court should exercise primary jurisdiction and stay the action pending the conclusion of the administrative proceedings
Acts: Alleged violations of the California Coastal Act, issuance of Notice of Violation, administrative proceedings by the California Coastal Commission and State Lands Commission
Agreements: None
Laws: California Coastal Act, Public Resources Code
Case Citations: Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court, 2 Cal. 4th 377, Nader v. Allegheny Airlines, Inc., 426 U.S. 290, Shutts v. Covenant Holdco LLC, 208 Cal. App. 4th 609
Statutes: California Coastal Act, Public Resources Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, California Coastal Commission, State Lands Commission
Significant Statements: "The Court agrees that the primary jurisdiction doctrine applies here, but it does not mandate dismissal, but rather a stay of proceedings pending completion of the administrative proceedings."
```

Here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

The court has tentatively ruled that it will exercise its discretion under the primary jurisdiction doctrine and stay the action pending the conclusion of the administrative proceedings by the California Coastal Commission and State Lands Commission. The Commission has issued a Notice of Violation and is considering penalties and injunctive relief against 2XMD and Jilk for alleged violations of the California Coastal Act. The court finds that the issues involved are complex and require the administrative agency's expertise to resolve, and that a stay of the action is necessary to allow the Commission to complete its proceedings. The court also notes that the plaintiff is seeking equitable relief in the form of penalties and injunctive relief, which can be addressed by the Commission, and that the plaintiff's claims for public and private nuisance are intertwined with the Commission's determination. Therefore, the court concludes that a stay of the action is appropriate and grants the defendants' motion to stay the action pending the conclusion of the administrative proceedings.
