 Case Number:  23AHCV01866    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 21, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         ANTHONY RUSSO v.
CITY OF PASADENA, a municipal corporation; PASADENA POLICE DEPARTMENT, a public
safety department  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01866
 
 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant City of Pasadena
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Anthony Russo
 
SERVICE:                              Filed February 6, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed May 3, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed May 14, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant City of Pasadena’s seeks
an order compelling Plaintiff to provide further responses to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories – General (Set One), Form Interrogatories – Employment (Set
One), Requests for Production of Documents (Set One), and Requests for
Admissions (Set One).
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Anthony
Russo’s claim that he wrongfully received adverse employment actions in his
position as a Police Lieutenant with the City of Pasadena Police Department.
Plaintiff filed this complaint on August 16, 2023, alleging four causes of
action for (1) relief for violation of POBRA, Government Code section 3309.5,
(2) whistleblower retaliation, Labor Code section 1102.5, (3) violation of due
process, and (4) violation of Meyers-Milias-Brown Act, Government Code section
3500, et seq.
 
            In November 14, 2023, default was
entered against Defendant City of Pasadena. 
 
            On November 17, 2023, while in default,
the City of Pasadena (“Defendant”) propounded all the discovery at issue on Plaintiff.
(Roney Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
            On
December 4, 2023, while in default, Defendant demurred to and moved to strike
portions of Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
On December 18, 2023, Plaintiff
served responses to Defendant’s discovery requests, which largely consisted of
objections. (Id. at ¶ 3.)
 
            On January 22, 2024, the Court
granted Defendant’s motion to set aside defaults on the ground that the
defaults entered against them were void pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
473(d). 
 
            On April 22, 2024, the Court
sustained Defendants’ demurrers with leave to amend. On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff
filed his operative first amended complaint, raising the same causes as in the
initial complaint.
 
            Now, Defendant seeks to compel
further responses from Plaintiff concerning the following discovery requests:
(1) Form Interrogatories – General, Set One; Form Interrogatories – Employment
Law, Set One; (3) Requests for Production of Documents, Set One; and (4)
Requests for Admission, Set One. Plaintiff opposes the motion.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant
City of Pasadena’s motion to compel further is GRANTED in part and DENIED in
part.
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            “Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this
title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
 
Among the standard written methods of discovery are interrogatories (see id.,
§ 2030 et seq.), requests for production of documents (see id., § 2031
et seq.), and requests for admission (see id., § 2033 et seq.).
 
For each method of discovery, if  a
propounding party contends that the responding party has provided insufficient
or incomplete responses, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
the responding party to provide complete, Code-compliant responses. (See id.,
§§ 2030.300 [interrogatories], 2031.310 [requests for production], 2033.290
[requests for admission].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Procedural Issues
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the instant motion is defective for several reasons. The Court
shall address them in turn. First, Plaintiff argues that Defendant was
precluded from propounding discovery because default had been entered against
the defendant. (Opposition at pg. 4.) However, this argument is not persuasive
because the Court previously determined that the defaults entered were void
under Code of Civil Procedure § 473(d). (See January 22, 2024 Minute Order.) As
a result, the Court lacked authority to enter default against Defendant because
this defendant was subject to protection under the automatic 30-day extension
provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 430.41. Thus, the January 22, 2024 order
effectively corrected a clerical error. Because a default should never have
been entered against this defendant, it cannot be concluded that its right to
conduct discovery had been cut off. 
 
Regardless,
Plaintiff provided primarily objections to the discovery requests in question,
but even though Defendant attempted to meet and confer on January 26, 2024,
Plaintiff chose not to supplement these responses even after the Court’s
January 22, 2024 order, setting aside the defaults. Refusing to consider Defendant’s motions
would simply create an unnecessary delay in these proceedings. The Court
rejects Plaintiff’s argument on this point.
 
            Second,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s separate statement is defective because it
does not comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c). (Opposition at
pg. 5.) Under this rule, a separate statement “provides all the
information necessary to understand each discovery request and all the
responses to it that are at issue. The separate statement must be full and
complete so that no person is required to review any other document in order to
determine the full request and the full response. Material must not be
incorporated into the separate statement by reference.” Upon review of
Defendant’s separate statement, it is clear that it complies with this rule.
The text of each request has been provided, and because Plaintiff raised the
same objections to each response at issue, the response was only produced once.
This is sufficient because reproducing the same responses for each request
would be needlessly voluminous. 
 
            Third,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant improperly combined three motions into one. It
is true that multiple discovery
motions should not be combined into a single filing. (Weil & Brown, Civil
Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter Group 2011)
[“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery requests ordinarily should be filed separately.”])
However, this is not grounds for denial of the instant motion. Rather, because
Defendant improperly combined three motions into one, Defendant shall remit
$120 in filing fees to the Clerk of the Court to rectify this mistake. 
 
            Accordingly, the Court shall address
the instant motion on its merits. 
 
Overview
 
            Defendant seeks further responses to
the following discovery requests: (1) Form Interrogatories – General, Set One:
All Interrogatories Served (Nos. 1 – 2.2 2.5 – 2.8, 6.1, 6.2, 9.1 – 12.1, 12.4,
12.6, 13.1 – 14.2, 16.1, 16.9, 16.10, 50.2); (2) Form Interrogatories –
Employment Law, Set One: All Interrogatories Served (Nos. 200.1 – 200.5, 202.1,
205.1, 207.1 – 208.2, 210.1 – 210.4, 212.1 – 213.2, 215.1, 215.2, 217.1); (3) Requests
for Admission, Set One: Requests 1 – 10 and 15; and (4) Requests for Production
of Documents, Set One: All Requests (Nos. 1 – 22). (Separate Statement at pg.
2.) Defendant served these initial discovery requests on November 17, 2023 via
email. (Roney Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff served responses to these discovery
requests on December 18, 2023, which largely consisted of objections. (Id.
at ¶ 3.) Defendant attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff, but Plaintiff’s
counsel failed to meet and confer in good faith. (Roney Decl. ¶¶ 4-13.)  
 
            In response to both form
interrogatory requests, Plaintiff provided the following objections:: (1)
Defendant lacked the ability to propound discovery following the entry of
default; (2) the term “Incident” was “compound, conjunctive, and/or disjunctive
as well as vague, ambiguous and overbroad; (3) the attorney-client privilege
applied; and (4) the interrogatories improperly sought information that is
subject to a Pitchess motion. (Separate Statement at pp. 10-13, 25-29.) 
 
            In connection with its request for
admissions, Defendant sought Plaintiff to admit to the following: (1) that he
was required to present a claim pursuant to the Government Claims Act for each
of his causes of action (RFAs No. 1-4); (2) that he had received a Skelly
Hearing in June 2022 (RFA No. 5); (3) that his suspension was upheld in July
2022 (RFA No. 6); (4) additional matters concerning his administrative appeal
and its lack of completion (RFA Nos. 7-10); and (5) his conduct on September
21, 2021 (RFA No. 15). (See Separate Statement at pp. 34-42.) 
 
            In response to these requests,
Plaintiff provided similar objections as stated above with the additional
objection that the term “You” and “Your” was compound, and as to RFA Nos. 1-4,
he provided the following response: “Without waiving said objections, and based
on responding party’s understanding of the question posed: It is admitted that
to the extent Plaintiff is seeking monetary damages (that are not ancillary to
any request for injunctive and/or mandamus relief) and/or statutory penalties,
Plaintiff was required to present a claims to the City, pursuant to Government
Claims Act. . . .” (Ibid.) 
 
            Defendant’s Request for Production
of Documents requested Plaintiff to produce all documents concerning his answer
to RFA No. 1 and Form Interrogatory No. 1 as well as all documents that support
certain allegations made in the complaint as well as his causes of action.
(Separate Statement at pp. 47-62.) Defendant’s objections mirrored those stated
above.
 
Pitchess
Objections
 
Plaintiff mounts a series of
objections that Defendant’s requests seek information contained in his
confidential personnel file, which is protected by Pitchess statutes
(See Pen. Code § 832.7; Evid. Code §§ 1043, 1045).
 
Evidence Code §§ 1043 and 1045
protect Plaintiff from disclosing “peace or custodial officer personnel records
[defined in Penal Code section 832.8] or records maintained pursuant to Section
832.5 of the Penal Code or information from those records.” (Evid. Code, §
1043.)
 
Case law confirms Plaintiff’s
position on this matter. In City of San Diego v. Superior Court (1981)
136 Cal.App.3d 236, defendant police officers refused to produce records or
answer deposition questions about personnel matters until the plaintiff
followed Pitchess procedures. The trial court ordered the defendants to
provide the information; the Court of Appeal issued a writ of prohibition
relieving them from the order. (Id., at p. 239.) The Court of Appeal
held that both the officers and their agency enjoyed Pitchess privilege,
and that the privilege protects information sought through any means of
discovery. (Id., at pp. 238-239.) The court relied on the portion of
Evidence Code section 1043(a) that refers to “peace or custodial officer
personnel records .... or information from those records”, regardless of
the information’s form or location (e.g., in the memories of the peace officers
themselves).
 
To the extent Defendant’s requests
seek information contained within Plaintiff’s personnel records – as defined in
the Penal Code – Plaintiff’s objections are sustained.
 
Defendant’s point is well-taken,
however, that not every record becomes undiscoverable merely because it might
have something to do with personnel records or might have been relied on by an
internal affairs department in an investigation. (See City of Eureka v.
Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 755, 765 [material “generated
independently and in advance of an administrative investigation” not subject to
Pitchess protection].)
 
Plaintiff’s Pitchess
protection is limited to the terms of Evidence Code section 1043 – that is, to
“peace or custodial officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to
Section 832.5 of the Penal Code or information from those records.” (Evid.
Code, § 1043.) 
 
Penal Code § 832.5 refers to
“complaints by members of the public against” law enforcement personnel; “[c]omplaints
and any reports or findings relating to these complaints” must be retained by
law enforcement agencies for a certain period of time. As to those records, if
any, Plaintiff’s objections are sustained.
 
Section 832.8 defines “personnel
records”, as follows:
            
“(a) ‘Personnel records’ means any
file maintained under that individual's name by his or her employing agency and
containing records relating to any of the following:
 
(1) Personal data, including
marital status, family members, educational and employment history, home
addresses, or similar information.
 
(2) Medical
history.
 
(3) Election of
employee benefits.
 
(4) Employee
advancement, appraisal, or discipline.
 
(5) Complaints, or investigations
of complaints, concerning an event or transaction in which he or she
participated, or which he or she perceived, and pertaining to the manner in
which he or she performed his or her duties.
 
(6) Any other information the
disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal
privacy.”
 
Plaintiff should be prepared,
should he stand by any Pitchess objection, to explain how any document
or information withheld actually falls within these definitions.
 
This Order is nonetheless qualified
throughout: Defendant’s motion is denied as to any records or
information that fall within the definitions in sections 832.5 and 832.8 of the
Penal Code.
 
Interrogatories
 
A.    Legal Standard
An interrogatory
is an authorized method of discovery to which recipient parties must respond
within 30 days, unless the propounding and responding parties agree to an extension.
(§§ 2030.260(a), 2030.270(a).) Each response must be either an answer, a
reference to external writing from which the answer may be found, or an
objection to a specific interrogatory. (§ 2030.210(a).)
If the response
is an answer, it must be “as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (§ 2030.220 (a).) “If an
interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent
possible,” and “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge
sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but
shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by
inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information
is equally available to the propounding party.” (§ 2030.220(b)-(c).)
If the
propounding party receives an incomplete response, or a meritless or overly
general objection, the propounding party may file a motion to compel further
responses. (§ 2030.300(a).) The motion must include a meet and confer
declaration and a separate statement. (§ 2030.300(b).)
B.    Overbreadth
Objection Based on Definition of “Incident”
As an initial
matter: Plaintiff submitted no separate statement in support of his opposition.
In the absence of an opposing statement, the Court relies on Defendant’s and
presumes it correctly reflects the relevant requests, responses, and
objections.
 
Plaintiff directs
the same two objections discussed above to all the Form Interrogatories. He
also argues the term “INCIDENT”, as used in the Form Interrogatories, is vague
and overbroad. Defendant responds: “Plaintiff has not explained how the term
“Incident” is vague or even attempted to respond to any of the Interrogatories
based on his own understanding of that term.” (Separate Statement at 13:12-13.)
“INCIDENT”, as defined in the Form
Interrogatories – General, refers to:
 
“[T]he circumstances and events
surrounding the alleged accident, injury, or other occurrence or
breach of contract giving rise to this action or proceeding.”
 
(Jud. Council Ct. Form DISC-001 [Rev. 01-2024], § 4(a)(1),
emphasis added.)
 
The DISC-001 form then provides a
blank space, at section 4(a)(2), for the propounding party to offer its own
definition if it prefers, or do so on a separate attachment.
 
As evident from the emphasized
portions, the form language on the DISC-001 contemplates a case arising from a single
incident or occurrence. If Defendant sought to apply the form to a case
spanning many instances, as here, it had the option to alter the form. It chose
not to.
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s
objection, where it is relevant. Plaintiff’s various allegations span years of
employment. Plaintiff does not need to himself select which parts of his
employment qualify as “incidents” for purposes of the form interrogatories.
 
The objection is not relevant to
all the interrogatories, but where it is relevant it is sustained.
            
C.   
Form
Interrogatories – General
 
The Court rules as follows on
Defendant’s Form Interrogatories – General:
 
As to Form Interrogatories Nos.
1.1, 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, and 2.10, Plaintiff’s objections are
overruled and Defendant’s motion is granted.
 
As to the remainder, Plaintiff’s
objection based on vagueness and overbreadth of the term “INCIDENT” is
sustained, and Defendant’s motion is denied in part.
 
D.   
Form
Interrogatories – Employment
Plaintiff mounts
the same vagueness and overbreadth objection directed to the term “INCIDENT”,
but also directs it to the term “ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION”. The Court
overrules this objection. Form Interrogatory – Employment No. 201.3 asks the
responding party to identify each “ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION”. The remaining
requests refer to that definition, which can be authored by the responding
party.
 
As to the Form
Interrogatories – Employment, Plaintiff’s objections are overruled in their
entirety and Defendant’s motion granted in part as it pertains to these matters.
Request for
Production of Documents (RPD)
 
A.    Legal Standard
 
A party who receives a demand for production,
i.e., a demand for inspection, copying, testing, etc. must respond separately
to each individual item requested with either a statement indicating
compliance, a statement that the party lacks the ability to comply, or an
objection. (§ 2031.210 (a).)
 
If the response is one of compliance, it must
“state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and
related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that
all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession,
custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will
be included in the production.” (§ 2031.220.)
 
If the response is one of an inability to comply,
it “shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made
in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any
natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have
possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.” (§
2031.230.)
 
After receiving the response, the party who
demanded production may move for an order compelling further response to the
demand if the party deems that any of the following apply:
 
(1) A statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete.
(2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
(3) An objection in the
response is without merit or too general.
 
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§2031.310(a).)
B.    Discussion
Notwithstanding
the objections addressed above, Plaintiff assert a similar vagueness and
overbreadth objection directed to the term “You” and “Your” used in the RPDs. Defendant
asserts that the term used in these requests is similar to the definition used
by the Judicial Council in its Form Interrogatories, and as a result, the
definition should be non-objectionable. (Separate Statement at pg. 65, relying
on Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal. App. 4th 1277, 1288-89 &
n. 9.) The
Court agrees in part because it does not take issue with the definition used.
However, the Court acknowledges that the RPDs may encompass documents that are
protected by the attorney-client privilege. Thus, Plaintiff’s objection is
sustained to the extent that it relies on the attorney-client privilege and
shall produce a privilege log. 
Accordingly, to
the extent that Defendant seeks to compel further responses to its RPDs, motion
is granted in part. The Court notes that many of the requests many of the
responsive documents may be protected by the Pitchess statutes. 
Request for
Admissions (RFAs)
A.    Legal Standard
The party to whom requests for admission have
been directed shall respond in writing, under oath, separately to each request.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.210(a).) The response must either admit or deny the
matter, or state that a reasonable inquiry was made and the party lacks
sufficient information to admit the matter. (Code Civ. Proc § 2033.220.) If the
response is an admission, the admission may “[a]dmit so much of the matter
involved in the request as is true, either as expressed in the request itself
or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding party.” (Code Civ.
Proc § 2033.220(b)(1).)
 
If the responding party makes an objection that
the propounding party considers to be “without merit or too general,” or an
answer which the propounding party finds evasive or incomplete, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling further response. (Code Civ. Proc §
2033.290 (a)(2).) The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration and a separate statement or concise outline. (Code Civ. Proc §
2033.290(b).)
B.    Discussion
With regard to
the responses made to RFA Nos. 1-4, the stated responses comply with Code of
Civil Procedure § 2033.220 because Plaintiff has admitted to those responses “as
reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding party.” However, because
Defendant also contends that these responses lack the necessary verification,
they amount to no response at all. (See Appleton v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636 [reasoning that unverified responses are
“tantamount to no responses at all.”]) Thus, Plaintiff will need to supplement
these responses by providing the necessary verification.  
 
The Court sustains Plaintiff’s Pitchess
objection and denies Defendant’s motion as to RFAs Nos. 5-10, 15.
These requests seek admissions regarding information contained within
Plaintiff’s personnel file.
 
Thus, the motion is granted as
to Defendant’s RFAs only to the extent that Plaintiff did not verify his
responses. 
 
Sanctions
 
The Court “shall impose a
monetary sanction ... against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response” to discovery, unless the
motion or opposition was substantially justified or other circumstances would
make imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(d)
[interrogatories], 2031.310(h) [RPDs], 2033.290(d) [RFAs].)
 
Each party requests sanctions
against the other. But each party has been partly successful and partly
unsuccessful, and each was substantially justified in its arguments.
 
The Court imposes no sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s
objections are sustained, and Defendant’s motions denied, in all instances, as
to all “peace or custodial officer personnel records or records [as defined in
Penal Code section 832.8] or maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal
Code or information from those records”. Subject to this condition:
 
Defendant’s motion is granted as to
its Form Interrogatories – General Nos. 1.1, 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, and
2.10, and otherwise denied.
 
Defendant’s motion is granted in
its entirety as to its Form Interrogatories – Employment.
 
Defendant’s motion is granted as to
its RPDs to the extent that Plaintiff’s Pitchess objection is not
implicated, and if any documents are covered by the attorney-client privilege,
then Plaintiff shall produce a privilege log. 
 
Defendant’s motion is denied in its
entirety as to its Requests for Admissions, except to the extent Plaintiff’s
responses remain unverified.
 
The requests for sanctions by both
parties are denied.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice
 
 
 
            
Dated:   May 21, 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
