  Case Number:  23AHCV01862    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
21, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         Cavanaugh Thompson
v. City of Pasadena et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01862
 
 
 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY (x5)

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant City of Pasadena
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Cavanaugh Thompson
 
SERVICE:                             OK
/ Unopposed. Filed/served Feb. 6-7, 2024.
 
OPPOSITION:                      OK
/ Unopposed. Filed and served May 6, 2024
 
REPLY:                                  OK / Unopposed. Filed and served May 15, 2024.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
Defendant seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to provide further
responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories – General (Set One), Form
Interrogatories – Employment (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One),
Requests for Production of Documents (Set One), and Requests for Admissions
(Set One).
             
BACKGROUND
 
This
is an employment case. Plaintiff Cavanaugh Thompson sued defendants City of
Pasadena, Pasadena Police Department, and Does 1 through 10 on August 15, 2023
for seven (7) causes of action related to his employment as a police officer in
the City of Pasadena.
 
On
November 14 and 16, 2023, respectively, the clerk entered the default of each
defendant upon Plaintiff’s request.
 
On
November 17, 2023, while in default, the City of Pasadena (“Defendant”)
propounded all the discovery at issue, except for its Special Interrogatories,
on Plaintiff. (Navarro Decls., ¶ 2.)
 
On
December 4, 2023, while in default, defendant City of Pasadena demurred to and
moved to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
On
December 18, 2023, Plaintiff served responses to Defendant’s first four sets of
discovery, which Defendant contends are insufficient. (Id., ¶ 3.)
 
On December
19, 2024, both defendants moved to vacate and set aside the November defaults.
They argued Plaintiff had agreed to an extension of time for them to demur and
move to strike, then entered their defaults in bad faith.
 
On
January 3, 2024, Defendant propounded its Special Interrogatories. (Navarro
S-Rog Decl., ¶ 2.)
 
On
January 17, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ motions to set aside their
defaults, ruling:
 
“[B]ecause default was entered against both
Defendants during the automatic extension, the entries of default are void.
Defendants’ motion to set aside the entry of default against the City of
Pasadena and the PDD is granted pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (d).”
 
(01-17-2024
Minute Order, p. 3.)
 
On
February 6 and 7, Defendant served and filed its motions to compel further
responses to all except their special interrogatories (set one).
 
On
February 16, 2024, Plaintiff served responses to Defendant’s special
interrogatories (set one).
 
On
March 26, 2024, Defendant moved to compel responses to its special
interrogatories (set one).
 
On
May 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a single “Global Opposition” to Defendant’s five
motions.
 
On
May 15, 2024, Defendant filed a “Global Reply.”
 
The
motions now come before the Court.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motions are each GRANTED in part and DENIED in
part.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Unless otherwise
limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any party may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any
motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
 
Among the standard
written methods of discovery are interrogatories (see id., § 2030 et
seq.), requests for production of documents (see id., § 2031 et seq.),
and requests for admission (see id., § 2033 et seq.).
 
For each method of
discovery, if  a propounding party
contends that the responding party has provided insufficient or incomplete
responses, the propounding party may move for an order compelling the
responding party to provide complete, Code-compliant responses. (See id.,
§§ 2030.300 [interrogatories], 2031.310 [requests for production], 2033.290
[requests for admission].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            1. Meeting and Conference
 
The parties dispute
the sufficiency of their efforts to meet and confer. Plaintiff accuses
Defendant of only “boilerplate” efforts; Defendant accuses Plaintiff of failing
to respond to compromise proposals. What is clear from the record is that the
parties have exchanged letters and made proposals to one another. Even if these
proposals were rejected or ignored, the parties made the necessary attempts.
Section 2016.040 is satisfied.
 
            2. Effect of Defendants’ Defaults
 
Plaintiff argues, as
an initial matter, that Defendant’s discovery is void ab initio because
Defendant propounded the discovery while Defendant was in default (and knew it
was in default).
 
Defendant argues
that the Court, by declaring the default “void”, rendered the propounded
discovery proper and enforceable.
 
The Court agrees
with Defendant. The Court’s January 17, 2024 effectively corrected a clerical
error. The Court notes that Plaintiff in fact responded to the discovery
he now contends is unenforceable. And the Court considered a demurrer and
motion to strike filed in the interim between the default and January 17
set-aside order.
 
Refusing to consider
Defendant’s motions would simply create an unnecessary delay in these
proceedings. The Court rejects Plaintiff’s argument on this point.
 
            3. Pitchess Objection  
 
Plaintiff mounts a series of objections that Defendant’s
requests seek information contained in his confidential personnel file, which
is protected by Pitchess statutes (See Pen. Code § 832.7; Evid. Code
§§ 1043, 1045).
 
Evidence Code sections 1043 and 1045 protect Plaintiff from
disclosing “peace or custodial officer personnel records [defined in Penal Code
section 832.8] or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal
Code or information from those records.” (Evid. Code, § 1043.)
 
Case law confirms Plaintiff’s position on this matter. In City
of San Diego v. Superior Court (1981) 136 Cal.App.3d 236, defendant police
officers refused to produce records or answer deposition questions about
personnel matters until the plaintiff followed Pitchess procedures. The trial
court ordered the defendants to provide the information; the Court of Appeal
issued a writ of prohibition relieving them from the order. (Id., at p.
239.) The Court of Appeal held that both the officers and their agency enjoyed Pitchess
privilege, and that the privilege protects information sought through any means
of discovery. (Id., at pp. 238-239.) The court relied on the portion of Evidence
Code section 1043(a) that refers to “peace or custodial officer personnel
records .... or information from those records”, regardless of the
information’s form or location (e.g., in the memories of the peace officers
themselves).
 
To the extent Defendant’s requests seek information
contained within Plaintiff’s personnel records – as defined in the Penal Code –
Plaintiff’s objections are sustained.
 
Defendant’s point is well-taken, however, that not every
record becomes undiscoverable merely because it might have something to do with
personnel records or might have been relied on by an internal affairs
department in an investigation. (See City of Eureka v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.App.5th 755, 765 [material “generated independently and in advance
of an administrative investigation” not subject to Pitchess
protection].)
 
Plaintiff’s Pitchess protection is limited to the
terms of Evidence Code section 1043 – that is, to “peace or custodial officer
personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal
Code or information from those records.” (Evid. Code, § 1043.) 
 
Penal Code section 832.5 refers to “complaints by members of
the public against” law enforcement personnel; “[c]omplaints and any reports or
findings relating to these complaints” must be retained by law enforcement
agencies for a certain period of time. As to those records, Plaintiff’s
objections are sustained.
 
Section 832.8 defines “personnel records”, as follows:
 
“(a)
‘Personnel records’ means any file maintained under that individual's name by
his or her employing agency and containing records relating to any of the
following:
 
(1)
Personal data, including marital status, family members, educational and
employment history, home addresses, or similar information.
 
(2) Medical history.
 
(3) Election of employee benefits.
 
(4) Employee advancement, appraisal, or discipline.
 
(5)
Complaints, or investigations of complaints, concerning an event or transaction
in which he or she participated, or which he or she perceived, and pertaining
to the manner in which he or she performed his or her duties.
 
(6)
Any other information the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy.”
 
Plaintiff should be prepared, should he stand by any Pitchess
objection, to explain how any document or information withheld actually falls
within these definitions.
 
This Order is nonetheless qualified throughout: Defendant’s
motion is denied as to any records or information that fall within the
definitions in sections 832.5 and 832.8 of the Penal Code.
 
            4. Interrogatory Motions
 
                        a. Legal Standard
 
An interrogatory is an authorized method of discovery to which
recipient parties must respond within 30 days, unless the propounding and
responding parties agree to an extension. (§§ 2030.260(a), 2030.270(a).) Each
response must be either an answer, a reference to external writing from which
the answer may be found, or an objection to a specific interrogatory. (§
2030.210(a).)
 
If the response is an answer, it must be “as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” (§ 2030.220 (a).) “If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely,
it shall be answered to the extent possible,” and “If the responding party does
not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory,
that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to
obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations,
except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.” (§
2030.220(b)-(c).)
 
If the propounding party receives an incomplete response, or a
meritless or overly general objection, the propounding party may file a motion
to compel further responses. (§ 2030.300(a).) The motion must include a meet
and confer declaration and a separate statement. (§ 2030.300(b).) 
 
 
                        b.
Overbreadth Objection Based on Definition of “Incident”
 
As an initial
matter: Plaintiff submitted no separate statement in support of his opposition.
In the absence of an opposing statement, the Court relies on Defendant’s and
presumes it correctly reflects the relevant requests, responses, and
objections.
 
Plaintiff directs
the same two objections discussed above to all the Form Interrogatories. He
also argues the term “INCIDENT”, as used in the Form Interrogatories, is vague
and overbroad. Defendant responds: “Plaintiff has not explained how the
term “Incident” is vague or even attempted to respond to any of the
Interrogatories based on his own understanding of that term.” (DSS, 13:12-13.)
 
“INCIDENT”, as defined in the Form Interrogatories –
General, refers to:
 
“[T]he circumstances and events
surrounding the alleged accident, injury, or other occurrence or
breach of contract giving rise to this action or proceeding.”
 
(Jud. Council Ct. Form DISC-001 [Rev. 01-2024], § 4(a)(1),
emphasis added.)
 
The DISC-001 form then provides a blank space, at section 4(a)(2),
for the propounding party to offer its own definition if it prefers, or do so
on a separate attachment.
 
As evident from the emphasized portions, the form language
on the DISC-001 contemplates a case arising from a single incident or
occurrence. If Defendant sought to apply the form to a case spanning many
instances, as here, it had the option to alter the form. It chose not to.
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s objection, where it is
relevant. Plaintiff’s various allegations span years of employment. Plaintiff
does not need to himself select which parts of his employment qualify as
“incidents” for purposes of the form interrogatories.
 
The objection is not relevant to all the interrogatories,
but where it is relevant it is sustained.
 
                        d.
Form Interrogatories - General
 
The Court rules as follows on Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories – General:
 
As to Form Interrogatories Nos. 1.1, 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.7,
2.8, 2.9, and 2.10, Plaintiff’s objections are overruled and Defendant’s motion
is granted.
 
As to the remainder, Plaintiff’s objection based on
vagueness and overbreadth of the term “INCIDENT” is sustained, and Defendant’s
motion is denied.
 
 
                        e.
Form Interrogatories – Employment
 
As an initial matter: Plaintiff repeatedly objects that the
Form Interrogatories – Employment are abusive because they duplicate the Form
Interrogatories – General. This objection is meritless, and the Court overrules
it entirely.
 
Second: Plaintiff mounts the same
vagueness and overbreadth objection directed to the term “INCIDENT”, but also directs
it to the term “ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION”. The Court overrules this objection.
Form Interrogatory – Employment No. 201.3 asks the responding party to identify
each “ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION”. The remaining requests refer to that
definition, which can be authored by the responding party.
 
As to the Form Interrogatories –
Employment, Plaintiff’s objections are overruled in their entirety and
Defendant’s motion granted in its entirety.
 
                        f.
Special Interrogatories
 
Special Interrogatories Nos. 1-7, 14-17, 19-21, 25-26, all
ask Plaintiff to “State all facts” supporting a whole cause of action or
necessary element thereto, or to identify individuals with knowledge of those
facts. All of these interrogatories are objectionable as overbroad. Plaintiff’s
objection on this basis is sustained, and Defendant’s motion denied.
 
Special Interrogatories Nos. 8, 11, 18, 22-24 ask Plaintiff
to “describe each instance” or provide more detail regarding certain
allegations in the FAC. (See DSS, 41:2-3.) These are specific and sufficiently
narrow. Plaintiff’s objections are overruled, and Defendant’s motion granted.
 
Special Interrogatories
Nos. 9, 10,  12, and 13 ask Plaintiff to identify
relevant records or persons with knowledge related to Defendant’s alleged
“discrimination”, “harassment”, etc. Although these interrogatories would be
overbroad standing alone, they are reasonably read to refer to whatever
“instances” are identified in the interrogatories preceding them. Plaintiff’s
objections are overruled, and Defendant’s motion granted, only to the extent
that these interrogatories refer to the instances of discrimination,
harassment, etc. identified in Plaintiff’s responses to Interrogatories Nos. 8
and 11.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 27, seeking Plaintiff’s social media usernames, requests
specific, identifiable information; it is not at all vague, and it is
reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence. Plaintiff’s objections
are overruled, and Defendant’s motion is granted.
 
            5. Request for Production of
Documents (RPD) Motion
 
                        a. Legal Standard
 
A party who receives a demand for production, i.e., a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, etc. must respond separately to each individual
item requested with either a statement indicating compliance, a statement that
the party lacks the ability to comply, or an objection. (§ 2031.210 (a).)
 
If the response is one of compliance, it must “state that the
production, inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and related activity
demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or
things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control
of that party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.” (§ 2031.220.)
 
If the response is one of an inability to comply, it “shall affirm
that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to
comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the
inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person
or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (§ 2031.230.)
 
After receiving the response, the party who demanded production may
move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the party deems
that any of the following apply:
 
(1) A statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete.
(2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
(3) An objection in the
response is without merit or too general.
 
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§2031.310(a).)
 
                        b. Discussion
 
Plaintiff mounts the same three objections, which have
already been discussed above.
 
The Court rules as follows.
 
Plaintiff’s objections are overruled, and Defendant’s motion
granted, as to RPDs Nos. 1, 2, and 30-31. 
 
Plaintiffs’ objections are also overruled, and Defendant’s
motion granted, as to RPDs Nos. 3, 21, and 23-25. As to these RPDs, however,
the Court notes its concern that many responsive documents may be protected by
the Pitchess statutes.
 
Plaintiff’s objections are sustained, and Defendant’s motion
denied, as to RPDs Nos. 4-11, 19, 27, and 29. All use the broad language
“documents relating or pertaining to”, or some equivalent, and refer to entire
causes of action (4-11), whole categories of damages (27, 29), or in the case
of RPD No. 19, “the factual allegations and claims in YOUR COMPLAINT”, without
limitation.
 
Plaintiff’s objections are overruled, and Defendant’s motion
granted, as to RPDs Nos. 12-19 and 26. These requests also use the broad language
“refer to, support, pertain to, or otherwise RELATE TO”, but they refer to specific
factual allegations in the complaint, which narrows them sufficiently.
 
Plaintiff’s objections are sustained in part, and
Defendant’s motion granted in part and denied in part, as to RPDs Nos. 20 and
22. These request documents “reflecting or relating to ... factual allegations
or claims” and/or “all communications” between City employees, agents, or
management, within a specific period of time or related to specific matters. As
drawn, the requests are slightly overbroad because of the “reflecting or
relating to” language. The Court grants this motion only as to communications with
employees or agents in the course of that employment or agency.
 
No. 28 uses overbroad language “DOCUMENTS RELATING TO” and unnecessarily
sweeps considerable privileged communication within its scope (e.g.
“COMMUNICATIONS between any healthcare providers and YOU RELATING TO YOUR
health”). Plaintiff’s objections are sustained as to this request, and
Defendant’s motion denied.
 
            6. Requests for Admission (RFA)
Motion
 
                        a.
Legal Standard
 
The party to whom requests for admission have been directed shall
respond in writing, under oath, separately to each request. (§ 2033.210(a).)
The response must either admit or deny the matter, or state that a reasonable
inquiry was made and the party lacks sufficient information to admit the
matter. (§ 2033.220.) If the response is an admission, the admission may
“[a]dmit so much of the matter involved in the request as is true, either as
expressed in the request itself or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the
responding party.” (§ 2033.220(b)(1).)
 
If the responding party makes an objection that the propounding party
considers to be “without merit or too general,” or an answer which the
propounding party finds evasive or incomplete, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling further response. (§ 2033.290 (a)(2).) The motion must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration and a separate statement or
concise outline. (§ 2033.290(b).)
 
                        b.
Discussion
 
Plaintiff mounts the same three objections already
discussed, while also criticizing certain terminology in Defendants’ RFAs as
overbroad. 
 
The Court rules as follows.
 
The Court denies Defendant’s motion as to RFAs
Nos. 1-5. Each seeks an admission that Plaintiff’s claims are subject to claims
presentation requirements. Plaintiff responded to these requests, qualifying
only that his claims for relief other than money or damages are exempt.
 
The Court sustains Plaintiff’s Pitchess
objection and denies Defendant’s motion as to RFAs Nos. 6-10. These
requests seek admissions regarding information contained within Plaintiff’s
personnel file.
 
The Court denies Defendant’s motion as to RFAs
Nos. 11-14. Plaintiff responded with denials.
 
The above rulings are qualified as follows:
Defendant asserts Plaintiff did not verify his responses as required by the
Code. Plaintiff is ordered to provide a verification of his responses if he has
not done so already.
 
            7.
Sanctions
 
The Court “shall impose a monetary sanction
... against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes
a motion to compel further response” to discovery, unless the motion or
opposition was substantially justified or other circumstances would make
imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(d)
[interrogatories], 2031.310(h) [RPDs], 2033.290(d) [RFAs].)
 
Each party requests sanctions against the
other. But each party has been partly successful and partly unsuccessful, and
each was substantially justified in its arguments.
 
The Court imposes no sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s objections are sustained, and Defendant’s motions
denied, in all instances, as to all “peace or custodial officer personnel
records or records [as defined in Penal Code section 832.8] or maintained
pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal Code or information from those records”.
Subject to this condition:
 
Defendant’s motion is granted as to its Form Interrogatories
– General Nos. 1.1, 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, and 2.10, and otherwise
denied.
 
Defendant’s motion is granted in its entirety as to its Form
Interrogatories – Employment.
 
Defendant’s motion is granted as to its Special
Interrogatories Nos. 8-13, 18, 22-24, and 27, and otherwise denied.
 
Defendant’s motion is granted as to its RPDs Nos. 1, 2, 12-19,
23-26, and 30-31; granted in part as to RPDs Nos. 20 and 22; and otherwise
denied.
 
Defendant’s motion is denied in its entirety as to its
Requests for Admissions, except to the extent Plaintiff’s responses remain
unverified.
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
            
Dated:   May 21, 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
