 Case Number:  23AHCV01894    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 21, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: November 5, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         KYLE PATTERSON v.
MARANATHA HIGH SCHOOL
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01894
 
 
 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Marantha High School, John Rouse, and
Sonya Witherspoon
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Kyle Patterson, as guardian ad
litem for Taylor Patterson (minor) and Lily Patterson (minor)
 
SERVICE:                             OK
 
OPPOSITION:                      May 7, 2024
 
REPLY:                                 May 14,
2024
 
RELIEF REQUESTED        That the Court
sustain Defendants’ demurrer as to each of the causes of action in the SAC and
strike the FAC as a whole.
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Kyle
Patterson’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendants Maranatha High School (“MHS”) John
Rouse and Sonya Witherspoon (collectively “Defendants”) improperly denied his
children access to their school. Plaintiff filed the operative second amended
complaint (“SAC”)  on February 20, 2024,
alleging nine causes of action for (1) defamation, (2) defamation, (3)
defamation, (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (5) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, (6) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, (7) negligence and negligent infliction of emotional distress, (8)
negligence and negligent infliction of emotional distress, and (9) negligence
and negligent infliction of emotional distress. Rouse was the head of MHS from
2019 to 2024. (SAC ¶ 3.) Witherspoon was Rouse’s secretary executive assistant.
(Id.)
 
            Kyle and Julianna Patterson have
four children, three of whom attended or sought to attend MHS. Connor Patterson
graduated from MHS but was unable to attend his college of choice due to
alleged unfair treatment by MHS. (SAC ¶ 13.) Connor is not a party to
this action. Taylor attended MHS from August 2020 to June 2022, when he was
expelled. (SAC ¶¶ 6, 14.) Lily sought admission to MHS but was denied
admission. (SAC ¶ 16.)  
 
            Defendants filed the instant
demurrer and motion to strike on April 24, 2024. Defendants demur to every
cause of action in the SAC, and seek to strike the SAC entirely, or portions
thereof in the alternative.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendants’
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Defendants’ motion to strike is denied as MOOT.
 
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants submit a request for
judicial notice in connection with their motion to strike. Defendants seek
judicial notice that MHS is a religious corporation, as reflected in MHS’s Articles
of Incorporation dated July 15, 2013, attached to the request as Exhibit “B”.
 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Demurrer 
 
A general
demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. section
430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Additionally, a
special demurrer to a complaint may be brought on the ground the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. Code Civ. Proc section 430.10(f); Beresford Neighborhood Assn. v. City of
San Mateo (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1180, 1191.) A demurrer based
on uncertainty is disfavored and will be strictly construed even when the pleading
is uncertain in some respects. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrers based on uncertainty are “granted only if
the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.” (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that
is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Demurrer
            
                        Standing
to sue
 
            Defendants
first argue that Plaintiff Lily Patterson lacks standing to bring these claims.
Defendant argues that Lily never attended Marantha’s school. “In general, one
who is beneficially interested in the outcome of a controversy has standing to
sue.” (TracFone Wireless, Inc. v. County of Los Angeles (2008) 163
Cal.App.4th 1359, 1364.) Defendants do not provide any legal authority to
support the basis that Lily is not able to allege standing. The complaint
alleges that Lily was denied access to Marantha and was the subject of false
and derogatory statements. (Complaint ¶¶ 16 and 22.) 
 
At the pleading stage, Plaintiffs’ allegations are sufficient to
allege an interest in the outcome of the controversy.
 
                        Defamation
 
            Defendants next argue that Plaintiffs
fail to state a claim for defamation. “The elements of a defamation claim
are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and
(5) has a natural tendency to injure or causes special damage. The defamatory statement must specifically refer to, or be
of and concerning, the plaintiff.” (John Doe 2 v. Superior Court
(2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312.) Because “[t]he general rule is that the words
constituting an alleged libel must be specifically identified, if not pleaded
verbatim, in the complaint, a court need not consider assertions of defamatory
statements that are not alleged in the complaint.” (Medical Marijuana, Inc.
v. ProjectCBD.com (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 869, 893.)
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
spread false and derogatory information about the Pattersons, including that
they were bad people and their family had engaged in extra-marital relations. (SAC
¶ 22.) On one such occasion,
when Plaintiff’s wife, Julianna, was volunteering on campus, Witherspoon
followed Julianna and interrupted her conversations with other parents, who
then stopped talking to Julianna. (SAC ¶ 10.) Plaintiffs’ allegations lack
specificity as to the exact words that were said, by whom, and to whom. Plaintiffs’
defamation claims are too general and nonspecific.  Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action are sustained. 
 
                        Intentional
infliction of emotional distress (IIED)
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ intentional
infliction of emotional distress claims fail to state a claim. “ ‘ “[T]o state a
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress a plaintiff
must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant's
intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant's outrageous conduct.” ’ ” (Vasquez v. Franklin Management
Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832.) “To be outrageous,
the defendant’s conduct must be either intentional or reckless, and it must be
so extreme as to exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized community.
[Citation.] Furthermore, that conduct must be specifically directed at the
plaintiff.” (Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1045.) 
 
Plaintiffs allege that Witherspoon
told Julianna that Connor and Taylor should never have been admitted to MHS,
and that Witherspoon would do everything she could to cause a lot of trouble
for Julianna and her children. (SAC ¶ 9.) MHS failed to deliver Connor’s
transcripts to a number of colleges, thereby preventing Connor from going to
the college of his choice. (SAC ¶ 13.) These allegations could state a claim
for IIED for Connor. However, Connor is not a party to this action. 
 
The SAC fails to allege that
Defendants engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct against Taylor and Lily.
According to the SAC, Defendants excluded Taylor “from a number of sports” (SAC
¶ 12) and ultimately expelled Taylor (SAC ¶ 14.) As to Lily, MHS canceled her
admissions interview last minute, when Lily had already arrived at MHS. (SAC ¶
16.) These facts do not support a claim for intentional infliction of emotional
distress. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action are sustained.
 
                        Negligent
infliction of emotional distress
 
            Defendants
lastly argue that Plaintiffs’ negligent infliction of emotional distress causes
of action fail to state a claim. “ ‘ “[N]egligent causing of emotional
distress is not an independent tort but the tort of negligence….”
[Citation.] “The traditional elements of duty, breach, causation, and damages
apply.’ ” (Eriksson v. Nunnunk (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 708, 729.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ three causes of action
seeking to allege a claim for negligent infliction of emotional distress allege
that Defendants engaged in outrageous conduct and that Taylor and Lily suffered
extreme emotional distress as a result. (See SAC ¶¶ 42-43.) Plaintiffs have failed to allege
the elements required for negligence, any facts supporting their negligence
claims, or that Defendants owed Plaintiffs any duty. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ seventh, eighth, and ninth
causes of action is sustained.
 
            Motion to
Strike
 
            In light of the
Court’s ruling on demurrer, Defendants’ motion to strike is moot. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendants’
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Defendants’ motion to strike is denied as MOOT.
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice
 
 
 
 
            
Dated: May 21, 2024                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
