 Case Number:  23STCV09764    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s Counsel
Nina Sargsyan, Esq.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On May 2, 2023, Marco Posadas Orozco
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Anthony Garcia and Laura Gutierrez for
motor vehicle negligence and general negligence causes of action arising out of
an automobile accident occurring on May 14, 2021. Defendants have yet to appear
in this matter and no proof of service of summons and complaint has been filed
with the Court.
On May 30, 2024, Nina
Sargsyan, Esq. of Downtown LA Law Group (“Counsel”) filed this motion to
be relieved as counsel. No opposition has been filed. 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
 
Counsel has
filed the notice, declaration, and order to be relieved as counsel.  Counsel contends there has been a breakdown in
the attorney-client relationship. Counsel has served Plaintiff at the last
known address and attempted to confirm this address by mailing the motion
papers with return receipt requested, calling Plaintiff’s last known telephone
number, contacting Plaintiff’s emergency contact, and conducting a people
search. Defendants have yet to appear in this matter, and as such, were not
served with notice of this motion.
 
The Court finds
there is good cause for counsel to be relieved of representation based on the
breakdown of the attorney-client relationship. Further, there is sufficient
time for Plaintiff to find alternative representation or appear in pro per in
this matter before the October 29, 2024 trial date.
 
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
The order is
effective upon the filing with the Court of a proof of service showing service
of the signed order on the client.
Moving counsel
to give notice.