 Case Number:  21STCV46993    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendant CLUBBIZZ LLC.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.
Background
This is
a personal injury case that arises out of an alleged physical attack against Plaintiff
Allen Leon Tripolskiy (“Plaintiff”) that occurred at a New Year’s Eve event at
a club on Santa Monica Boulevard in Los Angeles.
Plaintiff
filed his Complaint on December 27, 2021, asserting causes of action for
negligence, premises liability, and negligent hiring, training, and supervision
against Defendants Clubbizz.LLC (“Clubbizz”), Douglas C. MacLise, Alyce R.
MacLise, and Does 1 through 50.
On
December 2, 2022, Clubbizz filed an Answer and a Cross-Complaint for indemnity
against Roes 1 through 100.
On June
5, 2023, Plaintiff amended his Complaint to name Salient Consulting Group Inc.
(“Salient”) as Doe 1.
On
August 1, 2023, Salient filed a Demurrer and a Cross-Complaint for indemnity
against Clubbizz and Roes 1 through 10. On August 30, the Court overruled
Salient’s Demurrer.  Salient filed its
answer to the complaint on September 29, 2023.
On
September 5, 2023, Clubbizz filed an Answer to Salient’s Cross-Complaint. 
On May
22, 2024, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff, dismissed with prejudice all causes
of action in the complaint against Salient.
On June
5, 2024, Clubbizz filed an amendment to its Cross-Complaint naming Salient as
Roe 1.  
On June
7, 2024, the Court, at the request of Salient, dismissed without prejudice all
causes of action in Salient’s Cross-Complaint against Clubbizz.
One
week later, on June 12, the Court, at the request of Clubbizz, dismissed
without prejudice all causes of action in Clubbizz’s Cross-Complaint against
Salient.
On May 28, 2024, Clubbizz filed this motion to continue
trial.  Trial is currently scheduled to begin
on July 17, and Clubbizz seeks to continue the trial date to January 2025.
Plaintiff filed an opposition on June 11.  Clubbizz filed a reply on June 17.
Also on June 17, the parties submitted a stipulation to
continue trial for approximately 30 days, to August 16, without prejudice to
Clubbizz proceeding on this motion and seeking a longer continuance.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The substitution
of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the
substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive
list of factors that the court may consider: 

“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Clubbizz seeks to
continue trial for approximately six months, arguing that Plaintiff has
obstructed its efforts to obtain discovery and otherwise caused delays in the
progress of the case.  Clubbizz
identifies essentially four areas on which this obstruction or delay has occurred:
(1) Plaintiff’s medical records from Kaiser; (2) Plaintiff’s medical records
from Bondarev Chiropractic; (3) Plaintiff’s failure to produce a video of the
incident; and (4) subpoenas to insurance companies about other claims made
by Plaintiff.
As a threshold
matter, the Court notes the following.  First,
Clubbizz appeared in this action approximately 18 months ago.  Second, Clubbizz has filed no motions to
compel.  Third, the only discovery motion
that has come before the Court is a motion filed by Plaintiff to quash a prior
set of subpoenas to insurance companies; that motion to quash was decided in
December 2023, more than six months ago, and, based on the information provided
to the Court in connection with this motion, it appears that there are not
currently pending any new set of subpoenas to the insurance companies.  
The Court further notes
that the current trial date of July 17 was set by the Court on August 10, 2023,
on Clubbizz’s motion to continue trial.  Clubbizz
has known of the trial date since then and since then has had ten months (from
August 2023 to June 2024) to complete fact discovery.  The deadline for fact discovery has passed.
Clubbizz did file
an ex parte application to continue trial that came before the Court on May 20,
2024.  The Court denied the application, without
prejudice to any noticed motion that Clubbizz might file to seek the same
relief.  Clubbizz then filed this motion
eight days later.  
It is true, of course,
that the Court conducted two Informal Discovery Conferences (IDCs) last week
(on June 17 and 20): one related to the Kaiser issue, and the second to the
insurance company subpoenas.  A third IDC,
scheduled for June 18, related to the video and was placed off calendar after
the parties resolved their dispute.  It
is unclear to the Court, however, whether these IDCs reflect belated diligence
by Clubbizz or simply window dressing for this motion to continue trial.
In sum, there is little
record of diligence by Clubbizz in seeking discovery or in seeking to enforce
its rights to obtain discovery over any improper objection or delay by
Plaintiff.  To the extent that the
inability to complete discovery on time is the result of Clubbizz’s own delays,
these delays provide little support for the request for a trial continuance.
The one area in
which there does appear to be shared responsibility for the delays is in
connection with the production of the Kaiser records.  These medical records of Plaintiff appear to
be among the most important documents in the case.  The parties agreed among themselves to an
arrangement pursuant to which (1) the documents were to be provided initially to
Plaintiff; (2) Plaintiff, after conducting a “first look,” would produce certain
documents and log the ones that were withheld; (3) Clubbizz would then identify
any challenges to withheld documents; (4) the parties were then to meet
and confer further; and (5) if necessary, any remaining disputes would be brought
before the Court.   Due to delays by both sides, only steps #1 and
#2 have been completed to date.
This is a real
concern and provides good cause for the Court to grant a modest continuance of
the trial date.
In sum, the Court has
considered all of the evidence in the record and the arguments of both
sides.  The Court grants the motion in
part and denies the motion in part.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS in part and DENIED in part
the motion of Clubbizz to continue trial.
For good cause shown, the Court advances and
continues the trial for approximately 60 days, to a date in mid September
2024.  
The Final Status Conference is reset based on
the new trial date.  Expert discovery
deadlines are reset based on the new trial date.
Fact discovery remains closed, except that
discovery is reopened as it relates solely to Plaintiff’s medical records
subpoenaed from Kaiser; as to that limited scope of permissible fact discovery,
the deadlines are reset based on the new trial date. 
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.