 Case Number:  21STCV13446    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  29 
Motion
 for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, for Summary Adjudication, filed
 by Defendant Palp, Inc. dba Excel Paving Company. 
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
Plaintiff
Martha Fox (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on March 8, 2020, she sustained severe
and permanent injuries after falling on uneven cement in an alleyway at or near
404 North Palm Drive in Beverly Hills. She filed the complaint in this action
on April 8, 2021, asserting causes of action for premises liability and
negligence against City of Beverly Hills (“City”), Excel Paving Company, and
Does 1 through 50.
On May
13, 2021, City filed its answer to the complaint. On the same day, City filed a
cross-complaint for indemnity against Palp, Inc. dba Excel Paving Company (“Excel”)
and Roes 1 through 50.
On April
18, 2022, Plaintiff amended her complaint to name Excel as Doe 1.
Following
a vacated default, Excel filed its answer to the complaint and cross-complaint
on September 12, 2022.
On January 12, 2024, Excel filed this motion
for summary judgment or, in the alternative for summary adjudication. Excel
also filed a request for judicial notice. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition on May 31,
2024, along with objections to some of Excel’s evidence. Defendant filed a
reply on June 7, 2024, along with objections to some of Plaintiff’s evidence.
Plaintiff filed objections on June 10, 2024, to the supplemental declarations
filed by Excel with its reply papers.
The Court also notes that City also filed its
own motion for summary judgment. That motion was heard on March 21, 2024, taken
under submission at the conclusion of the hearing, and denied on June 3. 
Legal Standard
“The purpose of the law of summary judgment
is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in
order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact
necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(c), “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue
as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is
to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or
declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within
the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each cause of action as framed by the
complaint, a defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one or
more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action
or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)
A plaintiff or cross-complainant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to show “that there is no defense to a cause of
action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling
the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the
burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a “triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Ibid.)
The party opposing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication may not simply “rely upon the allegations or
denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Request for Judicial Notice and Objections
to Evidence
Excel requests judicial notice of City’s motion
for summary judgment and some of the supporting argument and evidence. That request
is granted, as these documents are in the Court’s file.
Each party objects to some of the other party’s evidence.
Evidence presented in support of, or in opposition to, a motion for summary
judgment must be admissible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d); Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne LLC (2017) 2 Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court
must “consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which objections have
been made and sustained.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff asserts 18 objections to the
evidence submitted by Excel with its motion. 
Plaintiff’s Objection No. 16 is SUSTAINED. To
the extent that the witness is purporting to authenticate Exhibits 7, 8, and 9,
he does not have personal knowledge sufficient to do so.
Plaintiff’s other objections to the
evidence submitted by Excel with its motion are OVERRULED.
Excel asserts 3 objections to the Declaration
of Paige Smith Grunfeld, 3 objections to the Declaration of Michael Benson, and
6 objections to the Declaration of Mark Burns. 
Excel’s
Objections to the Smith Grunfeld Declaration, Nos. 1-2, are OVERRULED.Excel’s Objection to the Smith Grunfeld Declaration, No. 3, is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in part. The Objection is SUSTAINED as to the first sentence of paragraph 9 as speculative and not based on personal knowledge. The Objection is otherwise OVERRULED.
Excel’s
Objections to the Benson Declaration, Nos. 1-2, are OVERRULED.
Excel’s Objection
to the Benson Declaration, No. 3, is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in part.
The Objection is SUSTAINED as to the first sentence of paragraph 9 as
speculative and not based on personal knowledge. The Objection is otherwise
OVERRULED.
Excel’s
Objections to the Burns Declaration, Nos. 2-4 and 6, are OVERRULED.
Excel’s Objection
to the Burns Declaration, No. 1, is SUSTAINED. Expert testimony is unnecessary
to describe the contents of a photograph. The Court will make its ruling based
on the evidence, not an expert witness’s description of what he observes in a
photograph.
Excel’s Objection
to the Burns Declaration, No. 5, is SUSTAINED as lacking foundation.
As to the objections
to each side’s expert, the Court further notes that each expert has appropriate
credentials and his testimony relates
to a subject that is sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of
an expert witness would assist the trier of act; is based on information of the
type on which an expert may reasonably rely; is based on reasons supported by
the information on which the expert relies; and is not speculative.  (Evid. Code, §§ 801-802; Sargon
Enterprises v. USC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 747, 771-21.) The expert opinion
testimony is not, of course, binding on the
Court. 
Plaintiff’s objections to the supplemental evidence presented by Excel
with its reply are SUSTAINED. Evidence in support of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication must be submitted with the moving papers; the
Code contains no provision for the submission of additional evidence with the
moving party’s reply papers. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (b)(2),
(b)(4).)
Plaintiff’s objections to the supplemental separate statement and reply
separate statement are OVERRULED. Objections are properly directed to evidence,
not arguments, even when those arguments are contained in documents not specifically
authorized by the Code.
Discussion
Plaintiff resides
at 404 North Palm Drive in Beverly Hills. (Miller Decl., Exh. D [“Plaintiff
Depo.”], at 9:23-25.) She has lived there since approximately 1984. (Id.,
at 10:1-8.) She drives almost every day and parks her car in the carport behind
the apartment building. (Id., at 10:16-11:8.) When she walks from her
apartment to her car, she walks through the alleyway. (Id., at 11:10-12:1;
see also Plaintiff’s Statement of Additional Material Facts [“PSAMF”], Nos. 47-48.)
On March 8, 2020,
shortly before 6:25 pm, Plaintiff fell in the alleyway, hit her head on the
ground, lost consciousness, and began bleeding profusely. (Defendant’s
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts [“DSUMF”], No. 2; PSAMF, Nos. 14-15.) Plaintiff’s
next memory is waking up in a hospital hours later. (PSAMF, No. 18.) Plaintiff
does not remember the moments immediately before her injury and does not know
what caused her to fall. (DSUMF, No. 4; PSAMF, Nos. 16-17, 59.)
The alleyway runs
North-South. (DSUMF, No. 2; PSAMF, No. 31.) The alleyway contains a 24-inch
wide concrete V-gutter, sometimes also referred to as an “aqueduct” or “cement
water run off” or “V-ditch” that runs North-South along the length of the
alleyway. (PSAMF, No. 36.) 
At the time of
the accident, there was ongoing construction in the alleyway. (DSUMF, No. 3;
PSAMF, No. 32.) The construction work was performed by Excel, under the oversight
and management of City. (DSUMF, No. 3; PSAMF, Nos. 33-34.) Plaintiff was aware
of the construction activity, at least in general terms. (DSUMF, Nos. 6-7.)  
As part of the
construction, Palp removed the existing asphalt pavement, milled down the
asphalt to its full death, repaired or replaced it as appropriate, and then
restored the surface stripping to approximately its original surface height. (DSUMF
Nos. 11-13; PSAMF, No. 35.) Two witnesses, Paige Smith Grunfeld and Michael
Benson, testified that at the time of the accident, with the pavement removed,
the aqueduct or V-gutter was “approximately four inches above the surface area”
or “several inches above the surface area,” and that the ground in the alley
“was uneven and contained loose gravel.” (Smith Grunfeld Decl., ¶ 3; Benson
Decl., ¶ 3; see also Smith Grunfeld Decl., Exh. 2; Benson Decl., Exh. 2.) The
exposed edges did not have any sloped asphalt edge ramping. (PSAMF, No. 43.)
Ms. Smith
Grunfeld and Mr. Benson both testified that although they did not see Plaintiff
fall, they saw Plaintiff’s body lying on the ground, perpendicular to the
alleyway, with her head on the East side. (PSAMF, Nos. 22, 25, 29, 30.) Her
head was several feet to the East of the V-gutter. (Smith Grunfeld Decl., ¶¶ 8,
10-11 & Exh. 1; Benson Decl., ¶¶ 7, 10-11 & Exh. 1.) Ms. Smith Grunfeld
testified that Plaintiff’s feet were in the V-gutter, one foot east of the west
lip. (Smith Grunfeld Decl., ¶¶ 8, 10-11 & Exh. 1.) Mr. Benson testified
that Plaintiff’s feet were either in the V-gutter, one foot east of the west
lip, or at the west edge of the V-gutter. (Benson Decl., ¶¶ 7, 10-11 & Exh.
1.)
In her Complaint, Plaintiff asserts causes
of action against Excel for negligence and premises liability.  
The basic elements of a cause of
action for negligence and for premises liability are the same: (1) the
existence of a legal duty; (2)
breach of that duty; (3) causation; and (4) resulting damages. (Brown
v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 213; Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158; Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) The existence and scope of duty are legal questions
for the court.¿¿(Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 213; Annocki¿v.
Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 36.)
In support of its argument, Excel makes
essentially five arguments: (1) that Plaintiff cannot show breach of duty (Mem.
at 5-7); (2) that Plaintiff cannot show causation (Mem. at 7, 15-17); (3) that any
dangerous condition in the alleyway was no more than a trivial defect as a
matter of law (Mem. at 7-11); (4) that any dangerous condition was open and
obvious, with prominent warning signs (Mem. at 11-14); and (5) that Plaintiff’s
failure to exercise due care does not make the alleyway a dangerous condition
(Mem. at 14-15). Although there is some inevitable overlap in these arguments,
the Court considers each, in the order presented in Excel’s briefing.
Breach of Duty
The general rule governing duty
is set forth in Civil Code section 1714: “Everyone is responsible, not only for
the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to
another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his
or her property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by
want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.” (Civ. Code,
§ 1714, subd. (a).) This establishes what the California Supreme Court has
described as the “default rule” that every person has a legal duty “to
exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of others.”
(Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 214.)
Those who own,
possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in
managing the property to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.
(Annocki¿v.
Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) If
a dangerous condition exists, the entity that owns or controls the property is
“under a duty to exercise ordinary care either to make the condition reasonably
safe” or “to give a warning adequate to enable [others] to avoid the harm.” (Bridgman
v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 446.) 
Excel’s first argument is that it did not
breach any duty of care because it followed necessary and standard industry
practices for a job of this nature – stripping and repaving an asphalt surface
in an alleyway. (See Tolman Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.) This argument, however, is
premised entirely (and, in at least a sense, necessarily) on Excel’s contention
that it “utilized safe practices in undertaking and conducting the work to be
done including … the posting of appropriate construction warning signs.” (Id.,
¶ 11.) Accordingly, this is not truly an independent argument in support of
Excel’s motion; it depends on the issue of warnings and signage, discussed below.
To the extent that it is presented as an
independent argument, unrelated to the issue of warning signs, the Court has
considered the evidence in the record and the argument of counsel (including
that discussed below) and determines that Excel has not met its initial burden
on summary judgment of showing that the elements of duty and breach “cannot be established.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).)
Causation
Plaintiff has no
recollection of the accident. (DSUMF, No. 4; PSAMF, Nos. 16-17, 59.) There is
no evidence that anyone else saw her fall. (See Smith Grunfeld Decl., ¶¶ 4-6;
Benson Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Accordingly, Excel argues that Plaintiff cannot
establish the element of causation: Excel contends that there is only
speculation, and no evidence, that Plaintiff fell after tripping on the lip of
the V-gutter.
Plaintiff has the
burden of proof on each element of her claim, including causation.
“The plaintiff
must introduce evidence which affords a reasonable basis for the conclusion
that it is more likely than not that the conduct of the defendant was a cause
in fact of the result. A mere possibility of such causation is not enough; and
when the matter remains one of pure speculation or conjecture, or the
probabilities are at best evenly balanced, it becomes the duty of the court to
direct a verdict for the defendant.”
(Ortega v.
Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205-1206.) Causation must be
established by nonspeculative evidence. (Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001)
25 Cal.4th 763, 774.)
As the Second
District Court of Appeal recently reaffirmed, however, “A slip-and-fall
plaintiff need not remember her fall to recover damages provided the evidence
gives rise to a reasonable and probable inference that the defendant’s
negligence was a substantial contributing factor.” (Kaney v. Custance (2022)
74 Cal.App.5th 201, 217; see also, e.g., Burdette v. Rollesfon Construction
Co. (1959) 52 Cal.2d 720, 723.) Circumstantial evidence is evidence, and
such evidence, and the inferences that may be drawn from the evidence, may be
sufficient in certain cases to defeat a motion for summary judgment. (See Kaney,
supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at pp. 219-221 [citing cases]; 3 Weil & Brown,
California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial [The Rutter Group 2023]
¶ 10:272.1.)
This is
such a case: there is sufficient circumstantial evidence in the record here to
support a reasonable inference of causation. That evidence includes the facts
in the record regarding where Plaintiff was found immediately after the
accident. Ms. Smith Grunfeld and Mr. Benson both saw Plaintiff’s body lying on the
ground, perpendicular to the alleyway, with her head on the East side. (PSAMF,
Nos. 25, 30.) Her head was several feet to the East of the V-gutter. (Smith
Grunfeld Decl., ¶¶ 8, 10-11 & Exh. 1; Benson Decl., ¶¶ 7, 10-11 & Exh.
1.) Ms. Smith Grunfeld testified that Plaintiff’s feet were in the V-gutter,
one foot east of the west lip. (Smith Grunfeld Decl., ¶¶ 8, 10-11 & Exh.
1.) Mr. Benson testified that Plaintiff’s feet were either in the V-gutter, one
foot east of the west lip, or at the west edge of the V-gutter. (Benson Decl.,
¶¶ 7, 10-11 & Exh. 1.) Of course, it is theoretically possible that at the
time that Plaintiff approached the dangerous condition, Plaintiff tripped over
her own feet or stepped on her shoe lace, or that something else caused the
fall, but a finder of fact could, on this record, draw a reasonable inference,
based on the evidence, that she fell after tripping on the lip of the V-gutter.
Thus, the issue
of causation cannot be decided as a matter of law in this case. There are disputed
issues that must be presented to the trier of fact.
Trivial Defect/No
Dangerous Condition
The legal terms “dangerous condition” and “trivial
defect” have been developed primarily in cases involving public entity
defendants but may also be applied to private entities that own or control
property. 
In the Government Claims Act, the term
“dangerous condition” is defined as a “condition of property that creates a
substantial (as distinguished from a minor,¿trivial¿or insignificant) risk of
injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in a
manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it¿will be used.”¿(Gov. Code,
§ 830, subd. (a); see also Thimon v. City
of Newark (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 745, 754.)¿“The existence of a dangerous
condition ordinarily is a question of fact, but the issue may be resolved as a
matter of law if reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion.” (Peterson
v. San Francisco Comm. College Dist.¿(1984) 36 Cal.3d 799, 810; accord Stack
v. City of Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102, 110; Nunez v. City of Redondo
Beach (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 749, 757.)  
Plaintiff
has the burden of proving the existence of a dangerous condition. A court may
not presume that there was a dangerous condition merely because the plaintiff
was injured. (Sambrano v. City of San Diego (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 225,
241 [describing such an argument as “reason[ing] backwards”].)
“A condition is not dangerous … unless it
creates a hazard to those who foreseeably will use the property ... with due
care. Thus, even though it is foreseeable that persons may use public
property without due care, a public entity may not be held liable for failing
to take precautions to protect such persons.”¿(Matthews v. City of Cerritos¿(1992)
2 Cal.App.4th 1380, 1384.) “The condition of the property involved should
create a ‘substantial risk’ of injury, for an undue burden would be placed upon
public entities if they were responsible for the repair of all conditions
creating any possibility of injury however remote that possibility might be.”¿(Fredette¿v.
City of Long Beach¿(1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 122, 130, fn.5; accord Nunez,
supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 758.) 
Related to
the concept of a “dangerous condition” is the “trivial defect” doctrine. In the
Government Claims Act, Government Code section 830.2 provides that a condition
is not a “dangerous condition”:
“if the
trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence most favorably to the plaintiff,
determines as a matter of law that the risk created by the condition was of
such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding
circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition
created a substantial risk of injury when such property or adjacent property
was used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that
it would be used.” 
(Gov. Code,
§ 830.2.) 
It is impossible to maintain public or
private walkways in perfect condition. (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at pp.
109-110; Nunez, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 758; Kasparian v.
AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 11, 26.) In
general, the law does not make public or private landowners the “insurers”
against injuries arising from trivial defects. (Stack, supra, 91
Cal.App.5th at p. 109; Thimon, supra, 44 Cal.App.5th at p. 757.) Rather,
the trivial defect doctrine shields the owner from liability for “minor,
trivial, or insignificant” defects. (Huckey v. City of Temecula (2019)
37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1104; Kasparian, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at p. 27.) 
This is not to say that it is impossible for
someone to trip, fall, and sustain injuries as a result of a defect that is
trivial. (See Nunez, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at pp. 759-760.) But the duty
of care of a public entity (or a private landowner) does not extend to protecting
pedestrians or others from minor or trivial defects. (Id. at pp. 757, 759.)
“The trivial defect doctrine is not an
affirmative defense. It is an aspect of duty that a plaintiff must plead and
prove.” (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 1104; accord Nunez,
supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 757.)   
“In appropriate cases, the trial court may
determine ... whether a given walkway defect was trivial as a matter of
law.” (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 1104.) “‘Where
reasonable minds can reach only one conclusion—that there was no
substantial risk of injury—the issue is a question of law, properly resolved by
way of summary judgment.’” (Id. at pp. 1104-1105 (quoting Caloroso v.
Hathaway (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 922, 929).) “If, however,
the court determines that sufficient evidence has been presented so that
reasonable minds may differ as to whether the defect presents a substantial
risk of injury, the court may not conclude that the defect is trivial as a
matter of law.” (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 1105.)  
In cases involving allegedly dangerous
conditions on a sidewalk or other walkway, courts generally begin their
analysis by considering the size of the defect. The size of the height
differential, rise, or other defect is in many cases the “most important”
factor. (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 111; see also, e.g., Huckey,
supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 1105 [stating that size of defect “may be one
of the most relevant factors”].) As the Court of Appeal has explained, however,
“[i]n determining whether a given walkway defect is trivial as a matter of law,
the court should not rely solely upon the size of the defect.”
(Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 1105 [emphasis in original].) “[A]
tape measure alone cannot be used to determine whether the defect was trivial.”
(Caloroso, supra, 122 Cal.App.4th at p. 927.) Rather, a “court should
consider other circumstances which might have rendered the defect a dangerous
condition at the time of the accident.” (Huckey, supra, 37
Cal.App.5th at p. 1105.) 
“These other circumstances or factors
include whether there were any broken pieces or jagged edges in the area of the
defect, whether any dirt, debris or other material obscured a pedestrian’s view
of the defect, the plaintiff’s knowledge of the area, whether the accident
occurred at night or in an unlighted area, the weather at the time of the
accident, and whether the defect has caused any other accidents.” (Ibid.)
“In sum, ‘[a] court should decide whether a defect may be dangerous only after
considering all of the circumstances surrounding the accident that might make
the defect more [or less] dangerous than its size alone would suggest.’” (Huckey,
supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 1105 [quoting Caloroso, supra, 122
Cal.App.4th at p. 927]; accord Nunez, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 757.) 
Here, there is evidence in the summary
judgment record that the size of the height differential between the lip of the
V-gutter and the surrounding (milled down) surface was “approximately four inches” or “several inches.” (Smith Grunfeld Decl., ¶
3; Benson Decl., ¶ 3; see also Smith Grunfeld Decl., Exh. 2; Benson Decl.,
Exh. 2.) In addition, the edges of the gutter did not have any sloped asphalt
edge ramping. (PSAMF, No. 43.) The Court understands that Excel argues that Ms.
Smith Grunfeld and Mr. Benson have overstated the size of the differential, but,
on summary judgment, the Court must view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the non-moving party. 
Under the case,
the evidence of the size of the differential, along with all of the other
evidence in the record, is sufficient to establish that there is triable issue
as to whether there was a dangerous condition present in the alleyway at the
time of the accident.
The Court also
notes that the Court of Appeal’s decision in Martinez v. City of Beverly
Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, relied on by Excel, does not point to a
different result. In that case, the issue was whether the City of Beverly Hills
had actual or constructive notice of the defect in the alleyway. That is not an
issue here, as Excel created the condition and obviously had actual knowledge of
it. (DSUMF,
No. 3; PSAMF, Nos. 32-34.) Moreover, in that case, the alleyway was not
designed for walking, but here it was known and understood that tenants regularly
walked through the alleyway to travel from their residences to their vehicle
parking spots. (PSAMF, Nos. 47-48; Plaintiff’s Depo., at 11:10-12:1.)
Open and
Obvious/Warning Signs
Next, Excel
argues that there were warning signs that put a person walking in the alley and
exercising due care on notice of the large height differential created by the
construction work. (See DSUMF, Nos. 5, 8, 9 and supporting evidence.) And, of course,
in some circumstances, no warning sign is even necessary, as the dangerous
condition is so open and obvious that the condition itself serves as a warning.
(See Kinsman
v. Unocal Corporation (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 673; Montes v.
YMCA of Glendale (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 1134, 1142.)
For at least two
reasons, however, the Court concludes that the issue of an open and obvious
defect and warning signs cannot be decided as a matter of law on this record. 
First, the
evidence regarding the signs is not as one-sided as Excel contends. Plaintiff
does not recall seeing warning signs about tripping hazards or other dangerous
conditions in the alley. (Plaintiff Depo., at 15:8-19; PSAMF, No. 53.) Neither
does Ms. Smith Grunfeld or Mr. Benson. (Smith Grunfeld Decl., ¶ 3; Benson
Decl., ¶ 3; PSAMF, Nos. 54-55.) Excel presents evidence that signs were
present, but what signs (if any) Plaintiff saw, and when she saw them, are
disputed and triable issues of fact. The evidence does not establish, for
example, that the warning signs were located in the area along the path that
Plaintiff walked from her apartment to her car. Signs, even good and otherwise
clear signs, are not effective as a warning unless they communicate the nature
of the danger clearly and are placed in a location that is visible to persons
exercising due care before they encounter the danger.  
Second, and independently, in assessing the
effectiveness of a warning sign, the Court must also consider the extent to
which encountering the danger is a practical necessity. In a situation in which
a person has no need to encounter a danger – and can, without any undue burden,
and as a practical matter, choose a different path that avoids the danger altogether
– the warning sign may be given more weight as part of the trivial defect
analysis. And so, for example, if there are two paths available, and the
dangerous condition is present along only one of the paths, and a sign is in
place to provide a clear and effective warning of the danger, it is reasonably
foreseeable in many contexts that people exercising due care would prefer the
safe path rather than the dangerous one. Or, in other words, depending on all
of the circumstances, it may not be reasonably foreseeable that a properly
warned person exercising due care would choose the more dangerous path.
Here, in contrast, it was reasonably foreseeable
that, as a matter of practical necessity, Plaintiff and other residents would
encounter the danger: Plaintiff and other residents could not access their
vehicles except by walking through the alleyway in which the danger was
present. (PSAMF, Nos. 47-48; Plaintiff Depo., at 11:10-12:1.) As the California
Supreme Court has explained in a different context, “It is
foreseeable that even an obvious danger may cause injury, if the practical
necessity of encountering that danger, when weighed against the apparent risk
involved, is such that under the circumstances, a person might choose to
encounter the danger.” (Kinsman, supra, 37 Cal.4th at p. 673.) 
Accordingly, there are triable issues on whether the
dangerous condition was so open and obvious as to eliminate any duty to warn
and on whether Excel provided a legally sufficient warning of the danger
presented by the condition it created. The Court cannot decide these issues as a
matter of law.
Plaintiff’s
Failure to Exercise Due Care
Finally, Excel
argues that Plaintiff’s injury was the result of her own failure to exercise
due care, not the result of anything the Excel did or did not do. On this
record, however, that argument raises issues of comparative fault that cannot
be decided as a matter of law but rather must be submitted for decision to the
trier of fact.
In sum, the Court has carefully considered all of the admissible evidence
in the record, as well as the arguments of both sides. The evidence in the
record reveals that there are triable issues as to duty, causation, dangerous
condition/trivial defect, warnings, and Plaintiff’s exercise of due care. Accordingly,
the motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary
adjudication, is denied.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Excel’s motion for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication.  
Moving party to give notice.