 Case Number:  23GDCV02180    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     10 Date:           7/12/2024   Case No: 23 GDCV02180 Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Soleimani, et al. v. Saint Francis High School of La Canada-Flintridge, et al. DEMURRER  Moving Party:             Defendant California Interscholastic Federation   Responding Party: Plaintiff James Soleimani    RELIEF REQUESTED: Demurrer  Sustain demurrer to first and second causes of action of First Amended Complaint CAUSES OF ACTION:  from First Amended Complaint  1) Negligence  v.   All Defendants Other than Aidan 2) NIED  v.   All Defendants Other than Aidan 3) IIED  v.   Defendant Aidan 4) Battery  v.   Defendant Aidan SUMMARY OF FACTS:Plaintiff James Soleimani, who originally appeared in this action as a minor appearing through his GAL, Marta Recasens, evidently is no longer a minor and is appearing on his own behalf.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff enrolled at defendant Saint Francis High School of La Canada Flintridge (SFHS) in August of 2020, and that it was important to plaintiff and his family that plaintiff attend a Roman Catholic high school for various strongly held personal reasons.  Plaintiff alleges that he was particularly interested in playing organized football with the SFHS teams that participate in defendant California Interscholastic Federation (CIF) organized games against other CIF teams in the Southern California section of CIF.  Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, from early 2020 through May 2021, SFHS had no in-person instruction, and no active football program.  In June of 2021, plaintiff began attending SFHS’s football camp, and won a place on the Junior Varsity team.  Plaintiff alleges that in August of 2021, plaintiff suffered an injury to his shoulder during football practice and was in October 2021 evaluated by a doctor and also diagnosed with a tear in the tendon of a finger and prescribed no PE or sports for two weeks.In October of 2021, plaintiff alleges that during the first half of a SFHS football game, plaintiff was on the sidelines due to his medical restrictions, wearing his football uniform but not wearing pads or a helmet, when defendant Aidan Austin (Aidan), a fellow student, while wearing his football helmet, aggressively accosted plaintiff verbally for not being tough enough to play through injuries.  Plaintiff alleges despite Aidan’s continual harassment, plaintiff did not engage in any physical retaliation against Aidan, but Aidan, with his helmet still on, butted plaintiff (who was not wearing a helmet) in the face repeatedly, injuring plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleges he did not fight back or do anything other than attempt to shield himself from Aidan’s criminal battery. Plaintiff alleges that no defendant took any significant disciplinary action against Aidan for the helmet assault, although it occurred in open view of hundreds of people, including one or more of the other defendants.  At halftime, Aidan, obviously undeterred by any defendants, hunted plaintiff down in the weight room and, unprovoked, put plaintiff in a choke hold and beat him repeatedly over the head.  Plaintiff alleges that the following day, upon receiving reports of Aidan’s unprovoked violence against plaintiff, defendant John Jordan, Dean of Students of SFHS, punished both of them equally, by suspending them both from Friday’s football game.  Plaintiff alleges that in November of 2021, Aidan again aggressively hunted plaintiff down in the locker room, threatened him, and proceeded to knee plaintiff in the groin, pulled plaintiff’s jacket over plaintiff’s head and repeatedly struck plaintiff in the head with a closed fist.  Plaintiff alleges that he did not fight back and sought only to shield himself, and the incident was videotaped and viewed by Jordan, which showed older players dancing and celebrating the assault.  It also documents that plaintiff never struck back.  Plaintiff alleges that again defendants responded by treating plaintiff and Aidan equally, as if both were equally culpable for Aidan’s unprovoked criminal attack, which defendants again did nothing to stop or prevent.      The complaint alleges that in mid-October, another SFHS student reported to plaintiff that the student had seen Aidan carrying a knife on campus, and warned plaintiff to stay away from Aidan because he was armed.  In the latter half of October, when plaintiff was intimidated and fearful of a knife armed Aidan again attacking him, plaintiff had a video-displayed SnapChat conversation with another SFHS student, in which the other student viewed, near plaintiff, an airsoft gun, and plaintiff made a joke about the airsoft gun being a real firearm. Plaintiff later clarified that it was not real and that he was joking.   Plaintiff alleges that in November of 2021, plaintiff and his mother, Marta Recasens, met with Jordan to discuss what Jordan claimed was his and SFHS’s investigation of the foregoing altercations and their aftermath.  Jordan informed them that Jordan had a grainy photo of a gun that plaintiff had supposedly displayed on social media, but never presented this image to plaintiff or Recasens.  Plaintiff alleges that during the investigation, Jordan did view the videotape where Aidan attacked plaintiff in the locker room, and interviewed other football players who informed him that plaintiff was being threatened and harassed by Aidan and that plaintiff feared for his life, but did not take proper measures to prevent, protect plaintiff or to properly punish Aidan, the aggressor.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff was under the authority of defendants as a student athlete who qualified to be in the football program and should have been afforded the protection of those authorities.  The day following the meeting with Jordan, plaintiff and Recasen met with SFHS’s Disciplinary Board, comprised of defendant Jordan, defendant Thomas Moran, Principal of SFHS, and six other individuals, in which plaintiff read a statement about the altercations and their aftermath, and admitted in his statement that within a week of Aidan’s most recent beating, plaintiff remembered having commented as a joke on social media that an airsoft gun the plaintiff owned was a real firearm.  Plaintiff alleges that he contritely admitted this joke as inappropriate and asked forgiveness.  Plaintiff was then expelled. Plaintiff alleges that had defendants acted more promptly in disciplining and either suspending or expelling Aidan prior to the last assault on plaintiff, plaintiff would not have been frightened and intimidated into joking that the airsoft gun was real, which joke led to plaintiff’s expulsion.    The First Amended Complaint alleges that plaintiff has been damaged as a result of his expulsion, including mental suffering, the loss of the companionship and society of teachers and friends at SFHS, and due to the disciplinary record created with the expulsion, finding it difficult to be accepted as a student at a comparable religious high school and, later, colleges.  Plaintiff also alleges that at the new high school in which plaintiff enrolled, he was not allowed to play football for one year due to CIF rules, despite being told by Jordan that no such disciplinary reasons statement would appear on plaintiff’s record.  In contrast, Aidan, who was not expelled but suspended, and transferred to a different school, was allowed to participate in football after only six months.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff appealed the expulsion ruling to CIF explaining the circumstances, but CIF would not change its decision. Plaintiff alleges that CIF failed to properly investigate the matter after it failed to protect plaintiff.   Plaintiff also alleges that prior to Aidan’s attacks, plaintiff had been an honor roll student, but his academic career was damaged when he failed courses because of the stress he endured from the bullying, beating and expulsion, that plaintiff’s football career was harmed as he was not able to play football for over a year, and that plaintiff as a result of the beatings and expulsion, suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder.  The FAC also names as defendant Antonio Marti, the President of SFHS.The complaint alleges that all defendants other than Aidan breached their duty of properly supervising Aidan to ensure that he did not bully or physically abuse plaintiff, and breached their duty by failing to suspend or expel Aidan when Aidan repeatedly battered plaintiff, and that CIF breached its duty to provide protection for plaintiff by not instituting rules and guidelines on bullying and breached its duty in not ensuring that Aidan received the same consequences as plaintiff.    The FAC alleges causes of action against Aidan only for IIED and battery. ANALYSIS:First Cause of Action—Negligence and Second Cause of Action—NIED  The demurrer to these causes of action by moving defendant CIF was previously sustained as follows:“Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND to the first cause of action for negligence and second cause of action for NIED on the grounds the complaint fails to sufficiently allege a legal or factual basis for the imposition, or assumption, of a negligence duty on the party of moving defendant California Interscholastic Federation or conduct on the part of moving defendant which resulted in plaintiff’s alleged damages.”[Minute Order 02/12/2024].  Defendant CIF argues that plaintiff’s first and second causes of action in the FAC continue to rely on an assumption that under the factual circumstances alleged by plaintiff which caused his injuries that CIF had a duty to supervise him when the injurious events occurred.  Specifically, plaintiff alleges that once a player qualifies to participate and is in the program, “CIF has the duty to protect its players since they are providing the rules and guidelines on how players are to behave and qualify to play.”  [FAC, para. 55].  Plaintiff also alleges that CIF is negligent in failing to have some form of a rule or guideline addressing bullying and providing protections against it.  [FAC, para. 60].   Defendant argues that the despite the court’s previous order and the basis for sustaining CIF’s demurrer to the original complaint, plaintiff continues to insist that CIF had the same duty of care as plaintiff’s school to supervise students and ensure that no bullying or improper behavior occurred between students, attempting to hold CIF responsible for the same duty to supervise as its member schools, without pleading proper facts to do so.  CIF argues that the fact remains that CIF owes no duty of care to supervise two student athletes on school grounds in the context of curricular or extracurricular activities.   To plead a claim for negligence, a plaintiff must allege the following elements: The existence of a duty of care, breach of that duty, and an injury proximately caused by the breach.   Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.  Negligent infliction of emotional distress requires negligence and severe emotional disturbance.  Marlene F. v. Psychiatric Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.  To support a NIED claim here, plaintiff must have suffered damages as a result of a duty “assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or that arises out of a relationship between the two.”  Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1073, quoting Marlene F., at 590. See also Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal. 4th 965,  984-985  (“That duty may be imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship…”)As previously noted by the court, it is recognized that the issue of whether a duty of care was owed is a question of law.  See Clarke v. Hoek (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 208, 213 (“The question of the existence of a legal duty of care in a given factual situation presents a question of law which is to be determined by the courts alone.”). Garcia v. Paramount Citrus Association, Inc. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1448, 1452 (“The existence of a duty owed by a defendant to a plaintiff is a question of law for the court, reviewed de novo on appeal.”)Here, CIF argues that while the complaint here appears to acknowledge that as a student of defendant SFHS, plaintiff’s school had a duty to supervise plaintiff at the times referenced in the complaint, no such duty appears to be alleged against CIF.  Defendant argues that plaintiff’s allegations against CIF appear to focus on the ultimate consequence of plaintiff’s expulsion as it relates to CIF’s rules regarding eligibility.  CIF again relies on Ryan v. California Interscholastic Federation-San Diego Section (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 1048, in which the court of appeal reversed a mandamus judgment by the trial court directing CIF-San Diego Section to vacate its internal ruling arising from the athletic eligibility application of a high school in connection with a student athlete from Australia, who elected to repeat the 12th grade, upon which the high school requested eligibility for the student to participate in intercollegiate sports, specifically, football.   The CIF found the student ineligible for violating the eight-semester rule and transfer rules of CIF, and the trial court ruled that the CIF bylaws were unconstitutional facially and as applied in violation of the California Constitution.  As previously set forth in the court’s ruling on the demurrer to the previous pleading, the court of appeal in Ryan held that no property or liberty interest founded in state law had been established in the case, giving rise to constitutional due process rights:“Neither the California Constitution nor California statutory law contains any provision that entitles students to an absolute right to participate in extracurricular activities and, precisely, in interscholastic athletics. Absent such support, the opportunity to participate in interscholastic athletic activities is a privilege, not a right or an entitlement of such dignity to warrant due process protection. Our conclusion is consistent with the overwhelming majority of other states whose appellate courts have held that students do not possess a constitutionally protected interest in their participation in extracurricular activities and, specifically, in interscholastic sports.”Ryan, at 1061, citations omitted.         Defendant also again cites to Education Code section 33353, under which it argues that CIF has limited duties, and is described, “(a) The California Interscholastic Federation is a voluntary organization that consists of school and school-related personnel with responsibility for administering interscholastic athletic activities in secondary schools,” which gives “the governing boards of school districts specific authority to select their athletic league representatives.”  Defendant argues that, as Ryan recognizes, CIF’s role is eligibility-centered as opposed to policing or supervising the student athletes or its member schools.  The new allegations, in essence, that CIF should have enacted rules and regulations concerning bullying, while conceding it did not actually do so, and so did not assume a duty with respect to such rules and regulations, undermines the existence of any alleged duty.  [FAC, paras. 55, 60]. Plaintiff in opposition does not cite to any legal duty which has been imposed on CIF with respect to promulgating or enforcing rules and regulations regarding bullying or investigating determinations made by the participating schools regarding conduct affecting eligibility determinations.  Plaintiff argues that there is one division, evidently not the division in which plaintiff is, in which CIF has students sign Sportsmanship Rules, but does not explain any legal basis for that supporting the imposition or assumption of a legal duty to ensure sportsmanship by students. As the court previously observed, this theory that CIF owed a duty to promulgate and enforce rules concerning bullying, remains problematic practically speaking, when there is no legal basis for CIF having assumed a duty to enforce any such policy, which it never promulgated.  This legal posture is also problematic with respect to the imposition of such a duty with respect to any mechanism by which CIF could ensure compliance by its member schools with an anti-bullying policy, or that in this case CIF had notice of facts giving rise to plaintiff’s allegations of bullying.  Plaintiff also argues that plaintiff relies on the disparate treatment by CIF of two players, as the Ryan case does not allow CIF to treat players unfairly or disparately different.  Again, no legal authority is cited for this proposition, but plaintiff seems to rely on a wrongful discrimination theory, without explaining how plaintiff was discriminated against based on his membership in a protected class.  This assertion is a particularly weak argument given Ryan’s assessment that there is no constitutionally protected right to participate in interscholastic athletics.   As the court previously observed, with respect to a racial discrimination or disparate treatment theory, this claim is not based in negligence. This argument is a theory based in some flaw in CIF’s review of plaintiff’s alleged appeal, which would likely implicate administrative remedies, and a duty arising from a source other than a general negligence duty of due care.  Also, it depends on some sort of due process analysis when Ryan holds that participation in extracurricular activities such as football does not give rise to due process rights. The FAC continues to fail to allege how CIF is authorized to engage in a process to investigate the proprietary of scholastic penalties independently imposed by a member school, how that process would occur, and what CIF would be authorized to do based on the outcome of such an investigation. It would also appear that the damages alleged are not sufficiently tied to any alleged conduct by CIF, rather is tied to the conduct of the other defendants and plaintiff.  The pleading fails again on the issue of any duty owed or assumed by defendant CIF, despite plaintiff being permitted leave to amend to address this issue. Defendant also again argues that plaintiff has failed to allege recoverable damages, as the FAC fails to identify any recoverable damages attributable to CIF’s ruling.   Specifically, defendant again argues that the possibility of obtaining a scholarship in college is recognized in Ryan as alleged damages which are within the realm of being purely speculative:“Finally, the trial court's observation that “for many students, the possibility of obtaining a college education literally hinges on their ability to receive an athletic scholarship, and qualification for such scholarships almost always requires participation in high school interscholastic athletics” does not create a property right to such participation. To invoke procedural due process protection, an individual must have a legitimate claim of entitlement to a benefit—not simply a unilateral expectation or an abstract need. The possibility of obtaining a scholarship does not elevate participation in interscholastic athletics into an interest that due process protects, because such opportunities are themselves simply expectancies. The acquisition of a scholarship is purely speculative, contingent upon far more than simply maintaining playing privileges. For example, a scholarship is contingent upon not only the availability of the scholarship, but also the student's excelling during season, meeting certain academic and entrance exam requirements, overcoming any inference from a disciplinary record, remaining healthy, and overcoming like competitors for the same finite scholarships that are distributed by coaches in their unbridled discretion. Consequently, the opportunity to earn, or the possibility of obtaining, an athletic scholarship is too speculative to elevate participation in interscholastic sports to the level of a constitutionally protected interest.Ryan, at 1064-1065, citations omitted.     Defendant argues that, again, plaintiff here has alleged nothing but a privilege, i.e., participation in high school football, as opposed to any legal right.  Plaintiff in opposition simply argues in terms of duty that the moving papers make light of the suffering of thousands of students by urging that CIF has no legal obligation to supervise students on the sidelines during an athletic competition in Southern California from its offices in Sacramento, when “the damages alleged are real and lasting.”  The FAC again fails to sufficiently allege recoverable damages caused by CIF.   Plaintiff in the opposition requests further leave to amend, arguing that plaintiff proposes to separate the CIF from the school causes of action to clarify them and propose additional or different causes of action more in alignment with the facts, including allegations concerning CIF’s knowledge of problems prior to this case, going to foreseeability, and expanding on the disparate treatment allegations, and allegations based on facts learned in discovery and through investigation and research.  The opposition notes, in a footnote, that attorney Mark Oknyansky was only recently hired by plaintiff’s counsel, has taken over the day-to-day handling of this case and has not had much time to oppose the demurrer but can see many ways the FAC might be improved. There is no specific explanation of what new material could be added.   The court has already permitted one opportunity to amend, “if possible” with the detailed input of the court, and the detailed discussion of legal authorities seriously limiting the potential liability of CIF in these circumstances.  Despite being permitted this opportunity, plaintiff has failed to sufficiently address those concerns, and defendant has requested that the demurrer now be sustained without leave to amend. Where a complaint is successfully challenged on demurrer, it is plaintiff’s burden to demonstrate how the complaint might be amended to cure it of the defect.   Association of Community Orgs. for Reform Now v. Dept. of Industrial Relations (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 298, 302.  The opposition here does not explain what facts could be added which would support the existence of a duty based on foreseeability, which appears to be the standard applied to the school defendants, not CIF, or on disparate treatment where there is no constitutional right at issue under applicable law.  Where a plaintiff will be unable to correct the flaws in a pleading, leave to amend should be denied.   La Vista Cemetery Association v. American Savings & Loan Association.   (1970) 12 Cal.App.3d 365.  The court is of the view that plaintiff on further amendment will be unable to correct the flaws in its claims against moving defendant CIF.  Hence, the demurrer by this defendant is now sustained without further leave to amend. RULING:Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND to the first cause of action for negligence and second cause of action for NIED on the grounds the First Amended Complaint fails to sufficiently allege a legal or factual basis for the imposition or assumption of a negligence duty on the party of moving defendant California Interscholastic Federation or conduct on the part of moving defendant which resulted in plaintiff’s alleged damages. As plaintiff has been unable to correct the deficiencies despite being permitted leave to amend to do so, with the benefit of detailed argument of the previous demurrer and the detailed input of the Court on the previous demurrer, and plaintiff has failed to sufficiently meet his burden in the opposition to demonstrate how the complaint might be amended to cure it of its defects, the demurrer is now sustained without further leave to amend.   DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 