 Case Number:  22GDCV00917    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar: 5 Date: 7/12/2024 Case No: 22 GDCV00917 Trial Date: November 17, 2025Case Name: Shahinyan v. City of Glendale, et al. MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS- COMPLAINTMoving Party: Defendant and Cross-Defendant City of Glendale  Responding Party: Defendant and Cross-Complainant David Avedissian   RELIEF REQUESTED: Leave to file a cross-complaint  RELEVANT FACTS: Plaintiff Stepan Shahinyan alleges that in November of 2021, while crossing a crosswalk in Glendale on foot, plaintiff was violently struck by a vehicle driven by Vivian Avedissian, a negligent driver who failed to yield the right of way to a pedestrian and subsequently fled the scene.  Plaintiff was taken to the hospital and diagnosed with a displaced right orbital fracture, requiring surgery, among other injuries.  The complaint alleges that the vehicle was owned, maintained, and controlled by defendant David Avedissian, who had purchased the vehicle for the sole use by his mother, Vivian Avedissian, and who negligently entrusted the vehicle to Vivian Avedissian.  The complaint also alleges that defendants City of Glendale, County of Los Angeles, and State of California breached their duties of care and allowed a highly dangerous condition to exist and continue, as the crosswalk was dangerously and defectively planned, designed, engineered, constructed, and positioned, and was either not approved in accordance with standard procedure or could not reasonably have been approved, and was not equipped with adequate and appropriate traffic lights, signs, and other devices in proper working order, setting a trap to pedestrians who used the cross-walk.  Plaintiff alleges that the dangerous and defective nature of the sidewalk was known to the responsible governing authorities, in light of numerous prior incidents which had occurred at the same location and under similar circumstances, but at no time were safety measures or reasonable corrections undertaken or completed.   On February 14, 2023, plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal, without prejudice, of defendant County of Los Angeles, which dismissal was entered as requested the same date. On March 2, 2023, plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal, without prejudice, of defendant State of California, which dismissal was entered as requested on March 3, 2023. On August 9, 2023, defendant David Avedissian filed a cross-complaint for declaratory relief and comparative indemnity against cross-defendants City of Glendale, County of Los Angeles, and State of California.    The complaint was filed on November 22, 2022.  The trial date is set for November 17, 2025. ANALYSIS: Defendant and cross-defendant City of Glendale seeks to file a cross-complaint against Vivian Avedissian, the driver of the vehicle which struck plaintiff, who is not currently a party to this action.  The proposed cross-complaint is for implied indemnity, express indemnity, contribution, comparative fault, and declaratory relief.  Under CCP § 428.50:“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. (b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.(c)  A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b).  Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” It is held that relief under the permissive provisions of the statute is appropriate when a defendant seeks to file a cross-complaint for indemnity.  Platt v. Coldwell Banker Real Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1439, 1444.  This circumstance is not a situation where the indemnity claims will be lost if not asserted in this matter, so, although the opposition seems to apply the bad faith standards generally applicable to compulsory cross-complaints, the cross-complaint here would in fact not be compulsory. In this case, the case has already been set for trial, so it is in the court’s discretion to grant leave “in the interest of justice.”  City of Glendale argues that the interests of justice would be served by permitting the City of Glendale to file a cross-complaint against Avedissian as Avedissian is the party most, if not completely, at fault for plaintiff’s injuries, and allowing the cross-complaint would ensure that all issues and claims arising out of the incident are determined in one action. Defendant also argues that there is no evidence of inexcusable delay or prejudice to any other party as the trial in this matter is not set until November of 2025, so there is ample time to conduct discovery, and no depositions have taken place in this case, so that all parties will have the opportunity to fully participate in any depositions.  Plaintiff Stepan Shahinyan has filed a Notice of Non-Opposition to the motion, indicating plaintiff has no opposition to the motion.  Defendant and cross-complainant David Avedissian has filed an opposition to the motion, arguing that City of Glendale has not established or explained any good faith in filing the cross-complaint, especially since it filed its answer over a year ago and did not file a motion earlier.  The opposition argues that there is no dispute that the identity of the driver has been known since the complaint was filed.  The opposition indicates that the claim against David Avedissian is only for negligent entrustment because plaintiff already settled this action with the driver.  The opposition then relies on the statutes and standards governing compulsory cross-complaints, which, as noted above, this cross-complaint is not, as City of Glendale could seek indemnity from other parties after any obligation to plaintiff is determined.  However, with respect to permissive cross-complaints it is generally recognized that the declaration of counsel should show that it would be in the interest of justice to grant leave to file, including some reasonable excuse why the cross-complaint was not filed earlier, such as mistake, inadvertence, excusable neglect, or recent discovery of new facts.   Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group, Cal. Practice Guide, 2024 rev.) 6:562.  In Crocker National Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 862-864, the court of appeal held there was no abuse of discretion in denying leave to file a permissive cross-complaint five months before trial.   In this case, counsel’s declaration does not attempt to explain the delay at all but indicates that good cause exists to add the party that struck plaintiff with her vehicle to the action to ensure all issues arising out of the incident are determined in one action to avoid duplicity of efforts and resources, and that no prejudice or improper motives are present in the request.  [Kang Decl., paras. 3, 4].  At best, the declaration states that “there is no prejudice or inexcusable delay at issue here,” without explaining how the delay is in fact not inexcusable.   [Kang Decl., para. 4].     The declaration is quite disappointing, as it is not explained why the cross-complaint was not filed earlier, when the identity of the driver has been known to all parties since the complaint was served in late 2022 and early 2023.    Overall, the court has a strong interest in having all of these matters tried together and generally disfavors having defendant be forced to bring another civil action against a potentially responsible party, which would likely be related to this action, or to wait until the close of this action.      Although not clearly argued in the opposition, counsel’s declaration in opposition indicates that there is a motion for summary judgment in this matter which was filed in January and set to be heard in July of 2024.  [Kandarian-Stein Decl., para. 4].  The court will inquire at the hearing if the filing of the cross-complaint would impact   that motion or interfere with it going forward as scheduled.  It does not appear from the file that permitting a cross-complaint to be filed against the driver would impact the motion for summary judgment, as the motion essentially argues that the sole cause of action brought against moving defendant for negligent entrustment is a cause of action in which liability is imposed on a vehicle owner or permitter because of his own independent negligence (in entrusting the vehicle), and not for the negligence of the driver.  The motion appears to focus on defendant’s claims that he lacked any notice of any prior driving problems which would demonstrate his independent negligence.  However, the court would be within its discretion to deny the motion for the lack of explanation concerning the delay, particularly if the timing would interfere with the current schedule in the litigation. Overall, however, the opposition fails to point to any prejudice from the delay in seeking amendment, such as that evidence has disappeared or defendant will have insufficient time to explore the liability of the driver, who in this case, is his mother.  The interests of justice here favor the judicial efficiency of the alleged liability for plaintiff’s alleged injuries and damages being determined and apportioned in a single proceeding.  The motion accordingly is granted.   RULING:Defendant/Cross-Defendant City of Glendale’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED in the interest of justice.  Moving Defendant is ordered to e-file its signed cross-complaint by the close of business this date.   DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 