 Case Number:  23GDCV00879    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     6 Date:           7/12/2024   Case No: 23 GDCV00879 Trial Date: None Set Case Name: HR General Construction, Inc. v. Sakamoto, et al.   MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH COURT ORDERS  Moving Party:             Defendants and Cross-Complainants Scott Sakamoto and Jamie Sakamot   Responding Party: Plaintiff HR General Construction (No Opposition) RELIEF REQUESTED:  Order compelling compliance with the court’s February 16, 2024 order directing payment of $16,640 in attorney fees to the SakamotosMonetary sanctions in the amount of $200 per day until the attorney’s fees award is paidEvidentiary sanctions strike plaintiff’s claims against the Sakamotos unless the attorney’s fee award is paid.  $5,325 in attorney’s fees in bringing this motionFACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND: Plaintiff HR General Construction, Inc. (HR General Construction) alleges that in December of 2021 plaintiff entered into a written contract with defendants Scott Sakamoto and Jamie Sakamoto, and that defendants breached the agreement by failing to pay the final $5,550 due on the contract and brought defendant Oswaldo Diaz in as the countertop contractor, and did not allow plaintiff to hang the painted, ready to hang doors. The complaint also alleges that the Sakamoto defendants filed a false claim under oath against plaintiff’s bond company, claiming plaintiff was responsible for a granite countertop that did not fit, and was not color coordinated, when the truth was that the Sakamotos contracted directly with defendant Diaz for the counter tops.  The complaint alleges that the cabinet maker defendant Custom Furniture Design misaligned the cabinets by a 2” offset above the sink, and that defendant Diaz mis-measured the sink and counter area, resulting in a first, expensive granite counter which did not fit, and a second granite countertop had to be purchased.  Plaintiff alleges that defendants the Sakamotos filed a false claim knowing that plaintiff HR General Construction had no liability for the counter problems. The complaint also alleges a cause of action for negligence against defendants Diaz and Custom Furniture Design.Defendants Scott Sakamoto and Jamie Sakamoto have filed a Cross-complaint against plaintiff HR General Construction as cross-defendant, as well as against HR General Construction’s principal, Rafael Herrera, and the bonding company Hudson Insurance Company.  The cross-complaint alleges that cross-defendant HR General Construction breached the written and oral contracts for the construction project by causing problems with the construction which caused delay, failing to complete construction on several items, performing substandard work, and ultimately abandoning the project.  It is also alleged that after HR General Construction stopped work on the project, cross-complainants filed complaints with the Contractor’s State License Board and the Better Business Bureau, and in January of 2023 were advised by the CSLB representatives that they could file a claim against HR General Constructions’ surety bond under Business & Professions Code section 7107.  The complaint alleges that cross-complainants became aware that HR General Construction’s contractor’s licensed had expired in November of 2022, and, fearful that the license bond was the only avenue to recover damages, cross-complainants submitted a claim on HR General Construction’s license bond to cross-defendant Hudson Insurance. The cross-complaint alleges causes of action for breach of written contract, breach of oral contract, money had and received, and money due on contractor’s license bond. Defendants the Sakamotos brought a special motion to strike portions of the complaint.  The hearing was continued several times, and on December 15, 2023, the motion was granted in part, and the court ordered stricken with prejudice the second cause of action in the complaint for fraud as against the Sakamotos.  The Sakamotos then brought a motion for attorney’s fees for partly prevailing on the special motion to strike, which was heard on February 15, 2024, and was granted.  The court awarded fees of $16,640.00.  The minute order states, “Payment deadline is 60 (sixty) days from today, 2/16/2023 [sic].”  Defendants’ counsel was ordered to give notice.  Notice of Ruling was served by electronic transmission on February 20, 2024.  ANALYSIS:Defendants Scott Sakamoto and Jamie Sakamoto bring this motion to compel compliance with the court’s order of February 15, 2024 awarding attorney’s fees.   Defendants indicate that although the court ordered the fees to be paid 60 days from the date of the hearing, rendering them due on April 16, 2024, the attorney’s fees awarded by the court have not been paid as of June 5, 2024. [Ly Decl., para.  10].   Defendants in their notice of motion first seek an order that plaintiff comply with the court’s February 16, 2024 order directing payment of $16,640.00 in attorney’s fees to the Sakamotos. There is no legal authority cited under which such relief is sought, and it would appear that the order awarding fees is the court’s order.  There has been no appeal of the special motion to strike ruling, and it appears the order with respect to the award of attorney’s fees is a valid order and defendants may follow the appropriate steps to convert that order into a money judgment and use the appropriate enforcement of judgment procedures to execute on the money judgment.   There is no need for a further court order.   Defendants also seek an order that the court impose sanctions of $200 per day up to $1,500 until the payment of the fee award is paid.  Relief is sought under CCP § 177.5, which provides: “A judicial officer shall have the power to impose reasonable money sanctions, not to exceed fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500), notwithstanding any other provision of law, payable to the court, for any violation of a lawful court order by a person, done without good cause or substantial justification. This power shall not apply to advocacy of counsel before the court. For the purposes of this section, the term ‘person’ includes a witness, a party, a party's attorney, or both.Sanctions pursuant to this section shall not be imposed except on notice contained in a party's moving or responding papers; or on the court's own motion, after notice and opportunity to be heard. An order imposing sanctions shall be in writing and shall recite in detail the conduct or circumstances justifying the order.” A trial court’s sanction order under this section is reviewed for a prejudicial abuse of discretion. 20th Century Ins. Co. v. Choong (2000, 2nd Dist.) 79 Cal.App.4th 1274, 1277, citing Moyal v. Lanphear (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 491, 501.  Under Moyal, the purpose of CCP section 177.5 is to “compensate public agencies for the costs of unnecessary hearings.”  Moyal v. Lanphear (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 491, 499.   The court’s discretion “must be exercised in a reasonable manner with one of the statutorily authorized purposes in mind and must be guided by existing legal standards as adapted to the current circumstances.”   Winikow v. Superior Court (2000, 2nd Dist.) 82 Cal.App.4th 719, 726; See also, Moyal, at 501. It is not clear that defendants are requesting that sanctions be paid daily to the court, rather than requesting that sanctions be paid to defendants.  The statute permits sanctions “payable to the court.”   In any case, this is not a case where any violation of a court order is resulting in costs to the court due to unnecessary hearings; this hearing is on calendar as a result of defendants’ actions in improperly seeking an order to enforce an order instead of otherwise properly pursuing collection of the fees.  No sanctions are awarded.To the extent the motion seeks an order finding plaintiff in contempt of court pursuant to CCP §§ 1209, 1211, and 1218, it does not appear that the motion and other documents have been personally served on the accused.   The documents were served by email on counsel for plaintiff.     CCP § 1015 permits service of papers on a represented party on counsel for that party, “except service of…papers to bring the party into contempt.”   The section permits service on a party with no attorney to be made on the clerk of the court.   CCP §1016 provides “The foregoing provisions of this Chapter do not apply to the service of summons or other process, or of any paper to bring a party into contempt.”   (Emphasis added).  Accordingly, it is recognized that papers to bring a party into contempt must be personally served on the accused.   See also In re Morelli (1970, 2nd Dist.) 11 Cal.App.3d 819, 835.   The court accordingly cannot issue an order of contempt.  To the extent the motion seeks that the court exercise its inherent power to issue terminating sanctions, there is no legal authority cited under which the court may terminate a case, foreclosing determination on its merits, for failure to pay attorney’s fees awarded in connection with a special motion to strike.  The authority relied upon, Stephen Slesinger, Inc. v. The Walt Disney Co. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 736, involved invoking this inherent power to impose a terminating sanction based on deliberate spoliation of evidence. Stephen Slesinger involved a lawsuit by a corporation, SSI, the holder of the copyright rights in the A.A. Milne Winnie-the-Pooh books, against The Walt Disney Company, for alleged irregularities in accounting for and paying for exploitation of the Winnie-the-Pooh rights under an agreement between the parties.  In that case, SSI engaged a private investigator who obtained confidential Disney documents by trespassing on and breaking into Disney office buildings and secure trash receptacles.  SSI also attempted to alter copies of the documents obtained after receiving them from its investigator to delete any reference to their confidentiality.  After extensive hearing on the matter, the trial court concluded that SSI’s conduct was deliberate, egregious, and that the only fair resolution of the matter was to impose a terminating sanction.It is recognized that the standard to obtain a terminating sanction is extremely high.   In Stephen Slesinger, the Second District cautioned that “dismissal is always a drastic remedy to be employed only in the rarest of circumstances.”   Stephen Slesinger, at 764, italics in original. The court then held that under certain circumstances, misconduct could warrant dismissal:“we hold only that when the plaintiff has engaged in misconduct during the course of the litigation that it deliberate, egregious, and that renders any remedy short of dismissal inadequate to preserve the fairness of the trial, the trial court has the inherent power to dismiss the action.” Stephen Slesinger, at 764. In making this determination, the trial court should consider all relevant circumstances: “The decision whether to exercise the inherent power to dismiss requires consideration of all relevant circumstances, including the nature of the misconduct (which must be deliberate and egregious, but may or may not violate a prior court order), the strong preference for adjudicating claims on the merits, the integrity of the court as an institution of justice, the effect of the misconduct on a fair resolution of the case, and the availability of other sanctions to cure the harm.” Stephen Slesinger, at 764.   This situation is not a case involving the type of egregious misconduct by plaintiff which cannot be addressed fairly other than by terminating the action without resolution on its merits.  This case involves the delay in the payment of money which by all appearances is not being properly pursued by defendants.  The circumstances do not meet the high standards set forth in the authority relied upon by defendants to justify a terminating sanction, and such a remedy is disproportionate to the conduct to which defendants object. Finally, to the extent defendants seek attorney’s fees and costs for the expense of bringing this motion, the motion is denied, was not necessary to have been brought, and no expenses for its pursuit are awarded.  RULING:Motion to Enforce Compliance with Court Order is DENIED.Requests for monetary sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, and attorney’s fees and costs is DENIED.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 