 Case Number:  21STCV37250    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
The Motion to
Continue Trial filed by the City of Los Angeles is GRANTED. 
 
Background
This case stems from an incident in which Alfred
Hutchings, an employee with Innovative Terminal Services, was operating a
forklift at a worksite where the street allegedly consisted of rough, uneven
pavement with multiple potholes. (First Amended Complaint, “FAC”, ¶ 14.) On
February 10, 2021, Alfred Hutchings was operating a forklift when one of the
tires became stuck in a pothole and caused a crash injuring Alfred Hutchings. 
 
Alfred Hutchings and his wife Jennifer (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed their initial Complaint on October 8, 2021. The FAC
followed on December 21, 2021. The instant Motion, filed by Defendant City of
Los Angeles (“Defendant”), is a Motion to Continue Trial (“Motions”). The
Motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion
 
Legal
Standard
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c)
states that although disfavored, the trial date may be continued for “good
cause,” which includes (without limitation): (1) unavailability of trial
counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other excusable circumstances”;
(2) the addition of a new party depriving the new party (or other parties) from
conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3) “excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated change in the status of the
case” preventing it from being ready for trial.¿ (Id., Rule 3.1332(c).)¿¿¿ 
 
The court may also consider the following factors: “(1) The
proximity of the trial date; (2) Whether there was any previous continuance,
extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; (3) The length of the
continuance requested; (4) The availability of alternative means to address the
problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; (5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for
that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay; (7) The court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on
other pending trials; (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and (11) Any other fact
or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1332(d).)¿¿ ¿ 
 
Analysis
Defendant’s primary
argument is that a continuance of trial is necessary so that its summary
judgement motion may be heard prior to trial. Defendant filed a motion for
summary judgment on August 25, 2023, and reserved the earliest available hearing
date for the motion, which was September 16, 2024, well after the current trial
date of December 12, 2023. The Motion for Summary Judgment was filed within the
timing parameters of Code of Civil Procedure section 437(c), and Defendant
has a right to have a timely filed motion for summary judgment be heard prior
to trial. (CCP § 437c. Also see First State Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 324, 333.) Therefore, in light of the Court’s
calendar, the proximity of the current trial date, the possible prejudice that
Defendant may suffer, and the fact that the instant Motion is unopposed, the
Court will grant the instant Motion.  
 
Conclusion
 
The Motion to
Continue Trial filed by the City of Los Angeles is GRANTED. 
 
Trial is continued to late October 2024. Final Status
Conference and all deadlines are reset based on the new trial date.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.  
 