 Case Number:  21STCV35048    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background 
On September 22, 2021,
Plaintiff Sylvia Vargas filed an action against Defendant The Kroger Co., alleging
(1) general negligence and (2) premises liability.
On October 2, 2023, Defendant, Food 4 Less Of
California, Inc. dba Food 4
Less
(incorrectly named and served as The Kroger Co. dba Food 4 Less), filed the
instant motion to continue trial. No opposition has been filed.
Trial is set for January 30, 2024. 
 
Legal Standard
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (c) states that
although disfavored, the trial date may
be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation): (1) unavailability
of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the new party (or
other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3) “excused
inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated change in the
status of the case” preventing it from being ready for trial. (Id., Rule
3.1332(c).)   
 
Other relevant considerations may include: “(1) The
proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The
length of the continuance requested; [¶] (4) The availability of alternative
means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a
result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial
setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance
outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶] (7) The court's calendar and the impact
of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule
3.1332(d).) 
 
CCP section 2024.050
allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery proceedings.  In doing
so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the leave requested, including,
but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery, (2) the diligence in
seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the likelihood of interference
with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and (4) the length of time
that has elapsed between previous trial dates.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2024.050.) 
 
Discussion
Defendant moves to continue
trial from January 30, 2024 to a date most convenient to the court's calendar
120 days after the hearing on the Motion on the Summary Judgment, which is
February 27, 2024. 
In support of its argument
that good cause exists for a continuance, Defendant states (among other things):
(1)  the hearing for the motion for
summary judgment is after the date set for trial, but Defendant had no control
over the assignment of the hearing date for the motion for summary judgment by
the court reservation system; 
(2)  the trial has been continued
once based upon a stipulation between the parties; 
(3)  Defendant is requesting at
least a 120 day continuance to allow the Court to consider its Motion for
Summary Judgment that is set for hearing in February 27, 2024; 
(4)  the alternative means to
address this problem is for the Court to advance the hearing date on the Motion
for Summary Judgment to a date prior to the trial date of January 30, 2024, but
given the Court’s heavy calendars, this alternative is not likely; 
(5)  Defendant will be
substantially prejudiced if the trial proceeds without the Court having the
opportunity to consider its timely filed Motion for Summary Judgment and the
prevailing authority is clear that the Court cannot refuse to hear a timely
filed Motion for Summary Judgment; 
(6)  Defendant's counsel will be
engaged in other trials on January 30, 2024 and April 11, 2024; and
(7)  the interest of justice is
best served if the trial is continued to allow the Court the opportunity to
hear its timely and meritorious Motion for Summary Judgment. 
Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to the motion.
 
The Court finds that there is good cause for continuing the trial
date as Defendant would be prejudiced by not being able to have its motion for
summary judgment be heard prior to the trial date.  Thus, the motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS
the motion to continue trial.
 
Trial is continued
to late May 2024.  Final Status
Conference and all deadlines are reset based on the new trial
date.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 