 Case Number:  21STCV37805    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Counsel is ordered to pay $250 to
State Bar Client Security Fund.
 
Background 
On October 13, 2021,
Plaintiff Efrain S Lazaro Hernandez filed an action against Defendant Beatriz
De Barragan, alleging motor vehicle negligence.
On, April 23, 2023, the Court dismissed
the case without prejudice as there were no appearances or contact by either
side.
On August 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to set aside and vacate order to dismiss and for relief pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473. No opposition
has been filed.
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
473(b) provides, in pertinent part, as follows:
 
The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken… Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section,
the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six
months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an
attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties.
 
 (Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff seeks to
set aside dismissal of the Complaint on the ground that dismissal was entered
due to Plaintiff’s counsel’s “mistake, inadvertence, surprise and excusable
neglect.”  (Mot. p. 5; Nazaretian Decl. ¶¶
3-4.) Specifically, Plaintiff’s counsel inadvertently failed to calendar the Status
Conference rescheduled by the Court and failed to make an appearance.  (Nazaretian Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) Plaintiff’s
counsel has submitted a sworn declaration apologizing for the mistake and
requesting the Court to vacate the dismissal. (Ibid.)
 
The Court finds
that Plaintiff’s Motion is timely. Plaintiff’s counsel has shown that
Plaintiff’s failure to appear at the April 12, 2023 hearing was due to
counsel’s mistake. For this reason, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion.
 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (c)(1)(B), the Court also ORDERS
attorney Leon Nazaretian to pay $250 to the State Bar Client Security Fund.  
 
Conclusion
 
For the foregoing
reasons, Plaintiff Efrain Lazaro Hernandez’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate
Dismissal is GRANTED. Dismissal entered on April 12, 2023, is hereby VACATED. 
 
Attorney Leon Nazaretian
is ORDERED to pay $250 to the State Bar Client Security Fund, and to submit to
the Court proof of payment, within 45 days of notice of this order.
 
The Court sets an
OSC re proof of payment in approximately 60 days.
 
Moving party is to
give notice.
 