 Case Number:  22STCV22709    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Order Compelling Responses to Requests for Production is DENIED as
moot.  
 
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in part. 
 
Background 
 
On July 14,
2022, Plaintiffs Luca Bruno and Brandi M. Brown filed the complaint in this
action against Defendants Jim K. Garcia, Ian McNeal Guevara, and Does 1 through
50, asserting claims for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence
arising out of a car accident that allegedly occurred on October 17, 2021.  
 
On January
19, 2023, Defendants Jim K. Garcia and Ian McNeal Guevara filed their answer.
 
On May 5,
2023, Plaintiff Luca Bruno (“Plaintiff”) propounded written discovery to
Defendant Jim Garcia (“Defendant”), including Requests for Production (Set One).  (Miletic Decl., ¶ 3
& Exh. B.)  As of the date of filing,
Defendant had not responded to the discovery requests.  (Id., ¶ 7.)  
 
On
July 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel Responses to Requests
for Production and for Monetary Sanctions. 

 
Defendant
did not file a timely opposition.  One
day before the hearing, Defendant’s counsel filed a declaration stating that Defendant
had served responses to the document requests on October 24.  (Jimenez Decl., ¶ 11.)  The responses are not attached to the
declaration.
 
The Court is also aware that there have
prior motions to compel granted in this case on June 7 and August 4, 2023.
 
Legal Standard 
 
A party must respond to requests for production of
documents within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260,
subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for production of documents are directed
does not provide timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) There
is no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses, and no meet and
confer efforts are required. (See id., § 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who
fails to provide a timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
When a party moves to compel initial responses to
requests for production, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the motion], unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(c).)
In
Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010,
subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include
“[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney
has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary
sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(a).)
“[P]roviding untimely responses does not divest the
trial court of its authority [to hear a motion to compel responses].”  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc.,
supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 407.)  Even
if the untimely response “does not contain objections [and] substantially
resolve[s] the issues raised by a motion to compel responses … the trial court
retains the authority to hear the motion.”¿ (Id. at pp. 408-409.)¿ This rule gives “an important incentive for parties to
respond to discovery in a timely fashion.”¿ (Id. at p. 408.)¿ If “the propounding party [does not] take the motion off
calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions,”
the trial court may “deny the motion to compel responses as essentially
unnecessary, in whole or in part, and just impose sanctions.”¿ (Id. at p. 409.) “The court may award sanctions
under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to
the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving
party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)  
Discussion
On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff propounded Requests
for Production (Set One) on Defendant.  (Miletic Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. B.) 
Defendant did not serve a timely response.  (Id., ¶ 7.)  According to Defendant’s counsel, Defendant
finally served responses two days prior to the hearing.  (Jimenez Decl., ¶ 11.)  
Based
on the representations of Defendant’s counsel, the motion to compel initial
responses is DENIED as moot.
Defendant’s request for
sanctions, however, is not moot.  That
request is GRANTED in part, as it appears that the filing of this motion (and
other motions) was necessary to bring Defendant into compliance with his obligations
under the Civil Discovery Act.  Given
the relatively straightforward nature of a motion to compel initial responses,
and the economies of scale associated with filing discovery motions, the Court
awards sanctions on this motion in the amount of $760,
calculated based on two hours of attorney work, multiplied by counsel’s billing
rate of $350 per hour, plus the filing fee of $60.  (See Miletic Decl., ¶ 8.)
Conclusion 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Order Compelling Responses to Requests for Production (Set One) is
DENIED as moot. 
 
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED. 
Defendant Jim K. Garcia and his counsel Chavez Legal Group aka Martinez,
Dietrich & Zarcone Legal Group are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff in
the amount of $760, jointly and severally, within 30 days of notice of this
order. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 
 