 Case Number:  21STCV33889    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background 
On September 14, 2021,
Plaintiff Moshe Golzar, a minor, by and through his guardian ad litem Esther
Akhamzadeh filed a complaint against Defendants Robert
Hanasab and 822 Robertson, LLC, alleging (1) premises liability; (2) personal
injury; (3) negligence; and (4) general damages.
On December 1, 2022, Defendants and
Cross-Complainants Robert Hanasab and 822 Robertson, LLC filed a cross
complaint against Cross-Defendant Hafco Group, Inc.
On September
28, 2023, Defendants filed the instant motion to continue trial. On
October 3, 2023, Cross-Defendant filed a joinder of motion to continue trial. No
opposition has been filed.
 
Trial is set for January 10, 2024. 
 
Legal Standard
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (c) states that
although disfavored, the trial date may
be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation): (1)
unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other
excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the new
party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3)
“excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready for trial. (Id.,
Rule 3.1332(c).)   
 
Other relevant considerations may include: “(1) The
proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The
length of the continuance requested; [¶] (4) The availability of alternative
means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a
result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial
setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance
outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶] (7) The court's calendar and the impact
of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule
3.1332(d).) 
 
CCP section 2024.050
allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery proceedings.  In doing
so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the leave requested, including,
but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery, (2) the diligence in seeking
the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the likelihood of interference with the
trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and (4) the length of time that has
elapsed between previous trial dates.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.) 
 
Discussion
Defendants move to continue
trial to February 2025 or thereafter that is convenient to the Court.
Defendants argue that good cause exists as Defendants' Motion for Summary
Adjudication cannot be heard without a continuance of the trial date due to the
nature of the Court's calendar and available Motion for Summary Adjudication
hearing dates. 
Cross-Defendant filed a motion
for summary judgment on September 20, 2023, that is set for hearing on December
19, 2024.  Defendants filed a motion for
summary adjudication on October 24, 2023, that is set for hearing on December
13, 2024.
Defendants state that (1) it
is in the interest of justice to order a trial continuance to allow their
Motion for Summary Adjudication, which was attempted to be set in a timely
manner, to be heard; (2) all parties are agreeable to the continuance such that
there is no prejudice to be had; and (3) the sought continuance will also allow
Cross-Defendant Hafco' s filed Motion for Summary Judgment to be heard and will
also allow the parties to attend mediation in this case which is in the process
of being scheduled and is anticipated to take place early next year.
The Court finds that there is good cause for continuing the trial
date to allow Defendants and Cross-Defendant’s motion for summary judgment to
be heard. Further, it does not appear that Plaintiff would be unfairly prejudiced
by a continuance, as Plaintiff has not opposed the continuance. Thus, the
motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS
the motion to continue trial.
 
Trial is continued
to a date in early February 2025.  Final
Status Conference and all deadlines are reset based on the new trial date.
 
Moving parties are ordered to give
notice.