

 
            Plaintiff
Clifford Katab is the former COO of Defendant Performance Team LLC (Performance
Team); Defendant Craig Kaplan was its CEO. Plaintiff Katab now sues Defendant Kaplan
and Performance Team based on events relating to the sale of Performance Team
to new owners, Damco Distribution Services Inc. (Damco). The allegations
include the claim that the sale resulted in Defendants’ underpayment
of millions of dollars in Performance Incentive Plan Units (PIPs) and Stock
Appreciation Rights Awards (SARs) owed to Plaintiff, various breaches of
contracts, and wage and hour claims. 
 
Pursuant
to the terms of the purchase agreement, and immediately after the acquisition
in April 2020, Plaintiff was paid over $23,000,000 in connection with
Performance Incentive Plan Units (PIPs) and Stock Appreciation Rights Awards
(SARs). (TAC, ¶¶ 20, 54, 173.) As a pre-condition to the payout, Plaintiff
signed separate Release Agreements relating to the PIPs and SARs, releasing any
claims whatsoever relating to the payments. (TAC, Exs. 12, 13.) Plaintiff
signed these releases and later signed a new Employment Agreement with Damco in
his executive role, until he quit in December 2020 to become the CEO of another
company. (TAC, ¶ 45, Exs. 1, 2, 4, 5, 14, 15.)
 
On December 4, 2023, Defendant Kaplan
demurred to the Third Amended Complaint. Defendant also moved to strike
portions of the TAC. Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer and motion
to strike. The Court overruled the demurrer to first, second, and sixth causes
of action and sustained as to the fifth, ninth and tenth causes of action; the motion
to strike was granted in part, denied in part, and moot in part.
 
            Now, Defendant
Performance Team LLC (Performance Team) demurs to the first through tenth
causes of action on the Third Amended Complaint. Defendant also moves to strike
portions of the TAC. Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer and motion
to strike.
 
            The
Demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint is overruled as to the first, second,
third, fourth, and sixth causes of action, and sustained as to the fifth,
seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth causes of action without leave to amend. The
Motion to Strike is granted in part, denied in part, and moot in part.
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Seventh, Eighth, Ninth and Tenth
Causes of Action - Affirmative Defense based on the Releases
 
            Defendant Performance
Team demurs to the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth causes of action on the
grounds that the claims are barred by the Releases. 
 
            “A written
release generally extinguishes any obligation covered by its terms, provided it
has not been obtained by fraud, deception, misrepresentation, duress or undue
influence.” (Tarpy v. County of San Diego (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 267,
276; Skrbina v. Fleming Companies (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1366.) That
is, “[w]hen a person with the capacity of reading and understanding an
instrument signs it, he is, in the absence of fraud and imposition, bound by
its contents and estopped from saying that its provisions are contrary to his
intentions or understanding.” (Tarpy v. County of San Diego, supra, 110
Cal.App.4th at 276; Jefferson v. Department of Youth Authority (2002) 28
Cal.4th 299, 303.) 
 
            Here, the
seventh cause of action for breach of the PIP Agreement and the eighth cause of
action for the breach of the SAR Agreement allege that Defendant Performance
Team breached its obligations under the PIP Agreement by failing to pay
Plaintiff Katab the full value of his PIP Units in connection with the Purchase
Transaction (TAC ¶ 162) and breached its obligations under the SAR Agreement by
failing to pay Plaintiff Katab the full value of his SAR Units in connection
with the Purchase Transaction (TAC ¶ 168).
 
The ninth cause of action for
conversion and the tenth cause of action for violation of Penal Code section
496 are based on Plaintiff’s allegation that he was underpaid the value of his
PIPs/SARs that he earned during his employment with Performance Team when
Performance Team was acquired in April 2020. (TAC ¶¶ 43-53; 172–179; 180-189.)
Specifically, the ninth cause of action for conversion alleges “Defendants”
unlawfully “withheld” and thereby converted $6.7 million from the “Katab
Damco Funds” and proceeds
of the sale of Performance Team in April 2020, which Plaintiff alleges belonged
to him. (TAC ¶ 176.) 
 
The tenth cause of action for
violation of Penal Code section 496 alleges Plaintiff’s underpayment of his
PIPs and SARs was the result of criminal “fraud or deceit,” and that the
proceeds were withheld in a “manner constituting theft.” (TAC ¶ 182.)
 
            In
connection with the sale of Performance Team, Defendants were required to deliver
SAR and PIP Releases (Releases) to Damco on or before April 1, 2020. (TAC ¶
33.) Those Releases released Defendant Kaplan and Performance Team from any
claims that Plaintiff may have arising out of or relating to any PIP or SAR payments
or Plaintiff’s employment with Performance Team. (TAC, Exs. 12-13.)
 
            Specifically,
the PIP Release states, in relevant part:
 
“Effective upon the payment…of the
PIP Payment Amount and consideration in the amount of
$5,000…[Plaintiff]…forever, unconditionally and irrevocably releases and forever
discharges (and covenants not to sue) the Company, PT Holdings, [Performance
Team, LLC], [Damco Distribution Services, Inc.] and each of their current and
former…directors, managers (including Craig Kaplan)…in respect of, arising out
of, relating to, as a result of or in connection with…the calculation and
determination of the PIP Payment Amount…or with respect to [Plaintiff’s]
receipt of the PIP Payment Amount….” (TAC Ex. 12.) 
 
            The SAR
Release states, in relevant part:
 
“Participant understands payment
under the 2019 SAR Agreement is intended as a full and complete payment
satisfying any rights to related benefits or compensation under that Agreement
and any predecessor or related agreements. Participant acknowledges the
sufficiency and satisfaction of all payments owed to Participant by Company,
Performance Team PIP LLC, or any other related entity… at the time the release
is signed, including without limitation the payment of wages, bonuses, 2011
Performance Team LLC Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, and amount under the
Performance Team PIP LLC Restricted Unit Incentive Plan.” C
 
On March 24, 2020, Plaintiff executed
the Releases. (TAC ¶¶ 35-45, Exs. 12-13.) Both Releases allowed Plaintiff seven
days to revoke the Releases after signing them. (TAC, Ex., 12, p. 1, Ex. 13 p.
3.) 
 
Defendant Performance Team argues
these Releases provide a complete defense to the claims relating to those
payments – the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth causes of action. Further,
Defendant argues that the TAC’s allegations attempting to vitiate these
Releases fail.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
three independent grounds to vitiate these Releases. These are the same grounds
the Court found unpersuasive in its ruling on Defendant Kaplan’s demurrer based
on the Releases. 
 
Thus, for the reasons stated in that
ruling, the demurrer is sustained to the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth
causes of action without leave to amend.
 
First
and Second Causes of Action 
 
            Defendant Performance Team joins Defendant
Kaplan’s demurrer to the first and second causes of action. (Dem., 12:15-18.)
 
            The first cause
of action alleges that Defendants failed to pay bonuses Plaintiff was entitled
to within 72 hours of his termination. (TAC ¶¶ 56-61, 83-88.) Similarly, the
second cause of action alleging that Defendant did not pay Plaintiff for accrued
vacation time at the time of Plaintiff’s termination. (TAC ¶¶ 96-100.)

 
            For the reasons stated in the
Court’s ruling on the previous demurrer, the demurrer to the first and second causes
of action are overruled. 
 
Third
and Fourth Causes of Action for Breach of Contracts
 
            On
demurrer, Defendant Performance Team argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege
facts showing that Plaintiff performed all the preconditions to effectuating a
“good reason” resignation and failed to plead compliance with the “good reason”
notice requirements.
 
            The third
cause of action for breach of the Employment Agreement alleges that Defendant Performance
Team breached the Employment Agreement by refusing to pay to Plaintiff Katab
the Performance Bonus and Add-On Bonus and by making the payment of the
Performance Bonus contingent upon signing a general release which contained an
invalid and unenforceable restrictive covenant. (TAC ¶ 110.) In the alternative,
Plaintiff Katab is entitled to the Performance Bonus and Add- On Bonus because
he terminated his employment with Defendant Performance Team for Good Reason.
(TAC ¶ 111.)
 
            The fourth
cause of action for breach of the Retention Agreement alleges Defendant Performance
Team breached the Retention Agreement by failing to pay Plaintiff a Retention
Bonus of $1.5 million after Plaintiff resigned from his employment with
Defendant Performance Team for Good Reason. (TAC ¶ 121.) 
 
            In
demurring to both causes of action, Defendant argues that, to effectuate a
“Good Reason” resignation under those agreements, Plaintiff was required to
“provide written notice of termination for Good Reason to the Company [PTL]
within 30 days after the event constituting the Good Reason.” (TAC, Ex. 1, § 8;
Ex. 2, § 3(b).) Then, Performance Team has a period of 30 days in which it may
correct the act or failure to act that constitutes the grounds for Good Reason
as set forth in the Executive’s notice of termination.” (TAC, Ex. 1, § 8; Ex.
2, § 3(b). Next, and only if “the Company does not correct the act or failure
to act” during the 30-day cure period, Plaintiff’s employment would “terminate
for Good Reason on the first business day following the Company’s 30-day cure
period.” (TAC, Ex. 1, § 8; Ex. 2, § 3(b).) These notices are only to be deemed
“given” if hand-delivered or mailed by registered and certified mail to Performance
Team’s General Counsel in Florham Park, New Jersey. (TAC, Ex. 1, § 15; Ex. 2, §
7.)
 
            The demurrer
argues that Plaintiff has not pled compliance with these requirements and thus,
have not demonstrated entitlement to the benefits of a “Good Reason” resignation.

 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that his communication with Defendant Kaplan
modified the notice requirements of the Employment Agreement and the Retention
Agreement (collectively, Agreements). Specifically, the TAC alleges Defendant
Kaplan, as the alter ego of Performance Team, directed Plaintiff to only
communicate with Kaplan about Plaintiff’s concerns regarding his duties and
responsibilities, and to not communicate by email about his concerns. (TAC ¶
63.)
 
            Plaintiff acknowledges
that the Agreements provide that they can only be modified by written document
signed by Plaintiff and Performance Team. However, as cited by Plaintiff in his
opposition, “ ‘the parties may, by their conduct, waive such a
provision’ where evidence shows that was their intent.” (Biren v. Equality
Emergency Medical Group, Inc. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 125, 141.) Thus, for
the purposes of this demurrer, this technical defect in complying with the notice
is not fatal, especially where the TAC alleges that Defendant Kaplan
specifically directed Plaintiff to communicate only with him, orally. (TAC ¶
63.) Further, the requirement that notice be written and sent to Performance
Team’s General Counsel per section 15 of the Employment Agreement and section 7 of the
Retention Agreement is also subject to this modification argument.
 
            Performance
Team further contends that Plaintiff failed to comply with the requirement for
timely providing notice of the Good Reason. Specifically, Defendant notes that
the Plaintiff alleges that the material alteration of his duties occurred “[s]hortly
after the close” of the sale of Performance Team, but it was not until December
22, 2020—over six (6) months after the close of the sale transaction—that
Plaintiff allegedly “notified Defendant Kaplan … that he was resigning from his
employment with Defendant Performance Team . . ..” (TAC ¶ 16.) Thus, it was not
within the 30 days required. (TAC, Ex. 1, § 8; Ex. 2, § 3(b) [To effectuate a “Good Reason”
resignation under those agreements, Plaintiff was required to “provide written
notice of termination for Good Reason to the Company [Performance Team] within
30 days after the event constituting the Good Reason.”].)
 
            As argued
in Plaintiff’s opposition, the exact date of when the material alternation occurred,
triggering the notice requirement, is uncertain. That is, Plaintiff argues that
the “TAC does not indicate that Plaintiff’s duties and responsibilities
increased exactly once, and thereafter remained constant.” (Opp., 12:24-25.) At
the pleading stage, this argument is well taken. The allegations do not affirmatively
indicate non-compliance with this specific notice requirement given the possibility
of changes to different duties and responsibility over time, culminating
in the alleged material alteration. 
 
            Defendant Performance
Team further argues that, even assuming Plaintiff’s alleged notice of his
resignation on December 22, 2020 to Defendant Kaplan was effective to initiate
a Good Reason resignation under his agreements, Plaintiff still failed to
provide Performance Team with “30 days in which it may correct the act or
failure to act that constitutes the grounds for Good Reason as set forth in the
Executive’s notice of termination.” (TAC, Ex. 1, § 8; Ex. 2, § 3(b).) Instead, Plaintiff alleges he
stopped working for Performance Team on January 15, 2021 – 24 days after he
notified Kaplan of his resignation. (TAC ¶ 67.)
 
            Here, the
TAC alleges that Plaintiff gave notice “[w]ithin months of signing the
Employment Agreement and Retention Agreement” of his concerns regarding the increase
in his duties and responsibilities. (TAC ¶ 62.) Based on this allegation, the “notice
of termination for Good Reason” referenced in the Employment and Retention
Agreements can reasonably be interpreted to refer to notice of the grounds
constituting Good Reason such that this allegation is sufficiently pleaded. 
 
            Finally, Plaintiff
generally argues the allegations demonstrate substantial performance with the
notice requirements of Employment and Retention Agreements.
 
            “In
California, a party is deemed to have substantially complied with an obligation
where the deviation is “unintentional and so minor or trivial as not ‘substantially
to defeat the object which the parties intend to accomplish.’ ”” (Ewing v.
K2 Property Development, LLC (S.D. Cal., Oct. 4, 2018, No. 16CV678-LAB
(AGS)) 2018 WL 4852159, at *3 [quoting Wells Benz, Inc. v. United States
(9th Cir. 1964) 333 F.2d 89, 92 and Connell v. Higgins (1915) 170 Cal.
541, 556.) “This standard doesn't require perfection ... [and] deviations are
permitted so long as they don't defeat the object of the [agreement.]” (Rouser
v. White (9th Cir. 2016) 825 F.3d 1076, 1082.)
 
            When
a contract is substantially performed, a minor breach is deemed immaterial. “Under
the doctrine [of substantial performance], minor or technical breaches of a
contract are excused, not because the breaching party could not have
performed completely but because the performance that was rendered was so
similar or close to that required under the contract that the failure to
perform exactly results in an immaterial breach, the non-breaching party having
gotten substantially what it bargained for.” (15 Williston on Contracts (4th
ed.) § 44:52 [emphasis in original].) 
 
            The reply
does not address this opposition argument. The allegations in the TAC are
sufficient at the pleading stage to demonstrate substantial performance. 
 
            The
demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action are overruled.
 
Fifth
Causes of Action for Business and Professions Code section 17203
 
            Defendant Performance Team demurs to the fifth cause of
action based on Plaintiff’s failure to state a claim under Business and
Professions Code section 17203. 
 
            As a preliminary matter, Defendant is correct that injunctive
relief and restitution are remedies and not causes of action. (Dem., 17:12.) 
 
            It is well
settled that injunctive relief is an equitable remedy, not a cause of action. (Shell
Oil Co. v. Richter (1942) 52 Cal.App.2d 164, 168 [“Injunctive relief is a
remedy and not, in itself, a cause of action, and a cause of action must exist
before injunctive relief may be granted.”]; Venice Coalition to Preserve
Unique Community Character v. City of Los Angeles (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 42,
54 [“An injunction is a remedy, not a cause of action.”]; Wong v. Jing
(2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1360, fn. 2 [same; anti-SLAPP appeal].) 
 
            Further, restitution is also a
remedy. (Colgan v. Leatherman Tool Group, Inc. (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th
663, 699 [“Whether restitution is in the form of an equitable remedy or legal
remedy, the relief is based on a specific amount found owing.”]; American
Psychometric Consultants, Inc. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1995) 36
Cal.App.4th 1626, 1645 [“Restitution is an
equitable remedy which has primarily been utilized by courts to prevent unjust
enrichment.”]; Jogani v. Superior
Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 901, 910 [“[R]estitution can be a legal, as
opposed to equitable, remedy.”].)
 
However,
notwithstanding the label, the claim will stand if it sufficiently states a
cause of action supporting these remedies. (Daly
v. Exxon Corp. (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 39, 43 [“Regardless of the label
attached to the cause of action, we must examine the complaint’s factual
allegations to determine whether they state a cause of action on any available
legal theory. [Citation.] Reversible error is committed if the facts alleged
show entitlement to relief under any possible legal theory.”].)
 
            Here, the violation for unfair business practices appears
to rest upon Plaintiff’s claim that there are unlawful restrictive covenants in
Plaintiff’s employment agreements, which violate Business and Professions Code
section 16600, and the Releases are unlawful under Labor Code section 206.5.[1]
(TAC ¶¶ 134, 140.) 
 
            In response to the restrictive covenant allegation, Defendant
argues this claim is not ripe where there is no allegation that Defendant has
made any attempt to enforce this restrictive covenant or otherwise suggest that
this provision is at issue between the parties. The Court agrees that the mere
inclusion of this arguably unlawful provision in an employment agreement is,
alone, not a basis for a violation of Business and Professions Code section
16600 where there are no other allegations suggesting a real controversy. (Communities for a Better Environment v. State Energy
Resources Conservation & Development Com.
(2017) 19 Cal.App.5th 725, 733 [“[U]nripe cases are those “ ‘in which parties
seek a judicial declaration on a question of law, though no actual dispute or
controversy ever existed between them requiring the declaration for its
determination.””].) 
 
            Additionally, the Fifth Cause of Action also seeks
injunctive relief to redress Defendants’ unlawful conduct regarding the
Releases that Plaintiff contends violates California Labor Code section 206.5.
(TAC ¶¶ 133, 140.) As discussed in the Court’s analysis of Labor Code section
260.5 in its previous ruling on the demurrer, this argument fails. 
 
            Thus, there are no causes of action to support the
requested remedies of preliminary injunction and restitution under this cause
of action. The demurrer to this cause of action is sustained without leave to
amend. 
 
Sixth
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief 
 
To state a claim for declaratory relief, the plaintiff
must allege facts showing there is a dispute between the parties concerning
their legal rights, constituting an “actual controversy” within the meaning of
the declaratory relief statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060; Artus v Gramercy
Towers Condominium Assn. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 923, 930.)


This
cause of action sets forth clear existing controversies regarding rights and
obligations relating to the Employment Agreement and Retention Agreement. (TAC
¶ 147-156.) Thus, the demurrer to this cause of action is overruled. 
 
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant
Performance Team, through its joinder to the Motion to Strike portions of the
TAC filed by Defendant Kaplan, moves to strike the request for various forms of
relief, sham allegations, allegations added without leave from the Court and
punitive damages from the TAC. (Kaplan’s Mot., 2:2:5-26.) Specifically,
Defendant seeks to strike the following:
 
1. Plaintiff's allegation that he
was shown a final worksheet of his payout “on or about the April 1, 2020
closing of the Purchase Transaction,” rather than before the closing, and
allegations that Plaintiff was fraudulently induced to enter into the Releases,
which directly contradict Plaintiff’s prior allegations in the FAC and the
Exhibit 16 thereto, as sham pleading (TAC, ¶¶ 41, 42, 45, 49, 125, 164, 170,
188); 
2. Plaintiff’s allegations regarding
and request for injunctive relief and restitution as alleged in his Fifth Cause
of Action, as it is an unsupported and improperly alleged claim for relief
(TAC, ¶¶ 129–144, and p. 32:2–5); 
3. Plaintiff’s allegations regarding
and request for injunctive relief and restitution as alleged in his Sixth Cause
of Action, as it is an unsupported and improperly alleged claim for relief
(TAC, ¶¶ 145–159, and p. 32:1); 
4. Plaintiff’s addition of
Performance Team PIP, LLC as a defendant and allegations regarding Performance
Team PIP, LLC, as an amendment improperly made without leave of Court (TAC, p.
1 (caption), p. 2:2, ¶¶ 4, 18, 28); 
5. Plaintiff’s allegations regarding
alter ego liability, as an amendment improperly made without leave of Court
(TAC, ¶¶ 4, 18, 19); 
6. Plaintiff’s allegations regarding
joint employer liability, as an amendment improperly made without leave of
Court (TAC, ¶ 19); and 
7. Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages, as Plaintiff fails to adequately allege the requisite malice, fraud,
or oppression (TAC, ¶ 179, and p. 31:25).
 
            The
Court denies the motion to strike as to Nos. 4-6. 
 
Further, based
on the Court’s ruling on demurrer, Nos. 1-3 are moot. 
 
Moreover,
after sustaining the demurrer to the fifth, ninth and tenth causes of action,
no claim remains to support the request for punitive damages. As the motion to
strike correctly argues, the first and second causes of action cannot, as a
matter of law, support a request for punitive damages. (Mot., 18:8-15 [citing Cones
v. Parexel International Corporation (S.D. Cal., July 7, 2017, No.
3:16-CV-03084-L-BGS) 2017 WL 2908789, at *1].) Plaintiff concedes this point.
(Opp. To Kaplan’s Mot., 17:3-4.) Further, the remaining claims for breaches of
contract and the derivative claim for declaratory relief also cannot support a
request for punitive damages, as a matter of law. 
            
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is granted as to the request for punitive damages. 
 
The motion
to strike is granted in part, denied in part, and moot in part. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Demurrer to the Third Amended
Complaint is overruled as to the first, second, third, fourth and sixth causes
of action.  The Demurrer is sustained as
to the fifth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth causes of action without leave
to amend. The Motion to Strike is granted in part, denied in part, and moot in
part. 


