 Case Number:  23STLC07583    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  26   
National Commercial Recovery, Inc. v. Lindo
Michoacan Corp.,
et al.MOTION TO AMEND JUDGMENT
(CCP § 187)
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
Judgment Creditor National Commerical Recovery, Inc.’s Motion to Amend
Judgment is GRANTED. JUDGMENT CREDITOR IS TO FILE A PROPOSED AMENDED JUDGMENT
WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On November 28, 2023, Plaintiff National Commerical
Recovery, Inc. (“Judgment Creditor”) filed the instant action against Defendants Lindo
Michoacan Corporation (“Judgment Debtor Lindo”), Ivan Lopez (“Judgment Debtor
Ivan”), and Martin Lopez (“Judgment Debtor Martin”). Default judgment was
entered against Judgment Debtors on May 29, 2024. 
 
On June 5, 2024, Judgment Creditor filed
the instant motion to amend the judgment. No opposition has been filed to date.

 
Discussion
 
Judgment Creditor moves pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 187 to add “Lindo Michoacan Anaheim Corporation dba Lindo
Michoacan 2 adba Lindo Michoacan” as an additional judgment debtor.
 
“Under section 187, the trial court
is authorized to amend a judgment to add additional judgment debtors.... As a
general rule, ‘a court may amend its judgment at any time so that the judgment
will properly designate the real defendants.’.... Judgments may be amended to
add additional judgment debtors on the ground that a person or entity is the
alter ego of the original judgment debtor.... ‘Amendment of a judgment to add
an alter ego “is an equitable procedure based on the theory that the court is
not amending the judgment to add a new defendant but is merely inserting the
correct name of the real defendant...
 
(Greenspan v. LADT, LLC
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 508 [citing Hall, Goodhue, Haisley & Barker,
Inc. v. Marconi Conf. Center Bd. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1551, 1554-1555].) This
reasoning also applies to successor corporations. (McClellan v. Northridge
Park  Townhome Owners Association., Inc.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 746, 753-754.) 
 
Judgment Creditor moves on the grounds that “Lindo
Michoacan Anaheim Corporation dba Lindo Michoacan 2 adba Lindo Michoacan” is
Judgment Debtor Lindo’s successor-in-interest. The relevant factors for finding
the new corporation is a mere continuation of the original corporation are that
upon acquiring its assets, (1) no adequate consideration was given for the
original corporation’s assets and made available for meeting the claims of its
unsecured creditors; or (2) one or more of the persons were officers, directors,
or stockholders of both corporations. (McClellan, supra at 754,
n. 4.) Here, “Lindo Michoacan Anaheim Corporation dba Lindo Michoacan 2 adba
Lindo Michoacan” operates out of the same address where the subject debt was
incurred, demonstrating a transfer of assets, and Judgment Debtor Martin,
principal of Judgment Debtor Lindo Michoacan, is CEO and sole director of the
new corporation. (Motion, Besnyl Decl., ¶3 and Exh. B.) Judgment Creditor has
further determined that there have been no “Notice to Creditors of Intended
Bulk Sale” recorded by either Judgment Debtor Lindo or “Lindo Michoacan Anaheim
Corporation dba Lindo Michoacan 2 adba Lindo Michoacan,” which indicates that
no consideration was exchanged for acquisition of Judgment Debtor Lindo’s
assets. 
 
This evidence demonstrates that
“Lindo Michoacan Anaheim Corporation dba Lindo Michoacan 2 adba Lindo
Michoacan” is the successor corporation of Judgment Debtor Lindo. Furthermore, if
the judgment is not amended, Judgment Creditor will be unable to collect on the judgment against
Judgment Debtor Lindo. (Id. at ¶4.)
 
Conclusion
 
Judgment Creditor National Commerical Recovery, Inc.’s Motion to Amend
Judgment is GRANTED. JUDGMENT CREDITOR IS TO FILE A PROPOSED AMENDED JUDGMENT
WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 