 Case Number:  23TRCV02882    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANNA
  MARIE FARNER, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02882




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
TOYOTA
  MOTOR SALES, U.S.A., INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                        October
2, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Anna Marie Farner and Joshua Wayne Farner
Motion
to Compel Arbitration
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED. 
BACKGROUND
            On August 31, 2023, plaintiffs Anna
Marie Farner and Joshua Wayne Farner filed a complaint against Toyota Motor
Sales, U.S.A., Inc. for violations of Song-Beverly Act as to a 2022 Toyota Highlander.
            On October 6, 2023, defendant filed
an answer.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . .
with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .
with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention
or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among
the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .
. . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant Toyota Motor Sales,
U.S.A., Inc. requests an order compelling binding arbitration and to stay the
proceedings.
            Existence of an Enforceable
Agreement
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Defendant Toyota relies on a copy
of the Retail Installment Sales Contract (“RISC”) attached to defense counsel
Ali Ameripour’s declaration that an arbitration agreement exists.  It was purportedly executed by plaintiffs and
states, in part:  “Either You or We may
choose to have any dispute between us decided by arbitration and not in court
or by jury trial. . . . Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort,
statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this
Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between
you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of
or relates to [the] purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action.”  “You” is defined as the Buyer.  “Us” refers to the seller Vahi, Inc.
As to whether Toyota can enforce
the arbitration agreement in the RISC, the parties agree that defendant is not
a signatory.  Rather, defendant argues
that it can enforce the arbitration provision as an intended third-party
beneficiary because plaintiffs’ claims arise out of and relate to the condition
of the vehicle and the “resulting” warranty relationship that arose out of the
execution of the RISC.  Defendant also
argues that it can enforce the arbitration provision under equitable estoppel
because plaintiffs’ claims rely on the existence of the RISC in order to
maintain the causes of action alleged under Song-Beverly Act, citing to Felisilda
v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal. App. 5th 486.  Defendant further contends that the FAA
requires enforcement of the arbitration agreement.  Moreover, defendant argues, plaintiffs’
claims fall squarely within the scope of the arbitration provision.
In opposition, plaintiffs cite to Ford
Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal. App. 5th 1324 (“Ochoa”),
which addresses the exact issue—whether a non-signatory manufacturer can invoke
the arbitration provision in a sales contract. 
Plaintiffs note that Ochoa states that the sales contract was not
the source of its manufacturer’s warranties and that the arbitration provision
does not show any consent by the purchasers to arbitrate with unidentified
third parties, such as vehicle manufacturers. 
Plaintiffs contend that the Court of Appeal has consistently declined to
follow the analysis in Felisilda. 
See also Montemayor v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 92 Cal. App. 5th
958 (holding the same); Kielar v. Superior Court of Placer County (2023)
94 Cal. App. 5th 614 (holding the same).  Plaintiffs also argue that Felisilda
is factually and procedurally distinguishable from this case because the
plaintiffs in Felisilda had a single cause of action jointly against
both the manufacturer and the dealership. 
Plaintiffs further argue that defendant is not an intended third-party
beneficiary to the RISC, citing to Ochoa, at 1329.  Moreover, plaintiffs contend, equitable
estoppel does not apply because plaintiffs’ claims are based on the warranties
received directly from defendant manufacturer.
In reply, defendant reiterates its
arguments that the arbitration provision in the RISC is enforceable and that it
has standing as a third-party beneficiary. 
Further, defendant contends that Felisilda should be followed
over Ochoa because the warranty is intertwined with the purchase.
The Court rules as follows:
Although the Court finds the
existence of an agreement to arbitrate contained in the Retail Installment
Sales Contract between plaintiff and non-party seller, the Court finds that
defendant cannot enforce it as a non-signatory under any theory.
            As
to whether defendant is a third-party beneficiary, the Court finds that it is
not.  “A third-party beneficiary may
enforce a contract made for its benefit.”  CCP §1559. 
“[A] review of this court’s third party beneficiary decisions reveals
that our court has carefully examined the express provisions of the contract at
issue, as well as all of the relevant circumstances under which the contract
was agreed to, in order to determine not only (1) whether the third party would
in fact benefit from the contract, but also (2) whether a motivating purpose of
the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party, and (3)
whether permitting a third party to bring its own breach of contract action
against a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the contract
and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.  All three elements must be satisfied to
permit the third party action to go forward.” 
Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal. 5th 817,
830.  See also Montemayor, supra,
that held that the manufacturer was not a third- party beneficiary under CCP
§1559 or the dealership’s sales contract because nothing in the contract or its
arbitration provision reflected intent to benefit the manufacturer, offered any
benefit to the manufacturer, or supported an inference the manufacturer had any
interest in the contract.  Here,
defendant has not shown that the sales contract or the arbitration provision
meets any of the elements.
As to the doctrine of equitable
estoppel, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel
a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against
the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the
underlying contract obligations.”  JSM
Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal. App. 4th 1222, 1237.  The doctrine applies:  (1) when the signatory must rely on the terms
of the written agreement containing the arbitration clause in asserting its
claims against the nonsignatory; or (2) when the signatory alleges
“substantially interdependent and concerted misconduct” by the nonsignatory and
a signatory and the alleged misconduct is “founded in or intimately connected
with the obligations of the underlying agreement.”  Goldman v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173 Cal. App.
4th 209, 218-219.  The first situation
exists “‘when the signatory to a written agreement containing an arbitration
clause “must rely on the terms of the written agreement in asserting [its] claims”
against the nonsignatory.’”  Id.
at 218 (citation omitted).
The Court follows the Seconc
District court of appeal case, Ford Motor Warranty Cases, Ochoa v. Ford
Motor Company (April 4, 2023) 2023 WL 2768484, which addresses whether a
non-signatory manufacturer can invoke the arbitration provision (which is
identical to the herein provision) in a sales contract and declines to follow
the holding in Felisilda.  The
appellate court rejected the manufacturer’s positions as to equitable estoppel,
third-party beneficiary, and agency theories, stating:  “We agree with the trial court that FMC could
not compel arbitration based on plaintiffs’ agreements with the dealers that
sold them the vehicles.  Equitable
estoppel does not apply because, contrary to FMC’s arguments, plaintiffs’
claims against it in no way rely on the agreements.  FMC was not a third party of those agreements
as there is no basis to conclude the plaintiffs and their dealers entered into
them with the intention of benefitting FMC.  And FMC is not entitled to enforce the
agreements as an undisclosed principal because there is no nexus between
plaintiffs’ claims, any alleged agency between FMC and the dealers, and the
agreements.”  The Court also follows Montemayor
v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal. App. 5th 958, which determined
same, that a vehicle manufacturer could not compel arbitration of consumer
claims under an equitable estoppel argument because the claims against the
manufacturer were not dependent on and inextricably intertwined with the
obligations imposed by the sales contract but instead alleged an express
written warranty.  See also Kielar v.
Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal. App. 5th 614 (holding that trial
court incorrectly held equitable estoppel allowed a nonsignatory vehicle
manufacturer to rely on a purchaser’s sales contract with his dealership to
force the plaintiff’s causes of action into arbitration).
The motion is thus DENIED.
 
ORDER
            The motion is DENIED.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of the ruling.