  Case Number:  20TRCV00092    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  B 


The
  Superior Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SCOTT
  DAIN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20TRCV00092




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MARTIN
  RAMIREZ, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October
2, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Scott Dain
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
for Order Imposing Liability on Third Party Sandra Alfaro Under Civil Code
§3439
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
BACKGROUND
            On January 23, 2020, Scott Dain
filed a complaint against Martin Ramirez and La Fiesta Meat Market, Inc. for
(1) breach of written and oral contracts, (2) fraud and deceit, and (3) common
counts.  Plaintiff alleges that he and
defendants entered into a written contract (a “Standard Promissory Note”)
wherein plaintiff agreed to loan defendants $70,600.  Plaintiff further alleges that defendants
breached the contract by failing to repay the loan. 
On June 15, 2020, plaintiff filed
an amendment to complaint designating Ismael Ramirez, defendant Martin
Ramirez’s son, as Doe 2. 
On July 29, 2020, a default was
entered against Ismael Ramirez.  
 
On September 18, 2020, the court
granted defendant’s motion to set aside default.  
On May 11, 2021, plaintiff
dismissed defendant Ismael Ramirez without prejudice. 
On June 18, 2021, defaults were
entered against Martin Ramirez and La Fiesta Meat Market, Inc. 
On August 17, 2021, the court
denied Ismael Ramirez’s motion for attorney’s fees. 
On November 15, 2021, a default
judgment was entered against Martin Ramirez and La Fiesta Meat Market for
$84,449.12.
On October 4, 2023, the court
denied defendant Martin Ramirez’s motion to tax costs.
On June 5, 2024, the court granted
plaintiff’s motion to enforce judgment creditor’s levy excluding perishable
items and conditioned that plaintiff was to post a bond of $25,000 to protect
any loss to the equipment or loss to the business, such as loss of income.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Pursuant
to CCP §697.610, “a judgment lien on personal property continues
notwithstanding the sale, exchange, or other disposition of the property.”
Civil
Code §3439.04 states:  “(a) A transfer
made or obligation incurred by a debtor is voidable as to a creditor, whether
the creditor’s claim arose before or after the transfer was made or the
obligation was incurred, if the debtor made the transfer or incurred the
obligation as follows:
(1) With
actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor.
(2)
Without receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or
obligation, and the debtor either:
(A) Was
engaged or was about to engage in a business or a transaction for which the
remaining assets of the debtor were unreasonably small in relation to the
business or transaction.
(B)
Intended to incur, or believed or reasonably should have believed that the
debtor would incur, debts beyond the debtor’s ability to pay as they became
due.
(b) In
determining actual intent under paragraph (1) of subdivision (a), consideration
may be given, among other factors, to any or all of the following:
(1)
Whether the transfer or obligation was to an insider.
(2)
Whether the debtor retained possession or control of the property transferred
after the transfer.
(3)
Whether the transfer or obligation was disclosed or concealed.
(4)
Whether before the transfer was made or obligation was incurred, the debtor had
been sued or threatened with suit.
(5)
Whether the transfer was of substantially all the debtor’s assets.
(6)
Whether the debtor absconded.
(7)
Whether the debtor removed or concealed assets.
(8)
Whether the value of the consideration received by the debtor was reasonably
equivalent to the value of the asset transferred or the amount of the
obligation incurred.
(9)
Whether the debtor was insolvent or became insolvent shortly after the transfer
was made or the obligation was incurred.
(10)
Whether the transfer occurred shortly before or shortly after a substantial
debt was incurred.
(11)
Whether the debtor transferred the essential assets of the business to a lienor
that transferred the assets to an insider of the debtor.
(c) A
creditor making a claim for relief under subdivision (a) has the burden of
proving the elements of the claim for relief by a preponderance of the
evidence.”
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
and judgment creditor Scott Dain requests an order imposing liability on third
party Sandra Alfaro under Civil Code §3439, et seq. in the amount of
$87,566.50.  
            The
Court had previously granted plaintiff’s motion to enforce judgment creditor’s
levy. The Court had requested argument as to the following issue, which is
relevant to the herein motion:  “Insofar
as the claim of Judgment Creditor is that the transfer of assets to the third
parties constitutes a fraudulent concealment under Civil Code §3439, et seq.,
must an action be commenced before the Court may grant a remedy under Civil
Code §3439.07?”  The herein motion does
not convincingly persuade the Court that the answer is “no.”
            In
the herein motion, plaintiff explains that during an attempt to levy on
judgment debtors’ assets, the Los Angeles County Sheriff discovered that Alfaro
had recently begun operating La Fiesta’s grocery storefront and purportedly
assumed ownership of the business. 
Plaintiff contends that due to the “apparent new operator” at La
Fiesta’s location, the Sheriff refused to levy on the property.  Plaintiff argues that the inventory and other
business fixtures within the storefront located at 15020 Hawthorne Blvd.,
Lawndale, are secured by judgment creditor’s lien and subject to levy,
regardless of its current ownership or management.  Plaintiff also argues that “this purported
business acquisition has all the hallmarks of a fraudulent transfer.”  Plaintiff further asserts that the judgment
lien attaches to any property interest the debtors acquire thereafter, remains
in effect until December 15, 2026, and remains affixed with the property, even
if it has been transferred, citing to CCP §697.510(b) and §697.530(b).
            Plaintiff
also argues that the remedy of ordering third party Sandra Alfaro to pay the
judgment amount is appropriate. 
Plaintiff cites to Civil Code §3439.07(a)(3)(C), subject to applicable
principles of equity and in accordance with applicable rules of civil
procedure, the Court is authorized to order “any other relief the circumstances
may require.”  Plaintiff asserts that
this includes the authority to enter a money judgment against the transferee.  See Filip v. Bucurenciu 129 Cal. App. 4th
825, 840 (2005) (the court acted well within its discretion in fashioning
relief to remedy defendants’ fraudulent conduct).  Moreover, plaintiff contends, Civil Code
§3439.10 provides that “the principles of law and equity” supplement the
provisions of the UVTA.  Kirkeby v.
Superior Court (2004) 33 Cal.4th 642, 652.
            The
Court rules as follows:  The Court finds
that plaintiff has not met its burden of showing authority to allow the Court
to order third party, Sandra Alfaro, to pay damages in the herein case.  Plaintiff even acknowledges that the UVTA
“does not specifically authorize the imposition of liability by motion.”  Also, the Court has not adjudicated that defendants
fraudulently conveyed the property to Alfaro. 
Plaintiff did not file a complaint against Alfaro and thus there has
been no due process.  The law cited by
plaintiff is in the context of an action against a defendant, not as to a third
party after judgment has been entered.  Filip,
supra, was an action brought under the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act.
            The
motion is thus DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
ORDER
            The
motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.