 Case Number:  22SMCV01313    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01313




MOTION


Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Michael Keyes DBA Global Ocean and Land
  Construction




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Glenn Vallecillos M.D., Inc.



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case stems from a dispute over
the remodel of Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Glenn Vallecillos, M.D., Inc.’s (“Plaintiff”)
surgical center.  
 
Plaintiff filed the original
complaint on August 10, 2022, against Defendants Michael Keyes dba Global Ocean
and Land Construction (“Keyes”) and Hudson Insurance Company, alleging twelve
causes of action for (1) breach of written contract; (2) unjust enrichment; (3)
intentional misrepresentation; (4) negligent misrepresentation; (5) unfair
business practices; (6) negligence; (7) declaratory relief; (8) disgorgement of
money paid to unlicensed contractor; (9) recovery on contractors bond; (10)
conversion; and (11) violation of penal code section 496.
 
On March 12, 2024, Keyes filed a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff Glenn Vallecillos, M.D., Inc. and against
Glenn Vallecillos, M.D., an individual (together, “Vallecillos”) alleging ten
causes of action for (1) fraudulent inducement; (2) negligent
misrepresentation; (3) breach of oral contract; (4) conversion; (5) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (6) reasonable value; (7) agreed price; (8)
book account; (9) declaratory relief; and (10) unfair business practices.  
 
Vallecillos now demurs to all
causes of action asserted in the Cross-Complaint on the grounds that they fail
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain
under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f),
respectively.  Keyes opposes demurrer and
Vallecillos replies. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
“The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a
declaration stating either” the means by which the parties met and conferred,
or that the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond
to the meet and confer request.  (Id. at
subd. (a)(3).)  
 
The proof of service on the Cross-Complaint indicates it was served
electronically on March 12, 2024, making the responsive pleading due by April
15.
 
On April 10, 2024, Vallecillos’ counsel filed a Declaration of
Demurring or Moving Party in Support of Automatic Extension, representing
erroneously that the responsive pleading deadline is April 16, 2024 and indicating
Vallecillos made a good faith attempt to meet and confer at least five days
prior, but was unable to do so.  However,
the declaration does not indicate why the parties were unable to meet and
confer.  A declaration in support of the
automatic 30-day extension must state “under penalty of perjury that a good
faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the
parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2), emphasis added.)
 
Instead of explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and
confer, Vallecillos’ counsel simply attached a copy of its April 10 letter
outlining Vallecillos’ issues with Keyes’ Cross-Complaint (“CC.”)  That letter indicates, “Please consider this
letter to be cross-complainants first good faith attempt to meet and confer on
these issues prior to filing demurrer and motion to strike attorneys (sic) fees
and punitive damage claims.”
 
Further, as evidenced by the correspondence attached as Exhibit B to
counsel’s declaration in support of the demurrer, Keyes’ counsel responded back
by a letter dated the same day, April 10, indicating that Vallecillo’s counsel
had already filed its declaration in support of an automatic extension.  
 
Thus, Vallecillos has provided no explanation as to why the parties
could not meet and confer to justify the automatic 30-day extension, as is
required by statute.  Vallecillo’s
counsel apparently simply sent an initial meet and confer letter for the first
time on the deadline to meet and confer, and did not even wait to hear back
from Keyes’ counsel before filing the declaration in support of automatic
extension with the court, representing that a good faith attempt to meet and
confer was made, but the parties were unable to do so.
 
Moreover, despite taking the additional 30 days, it appears the
parties have still not met and conferred either in person or telephonically, as
is required by statute, although, failure to properly meet and confer, in and
of itself, is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)
 
            In any
event, because Vallecillos has not satisfied the statutory requirements to
obtain the automatic 30-day extension, the demurrer as untimely.  The
court has discretion whether to consider late-filed papers.  (California Rules of Court, rule
3.1300(d).)   As such, the Court
exercises its discretion and does not consider the late-filed demurrer.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules
Vallecillos’ Demurrer in its entirety as untimely.  
 
Vallecillos shall file and serve an
Answer to Keyes’ Cross-Complaint on or before June 27, 2024.
 
Vallecillos shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith
 
 
DATED: 
June 6, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court