 Case Number:  23STCV00692    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV00692




MOTION


Intervene/Expunge Lis Pendens/Attorneys’ Fees




MOVING PARTY


Receiver Blake Alsbrook, Joined by Defendants DH
  Distribution, Inc. and Larisa Menshikova




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Fred Behfarin



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from a dispute over the sale and ownership of real
property.  Plaintiff Fred Behfarin’s
(“Plaintiff”) Verified Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleges eight causes of
action for (1) specific performance; (2) breach of contract; (3) bad faith
waste; (4) fraud – intentional misrepresentation; (5) negligent misrepresentation;
(6) tortious interference with contract, prospective business advantage; (7)
breach of implied covenant of good faith & fair dealing; and (8)
declaratory relief against Defendants DH Distribution, Inc. (“DH”); Sergey
Menshikov (“Sergey”), Beverly Hills Escrow (“BHE”), Lucy Menshikova (“Lucy”),
and Larisa Menshikova (“Larisa”) (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
On October 6, 2023 in related case number 22SMCV01809, the Court granted
the State of California and City of West Hollywood’s Motion for Appointment of
a Receiver, and on November 16, 2023 issued an order appointing Blake C.
Alsbrook as receiver of the subject property (“Receiver”).  
 
Receiver now moves for leave to intervene in this case, to expunge the
lis pendens Plaintiff filed against the subject property, and for reasonable
attorneys’ fees incurred in moving to expunge the lis pendens.  Defendants DH Distribution, Inc. and Larisa
Menshikova join in the Receiver’s motion. 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Receiver replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Receiver requests judicial notice of
the following:
 
·      
Exhibit A: Notice of Lis Pendens recorded on
January 12, 2023 in the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office
 
·      
Exhibit B: Resolution No. PC 16-1174, passed by
the City of West Hollywood Planning Commission on November 17, 2016
 
·      
Exhibit C: Resolution No. PC 16-1175, passed by
the City of West Hollywood Planning Commission on November 17, 2016
 
·      
Exhibit D: Memorandum of Points and Authorities
in Support of Motion for Appointment of a Receiver over the Property, filed on
September 8, 2023, by the People of the State of California and City of West
Hollywood, in Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles, People et
al. v. DH Distribution, et al., Case No. 22SMCV01809
 
·      
Exhibit E: Order Appointing Receiver, entered on
November 16, 2023, by the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles, People
et al. v. DH Distribution, et al., Case No. 22SMCV01809
 
·      
Exhibit F: Objection to Receiver’s Proposed
Order, filed on February 8, 2024, by Fred Behfarin, in Superior Court of
California, County of Los Angeles, People et al. v. DH Distribution, et al.,
Case No. 22SMCV01809
 
·      
Exhibit G: Order Authorizing Receiver to Sell
Receivership Real Property, entered on February 9, 2024, by the Superior Court
of California, County of Los Angeles, People et al. v. DH Distribution, et
al., Case No. 22SMCV01809.
 
With regard to Exhibit A, courts
can take judicial notice of the existence and recordation of real property
records, including deeds, if authenticity is not reasonably disputed.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.) 
“The official act of recordation and the common use of a notary public
in the execution of such documents assure their reliability, and the
maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office makes their existence and
text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing such documents beyond
reasonable dispute.”  (Ibid.)  Moreover, courts can take judicial notice not
only of the existence and recordation of recorded documents but also matters
that can be deduced from the documents, including the parties, dates, and legal
consequences of recorded documents relating to real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)  Therefore, the Court takes judicial notice of
Exhibit A.
 
Regarding Exhibits B and C, the
City of West Hollywood Planning Commission’s Resolutions represent “official
acts” of the legislative, executive, or judicial departments of a state of the
United States, pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subd (d).  They also represent “facts and propositions
that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy”
pursuant to subdivision (h).  Therefore,
the Court takes judicial notice of Exhibits B and C.
 
With respect to Exhibits D, E, F, and G, judicial notice may be taken of records of any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  Because the requested exhibits are all court
records from related case number 22SMCV01809, the Court may take judicial
notice of them.  However, “while courts
are free to take judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court
file, including the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice
of the truth of hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of Exhibits D-G as court records, including the
truth of results reached in Exhibits E and G, and legal implications thereof, but
the Court does not take judicial notice of the truth of hearsay allegations in Exhibits
D and F.  
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            The
Court rules as follows on Behfarin’s evidentiary objections:
 
1.     Overruled
2.     Overruled
3.     Overruled
4.     Overruled
5.     Overruled
6.     Overruled
7.     Overruled
8.     Overruled
9.     Overruled
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     INTERVENTION
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (d) provides “The
court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the
action or proceeding if […]The person seeking intervention claims an interest
relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action and
that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or
impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s
interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties.”
 
Similarly, “the court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty
to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the
matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(2).)  
 
Here, Receiver has an interest in the subject property at issue in
this case by virtue of the November 16, 2023 Order in the related case appointing
Receiver and granting it full possession and control over the subject property.  (RJN Ex. E.) 

 
Behfarin opposes Receiver’s request to intervene for being untimely,
since the Receiver was appointed in November 2023, yet did not move to
intervene until May 2, 2024, nearly six months later.  The Court disagrees that Receiver’s request
is untimely.  As a threshold matter, it
did not become clear that Behfarin would not purchase the property until
February 25-26, when Behfarin’s counsel indicated as much in
correspondence.  (See Alsbrook Decl. ¶¶
24-26, Exs. 6-7.)  Thereafter, the
Receiver attempted to informally convince Behfarin to withdraw his Lis Pendens,
which Behfarin refused.  (Motion at p.
20.)  As such, the Receiver’s request to
intervene is timely.
 
Therefore, the Court grants Receiver’s motion to intervene in this case.
 
2.     LIS
PENDENS
 
Behfarin recorded a lis pendens against the subject property on
January 12, 2023 in connection with his request for specific performance in
this case.  (RJN Ex. A.)  On February 2, 2024, Behfarin filed a notice
of lis pendens in this Court.  
 
Receiver argues that the lis pendens should be expunged because (1)
Behfarin’s delay in filing a Notice of Lis Pendens in this Court makes the lis
pendens violative of Code of Civil Procedure section 405.22 and makes the lis
pendens “void and invalid” under Code of Civil Procedure section 405.23; and
(2) Behfarin’s untimely filing of the notice of lis pendens interferes with the
Receiver’s ability to sell the property in compliance with the Court’s orders;
and (3) Behfarin cannot demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the merits
because Receiver offered Behfarin the specific performance he seeks, yet
Behfarin refused to perform.
 
a.     Delay
in Filing Notice of Lis Pendens
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 405.22 provides in relevant part:   “Immediately following recordation [of a
notice lis pendens], a copy of the notice shall also be filed with the court in
which the action is pending.  Service
shall also be made immediately and in the same manner upon each adverse party
later joined in the action.”  Section
405.23 provides that “any notice of pendency of action shall be void and
invalid as to any adverse party or owner of record unless the requirements of
section 405.22 are met for that party or owner and a proof of service in the
form and content specified in Section 1013a has been recorded with the notice
of pendency of action.”  
 
In McKnight v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 291, 303,
the appellate court held that the failure to file a copy of the notice of lis
pendens constituted a technical violation of the above provisions, rendering
the lis pendens void and invalid, which therefore justified its
expungement.  
 
Therefore, Behfarin’s delay in filing the notice of lis pendens with
this Court for over a year after it was recorded, and three months after the
Receiver was appointed constitutes a technical violation under Section 405.22,
rendering the lis pendens void and invalid under Section 405.23, which warrants
expungement under McKnight.
 
Behfarin argues that the doctrine of substantial compliance saves his
lis pendens, pursuant to Biddle v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d
135, 138 (hereafter Biddle.)  Biddle
explained “actual notice is the heart of” these statutory provisions, and
provides that a lis pendens shall not be expunged where there is (1)
substantial compliance and (2) waiver.  (Ibid.)  However, here, neither the Court nor the
Receiver had actual notice of the lis pendens until over two months after the
Receiver was appointed and given possession and control of the property.  Therefore, Behfarin did not substantially
comply.  
 
Moreover, the Receiver did not waive the right to expunge the lis
pendens.  Receiver first attempted to
sell the property to Behfarin himself for the agreed-upon price of $1,400,000, which
sale would be unaffected by Behfarin’s lis pendens.  Only upon Behfarin’s refusal to follow
through with the purchase did Receiver seek to expunge the lis pendens to
unencumber the property in connection with its sale to another buyer.
 
b.     Probable
Validity of Behfarin’s Claim
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 405.32 provides:  “In proceedings under this chapter, the court
shall order that the notice be expunged if the court finds that the claimant
has not established by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of
the real property claim. The court shall not order an undertaking to be given
as a condition of expunging the notice if the court finds the claimant has not
established the probable validity of the real property claim.”
 
Here, the basis for Behfarin’s lis pendens is his first cause of
action for specific performance of a contract to sell the property.  (RJN Ex. A.) 
Specifically, Behfarin alleges DHD agreed to sell the subject property
to Behfarin “with the right to use all permitted plans, all entitlements, and
all permits, for the sum of $1,400,000.00.” 
(Complaint ¶ 29.)
 
On February 9, 2024, the Court issued an order in the related case,
directing the Receiver to provide Behfarin to obtain specific performance of
the November 21, 2019 Agreement by purchasing the subject property for
$1,400,000, requiring Behfarin to make an earnest money deposit into escrow of
3% of the purchase price ($42,000) and closing escrow within fifteen (15)
calendar days of the Court’s Order, unless the Receiver agrees to extend
escrow.  (RJN Ex. G.)  Should Behfarin fail to timely close escrow,
escrow shall immediately return Behfarin’s earnest money and the Receiver is
authorized to immediately retain a broker of his choosing to market the subject
property for sale to the highest bidder on the open market, with the sale
subject to approval by the Court. (Ibid.)  Further, the Court ordered, “To the extent
Behfarin refuses or fails to withdraw the notices of lis pendens recorded
against the Property, the Receiver is authorized to take any action necessary
before this or any other Court to expunge or sell free and clear of the notices
of lis pendens, and seek the imposition of a damages award, if
appropriate.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Further, specific performance is unavailable where the party is not
“ready, willing, and able” to perform the contract, both at the time the
contract is entered into and during the specific performance action.  (Am-Cal Inv. Co. v. Sharlyn Estates, Inc.
(1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 526, 546; C. Robert Nattress & Associates v. Cidco
(1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 55, 63.)
 
Here, pursuant to the Court’s February 9, 2024 Order, Behfarin was
offered an opportunity to obtain specific performance by purchasing the subject
property for $1,400,000.  (Alsbrook Decl.
¶ 18, RJN Ex. G.)  On February 12, 2024,
Receiver opened escrow and provided Behfarin’s counsel with a link to all
relevant planning and design documents for the original plans and permits on
the Property.  (Alsbrook Decl. ¶ 22 and
Ex. 5.)  However, Behfarin refused to
complete the purchase for $1,400,000 unless the Receiver obtained new permits
to replace prior permits that had issued, but had expired and/or been withdrawn
by DHD in 2022, a process which would take two years.  Otherwise, Behfarin demanded that the
purchase price be lowered by nearly $1,000,000. 
(Alsbrook Decl. ¶¶ 24-26 and Exs. 6-7.)
 
By way of background, on November 17, 2016, the City of West Hollywood
Planning Commission adopted Resolution Nos. P 16-1174 and 16-1175, granting entitlements
to the property, conditionally approving demolition and variance permits to
demolish the existing structures and construct a new, three-story seven-unit
residential building with a reduction in the required front yard setback.  (Alsbrook Decl. ¶ 9.)  DHD was also granted various development
permits in 2019 and 2022.  (Alsbrook
Decl. ¶ 10.)  The deadline on the
entitlements was extended to May 17, 2024, pursuant to an extension request,
but the permits expired and/or were withdrawn by DHD in 2022.  (Alsbrook Decl. ¶ 11.)
 
Thus, at the time Behfarin filed his complaint, the permits at issue
had already been withdrawn and/or expired. 
As such, to the extent Behfarin’s request for specific performance
included the transfer of already expired or withdrawn permits, such performance
has been impossible since before Behfarin filed suit. To the extent Behfarin’s
request for specific performance included the transfer of the still-valid
entitlements, those were offered to Behfarin, but Behfarin demonstrated an
unwillingness to perform the contract.
 
Therefore, Behfarin is not ready, willing, and able to specifically
perform on the contract, providing an additional basis to expunge the lis
pendens.
 
c.      Undertaking
 
Behfarin requests an undertaking in the amount of $1,826,000, the
current purchase price offered by a third party to the Receiver for the
property on the grounds that Behfarin’s plan to build multifamily housing on
the Property means his damages from lost rent will exceed that amount.
 
Because the Court finds that Behfarin has not established the probable
validity of his claim, the Court will not require an undertaking by the
Receiver.  (See Code Civ. Proc. section
405.32.) 
 
3.     ATTORNEYS’
FEES
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 405.38 provides:  “The court shall direct that the party
prevailing on any motion under this chapter be awarded the reasonable
attorney's fees and costs of making or opposing the motion unless the court
finds that the other party acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of attorney's fees and costs unjust.”
 
Receiver requests $15,290 in fees and costs incurred in connection
with this motion.  (Alsbrook Decl. ¶ 30.)  Behfarin does not contest the amount sought,
but rather argues that his opposition is substantially justified because the
Receiver’s offer to deliver expired building permits is
“borderline-ridiculous.”  The Court
disagrees that the Receiver’s offer of specific performance was unreasonable or
“ridiculous” and finds that Behfarin was not substantially justified in
opposing the motion.
 
Receiver requests an additional $14,337.50 incurred in preparing the
Reply.  The Court denies this amount, as
it was not requested until the Reply, giving Behfarin no opportunity to
challenge the reasonableness of the additional amount sought. The Court further
finds that incurring nearly the same amount in connection with the reply that
was incurred in connection with the original Motion to be unreasonable on its
face.
 
Therefore, the Court grants Receiver’s request in part for $7875.00 in
attorneys’ fees and costs which represents 15 hours of attorney time to prepare
the moving papers at $525 per hour.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court grants Receiver’s motion to
intervene, expunge Behfarin’s lis pendens, and award Receiver its reasonable
attorney fees in the amount of $7875.00. 
As such, the Court will enter the Order (with modifications) as proposed
by the Receiver.    
 
Receiver shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  June 6, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court