 Case Number:  23SMCV03707    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03707




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC



 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises over a dispute concerning
an increase in membership fees Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC
(“Defendant”) began charging Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini (“Plaintiff”) to
access the Gold’s Gym in Venice, California. 

 
            On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the original complaint in this action. 
Four days later, on August 14, 2023, Plaintiff voluntarily filed the
first amended complaint, alleging three causes of action for (1) breach of
Business & Professions Code section 17200; (2) breach of the Unruh Act; and
(3) bad faith denial of the existence of a contract against Defendant and
against Gold’s Gym Club Holding, LLC.  At
Plaintiff’s request, the Court dismissed Gold’s Gym Club Holding, LLC on
November 9, 2023.
 
            On December 14, 2023, the Court
granted Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the first and
third causes of action, and granted Plaintiff leave to amend the first cause of
action only on or before January 11, 2024. 
(December 14, 2023.)
 
            On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a Second Amended Complaint, alleging seven causes of action for (1) breach of
contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (2) breach of Business
& Professions Code section 17200; (3) breach of the Unruh Act; (4) breach
of Civil Code section 3345; (5) breach of Corporate Code section 1507; (6) bad
faith denial of insurance contract benefits; and (7) request for declaration
that the Defendants are a single enterprise “Gold’s Gym.”  
 
            The Second Amended Complaint also
added Defendants RSG Group USA, Inc.; Gold’s Gym Club California, LLC; Sebastian
Schoepe; Jeff Suender; and Tivity Health Inc. (dba Silver Sneakers).  The first five causes of action are alleged
against all defendants except Silver Sneakers, the sixth cause of action is
alleged against Silver Sneakers only, and the seventh cause of action appears
to request declaratory relief and does not indicate against whom it is alleged.
 
            On April 17, 2024, the Court struck
the Second Amended Complaint for not being filed in conformance with the
Court’s December 14, 2023 Order granting leave to amend the first cause of
action only, and denied Plaintiff’s concurrently filed motion for leave to
amend without prejudice on procedural grounds. 

 
            Plaintiff now files a new motion for
leave to amend the complaint.  Defendant
opposes the motion and Plaintiff replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at
¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff has attached a redline
version of the complaint, demonstrating what allegations are proposed to be
added and deleted, to comply with Rule 3.1324(a).  Further, Plaintiff has filed a declaration
indicating, in relevant part:
 
1. JEFF SUENDER has been substituted as Doe
defendant number 3 because information was obtained in discovery of his
personal and direct complicity in creating forged and fake documents dated July
13, 2015; other evidence has also been obtained that he lied under oath in his
Declaration, filed under penalty of perjury on which basis the Court denied
plaintiff’s motion for preliminary injunction and in every ruling this Court
has issued since this case was first filed in August 2023.
 
2. RSG GROUP USA. INC. has been substituted as
Doe defendant number 2 based on new evidence obtained after the initial
Complaint and First Amended was filed back in August 2023. The December 14,
2023 p. 11 hearing transcript shows defense counsel Ms. SHIFF states: 
 
THE ONLY LOCATION THAT WAS SUBJECT TO THE
BANKRUPTCY -- THE ONLY LOCATION THAT MY CLIENT OWNS -- IS THE GOLD'S GYM
LOCATION. SO IN PARAGRAPH 38, THE BASIS OF THE UNRUH ACT VIOLATION IS THAT MY
CLIENT IS ARBITRARILY OFFERING THIS DISCOUNT THROUGH SOME LOCATIONS AND NOT
THROUGH OTHER LOCATIONS. BUT THAT'S NOT ACCURATE, BECAUSE, AS EXHIBIT A, OUR
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE SHOWS, THE ONLY LOCATION MY CLIENT HAS CONTROL OVER
IS THE VENICE LOCATION, AND IT DOESN'T OFFER THAT PARTICULAR DISCOUNT. IT
DOESN'T OFFER THE SILVER AND FIT DISCOUNT. 
 
3. I realized that Ms. SHIFF’S representation was
false and the Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Court excerpts submitted were incomplete
and misleading. I then spent about 200 hours reviewing the Chapter 11 filing
submitted under penalty of perjury and the Bankruptcy Court’s Chapter 11 Order
flagrantly contradicted this representation. This realization occurred after
December 14, 2023 on the defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the pleadings. As I
have previously submitted in Requesting Judicial Notice and this Court further
held Judicial Notice was not required. I realized that RSG GROUP USA, Inc. was
GOLD’S GYM and the alter-ego of defendant GOLD’S GYM CALIFORNIA, LLC. I leaned
that:
 
• Fifteen affiliated entities that owned and
transacted business as “Gold’s Gym” throughout the United States including
Gold’s Holding Corp. filed a consolidated Chapter 11 petition. See ECF
428 p. 1 footnote 1. RSG GROUP USA INC. purchased all of these entities
including their assets, liabilities, and goodwill. This purchase was approved
in a United States Bankruptcy Court order. See ECF 428 
 
• The Chapter 11 order states: “ All employees
are employed by Gold’s Holding Corp. See ECF 428, page 140 Schedule
5.12(a). 
 
• Gold’s Holding Corp. had multiple
employee benefit programs approved by the IRS on the date of the Chapter 11
filing. See ECF 428, page. 81-82 
 
• RSG GROUP USA purchased expired franchise
registrations and franchise exemptions. See Chapter 11 ECF 428, page 131
Schedule 5.6 provides: 
 
(c) Authorized Franchise jurisdictions 
 
United States: 
 
Sellers’ franchise disclosure documents and
current state franchise registrations and exemptions have expired, so a
Successful Bitter will find it necessary to update or create a new franchise
disclosure document and file new franchise registrations in US franchise
registration states in which exemptions from registrations are not available or
other registration jurisdictions before resuming franchise offering and sales
activities on a post-Closing basis. 
 
• RSG GROUP USA purchased the outstanding lease
agreement with Google for the Venice gym location and paid prior rent arrears
of $278,262. See ECF 306 Cure Costs p. 6 incorporated by ECF 428. 
 
4. Ms. SHIFF misled the Court at the hearing.
Later, I learned for a fact, what I has suspected, that RSG GROUP USA, INC. was
also the employer at the Venice gym, when I obtained W2 issued by RSG GROUP
USA, INC. to its Venice employees.
 
5. It is submitted Plaintiff has good cause to
substitute the newly named defendants as Does 2 and 3, in that leave to add new
parties formerly listed as Doe defendants in Los Angeles County is generally is
not required. 
 
5. [sic] This Court granted leave to amend on
December 14. Plaintiff timely complied by filing with the Clerk on January 11,
2024 a Second Amended Complaint. The clerk rejected the filing because of a
hyper-technical error, which plaintiff immediately corrected. The Second
Amended Complaint was late not because plaintiff violated the Court’s Order,
but because of a clerical error. 
 
6. Plaintiff also did not know that prior counsel
amended the Complaint a few days after it was filed adding a cause of action
for bad faith denial of an insurance contract. When I reviewed the original
complaint filing I realized page 22 was missing. In fact, I did not want that
cause of action filed. In my opinion, although admitted I am not a California
licensed lawyer and of course inexperienced and unlearned in the law, a mere
novice, I did not want it filed. I have known my prior counsel Alex Petale for
many years. I trust his judgment except when I do not and reserve the right to
approve or disapprove. And in this issue, I wanted the initial Complaint
corrected by filing the omitted page and not amended by filling a First Amended
Complaint. 
 
7. Now turning to the new complaint allegations
and the stricken complaint allegations and the respective prayers for relief.
As I have implied above, and now state directly I went back to the drawing
board after December 14, and much of what was added or deleted was the result
of that comprehensive investigation. 
 
8. The proposed Second Amended Complaint now
contains an OVERVIEW so that this Court, or anyone who reviews this case
concerning a public matter in a public accommodations case in a public
courtroom can at once have the OVERVIEW. […]
 
9. Many new paragraphs were added to flesh out
the facts so that there can be no mistake what plaintiff alleges as true and
stated under penalty of perjury, including every underlined paragraph. Many
other paragraphs were deleted and redlined. It is difficult to keep the
paragraphs numbered in sequence because every number change affects every other
number change. Change one and you must change all. It may not be perfect, but I
have done by best. Plaintiff has also added Exhibit B (Defendants unsigned contract
dated July 13, 2015 and December 5, 2017) and (Defendants account record for
Plaintiff).
 
(Giannini
Decl. ¶¶ 1-9.)  Thus, Plaintiff has
generally explained that subsequent to the December hearing on the Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings, Plaintiff discovered additional information, both through
independent research and the discovery process, implicating the
additionally-named Defendants.  Plaintiff
also discovered during this time that his prior counsel had drafted the
previous version of the complaint in a manner that did not comport with the
causes of action and allegations Plaintiff intended to plead.  Thus, Plaintiff has provided a factual basis
describing the effect of the proposed amendments, when the facts giving rise to
the proposed amendments were discovered, and why the proposed amendments are
necessary and proper.  Further, the
information provided in Plaintiff’s declaration combined with the procedural
history of the case demonstrate that Plaintiff tried to include many of these
amendments in the prior Second Amended Complaint that was stricken, and the
prior Motion for Leave to Amend was denied on procedural grounds, explaining
why this motion was not brought sooner.
 
            However, the Court notes that
Giannini’s declaration is not signed under penalty of perjury under the laws of
the State of California, and therefore has no evidentiary value to support any
of the proposed changes.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2015.5)
 
            Moreover, as Defendant points out,
the redline version attached to the motion does not compare the proposed second
amended complaint to the operative first amended complaint, as Plaintiff was
directed to do in connection with the April 17, 2024 Minute Order.  Indeed, the caption of the redline shows the
sixth cause of action for bad faith denial of insurance contract benefits, and
the seventh cause of action for “request for declaration that the defendants
are a single enterprise ‘Gold’s Gym’” have been crossed out, indicating their
deletion, but these causes of action did not appear in the FAC.  Rather, these causes of action were added to
the second amended complaint the Court struck from the record on April 17.  
 
            Without clearly specifying exactly
all the changes that are being made between the operative FAC that was filed on
August 14, 2023, and the currently-proposed SAC, neither the Court nor
Defendant can analyze whether all proposed changes are supported
by the declaration.  The Court recognizes
that with the prior version of the SAC being stricken, and the scope of the
proposed changes, documenting all changes between the operative FAC and the
proposed SAC may be complicated, making an accurate redline especially critical
here.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, because Plaintiff’s
declaration supporting the motion is not signed under penalty of perjury, and
because Plaintiff has not provided a redline demonstrating all proposed changes
between the operative FAC and the proposed SAC by line, page, and paragraph
number, the Court continues the motion to July 3, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.  
 
            Plaintiff shall file and serve
supplemental papers curing the procedural defects identified by the Court on or
before June 13, 2024.  Defendant may file
and serve a supplemental opposition on or before June 20, 2024, and Plaintiff
may file a supplemental reply on or before June 27, 2024.  
 
            Further, on the Court’s own motion,
the Informal Discovery Conference set on July 11, 2024 is advanced and reset to
July 3, 2024 at 11:00 A.M. in Department 207. 

 
            Defendant shall provide notice of
the Court’s orders and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
 
DATED:  June 6, 2024                                   ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 