 Case Number:  22SMCV01809    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01809




MOTION


Confirm Sale of Receivership Property; Fix Amount of
  Supersedeas Bond




MOVING PARTY


Receiver Blake Alsbrook, Joined by Defendants DH
  Distribution, Inc. and Larisa Menshikova




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Fred Behfarin



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from a dispute over the sale and ownership of real
property.  Defendant DH Distribution (“DH”) is a California Corporation, and current
owner of the title to the subject property. 
The principal of DH, Defendant Sergey Menshikov (“Sergey”) currently
resides in Russia with his daughter, Defendant Lucy Menshikova (“Lucy”).  Sergey’s daughter, Defendant Larissa
Menshikova (“Larissa”) resides in Los Angeles and has acted as agent for Sergey
and/or DH in managing and controlling the property.
 
Defendant Fred Behfarin (“Behfarin”) is a prospective purchaser of the
property.  Behfarin has sued DH, Sergey,
Lucy, Larisa, and escrow company Beverly Hills Escrow in related case number
23STCV00692 to enforce a contract for him to purchase the property for
$1,400,000.  In connection with that
action, Behfarin recorded a lis pendens against the property and a Deed of
Trust, securing a Note in the amount of $665,000 in connection with the sale
that fell through.  Behfarin also
recorded a Memorandum of Agreement.  
 
Plaintiffs State of California and City of West Hollywood
(“Plaintiffs”) assert an interest in ensuring that vacant properties, such as
the subject property, are maintained in accordance with state and local law, do
not become a nuisance or pose threats to the health or safety of the public.
 
On October 6, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ request to appoint Receiver
Blake Alsbrook (“Receiver”) on the grounds that Defendants lack the ability to
preserve and manage the subject property, Plaintiffs had already exhausted all
lesser remedies without success, and the subject property continued to
deteriorate and pose an ongoing health and safety threat to the public during
the pendency of the related cases.  (See October
6, 2023 Minute Order.)  On November 16,
2023, the Court appointed the Receiver to take possession and control of the
property.
 
On February 9, 2024, the Court entered an order authorizing Receiver
to (1) first offer Behfarin Specific Performance to purchase the subject
property for $1,400,000; and (2) if Behfarin fails to timely perform, to hire a
broker to market and sell the subject property to the highest bidder on the
open market, with the sale subject to the final approval of this court.  (See Order Authorizing Receiver to Sell
Receivership Real Property, Feb. 9, 2024.)
 
Receiver now moves for an order approving the sale to a proposed third
party purchaser or assignee for the sale price of $1,826,000 free and clear of all
liens and setting a supersedeas bond of $1,826,000.  Behfarin opposes motion and Receiver replies.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            The
Court rules as follows on Behfarin’s evidentiary objections:
 
1.     Overruled
2.     Overruled
3.     Overruled
4.     Overruled
5.     Overruled
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
SALE OF SUBJECT PROPERTY
 
On February 9, 2024, the Court issued an order as follows:
 
1. Upon entry of this Order, Receiver Blake
Alsbrook (“Receiver”) is directed to provide the opportunity for Defendant Fred
Behfarin (“Behfarin”) to obtain specific performance of that certain November
21, 2019 Agreement and Escrow Instructions for the purchase of the Property
(the “Purchase Agreement”) by purchasing the Property for $1,400,000. 
 
2. The Receiver is authorized to open escrow at
and use a title company of his choosing. 
 
3. Behfarin shall make an earnest money deposit
into escrow of 3% of the purchase price ($42,000). 
 
4. Behfarin shall have fifteen (15) calendar days
from the issuance of this Order within which to close escrow for the purchase
of the Property, unless the Receiver agrees to extend escrow in his sole and
reasonable discretion. 
 
5. If Behfarin fails to timely close escrow as
provided herein, the holder of the escrow is directed to immediately cancel
escrow and immediately return Behfarin’s earnest money deposit. 
 
6. The Receiver shall make reasonable efforts to
communicate with Plaintiff City of West Hollywood (“Plaintiff”) in conjunction
with Behfarin to determine whether and when Plaintiff will issue permits
allowing for anticipated demolition of the Property and construction of
condominiums. While the Receiver shall use reasonable efforts, the discussions
with Plaintiff shall not extend the time within which Behfarin must close the
sale. 
 
7. If Behfarin fails to accept the offer of
specific performance by timely closing escrow and purchasing the Property
pursuant to the terms of this Order, the Receiver is authorized to immediately
retain a broker of his choosing and market the Property for sale to the highest
bidder on the open market, with any such sale subject to the approval of this
Court. 
 
8. To the extent Behfarin refuses or fails to
withdraw the notices of lis pendens recorded against the Property, the Receiver
is authorized to take any action necessary before this or any other Court to
expunge or sell free and clear of the notices of lis pendens, and seek the
imposition of a damages award, if appropriate.
 
(See
Order Authorizing Receiver to Sell Receivership Real Property, Feb. 9, 2024.)
 
Receiver discovered, upon reviewing the permit documents, that the
permits previously obtained by DH from the City were no longer valid.  (Alsbrook Decl. at ¶ 8.)  Receiver also confirmed with the City that
the existing entitlements for the property were set to expire on May 17, 2024,
and as the entitlements deadline had already been extended to May 17, 2024, no
further extensions could be obtained.  (Ibid.)  Receiver further discovered, through
discussions with the City, that there was no way to obtain new demolition or
building permits in order to begin construction prior to the May 17, 2024
expiration of the entitlements, and new construction would require the entire
project be re-entitled, a process that could take up to two years.  (Id. at ¶ 9.)  
 
On February 12, 2024, in accordance with the Court’s February 9 Order,
Receiver opened escrow for the sale of the subject property to Behfarin and
forwarded Behfarin’s counsel all documents regarding the original plans and
permits for the subject property.  (Id.
at ¶¶ 11-12.)  
 
Behfarin refused to go through with purchasing the subject property
for the price of $1,400,000 unless Receiver went through the years-long process
of obtaining new permits and entitlements to replace the ones that had expired,
at Receiver’s expense.  (Id. at ¶
12.)  Alternatively, Behfarin offered to purchase
the property without new permits or entitlements for only $407,790.  (Id. at ¶ 12 and Ex. 3.)  As a result, on March 5, 2024, Receiver
cancelled escrow.  (Ibid. and Ex.
4.)  Behfarin refused to voluntarily
withdraw his notice of lis pendens.  (Id.
at ¶ 13.)
 
Following cancellation of Behfarin’s escrow, Receiver retained a
broker and actively marketed the Property for sale.  (Id. at ¶ 14.)  All interested buyers wanted demolition to
occur prior to concluding the sale, so Receiver requested and obtained an order
authorizing the demolition of the subject property, directing the city to
provide necessary permits to complete demolition, and authorizes Receiver to
borrow up to $215,000 to complete the demolition.  (See Order, Apr. 17, 2024.)
 
On April 19, 2024, Receiver accepted the winning Buyer’s all-cash
offer of $1,826,000, which represented the highest offer and the best terms of
all offers received.  (Alsbrook Decl. ¶
20 and Ex. 8.)
 
Thus, in general, Receiver has demonstrated that sale of the property
to the third party buyer is appropriate.
 
2.     LIENS/ENCUMBRANCES
 
Buyer insists as a condition of the offer that the property be
transferred free and clear of liens and encumbrances and a provision for the
demolition of the subject property prior to the close of escrow.  (Alsbrook Decl. ¶ 19 and Ex. 7.)  
 
Receiver has indicated the following liens are currently recorded
against the subject property:
 
·      
An Instrument upon the terms and conditions
therein 
Entitled: Acceptance Affidavit 
Executed by: Arturo Azinian and Calliopi Azinian 
Recorded: 12/19/1989, as Instrument No. 1989-2037816 Official Records 
 
·      
An Instrument upon the terms and conditions
therein 
Entitled: Acceptance Affidavit 
Executed by: Arturo Azinian and Calliopi Azinian 
Recorded: 12/19/1989, as Instrument No. 1989-2037817 Official Records
 
·      
An instrument, upon the terms and conditions
contained therein 
Entitled: Notice of intent to withdraw rental units from the market 
Recorded: 8/8/1994, as Instrument No. 1994-1468802, of Official Records 
 
·      
An instrument, upon the terms and conditions
contained therein 
Entitled: Memorandum of Agreement 
Dated: 11/20/2019 
Executed by and between: DH Distribution Inc., a California Corporation and
Sergey Menshikov, an individual and Fred Behfarin, an individual 
Recorded: 11/25/2019, as Instrument No. 2019-1294121 of Official Records 
 
·      
A Deed of Trust to secure the indebtedness of
Amount: $665,000.00 
Trustor: DH Distribution, Inc., a California Corporation 
Trustee: Provident Title Company, a California Corporation 
Beneficiary: Fred Behfarin Dated: 11/20/2019 
Recorded: 11/25/2019 as Instrument No. 2019-1294122 of Official Records 
 
·      
An action commenced, notice of which 
Recorded: 01/13/2023 as Instrument No. 2023-30383 , Official Records 
Court: Superior Court of the State of California 
Case no.: 23STCV00692 
Judicial District: County of Los Angeles Plaintiff: Fred Behfarin, an
Individual Defendant: DH Distribution Inc., a California Corporation; Sergey
Menshikov, an individual; Beverly Hills Escrow, Inc, a California Corporation;
City of West Hollywood, a general law City; Lucy Menshikova, an individual;
Larisa Menshikova, an individual; Zamira Mitina, an individual;, and does 1-50,
Inclusive, Purpose of action: Action seeks specific performance of a contract
to sell real property
 
(Alsbrook
Decl. ¶ 22.)  Receiver explains that the
first three encumbrances “involve agreements entered into by a former owner
approximately 35 years ago in relation to a development project that ultimately
did not take place” and therefore should be stripped from the title.  (Id. at ¶ 23.)  With regard to the last three encumbrances,
the Memorandum of Agreement evidences the agreement between DH and Behfarin to
sell the property to Behfarin at issue in this and the related case, the Deed
of Trust to secure indebtedness in the amount of $665,000 also pertains to that
agreement, and Behfarin’s notice of lis pendens pertaining to the related
action.  (Id. at ¶ 24.)
 
            With regard to the lis pendens, as
indicated in the Court’s concurrent tentative ruling, the Court expunges the
lis pendens.  As for the other two
instruments recorded by Behfarin, Receiver requests that those encumbrances be
stripped from the title of the subject property and transferred to the sale
proceeds held by Receiver.
 
            Behfarin opposes the request to sell
the property “free and clear” of his lis pendens.  In light of the Court’s concurrent order
expunging the lis pendens, Behfarin’s opposition in this regard is moot.
 
            Further, the Court agrees that in
light of Behfarin’s unwillingness to specifically perform the agreement, as
demonstrated above and as explained more fully in the Court’s concurrent
tentative ruling expunging Behfarin’s lis pendens, and as a result, Receiver is
entitled to sell the property to a third party buyer, Behfarin’s encumbrances
on the title to the subject property are no longer valid.  The Court agrees that to the extent Behfarin
has a claim regarding the broken agreement to sell the subject property to
Behfarin, Behfarin may seek monetary damages, and Behfarin’s interest in the
sale proceeds will be adequately protected by virtue of the Receiver
controlling those proceeds.  
 
            However, with respect to the first
three encumbrances, the Court is unable to remove those encumbrances in the
absence of notice and an opportunity for any interested parties to be
heard.  
 
3.     OVERBIDDING
 
Pursuant to the terms of the contract, the sale is subject to overbidding
at the confirmation hearing.  (Alsbrook
Decl. ¶ 26.)  Receiver requests that the
Court utilize the overbidding standards for partition actions, requiring a
minimum overbid of 5% plus $500 higher than the contract price, and requiring
each overbidder to step into the shoes of the current buyer, with all
contingencies waived and escrow to close within fifteen days of escrow’s
receipt of the Order approving sale, and that any prospective overbidder must
deliver a cashier’s check or certified check to the Receiver for an earnest
money deposit of $54,780, refundable only if prospective purchaser is not the
highest bidder, and forfeited if overbidder does not timely close.  (Motion at p. 12.)  
 
Behfarin does not oppose this aspect of Receiver’s motion.  Therefore, Receiver’s unopposed requests
regarding the overbidding process are granted.
 
4.     SUPERSEDEAS
BOND
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 917.4 provides:
 
The perfecting of an appeal shall not stay enforcement of the judgment
or order in the trial court if the judgment or order appealed from directs the
sale, conveyance or delivery of possession of real property which is in the
possession or control of the appellant or the party ordered to sell, convey or
deliver possession of the property, unless an undertaking in a sum fixed by the
trial court is given that the appellant or party ordered to sell, convey or
deliver possession of the property will not commit or suffer to be committed
any waste thereon and that if the judgment or order appealed from is affirmed,
or the appeal is withdrawn or dismissed, the appellant shall pay the damage
suffered by the waste and the value of the use and occupancy of the property,
or the part of it as to which the judgment or order is affirmed, from the time
of the taking of the appeal until the delivery of the possession of the
property. If the judgment or order directs the sale of mortgaged real property
and the payment of any deficiency, the undertaking shall also provide for the
payment of any deficiency.
 
Receiver also requests that this Court fix the supersedeas bond in the
amount of $1,826,000.  Specifically,
Receiver is concerned about waste in the event the sale is stayed pending
appeal, which will likely take a minimum of 18 months.  (Alsbrook Decl. ¶ 32.)  During that time, Receiver will need to
obtain full time security for the subject property, which would cost $483,840
for 18 months.  (Id. at ¶ 33.)
 
Additionally, the receivership would remain in place during the
pendency of the appeal.  Receiver’s
incurred costs average $17,110 per month, which would total $307,980 over an
18-month appeal, which includes Receiver’s briefing in connection with the appeal.  (Alsbrook Decl. ¶ 34.)  
 
Further, Receiver indicates that he will likely be unable to borrow
funds during the pendency of the appeal, because receivership loans are
typically short-term loans repayable from the sale of the subject property.  (Alsbrook Decl. ¶ 35.)  In the meantime, the property will continue
to deteriorate and act as an attractive nuisance to unhoused individuals
seeking shelter to use drugs, and who have historically set dangerous fires to
keep warm.  (Ibid.)  Specifically, there was a structure fire last
year that required the West Hollywood Fire Department to respond and
extinguish.  Moreover, the property is
uninsurable in its current state.  Further,
the property could be lost to a property tax auction during the pendency of an
appeal, as the current owners are in arrears on their property taxes.  Therefore, Receiver argues there is a risk of
total loss if the supersedeas bond is not set for the full current market value
of the property.  (Alsbrook Decl. ¶ 36,
Ex. 10.)
 
Behfarin opposes the requested amount, requesting instead that a
supersedeas bond be set at $25,000. 
Behfarin points out that because all potential buyers anticipate
demolishing the property, and demolition is expensive, the property would
actually be more valuable if the structures were destroyed in the interim.  However, Behfarin concedes that there is a
risk of total loss if the property is sold at a tax auction in the interim, but
downplays that risk as remote, arguing, “losing property through a tax auction
is always a possibility.”  (Opposition at
p. 5.)  The Court disagrees that all
properties run the risk of being lost through a tax auction.  
 
Indeed, Behfarin himself first became involved with the subject
property via his bid on the subject property at a tax auction on October 21,
2019.  (See Verified Third Amended
Complaint in Related Case No. 23STCV00692 at ¶¶ 10-11 and Ex. 1.)  Thus, a potential tax auction remains a clear
and present risk.
 
Therefore, in light of the risk of total loss of the property during
the pendency of an appeal, the Court grants Receiver’s request to set the
supersedes bond in the current market value for the subject property of
$1,826,000.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore the Court grants Receiver’s motion, and orders the property
to be sold for $1,826,000 to the buyer, subject to the overbidding process as
requested by Receiver, free and clear of the three instruments recorded by
Behfarin against the property (but not of the other three encumbrances recorded
by prior owners of the property), and fixes the supersedeas bond in the amount
of $1,826,000, the current market value of the property, in light of the risk
of total loss during the pendency of an appeal. 

 
Receiver shall file a proposed order in conformance with this ruling.
 
Receiver shall also provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  June 6, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court