 Case Number:  23SMCV01722    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01722




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants 12575 Venice Investments LP and LT Building
  Corp.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Franklyn Ardon Cruz



 
MOTION
 
On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff Franklyn Ardon Cruz (“Plaintiff”) filed
the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging two causes of action
for (1) negligence; and (2) premises liability against Defendants Laterra Development,
LLC (“Laterra”); Amera Enterprises, LLC (“Amera”); and Oscar Enrique Castillo
(“Castillo”).  Plaintiff alleges he was
injured on a construction site when he fell through a 25-foot manhole that was
covered only by a sheet of plywood. (SAC ¶ 11-13.)   
 
Moving Defendants 12575 Venice Investments, LP and LT Building Corp.
(“Moving Defendants”) were added via amendments as Does 1 and 2, respectively,
on March 27, 2024.  
 
Moving Defendants now demur to both causes of action alleged in the SAC
on the grounds they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, subdivision (e) because they are
barred by the Privette doctrine and the Exclusive Remedy for Worker’s
Compensation under the Labor Code.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Moving Defendants reply.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Moving Defendants request judicial
notice of the SAC filed in this action.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the SAC is part of the Court’s record for this case, the Court
may take judicial notice of it.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of allegations
in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records because such
matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green,
Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of the SAC filed in this matter as a court
record, but not the truth of the allegations contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.    FAILURE
TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
The elements of a negligence
cause of action are the existence of a legal duty of care, breach of that duty,
and proximate cause resulting in injury. The elements of a cause of action for
premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach,
causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 994, 998, citation omitted.) “Those who own, possess, or control
property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the
property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki
v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)
 
Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claims against them are
barred by the Privette doctrine and the worker’s compensation exclusive
remedy rule under the Labor Code.
 
“It is generally true that a
person is liable for injuries to another only as a result of his or her own
conduct. Liability is based not on responsibility for the conduct of others,
but on the failure of the landowner or occupier to act reasonably under the
circumstances when he or she has reason to anticipate the probability of injury
and has an opportunity to prevent the injury or warn of the peril. Thus,
liability is based on his or her own failure to act reasonably.” (Cody F. v.
Falletti (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1232, 1242 [cleaned up]; Delgado v.
American Multi-Cinema, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1406, fn. 1
[“premises liability alleges a defendant property owner allowed a dangerous
condition on its property or failed to take reasonable steps to secure its
property against criminal acts by third parties”].)
 
B.    THE PRIVETTE DOCTRINE
 
“At common law, a person who
hired an independent contractor generally was not liable to third parties for
injuries caused by the contractor's negligence in performing the work.” (Privette
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693 (hereafter Privette.) “Central
to this rule of nonliability was the recognition that a person who hired an
independent contractor had no right of control as to the mode of doing the work
contracted for.” (Ibid.) The California Supreme Court recognized that
there are exceptions to the general rule including the doctrine of peculiar
risk. (Ibid.)
 
“Under the peculiar risk
doctrine, a person who hires an independent contractor to perform work that is
inherently dangerous can be held liable for tort damages when the contractor's
negligent performance of the work causes injuries to others.” (Privette,
supra, 5 Cal.4th at p. 691.) “The courts adopted the peculiar risk
exception to the general rule of nonliability to ensure that innocent third
parties injured by the negligence of an independent contractor hired by a
landowner to do inherently dangerous work on the land would not have to depend
on the contractor's solvency in order to receive compensation for the
injuries.” (Id. at p. 694.) Moreover, the supreme court noted that under
the doctrine of peculiar risk, “a landowner who chose to undertake inherently
dangerous activity on his land should not escape liability for injuries to
others simply by hiring an independent contractor to do the work.” (Ibid.)
 
Subsequently, in Gonzalez
v. Mathis, the California Supreme Court revisited the Privette
doctrine and the exceptions to the doctrine.
 
There is a strong presumption
under California law that a hirer of an independent contractor delegates to the
contractor all responsibility for workplace safety. This means that a hirer is
typically not liable for injuries sustained by an independent contractor or its
workers while on the job. Commonly referred to as the Privette doctrine, the
presumption originally stemmed from the following rationales: First, hirers
usually have no right to control an independent contractor's work. Second,
contractors can factor in the cost of safety precautions and insurance coverage
in the contract price. Third, contractors are able to obtain workers’
compensation to cover any on-the-job injuries. Finally, contractors are
typically hired for their expertise, which enables them to perform the
contracted-for work safely and successfully.
 
We have nevertheless
identified two limited circumstances in which the presumption is overcome.
First, in Hooker v. Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198,
115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081 (Hooker), we held that a hirer may be
liable when it retains control over any part of the independent contractor's
work and negligently exercises that retained control in a manner that
affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury. Second, in Kinsman v.
Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 36 Cal.Rptr.3d 495, 123 P.3d 931 (Kinsman),
we held that a landowner who hires an independent contractor may be liable if
the landowner knew, or should have known, of a concealed hazard on the property
that the contractor did not know of and could not have reasonably discovered,
and the landowner failed to warn the contractor of the hazard.
 
(Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th
29, 37–38 [cleaned up].) Further, the California Supreme Court held in Sandoval
v. Qualcomm Incorporated:
 
What we decided in Hooker
was that, even if hirers may owe unrelated third parties a retained control
duty based on retained control alone, hirers owe the contract workers a
retained control duty only with something more. Contract workers must prove
that the hirer both retained control and actually exercised that retained
control in such a way as to affirmatively contribute to the injury.
 
A hirer actually exercises its
retained control over the contracted work when it involves itself in the
contracted work such that the contractor is not entirely free to do the work in
the contractor's own manner. In other words, the hirer must exert some
influence over the manner in which the contracted work is performed. Unlike
retained control, which is satisfied where the hirer retains merely the right
to become so involved, actual exercise requires that the hirer in fact involve
itself, such as through direction, participation, or induced reliance.
 
Affirmative contribution means
that the hirer's exercise of retained control contributes to the injury in a
way that isn't merely derivative of the contractor's contribution to the
injury. Where the contractor's conduct is the immediate cause of injury, the
affirmative contribution requirement can be satisfied only if the hirer in some
respect induced — not just failed to prevent — the contractor's injury-causing
conduct. It is not enough for the hirer's exercise of control to incidentally
give the hirer the opportunity to prevent the contractor's injury-causing
conduct.
 
A hirer's conduct also
satisfies the affirmative contribution requirement where the hirer's exercise
of retained control contributes to the injury independently of the contractor's
contribution (if any) to the injury.  The
critical factor here is the relationship between the hirer's conduct and the
contractor's conduct, not whether the hirer's conduct, assessed in isolation,
can be described as affirmative conduct. Importantly, neither actual exercise
nor affirmative contribution requires that the hirer's negligence (if any)
consist of an affirmative act. The hirer's negligence may take the form of any
act, course of conduct, or failure to take a reasonable precaution that is
within the scope of its duty under Hooker.
 
(Sandoval v. Qualcomm Incorporated
(2021) 12 Cal.5th 256, 276–277 [cleaned up].)
 
The SAC alleges:
 
5. Defendants 12575 Venice Investments LP, LT
Building Corp., and DOES 3 through 50 inclusive owned, managed, repaired,
maintained, and/or controlled the property or were responsible for inspecting,
securing, designing, constructing, maintaining, cleaning, repairing, or
managing the property located at 12575 Venice Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90066
(hereafter “SUBJECT PREMISES”).
 
[…]
 
10. On or about August 18, 2021, Plaintiff was
lawfully on the SUBJECT PREMISES as an employee of Amera Enterprises, LLC
(“Amera”), which Defendants 12575 Venice Investments LP, LT Building Corp., and
DOES 3 through 50 had hired to perform clean-up work on the SUBJECT PREMISES. 
 
11. Plaintiff’s supervisor, Oscar Enrique
Castillo, directed him to clean up around the building, removing all scraps,
wood pieces, debris, and trash. Plaintiff proceeded to a piece of plywood on
the ground with no caution or warning sign to throw away after picking up the
first piece of plywood and placing it in a cart to throw away. 
 
12. Unbeknownst to Plaintiff, the plywood was
covering a 25-foot-deep manhole, and there were no warning signs to indicate
the presence of the large, deep hole beneath the plywood. Also, the plywood was
not secured or guarded by either temporary railings and toeboards or by covers
to prevent accidental removal or displacement. 
 
13. Plaintiff grabbed the plywood but fell in the
hole, thereby suffering severe injury as a direct result of the unsafe
concealed dangerous condition at the SUBJECT PREMISES (the “SUBJECT
CONDITION”). 
 
(SAC
¶¶ 5, 10-13.)  
 
            With respect to the control
exception to the Privette doctrine, although the SAC alleges generally
that Moving Defendants “owned, managed, repaired, maintained and/or controlled
the property or were responsible for inspecting, securing, designing,
constructing, maintaining, cleaning, repairing, or managing the property[,]”
(SAC ¶ 5), it does not allege that Moving Defendants retained and exercised
control over the contractors’ work, as is required under Hooker for the
control exception to apply.
 
            Regarding the concealed hazard
exception to Privette, although the SAC alleges that there was a
concealed hazard (the manhole covered by plywood), the SAC does not allege that
Moving Defendants knew or should have known about the concealed hazard, as is
required under Kinsman, for the concealed hazard exception to apply.
 
            Therefore, the SAC implicates Privette,
by virtue of allegations that Plaintiff’s employer, Amera, was hired to clean
up the premises, but the SAC does not adequately allege that either of the two
exceptions to Privette apply.
 
            As such, the Court sustains Moving
Defendants’ demurrer to both causes of action.
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet his burden, as Plaintiff merely
states, “Should the Court find that Plaintiff has not pled his SAC with
sufficient particularity, Plaintiff must be afforded the opportunity to amend
his pleading” but does not specify what facts Plaintiff could add to the
complaint to correct the identified deficiencies.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court sustains Moving Defendants’
demurrer to both causes of action alleged in the SAC without leave to amend.  
 
Moving Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
DATED:  June 6, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court