  Case Number:  18SMCV00399    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


18SMCV00399




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTIES


Cross-Defendants Steve White, Law Office of
  Stephen White, and Stephen Edward White




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  and Cross-Complainant John Canning  



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Declaration
     of Steve White and Exhibits
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS: [1]
 

Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities 
Declaration of Michael Schwimer
Request for Judicial Notice
Responsive Separate Statement
Objections to the Declaration of
     Steve White and Exhibits Attached Thereto
Evidence in Support of Opposition


 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     Brief in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment
Objections
     to Evidence
Corrected
     Declaration of Steve White and Exhibits

 
SURREPLY:
1.     Canning’s Objections and Motion to
Strike the “Corrected” Declaration of Steve White
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute between two long-term friends and
business associates, Plaintiff Michael A. Vaughan (“Vaughan”) and Defendant and
Cross-Complainant John Canning (“Canning.”) 
Vaughan is a public insurance adjuster who works out of his Malibu
home.  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶
6.)  Vaughan and Canning have been
friends for over 20 years.  (FAC ¶
8.)  To help Canning obtain a source of
income, Vaughan taught Canning the business of public insurance adjusting.  (FAC ¶ 10.) 
Vaughan also allowed Canning to use Vaughan’s office and equipment for
free and occasionally allowed Canning to work on Vaughan’s files to earn extra
money.  (FAC ¶¶ 12-13.)
 
On two incidents – on or about July 13, 2018 and October 24, 2018,
Vaughan and Canning became engaged in heated political debates, which led to a
physical altercation on October 24, 2018. 
(FAC ¶¶ 14-19.)
 
Following the October 24 altercation, Canning called Vaughan’s
longtime attorney, Steven White and informed him of Canning’s intent to sue
Vaughan “to get enough money to retire.” 
(FAC ¶ 20.)
 
Canning filed a cross-complaint against Law Office of Stephen White
and Stephan Edward White aka Steve White (collectively, “White”) alleging a
single cause of action for professional negligence (legal malpractice) for
taking what Canning told White in that phone call and using it in his
representation of Vaughan in filing suit against Canning.  (See Generally First Amended Cross-Complaint
(“FACC”).)  Canning contends that White
dually represented both Canning and Vaughan, and White’s subsequent representation
of Vaughan against Canning was improper. 

 
White now moves for summary judgment of the following issues:
 
1.      Cross Defendants are entitled to Summary
Judgment because Cross Complaint John Canning admitted in his deposition that
he suffered no damages due to any act or omission on the part of Steve White,
and asks for nothing from any of these moving Cross Defendants, and 
 
2.     Any
Attorney-Client relationship between Mr. Canning and any Cross Defendant herein
was a dual relationship with Mr. Vaughan. Therefore nothing Mr. Canning said to
Mr. White concerning Mr. Vaughan was privileged.
 
Canning opposes the motion and White replies.  Following the reply, Canning also filed
“Objections and Motion to Strike the ‘Corrected’ Declaration of Steve White.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Canning requests judicial notice of “Superior Court of California,
County of Los Angeles (Civil Division) (Dept. 207) Minute Order dated April 3,
2024” included with Canning’s evidence as Exhibit “B.”
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
However, “while courts are free to take judicial notice of the existence
of each document in a court file, including the truth of results reached, they
may not take judicial notice of the truth of hearsay statements in decisions
and court files.  Courts may not take
judicial notice of allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation
reports in court records because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute
and therefore require formal proof.”  (Lockley
v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Because the Minute Order in
question is part of the Court’s record for this case, the Court takes judicial
notice of it and the truth of the results reached therein.   
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            Canning’s
Objections
 
            Canning
objects to the declaration of Steve White on the grounds that it was not signed
under penalty of perjury.  In connection
with the Reply, White filed a corrected declaration that added as paragraph 13,
“Exhibit ‘G’ is a true and correct copy of the transcript of Mr. Canning’s
deposition taken August 9, 2023” and also has a statement that the declaration
is true under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California.
 
            On
June 3, Canning filed “Objections” and a “Motion to Strike” the corrected White
declaration on the grounds that additional evidence is improper to present on
Reply.  While the Court generally agrees
that it is improper to introduce additional evidence on Reply, the corrected
declaration is largely the same as the version originally filed, and simply
makes two technical corrections bolstering the authentication for the
previously-provided Exhibit G and adding the requisite “penalty of perjury”
statement.  Canning’s Opposition to the
Motion makes substantive arguments on the merits of White’s motion, in addition
to these procedural ones.  As such, the
Court finds that Canning would not be prejudiced by the Court considering the
declaration and exhibits.  
 
            Canning
further argues that the exhibits are not reattached to the corrected White
declaration, and that provides an additional reason for the Court to reject it.
To the contrary, the fact that no new evidence was presented demonstrates that
the corrections were truly technical procedural fixes, and no new substantive
evidence was presented.
 
            Therefore,
the Court exercises its discretion and considers the corrected White
declaration.  Canning’s request that the
court strike the corrected White declaration is denied.
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to Canning’s other evidentiary objections:
 
1.     Overruled
2.     Overruled
3.     Sustained
4.     Overruled
5.     Overruled
6.     Overruled
7.     Overruled
8.     Overruled
9.     Overruled
10.  Sustained
11.  Sustained
12.  Sustained
13.  Sustained
 
White’s
Objections
 
8.     Overruled
9.     Overruled
10.  Overruled
11.  Overruled
12.  Overruled
13.  Overruled
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION

 
“To state a cause of action
for professional negligence, a party must show (1) the duty of the professional
to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other members of the profession
commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) a causal connection
between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or
damage resulting from the professional negligence.”  (Giacometti v. Aulla, LLC (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 1133, 1137.)
 
White argues summary judgment
is proper because (1) Canning admitted he suffered no damages as a result of White’s
actions or omissions; and (2) nothing Canning told White about Vaughn was
attorney-client privileged from Vaughn.  
 
1.     DAMAGES
 
Canning alleges:
 
On October 24, 2018, shortly after the
altercation that is the subject of Plaintiff’s Complaint, and as he had
generally done in the past, Cross-Complainant Canning contacted
Cross-Defendants for the purpose of obtaining legal advice regarding the altercation
and how to proceed based on Plaintiff Vaughan’s conduct. During and for the
purposes of that consultation, Cross-Complainant Canning divulged to
Cross-Defendants confidential information, thereby creating an attorney-client
relationship.
 
(FACC
¶ 10.)
 
a.     White’s
Evidence
 
White has provided Canning’s
deposition testimony demonstrating the following:
 
Q. Okay. Have you and I had a conversation on any
subject since October 24 of 2018? 
A. No. 
Q. Okay. Have you and I exchanged any written
correspondence since October 24 of 2018? 
A. No.
 
(Ex.
B.)
 
Q. Since
October 24, 2018, has any action that I’ve taken caused you to seek
psychological treatment?
A. None
that you’ve taken.
Q. Since
October 24th, 2018, has any action that I have taken caused you to spend any
money?
[…]
THE
WITNESS: Not that I recall.
BY MR.
WHITE:
Q. Do you
claim in this lawsuit that you’re out any money or suffered any damages because
of any action or omission on my part?
A. No.
Q. Just
as background, at the time that you and Mr. Vaughan had this physical
engagement, was I present?
A. No.
Q.
Okay.  So before we go any further with
your deposition, what do you want from me?
A.
Frankly, nothing.
 
(Ex. D.)
 
Q. As a
result of any action or omission on my part, did you consult with a
psychologist or a psychiatrist?
A. I
consulted with a psychologist, but that was because of Mr. Vaughan, not because
of you.
 
(Ex. F.)
 
            Thus,
White has met his initial burdens of production and persuasion that Canning
suffered no injuries or damages as a result of White’s alleged professional
negligence.
 
b.     Canning’s
Evidence
 
Having met his initial burdens
of production and persuasion, the burden shifts to Canning to create a triable
issue of material fact.
 
Canning has indicated the
following in a declaration:
 
7. During my deposition, Mr. White asked me if I
was “out any money or suffered any damage because of any action or omission on
[his] part." (See Deposition of John Canning at 21:25- 16 22:3). I
am not an attorney and I did not understand the legal significance or
implications of this question. I rely on my attorneys to determine and prove
what my legal damages are that resulted from Mr. White's conduct. My lay answer
to Mr. White's question was not intended as an admission that I have no damages
in this case; rather, it was based on my lay understanding. I defer to my
attorneys to establish and prove any damages that I may have in this case including
non-economic damages arising from Mr. White's intentional breach of his
fiduciary duty owed to me, as well as economic damages such as attorneys' fees
which I have incurred as a result of Mr. White's conduct.
 
8. During my deposition, Mr. White sarcastically
asked me "what do you want from me" to 24 which I sarcastically
responded "frankly, nothing." (See Deposition of John Canning at
22:7-9). I did not understand Mr. White's argumentative question to mean what I
wanted from him monetarily. And, again, to the extent that he was asking my
legal opinion regarding damages in this case, that is something I am not
qualified to answer and I defer to my attorneys.        
 
9. At the time of my deposition, it did not dawn
on me that by Mr. White helping Mr. Vaughan, Mr. White was hurting me. I feel
taken advantage of by Mr. White. He betrayed my trust and confidence which is
upsetting to me and causes me anxiety and distress.
 
(Canning Decl. ¶¶ 7-9.)
 
            However,
“when discovery has produced an admission or concession on the part of the
party opposing summary judgment which demonstrates that there is no factual
issue to be tried,” controverting affidavits submitted by that party may be
disregarded.  (D’Amico v. Board of
Med. Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 20-22.) 
“Admissions or concessions made during the course of [deposition
testimony] govern and control over contrary declarations lodged at a hearing on
a motion for summary judgment.”  (Visueta
v. General Motors Corp. (1991) 234 Cal.3d 1609, 1613.)  “[A]bsent a credible explanation,” a court
may disregard a self-serving, conclusory declaration that clearly contradicts
deposition testimony, filed in opposition to summary judgment.  (Vulk v. State Farm Gen. Ins. Co.
(2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 243, 258.)  
 
            Ultimately, at the deposition,
Canning conceded the following, without objection:
 
Q. Do you
claim in this lawsuit that you’re out any money or suffered any damages because
of any action or omission on my part?
A. No.
 
(Ex.
D.)
 
Therefore, Canning cannot, at this juncture, attempt to walk back his
deposition testimony or create a triable issue of material fact via a
self-serving declaration.  And moreover,
the Court does not find Canning’s explanation for his deposition testimony to
be convincing.  
 
            As
such, Canning has not met his burden of production to create a triable issue of
material fact with respect to whether Canning incurred damages sufficient to
sustain his malpractice cause of action against White.
            
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
In considering the competent
evidence proffered by White and Canning, and viewing said evidence most
favorable toward Canning, the Court finds that there are no triable issues of
material facts regarding White’s Undisputed Material Facts Nos. 8-11 and 14,
and determines, as a matter of law, that White is not liable for negligence
because Canning has not established with sufficient, competent evidence that a
triable issue of material fact exits regarding whether Canning suffered any
harm from White’s alleged conduct.   
 
Therefore, the Court grants Whites
motion for summary judgment and orders White to file a proposed Judgment in
conformance with the Court’s ruling on or before June 20, 2024.  Further, White shall provide notice of the
Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service. [2]
 
 
 
DATED:  June 6, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


