  Case Number:  23SMCV05960    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May 30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05960




MOTION


Motion for Clarification of the Court’s Preliminary
  Injunction Order




MOVING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant The Stephen S. Wise Temple
  




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Thomas Walter Trimborn and Paula Jane Trimborn,
  co-trustees of the Trimborn Community Property Trust U/D/T July 12, 2001



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a property dispute of an approximate 1,000
square foot strip of land along the border of the adjacent properties of Plaintiffs
and Cross-Defendants Thomas Walter Trimborn and Paula Jane Trimborn,
co-trustees of the Trimborn Community Property Trust U/D/T July 12, 2001
(“Plaintiffs” or “Trimborn”) and Defendant and Cross-Complainant The Stephen S.
Wise Temple (“Defendant” or “Temple”).  Plaintiffs’
property is a single family dwelling, and Defendant’s property is a Jewish synagogue,
which includes an elementary school and an early-learning school for young
children.  
 
Since the 1980s, Plaintiffs contend a wall fence has been erected
separating the two properties.  Plaintiffs
allege their understanding has always been that the wall fence demarcated the
property line between the two properties. 
Subsequently, Plaintiffs improved upon the subject property on their
side of the wall fence, including adding a pool, the equipment for which currently
sits directly next to the wall fence, along with several mature trees and a
playset.  
 
Defendant contends the actual property line extends a short distance
beyond the fence in the direction of Plaintiffs’ property.  Thus, according to Defendant, the existing
wall-fence and Plaintiff’s pool equipment, which abuts the existing wall-fence,
are actually on Defendant’s property.
 
In 2022, Defendant applied for permits to upgrade its facilities,
including removing and replacing the existing wall-fence with improved security
features, which the City of Los Angeles granted, following a virtual public
hearing.  Plaintiffs did not attend the
hearing or otherwise object to proposed improvements.
 
The parties attempted to informally resolve the dispute between them,
but discussions broke down and Plaintiffs filed a verified complaint for (1) Quiet
Title – Implied Easement; (2) Quiet Title – Equitable Easement; (3) Quiet Title
– Easement by Estoppel; (4) Quiet Title – Prescriptive Easement; and (5)
Injunctive Relief, under the theory that it has an easement over the disputed
area.  Defendants have cross-complained for
(1) Trespass; (2) Ejectment; and (3) Declaratory relief.  
 
Plaintiffs moved for a temporary restraining order and for the court
to set an order to show cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue restraining
Defendant (and its agents) “from removing the Wall Fence, stepping foot on
and/or removing or damaging [Plaintiffs’] improvements in the Disputed Area.”  The Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion for a
temporary restraining order, and on January 30, 2024, the Court granted the
requested preliminary injunction, holding in relevant part: “the Court grants
Plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary injunction and enjoins Defendant from
removing the existing Wall Fence, disturbing or occupying the Disputed Area, or
removing or damaging the Improvements to the Disputed Area as depicted in
Exhibit 3 attached to the Complaint during the pendency of the action.”  (Minute Order, Jan. 30, 2024.)  Defendant submitted the proposed order to the
Court on Friday, March 1, 2024, and the order was entered on March 4, 2024.
 
On April 25, 2024, Defendant filed a Notice of Appeal of the Court’s
March 4, 2024 Order granting the preliminary injunction.  
 
Defendant now moves ex parte seeking clarification of the Court’s March
4, 2024 order that the existing injunction does not extend to a “Wing Piece”
that juts off of the existing Wall Fence into an undisputed area of Defendant’s
property so that Defendant may proceed with removing the “Wing Piece.”  
 
EVIDENCE
 
1.     Plaintiffs’
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs request judicial notice of the Notice of Appeal filed in
this case on April 25, 2024.  Defendant
opposes the request on the grounds that the Notice of Appeal is not relevant.
 
The Court finds that the filing of the Notice of Appeal is relevant to
Plaintiffs’ arguments regarding the effect of the Appeal on the Court’s ability
to reach a determination regarding Defendant’s Motion.
 
Moreover, judicial notice may
be taken of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
However, “while courts are free to take judicial notice of the existence
of each document in a court file, including the truth of results reached, they
may not take judicial notice of the truth of hearsay statements in decisions
and court files.  Courts may not take
judicial notice of allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation
reports in court records because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute
and therefore require formal proof.”  (Lockley
v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Therefore the Court takes
judicial notice of the Notice of Appeal filed in this case, and the legal
implications thereof, but not the truth of any hearsay statements asserted
therein.  
 
2.    
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objection to the Declaration of Evelio Garcia
 
The Court rules as follows
with respect to Defendant’s Evidentiary Objection to the Declaration of Evelio
Garcia:  
 
1.     Sustained
 
3.    
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Thomas Trimborn
 
The Court rules as follows
with respect to Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Thomas
Trimborn:
 
1.     Overruled
2.     Sustained
3.     Sustained
4.     Sustained
 
ANALYSIS
 
            The “Wall Fence” at issue as
depicted by the diagram attached to the Complaint as Exhibit 3 and submitted in
connection with the parties’ briefing on the motion for preliminary injunction
constitutes primarily of a brick wall and then a stucco portion of the wall connected
to the brick portion at a slight angle toward the survey property line in the
direction of Plaintiff’s property.  
 
            Just before the point where the
brick part of the “Wall Fence” meets the stucco portion, there is an additional
“Wing Piece” – a small segment of brick wall that juts out at an angle from the
brick portion of the Wall Fence in the direction of Defendant’s property.  The “Wing Piece” appears to be made of the
same brick as the Wall Fence and rests entirely on the undisputed portion of
Defendant’s property.   
 
            Defendant argues that because the
“Wing Piece” was not included in the diagram supporting Plaintiff’s original
Complaint and request for Preliminary Injunction, it is not part of the Court’s
order, and therefore Defendant is not enjoined from demolishing and removing
the “Wing Piece.”  Plaintiffs do not
address these points, but nonetheless characterize the “Wing Piece” as part of
the “Wall Fence” at issue, and insist it is therefore covered by the Court’s
preliminary injunction order.
 
In
support of its request, Defendant has presented the declaration of David
Stafford, a principal in the construction management firm Searock + Stafford,
CM, and construction manager for Defendant’s renovation project, who has
personally worked on Defendant’s property and visited/observed the wall fence
and wing piece at issue.  (Stafford Decl.
¶¶ 1-2, 6.)  Stafford indicates that
removing the wing piece is necessary to complete a new pathway and subsurface
drainage as planned.  (Stafford Decl. ¶
4.)  Stafford indicates that the planned
removal of the wing piece will involve the following steps:
 
a.     
Excavation by hand with shovels to expose the
existing conditions of the wing piece’s footings;
b.    
Photo document the existing conditions prior to
commencing work.  Communicate the
existing conditions to the client;
c.     
Remove the painted white wood framing on top of
the wing piece only with a reciprocating saw hand tool;
d.    
Install temporary protection such as plastic
sheathing and plywood sheathing to protect the existing walls to remain in
place from physical damage, dust, and debris;
e.     
Layout the saw cut to avoid the plaster clad
wall and footing.
f.     
Cut the wing piece with a cut off saw, first
sawing the vertical cut of the wall first, then saw cutting the vertical cut of
the footing, second, and saw cutting the horizontal cut at the base of the
brick above the footing.
g.    
Remove the bricks, reinforcing steel, and
concrete using hand tools and mini loader to load the debris into the trash
container.
h.    
Remove the temporary protection.
i.      
Photo document completed work.  Communicate to the client.
 
(Stafford Decl. ¶
5.)  Stafford further indicates that
following this process should not “adversely impact the structural integrity or
current function of the Wall Fence at issue in this case.”  (Id. at ¶ 6.)
 
Stafford’s
declaration notwithstanding, Plaintiff is concerned that demolishing the “Wing
Piece” will potentially damage or undermine the structural integrity of the
Wall Fence, and argues that it has not had an opportunity to have its expert
evaluate the potential impact of removing the Wing Piece because Defendant has
not allowed Plaintiff’s expert on its property to conduct an examination.  Further, Plaintiff argues that the Court is not
allowed to hear this matter by virtue of Defendant’s appeal of the preliminary
injunction order.
 
1.     Clarification
re Wing Piece
 
Plaintiffs do not dispute that the Wing Piece rests entirely on an
undisputed portion of Defendant’s property, but argue instead that the Wing
Piece is part of the Wall Fence encompassed by the Court’s Preliminary
Injunction order.
 
The
wing piece is not depicted on the diagram of the Wall Fence and Disputed Area
attached as Exhibit 3 to the original Complaint and as Exhibit 1 to the Ex
Parte Application for TRO.  The Complaint
provides, “Attached as Exhibit ‘3’ is a survey map setting forth the ‘Disputed
Area’, the ‘Wall Fence’, the property line, the Trimborn Parcel and the Wise Parcel.  The Disputed Area measures approximately
1,000 square feet and includes the Wall Fence.” 
(Compl. ¶ 10.)  The Ex Parte
Application similarly defines “Wall Fence” as “a wall and fence separating the
Wise Parce and the Trimborn Parcel depicted and labeled accordingly in the
attached as Exhibit “1” “Survey Map.” 
(Ex Parte Application, Dec. 22, 2023, at p. 2.)  
 
The
Court’s Order provides, “the Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion for a
preliminary injunction and enjoins Defendant from removing the existing Wall
Fence, disturbing or occupying the Disputed Area, or removing or damaging the
Improvements to the Disputed Area as depicted in Exhibit 3 attached to the
Complaint during the pendency of the action.” 
(Minute Order, Jan. 30, 2024.)
 
Thus, using Plaintiffs own definition and survey map, the “Wall Fence”
does not include the Wing Piece. 
Moreover, Plaintiffs knew about the Wing Piece when they filed the
Complaint and Ex Parte Application, because, as Mr. Trimborn declared, “Years
ago, I had white trellises installed into the top of the Wall Fence towards the
front of my property, including the one shown in the photo of the ‘wing’
portion.”  (Trimborn Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
Notwithstanding,
the Court shares Plaintiffs’ concerns about potential damage to the Wall Fence.  However, Defendant has provided the
declaration of its contractor, who personally viewed and evaluated the Wall
Fence and Wing Piece at issue, who developed and outlined a plan for removal of
the Wing Piece, and has declared that the proposed demolition plan should not
damage or undermine the structural integrity of the Wall Fence.
 
Therefore,
Defendant has demonstrated that the Order does not encompass the Wing Piece, and
that removal of the Wing Piece should not damage or undermine the structural
integrity of the Wall Fence, which would violate the Court’s Order, and
Plaintiffs have not demonstrated otherwise.
 
2.     Effect
of Appeal
 
In
general, “the perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon
the judgment or order appealed from or upon the matters embraced therein or
affected thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial
court may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected
by the judgment or order.”  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 916, subd. (a).)  Furthermore,
“When there is a stay of proceedings other than the enforcement of the
judgment, the trial court shall have jurisdiction of proceedings related to the
enforcement of the judgment as well as any other matter embraced in the action
and not affected by the judgment or order appealed from.”  (Id. at subd. (b).)  
 
Plaintiff
notes that prohibitory injunctions are exempt from this stay because such
injunctions, by their nature, operate to preserve the status quo.  (Opp. at p. 5 [citing Daly v. San
Bernardino County Bd. of Supervisors (2021) 11 Cal.5th 1030, 1041.])  However, Plaintiffs argue that because
Defendant seeks to change the status quo, by altering the Wing Piece, [1] the
stay should apply and extend to the Wing Piece.
 
            Defendant is only enjoined from
altering the status quo with respect to the Wall Fence and Disputed Area, as
depicted in the Survey Map supporting Plaintiffs’ request.  As discussed above, this does not include the
Wing Piece.  Defendant is not otherwise
enjoined from altering the status quo of the remainder of Defendant’s property,
which includes the Wing Piece, so long as such alteration does not disturb or
undermine the structural integrity of the Wall Fence or any other portion of
the Disputed Area.  Therefore, the
pending appeal does not impact the Court’s ability to clarify that the Wing
Piece was not included in Plaintiffs’ request, and is therefore not encompassed
by the Court’s Preliminary Injunction Order.
 
3.    
Advisory Opinion/Motion for Reconsideration
 
Similarly,
because the Wing Piece is not encompassed by the Court’s Preliminary Injunction
order, Defendant’s request for clarification of that fact is not an improper
motion for reconsideration of that order. 

 
Moreover,
as evidenced by the parties’ briefing on the matter, there is an actual and
justiciable controversy regarding whether the Wing Piece is part of the Wall
Fence encompassed by the Court’s Preliminary Injunction Order.  As such, the Court’s clarification also does
not constitute an advisory opinion.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Defendant’s request and clarifies that the
Wing Piece was not included in Plaintiff’s request, and is therefore not
encompassed by the Court’s Preliminary Injunction Order.  Further, the Court determines that Defendant’s
planned demolition of the Wing Piece does not violate the Court’s Preliminary
Injunction Order, except to the extent that such demolition damages or undermines the
structural integrity of the portions of the Wall Fence or disputed area
encompassed by that Order.
 
The Court orders Defendant to provide notice of the Court’s ruling and
file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
DATED:  May 30, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


