  Case Number:  23STCV02659    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   February
15, 2024                                           
 
CASE NAME:           Ryan
Wenger, et al. v. Obrach-Araujo Family Trust, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV02659

 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Orbach-Araujo Family Trust; Defendants Compass California, Inc. and Rick Ojeda.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Ryan Wenger and Yifat
Resnick
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the First and Second Causes of Action in the FAC for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and for uncertainty.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Each
Demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety with leave to amend.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On February 7, 2023, Plaintiffs Ryan Wenger and Yifat
Resnick filed a Complaint against Defendants Obrach-Araujo Family Trust, Rick
Ojeda, Compass California, Inc., Compass California II, Inc., and Compass
California III, Inc. (Defendants) with two causes of action for: (1) Negligent
Misrepresentation and (2) Negligence. According to the Complaint, this dispute
concerns the sale of real property located at 1277 Calle De Sevilla, Los
Angeles, California 90272 (the Property). Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
misrepresented aspects of the property, including a built-in-barbeque and
outdoor kitchen and trees. 
 
On July 5, 2023, Defendants Orbach-Araujo Family Trust
erroneously sued as Obrach-Araujo Family Trust filed an Answer and a Motion to
Compel Arbitration. 
 
On July 10, 2023, Defendant Compass California, Inc. filed a
demurrer. 
 
On September 28, 2023, Defendant Rick Ojeda filed a Joinder
to Defendant Compass’s demurrer.
 
On October 10, 2023, Defendant Orbach-Araujo Family Trust
withdrew its motion to compel arbitration.
 
On November 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) for the same causes of action. 
 
On December 5, 2023, Defendants Compass California, Inc. and
Rick Ojeda (Compass Defendants) filed a demurrer to the FAC.
 
On January 11, 2024, Defendant Orbach-Araujo Family Trust (Orbach-Araujo)
filed a demurrer to the FAC.
 
On February 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to both
demurrers.
 
On February 6, 2024, Defendant Orbach-Araujo Family Trust
filed a reply.
 
On February 7, 2024, Defendants Compass California, Inc. and
Rick Ojeda filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. §430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their
meet and confer obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ.
Proc. §430.41(a)(2) & (3). Here, the Compass Defendants met the meet and
confer requirement because counsel sent a letter, several follow-up emails, and
ultimately received an email response from Plaintiffs’ counsel indicating no
further need for discussion. (Anast Decl. ¶¶ 3 – 7.) Defendant Orbach-Araujo
also sufficiently met and conferred. (Weiss Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.) Thus, the meet and
confer requirement is met.
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only
issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿ 
 
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) Courts also consider exhibits attached to
the complaint and incorporated by reference. (See Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Frantz).) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
First Cause of
Action - Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The Compass Defendants contend that Plaintiffs failed to
sufficiently allege particular facts supporting this cause of action. Specifically,
Plaintiffs failed to allege which defendant made any representation, summarily
conclude they justifiably relied on representations, and failed to allege how
Plaintiffs’ reliance on the representations was a substantial factor in causing
their harm. Additionally, the Compass Defendants contend that there was no duty
to disclose facts which were visually apparent to Plaintiffs.     
 
Defendant Orbach-Araujo also contends that Plaintiffs failed
to sufficiently plead particular facts supporting this cause of action. Defendant
Orbach-Araujo also contends that Plaintiffs failed to allege they performed
their due diligence.[1]

 
Plaintiffs argue they did specifically plead who made the
representations, including Defendant Ojeda as agent for Defendant Compass. Plaintiffs
also argue that whether their reliance was reasonable is a question of fact. As
for duty, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants did owe a duty to disclose all facts
known materially affecting the value or desirability of the property and that
whether Plaintiffs failed to discover those facts is a factual question.
 
The Compass Defendants reply that Plaintiffs did not
identify the “defendants” who made the representations as alleged in the FAC,
that Plaintiffs failed to plead facts that Plaintiffs actually relied on the
representations or that it was reasonable reliance. As to duty, the Compass
Defendants reply that pursuant to Civil Code § 2079.16, they were only required
to disclose facts known to the agent that are not known to or within the
diligent attention and observation of the parties. Additionally, they argue
that Plaintiffs conceded the point about no duty to inspect public records or
to verify any of the seller’s alleged statements because it was not raised in
the opposition.
 
Defendant Orbach-Araujo replies that Plaintiffs’ contention
that the HOA members knew their own and their neighbors’ property lines should
be disregarded as a wild assumption and unsupported conclusion. Additionally, they
argue that Plaintiffs argue this both ways: that the boundary lines were common
knowledge to the entire community and that the Defendants actively concealed
information about the boundary lines. 
 
The elements of a claim for negligent misrepresentation are (1)
the defendant made a false representation as to a past or existing material
fact; (2) the defendant made the representation without reasonable ground for
believing it to be true; (3) in making the representation, the defendant
intended to deceive the plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff justifiably relied on the
representation; and (5) the plaintiff suffered resulting damages. (Majd v. Bank of America, N.A. (2015) 243
Cal.App.4th 1293, 1307; National Union
Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, Penn. V. Cambridge Integrated Services Group, Inc.
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 35, 50.) As in negligence, there is also a requirement
that legal duty exists imposed by statute, contract, or otherwise. (Bock v. Hansen (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th
215, 228.) This is a question of law. (Ibid.)
Fraud and negligent misrepresentation must be pleaded with particularity, which
means the pleading “must set forth how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representations were made.” (SI 59
LLC v. Variel Warner Ventures, LLC (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 146, 155; Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th
170, 184-185, fn. 14; see Foster v.
Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 998, 1028 [citing Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.]) 
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, the court agrees with the Defendants
that Plaintiffs have not sufficiently plead negligent misrepresentation. First,
the FAC does not include allegations identifying the “how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made.” Instead, the FAC
alleges that “Defendants” made the representations “in their conversations with
Plaintiffs and in their marketing materials they presented to Plaintiffs.” (FAC
¶ 19.) Also, as to the entity defendants, Plaintiffs have not alleged who spoke
on behalf of each entity. (Perlas v. GMAC
Mort., LLC (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 429, 434 [requiring plaintiffs who claim
fraud against a corporation to allege the names of the persons who made the
misrepresentations, their authority to speak for the corporation, to whom they
spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.]) Plaintiffs
also did not sufficiently allege facts that the Defendants owed a duty.[2]
Indeed, the FAC background section alleges that Defendant Ojeda only owed a
duty to Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶ 2.) There are no allegations that Defendant Compass
or Defendant Orbach-Araujo owed a duty. Finally, Plaintiffs failed to plead
that the alleged misrepresentations were a “substantial influence” on their
actions. (Conroy v. Regents of Univ. of
Calif. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1256.) The only allegations state, in a
conclusory manner, that “Plaintiffs reasonably relied on these
representations.” (FAC ¶ 20.) 
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS both demurrers as to the
first cause of action with leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of
Action - Negligence
 
As noted above, the Compass Defendants contend that they did
not owe Plaintiffs a duty because the encroachments were visible, there was no
duty to inspect public records to discover the encroachment, and there was no
duty to verify the seller’s statements. 
 
Defendant Orbach-Araujo argues that Plaintiffs failed to
allege the existence of a legal duty because the allegedly offending conditions
were obvious and that Plaintiffs were on inquiry notice prior to close of
escrow. 
 
Aside from the above arguments about duty, Plaintiffs also
argue that Defendants’ contentions are irrelevant to their negligence cause of
action. 
 
The Compass Defendants’ duty argument on reply is noted
above. 
 
Defendant Orbach-Araujo replies that duty is a legal
question appropriate for resolution on demurrer. 
 
The basic elements of a negligence claim are: a duty on the
part of the defendant towards the plaintiff; defendant’s breach of that duty;
causation; and harm to plaintiff. (Kesner
v. Sup. Ct. (Pneumo Abex, LLC) (2016 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) 
 
As discussed above, there are insufficient facts supporting
Plaintiffs’ claim for negligence. First, there are two allegations concerning
duty: that Defendant Ojeda owed a duty to Plaintiffs and that all Defendants
“owed Plaintiffs a duty of care to exercise reasonable skill and care and a
duty of honest and fair dealing and good faith.” (FAC ¶¶ 2, 23.) 
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the
second cause of action with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Each Demurrer is SUSTAINED in
its entirety with 20 days leave to amend.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              February 15, 2024                   __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


