 Case Number:  24STLC04750    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  26   
Koury
v. 11758 La Maida St., LLC, et al.DEMURRER
(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants 1127 La Maida St., LLC, Yaaqov Rahlin, and
Defendant 1 Stop Property Solutions, LLC’s Demurrer to the Complaint is
OVERRULED. DEFENDANTS ARE TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN
20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff Ken Koury (“Plaintiff”), in propria persona, filed the Complaint in
this action against Defendants 1127 La Maida St., LLC and Yaaqov Rahlin.
Defendant 1 Stop Property Solutions, LLC was added as a doe defendant on July
2, 2024. 
 
Defendants
filed the instant Demurrer to the Complaint on August
20, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on October 3, 2024, and Defendants replied
on October 7, 2024.
 
Discussion
 
Allegations in the Complaint
 
The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) violation of 47
U.S.C. § 227 and 47 C.F.R. § 64.1200; and (2) violation of the CLRA. Plaintiff
alleges Title 47 United States Code, section 227 and 47 C.F.R. § 64.1200 forbid
(1) sending a recorded advertising message to telephone lines such as the lines
subscribed to by plaintiff; (2) require providing proper identifying and
contact information, maintaining and providing proper written do not call
policies and procedures, training employees and keeping proper records.
(Compl., ¶8.) These statutes and regulations provide for a private cause of
action for the recipient. (Ibid.) Plaintiff received one telephone call
from the defendants within the past year in violation of 47 USC 227and 47
C.F.R. § 64.1200. (Id. at ¶9.) The calls were made in willful and
knowing violation of the statutes. (Id. at ¶12.) Defendants’ conduct was
willful and malicious, intentionally calculated to harm and injure the
plaintiff, and in conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights. (Id. at
¶13.) Defendants’ conduct as alleged in the Complaint violated the Consumer
Legal Remedies Act. (Id. at ¶18.) 
 
Demurrer to the Complaint 
 
Defendants demur to the first
cause of action in the Complaint for failure to allege facts sufficient to
state a cause of action. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) The
demurrer is not accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as required by
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a)(3). Although the
demurrer contends that the meet and confer requirement was satisfied, no
supporting declaration is included as required by the statute. However,
Plaintiff’s opposition does not dispute that the meet and confer effort took
place as stated. 
 
The demurrer is
brought on the grounds that the Complaint fails to allege violation of the
Telephone Consumer Protection Act (“TCPA”), set forth at 47 C.F.R., section
1200. However, the demurrer does not cite any part of the Complaint in support
of this argument. Instead, Defendants argue that Plaintiff operates his legal
practice from the telephone number (818)715-9149, which the same number
plaintiff alleges to be the residential number allegedly called by the
defendants in his Complaint. First, there is no allegation in the Complaint
that Plaintiff operates his legal practice from the telephone number
(818)715-9149. Nor is there any request for judicial notice of such a fact.
Second, there is no allegation in the Complaint of what phone number Defendants
allegedly called. The basis for the demurrer, therefore, is improperly beyond
the four corners of the Complaint or any request for judicial notice. It is black letter law that a demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30; Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) To the extent Defendants admit that
there is an ambiguity regarding the phone number they allegedly called and that
Plaintiff should be required to clarify the ambiguity, no authority is cited in
support of this contention. (Reply, pp. 1-2.) 
 
The demurrer is also made on the grounds that the conduct
alleged against Defendants in the Complaint falls under two exceptions to the
TCPA set forth at subdivisions (a)(3)(ii) and (a)(3)(iii). Those exceptions
provide that “[a] telephone call to any residential line using an artificial or
prerecorded voice to deliver a message requires no consent if the call: . . . “(ii)
[i]s not made for a commercial purpose and the caller makes no more than three
calls within any consecutive 30–day period to the residential line and honors
the called party's request to opt out of future calls as required in paragraphs
(b) and (d) of this section; (iii) [i]s made for a commercial purpose but does
not include or introduce an advertisement or constitute telemarketing and the
caller makes no more than three calls within any consecutive 30–day period to
the residential line and honors the called party's request to opt out of future
calls as required in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section.” (47 C.F.R. §
1200, subd. (a)(3).) Defendants contend these exceptions apply because the
Complaint alleges a single phone call, not three phone calls within a
consecutive 30-day period. The exceptions, however, require more than a showing
of three phone calls in a consecutive 30-day period. The first exception also
requires a showing that the phone call was not made for a commercial purpose.
The second exception also requires a showing that the phone call does not
include or introduce an advertisement or constitute telemarketing. Defendants
do not contend that there are any allegations in the Complaint that these
conditions are met for the phone call they allegedly made to Plaintiff. 
 
Therefore, Defendants have not shown that the Complaint
fails to allege a cause of action for violation of the TCPA. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants 1127 La Maida St., LLC, Yaaqov Rahlin, and
Defendant 1 Stop Property Solutions, LLC’s Demurrer to the Complaint is
OVERRULED. DEFENDANTS ARE TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN
20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Court clerk to give
notice