 Case Number:  23STCV11027    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  57 Plaintiff
Monique Slater was employed by Defendant Volunteers of America of Los Angeles  (“VOALA”) as a case manager.  After VOALA terminated her from that job,
Slater sued VOALA under California’s Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”) alleging
that VOALA discriminated against her on the basis of her race and
disability.  VOALA moved to compel
arbitration of Slater’s claims.  Slater
opposes the motion.   The Court is
granting the motion.  As a result of that
decision, proceedings in this Court are stayed pending the outcome of the
arbitration.
Slater’s
Execution of the Arbitration Agreement 
At
the commencement of her employment with VOALA, Slater executed a Dispute Resolution
Agreement (DRA”) with VOALA.  The DRA
provides that Slater and VOALA “agree to resolve by arbitration any and all
disputes arising out of or related to [Slater’s] employment with VOALA or the
termination thereof.”  It is
uncontroverted that Slater’s FEHA claims are disputes that fall within the
ambit of the DRA.[1]
The
DRA plainly indicates that it was agreed to and accepted by VOALA.   Slater
contends that she did not agree to and accept the DRA.  According to Slater, she has no recollection
of VOALA presenting her with the DRA and that, correspondingly, VOALA cannot
show that the signature on the DRA is hers.  Slater rests her nonagreement/nonacceptance contention
on Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836.  Slater’s reliance on Ruiz is
misplaced.  Ruiz dealt with the
issue of authenticating an electronic signature on an arbitration
agreement.  Here, Slater’s signature on
the DRA was done by hand, not electronically. 
Ruiz is thus inapposite. 
Slater’s
nonrecollection of affixing her signature on the DRA does not render the DRA unenforceable.  Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 747 is instructive.  “If a
party confronted with his or her handwritten signature on an arbitration
agreement is unable to allege that the signature is inauthentic or forged, the
fact that that person does not recall signing the agreement neither creates a
factual dispute as to the signature's authenticity nor affords an independent
basis to find that a contract was not formed.”  (Id. at p. 758.)  While Slater says that she has no recollection
of signing the DRA, she does not assert that the signature on the DRA is someone’s
other than hers.
Unconscionability

Slater
also contends that the DRA is unenforceable because it is unconscionable.  The Court disagrees.
“Unconscionability has procedural and
substantive aspects.”  (Abramson v.
Juniper Networks, Inc (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 638, 655.)  “Both procedural and substantive
unconscionability must be present before a contract or term will be deemed
unconscionable.”  (Serafin v. Balco
Properties Ltd., LLC (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 165, 178 [“Serafin”]
Procedural unconscionability focuses on the circumstances surrounding the
execution of an arbitration agreement and the relative bargaining power of the
parties to the agreement; substantive unconscionability focuses on the
fairness, or lack thereof, of the agreement’s terms.  (OTO, LLC v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
125.)    In analyzing unconscionability,
courts apply a “sliding scale, which means that “the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)
As
to procedural unconscionability, Slater states that VOALA presented the DRA to her
as a condition of her employment.   The
hitch for Slater is that “arbitration agreements imposed as a mandatory
condition of employment are not per se unlawful or unconscionable.”   (Rocha v. U-Haul Co. of California
(2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 65, 75; see also Serafin, supra, 235
Cal.App.4th at p. 179 [an arbitration agreement is “not rendered unenforceable
just because it is required as a condition of employment or offered on a ‘take
it or leave it’ basis”].)  Rather,
whether an arbitration agreement presents employees with a “take it or leave
it” choice (i.e. take the arbitration agreement or leave the job) is just one
factor that is to be considered in the overall, sliding scale analysis of both
procedural and substantive unconscionability. 
(Serpa v. California Surety Investigators (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th
695, 704.)  
That
the DRA was presented to Slater as a condition of employment is the only indicia
of procedural unconscionability that Slater raises in opposition to VOALA’s
motion to compel arbitration.   This is a
problem for Slater for purposes of the sliding scale analysis because Slater
has not shown that the DRA is substantively unconscionable.  She argues that the DRA is substantively
unconscionable because it requires the party that opposed arbitration to pay
the other party’s costs, fees, and expenses in compelling arbitration.  The DRA does no such thing.  Rather, it provides that VOALA, not Slater,
will pay all the arbitration fees, including the arbitrator’s fee, and that
both sides shall pay their own attorney’s fees incurred in connection with the
arbitration (unless the burden for payment of attorney’s fees can be shifted
under federal or state law).  That
provision is not substantively unconscionable. 


