  Case Number:  23AHCV01770    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] SUSTAINING DEFENDANT’S
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT WITH LEAVE TO AMEND, GRANTING THE MOTION TO
STRIKE                         
I.         
I                          I.         
INTRODUCTION
            This
negligence action arises from an alleged hit and run collision at a
drive-through at 1122 E. Huntington Dr. Plaintiffs Henry Cuellar Sr., Lydia
Marie Cuellar and Ezequiel Cuellar (together “Plaintiffs”) allege that on or
about October 26, 2022, Defendant Randall Ruppart (“Defendant”) fled the scene
after negligently colliding his vehicle into Plaintiffs’ vehicle from behind.
            On August
3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a personal injury complaint on alleging causes of
action for (1) motor vehicle property damage and personal injury, (2) general
negligence, (3) violation of Vehicle Code 20001(a): misdemeanor hit and run,
and (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress.
            On April 9,
2024, Defendant filed a Demurrer with Motion to Strike pursuant to CCP § 430.10
concurrently with a notice and Declaration of Serena L. Nervez (“Nervez
Decl.”).
            On June 12,
2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to Defendant’s Demurrer and Motion to
Strike.
            On June 27,
2024, Defendant filed a Reply to Plaintiffs’ oppositions. 
            A hearing
is scheduled for the demurrer on July 5, 2024, and no trial date is scheduled.
 
                       
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A.   
Demurrer
Code Civ. Proc. §430.10(e) provides
for a demurrer on the basis that a complaint fails to state a cause of action.
A demurrer admits, provisionally
for purposes of testing the pleading, all material facts properly pleaded. Tindell v. Murphy (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th
1239, 1247.
A demurrer is treated as “admitting
all material facts properly pleaded,” but not the truth of “contentions,
deductions or conclusions of law.” Aubry
v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.
The general rule on demurrer is
that the pleadings are “deemed to be true, however improbable they may be.” Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.4th 593, 604.
Questions of plaintiff’s ability to
prove unlikely allegations are of no concern. Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 213-214.
A demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.  A plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as
true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable” they are. Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del
E. Webb). Allegations need not be accepted as true if they are contradicted
by judicially noticeable facts. Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474. 
Pleadings are to be broadly
construed (Code Civ. Proc. §452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the
facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. Quelimane Co. v. Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.
A demurrer challenges defects
appearing on the face of the complaint or in judicially noticeable material but
cannot be based on evidence. “Speaking demurrers” are not permitted. Weil &
Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023),
§7.8.
Code Civ. Proc. §430.10(f) provides
for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain.
Demurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible a
defendant cannot reasonably respond. A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors,
Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.
B.   
Motion to Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)  
Punitive damages may be imposed
where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)
“Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff
or despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(1).)  “‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct
rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level
which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’  [Citation.]” (Lackner
v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)   
“As amended to include
[despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an
intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and
conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of ‘despicable
conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a
“new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.) 
Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,
wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by
ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the
character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v.
Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269,
1287.)    
III.      ANALYSIS
A.   
Defendant’s Demurrer
                                              
i.         
Third Cause of Action: Hit and Run
Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’
third cause of action for hit and run as uncertain and because it allegedly
fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
Section 20001(a) of the California
Vehicle Code provides that “the driver of a vehicle involved in an accident
resulting in injury to a person, other than himself or herself, or in the death
of a person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the accident and
shall fulfill the requirements of Sections 20003. Where Section 2003 requires
the driver of such vehicle to give contact information to the driver of any
vehicle provided with, and to any traffic or police officer at the scene of the
accident. (Cal Veh Code § 20003(a).) Upon request, the driver must also exhibit
his or her driver’s license or qualifying identification. (Ibid. at §
20003(b).) A failure to comply with these requirements is a criminal offense.
(Cal Veh Code §§ 20001, 2003.)
 
a)    
Uncertainty
            Plaintiffs’
third cause of action states that “Plaintiffs were lawfully operating their
vehicle at a drive-thru at or near 1122 E. Huntington Dr. Defendant RANDALL
RUPPART operated his vehicle directly behind Plaintiffs’ without caution and in
such an unsafe manner that it violently collided into Plaintiffs’ vehicle.
Defendant RANDALL RUPPART immediately fled the scene
after the collision.” (Compl., p. 6.)
Defendant’s demurrer is silent as
to which aspect of the third cause of action is uncertain. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs concede
that the complaint “does not explicitly state that Defendant failed to give
required information to another driver or to the police.” However, Plaintiffs
argument is based on a reasonable inference that “his immediate flight from the
scene implies that he did not provide the necessary information.” (Opp’n. p.
6.)
The Court agrees that as pleaded,
Plaintiffs’ third cause of action is sufficiently certain to give Defendant
notice that he fled without complying with the California Vehicle Code. 
Therefore, the Court finds that the
Third Cause of Action is certain.
 
b)    
Failure to State Sufficient Facts to Constitute a Cause of
Action
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs
fail to state a cause of action under the section 20001(a) because Plaintiffs fail
to show how Defendant fleeing the scene caused them damages different from or
beyond those caused by the accident itself. (Demurrer, p. 5.) 
The point is well taken.  In Brooks v. E.J.
Willig Truck Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679, the California Supreme Court held
that a hit and run cannot give rise to a tort unless the fact of the hit and
run caused additional damages above and beyond the accident itself. 
Here, Plaintiffs have not alleged any
facts to support how additional damages were incurred from Defendant fleeing
the accident site. In the complaint, Plaintiffs allege that “A driver is liable
for injuries caused by driving with an intent to cause injury, or, even without
an intent to injure, with either (a) knowledge that serious injury is a
probable result or (b) a wanton and reckless disregard of the possible
consequences of driving in a particular manner. (Reuther y. Viall,
(1965) 62 Cal.2d 470, 475.)
The complaint alleges that Defendant immediately fled the
scene after the collision and Defendant “was aware that the outset of the
probable consequences of such conduct and willfully and deliberately failed to
avoid those consequences, an act or omission with conscious disregard for the
safety of others. Conscious disregard of the safety of others constitutes
malice.” (Compl., p. 6, ¶ 2.) The complaint does not allege that Plaintiffs
suffered any additional damages because of Defendant’s flight. In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that
there are sufficient facts because of the allegation that Defendant willfully
and intentionally fled the scene of the accident after causing the accident.
However, violation of this code section alone is insufficient to support this
finding without additional facts of injury arising from Defendant’s alleged
immediate fleeing.
Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer as
to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for violation of Vehicle Code § 20001(a),
hit and run, is sustained with leave to amend.
 
                                            
ii.         
Fourth Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
Defendant argues that the fourth
cause of action, IIED, is uncertain and insufficiently pled.
“The elements of a prima facie case
for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. To be outrageous, conduct must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds
of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek
(2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)
Uncertainty
Plaintiffs’ complaint for IIED is
based on the following allegations: (1) Defendant acted with the intention of
causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress when Defendant knowingly operated his vehicle without caution, and in
such a reckless and unsafe manner, that he negligently and violently collided
with Plaintiffs’ vehicle. Defendant RANDALL RUPPART immediately fled the scene
after the collision (Compl., p. 7, ¶ 3), (2) Plaintiffs suffered severe
emotional distress due to Defendant’s conduct (Id., ¶ 4, 5), and (3) Defendant’s
conduct was substantial in causing Plaintiffs’ severe emotional distress, and Defendant’s
outrageous, malicious, oppressive and despicable conduct as set forth above was
intended to cause injury to the Plaintiffs and subjected the Plaintiffs to
cruel and unjust hardship with a willful and conscious disregard for the
Plaintiff’s rights and safety such that Defendant is subject to punitive
damages as set forth in California Civil Code § 3294. (Id., ¶¶ 5, 6)
Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant’s conduct was so outrageous as to exceed
all bounds of that usually tolerated by a civilized community. (Id. at ¶
2.)
Defendant demurs that Plaintiff’s
IIED cause of action is uncertain but provides no additional arguments to show
in which way they are uncertain about the Plaintiff’s alleged claim. Defendant
labels its demurrer to IIED as uncertain in the heading of the demurrer but
provides no other rationale for the court to believe that the complaint is so
incomprehensible that they cannot reasonably respond.
Therefore, the Plaintiff’s IIED
claim is pled with sufficient certainty.
 
Failure
to State Sufficient Facts to Constitute a Cause of Action
Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’
fourth cause of action for IIED on the grounds that 1) Defendant’s conduct, as
alleged, is not extreme and outrageous and; 2) The Complaint fails to allege
sufficient facts to show that Plaintiffs reasonably suffered the type of
emotional distress severe enough to warrant damages. 
The complaint alleges that
Defendant operated his vehicle directly behind Plaintiffs’ vehicle without caution
and in such an unsafe manner that it violently collided into Plaintiffs’
vehicle. The Complaint also alleges that Defendant immediately fled the scene
after the collision.  These allegations
do not set forth “extreme and outrageous” conduct. The Court also concludes
that the Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to establish that Defendant
intentionally caused or recklessly disregarded the probability of causing
emotional distress.  Finally, the Complaint
fails to allege any facts to support how Plaintiffs suffered the type of
intensive and long duration emotional distress required for this cause of
action. 
Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer as
to the fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress
is sustained with leave to amend.
 
B.   
Defendant’s Motion to Strike
Defendant moves to strike the
following portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint related to Defendant’s alleged
conduct and punitive damages:
1.    
“punitive
damages”. (Compl., p. 3, at ¶ 14(a)(2).)
2.    
“wantonly,
maliciously, willfully, oppressively, and despicably”. (Compl., p. 5, at GN1.)
3.    
“Defendant
RANDALL RUPPART, and each of them, was aware that the outset of the probable
consequences of such conduct and willfully and deliberately failed to avoid
those consequences, an act or omission with conscious disregard for the safety
of others.
4.    
Conscious
disregard of the safety of others constitutes malice. Defendant RANDALL
RUPPART, and each of them, was aware of the probable consequences of his
conduct and he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.”
(Compl., “Third Cause of Action, [unnumbered] p. 6, at ¶ 2.)
5.    
“Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs are entitled, pursuant to Civil Code 3294, et
seq., to punitive damages in the sum to be ascertained at trial against
Defendants RANDALL RUPPART and each of them, in doing the things herein,
ratified and acknowledged the acts of Defendant RANDALL RUPPART.” (Compl.,
“Third Cause of Action, [unnumbered] p. 6, at ¶ 3.)
6.    
 “Defendant RANDALL RUPPART’s outrageous,
malicious, oppressive and despicable conduct as set forth above was intended to
cause injury to the Plaintiff and subjected the Plaintiffs to cruel and unjust
hardship with a willful and conscious disregard for the Plaintiff’s rights and
safety such that Defendant is subject to punitive damages as set forth in
California Civil Code § 3294.” (Compl., “Fourth Cause of Action,” [unnumbered]
p. 7, at ¶ 6.)
Allegations that a defendant
exhibited a conscious disregard for the safety of others are sufficient to show
malice. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-96; see
also Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 90.) To properly
allege punitive damages in a motor vehicle accident action, a plaintiff needs
to "establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to
avoid those consequences." (Taylor supra, 24 Cal.3d at 896.)
Conclusory allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages. (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)
            Here, the
complaint lacks any factual allegations to support Defendant’s conscious
disregard for the safety of others. There are no facts concerning the way in
which Defendant operated his vehicle, Defendant’s actions before the collision,
or any other circumstances surrounding the incident, including the intensity of
the collision, the speed at which the Defendant’s vehicle was traveling at the
time of the collision, or the extent of the damage to the vehicles involved. The
complaint contains allegations only of generally negligent behavior.
Therefore, the Court finds
Plaintiffs' claim for punitive damages to be unfounded.
Plaintiffs' opposition focuses
primarily on their allegations that Defendant fled the scene after the
collision and Plaintiffs’ emotional state after the accident. Plaintiffs do not
provide additional facts regarding the hit and run in their opposing papers
that speak to the showing required to support punitive damages. The Court does
not find these arguments persuasive.
The conduct giving rise to punitive
damages must be a proximate cause of the harm inflicted upon a plaintiff. (See
CACI Instruction No. 3940 ["The purposes of punitive damages are to punish
a wrongdoer for the conduct that harmed the plaintiff and to discourage similar
conduct in the future.].)
As discussed above, Brooks v.
E.J. Willig Truck Transp. Co. is instructive. In Brooks, the court
held that a hit and run cannot give rise to damages unless the fact that the
defendant fled the scene was "a proximate cause of further injury or
death" beyond the accident itself. (Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck Transp.
Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679.) In Brooks, the California Supreme
Court found that a hit and run instruction to the jury was warranted because
the evidence suggested that the decedent was still alive after the collision
and the defendant's stopping to provide aid could have prevented his death. (Id.
at 680.) Brooks did not consider the issue of whether punitive damages
can be imposed based on a hit and run. It did, however, hold that such act only
constitutes a tort if the act itself causes the plaintiff additional injury
above and beyond the damages caused by the collision that precedes fleeing the
scene. (Id.)
As previously stated, the complaint
contains little facts about the hit and run. The complaint is limited to the
allegation that Defendant failed to stop after striking Plaintiffs’ vehicle in
the drive through. Considering Brooks, the Court finds that Plaintiffs'
complaint does not properly seek punitive damages. Plaintiffs present no facts
from which the Court could conclude that Defendant’s leaving the scene gave
rise to additional damages. Plaintiffs merely contend Defendant fled the scene
but ascribe no additional injury from the failure to stop.
Plaintiffs' allegations do not establish
an injury caused by Defendant flight and thus cannot support a claim for
punitive damages. Although it appears Plaintiffs cannot amend to allege further
injury from the act of fleeing the scene, the Court finds they could still
amend to allege punitive damages stemming from Defendant’s awareness of the
dangerous consequences of his conduct in general. 
Therefore, the motion to strike
punitive damages is GRANTED with leave to amend.
                                IV.         
ORDER
            Defendant
Randall Ruppart’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the third
cause of action (violation of vehicle code 20001(a) (hit and run);
Defendant Randall Ruppart’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fourth cause of action
(intentional infliction of emotional distress);
Defendant Randall Ruppart’s Motion
to Strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND;
The Court GRANTS PLAINTIFFS 20 DAYS
LEAVE TO AMEND
Defendant Randall Ruppart to give
notice.
            
Dated:  July 5, 2023                                                               

JUDGE JARED D. MOSES
JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 
