  Case Number:  22GDCV00252    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 15, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: May 6, 2025 
                                                           
CASE:                         GC-8, LLC, a
California limited liability company; SAN CLEMENTE BEACH COUNTRY CLUB, a
California corporation; SHORECLIFFS GOLF MANAGEMENT, INC, a California
corporation; SEAN LEONG, an individual; and ALLSION LEE, an individual; v,
ROBERT D. HEINRICH, CPA, an individual; ROBERT D. HEINRICH, C.P.A., INC., a
California corporation, MMAP SERVICES, INC., a California corporation; and DOES
1-30, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22GDCV00252
 
 
 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Robert Heinrich
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
GC-8, LLC and San Clemente Beach Country Club 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Defendant moves for an order compelling
Plaintiffs GC-8, LLC and San Clemente Beach Country Club to provide further responses to Request for
Production of Documents, Request for Admission, Form Interrogatories, and
Special Interrogatories, Sets One, and for monetary sanctions. 

 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs claim that
Defendant Robert Heinrich engaged in professional negligence related to
accounting and bookkeeping services. Plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint
on September 29, 2023, alleging four causes of action for (1) professional
negligence, (2) negligent supervision, (3) common counts, and (4) violations of
Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant’s motions to compel further responses to
special interrogatories, set one, is DENIED as to San Clemente Beach Country
Club and GRANTED as to GC-8 LLC.
 
            Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to request
for production of documents, set one, is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to request
for admissions, set one, is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to form
interrogatories, set one, is GRANTED.
 
            Sanctions
are denied. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300, subdivision (a), Section
2031.310, and 2033.290 subdivision (a), parties may move for a further response
to interrogatories, requests for production of documents, or requests for
admission where an answer to the requests are evasive or incomplete or where an
objection is without merit or too general. A motion to compel further response
to requests for production has an additional requirement to “set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b)(1).)  
 
Notice of motions to compel further responses to discovery must be given
within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding
party waives any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.300, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd. (c), 2033.290, subd. (c).)  The motions must also be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b),
2031.310, subd. (b), 2033.290, subd. (b).) 

 
Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or
responses involving further discovery contain a separate statement with the
text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal
reasons for compelling further responses. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345,
subd. (a)(3)).
 
Where the court grants a motion to compel further responses, sanctions
shall be imposed against the party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion
to compel, unless the party acted with substantial justification or the
sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310, subd. (h),
2030.300, subd. (d); 2033.290, subd. (d).) 

 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant moves for an order compelling
Plaintiffs GC-8, LLC (“GC-8”) and San Clemente Beach
Country Club (“Country Club”) (“Plaintiffs”) to provide further responses to Request for Production of Documents,
Request for Admission, Form Interrogatories, and Special Interrogatories, Sets
One, and for monetary sanctions. 
 
Timeliness
 
            It appears the last supplemental
responses to requests for admission, form interrogatories, and request for
production were served on February 19, 2024, and to special interrogatories on
February 22, 2024. Defendant agreed to extend the deadline for Plaintiffs to
file motions to compel to April 30, 2024. (Wu Decls., ¶23, Exh. O.) As such the
motions are timely. 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Defendant
has shown that the parties have extensively met and conferred regarding the
instant discovery requests. While Plaintiffs argue that Defendant would not
meet and confer in person, this is not required and Defendant attempted to meet
and confer by other means multiple times. It does not appear that the parties
are able to resolve this matter informally and the motions are opposed on the
merits. 
 
 
Service of Motion
 
            Plaintiffs argue that Defendant did
not provide sufficient notice of the motions based on CCP §§ 1105 and 1010.6
based on the initial May 14, 2024 hearing date. The motions were served by
email on April 19, 2024. 
 
CCP §
1005(b) provides “all moving and supporting papers shall be served and filed at
least 16 court days before the hearing. … However, if the notice is served by
mail, the required 16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be
increased by five calendar … if the notice is served by facsimile transmission,
express mail, or another method of delivery providing for overnight delivery,
the required 16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be increased by
two calendar days.”  
 
CCP §
1010.6(a)(3)(B) Provides “Any period of notice, or any right or duty to do any
act or make any response within any period or on a date certain after the
service of the document, which time period or date is prescribed by statute or
rule of court, shall be extended after service by electronic means by two court
days.”¿  
 
Defendant
argues that email service is a method of overnight delivery under CCP §
1005(b), and thus he only needed to serve the motions 16 court days, plus 2
calendar days, prior to the hearing date. 
 
Cole
v. Superior Court
(2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 87 is instructive. In Cole, the appellate
court faced the same issue in relation to a summary judgment motion and, since
CCP Section 437c does not expressly state any extension of the notice period
for electronic service, it looked to CCP Section 1010.6, which addresses
service by electronic transmission, to determine if any extension applies to
such service. CCP § 1010.6(a)(3)(B) provides for a two-day notice extension for
electronic service. Here, too, Section 1005(b) does not expressly state an
extended notice period, so we look to Section 1010.6. Accordingly, Plaintiffs
needed to be served the motions 18 court days before the hearing.
 
The
hearing date is now May 15, 2024, and 18 court days prior to this date is April
19, 2022, when Defendant served notice. Plaintiffs argue that the continuing of
the May 14 hearing date to May 15 does not remedy this but does not provide any
authority for such. In any event, Plaintiffs have fully opposed the motions,
and it does not appear that a further continuance would provide Plaintiffs
anything more as they have already opposed. Thus, there does not appear to be
any denial of due process rights. 
 
A
court may properly consider papers that are not timely filed pursuant to CCP §
1005(b) unless “substantial rights” are affected. (CRC 3.1300(d); CCP § 475.)
The appearance of a party at the hearing of a motion and his or her opposition
to the motion on the merits is a waiver of any procedural defects or
irregularities in a motion. (Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690,
697.)
 
Accordingly,
the Court turns to the merits of the motions.
 
Special Interrogatories:
 
            As an initial matter, Plaintiff Country Club objected to
Defendant’s separate statement on the basis that it does not reference the
requests propounded upon it or its responses. The Court observes that only the
discovery as to GC-8 is reflected in the separate statement. The requests are
not identical and identify the party it is directed towards. Accordingly, the
motion is DENIED as to Country Club for failure to provide a separate statement
as to it.
 
            As to GC-8, the Court agrees with Defendant that
Plaintiff’s responses are not straightforward. “Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete
and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding
party permits.” (CCP § 2030.220(a).) Plaintiff
provides the same 7-page narrative to each of the 35 interrogatories and does
not specifically answer each of the requests. Further, Plaintiff has only
glossed over its objections in opposition, and the Court finds that the
objections are without merit. 
 
            Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED as to GC-8. 
 
Request for Admissions
            
Plaintiffs’ responses consist of objections and statements of
“admit” or “deny.” 
 
Plaintiffs’ opposition focuses on procedural arguments with little
to no merit rather than justifying their objections. As to the separate
statement, while only one is filed, Defendant represents that they are
identical in request and response. The Court cannot tell which Plaintiff they
are directed towards and observes that they in fact appear identical. Thus,
there is no need to file an identical separate statement. 
 
Although Plaintiffs do not justify their objections, Plaintiffs
have also responded to the subject requests notwithstanding the objections. It
is unclear what more Defendant is seeking from the request for admissions that
state “deny.” Defendant references Form Interrogatory No. 17 and Plaintiffs’
lack of details and documents in response to it. While the interrogatory is
related, it is not part of this discovery set, and Defenant’s request for
admissions only seek admission or denial, which Plaintiffs have provided.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is DENIED.
 
Requests for Production
 
            Plaintiffs’ responses to the requests at issue consist of
objections and statements of compliance. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs have
yet to comply with production. 
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiffs
have failed to justify their objections in opposition, and instead focus on
meritless procedural arguments again. Further, Plaintiffs are ordered to
comply with their statements of compliance within 30 days of this order. The
motion is GRANTED.
 
Form Interrogatories  
 
In the responses at issue, Plaintiffs object to the term
“incident” and provide substantive responses notwithstanding said objection. Plaintiffs
also object to some interrogatories on the basis that they are only for
personal injury cases, but there is no support for this objection. The Court likewise
does not find merit in the objection to the term “incident,” which is defined
as “The Wrongdoing by Defendants which is alleged
in the Second Amended Complaint filed in this litigation.” Plaintiffs object on the basis that vague, ambiguous,
overly broad, and unduly burdensome because there are 5 plaintiffs and 3
defendants in the SAC. However, it is common sense that Defendant is asking
about the wrongdoings in relation to the present parties. 
 
            Again, Plaintiffs focus their
opposition on meritless procedural arguments. Further,
Plaintiffs have not provided justification for the above objections, or any
other objections set forth in the responses. Thus, Plaintiffs must provide
substantive responses. 
 
            As to the substantive responses provided, Plaintiffs have
not answered all subparts and appear to qualify their responses based on the
term “incident.” Thus, the responses are not complete and straightforward. 
 
            Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
 
Sanctions
 
            The Court
declines to award sanctions to either party as the rulings go in favor of both
parties and imposition of sanctions would be futile to compensate either side. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s motions to compel further responses to
special interrogatories, set one, is DENIED as to San Clemente Beach Country
Club and GRANTED as to GC-8 LLC.
 
            Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to request
for production of documents, set one, is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to request
for admissions, set one, is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to form
interrogatories, set one, is GRANTED.
 
            All ordered
verified, code complaint further responses are to be served on the defendants
with 7 days of notice of this ruling. 
 
            Sanctions
are denied. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
            
Dated:   May 15, 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
