 Case Number:  23PSCV01590    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Xchange  USA Inc. v. MEG Home Plus, LLC, et al.  1  – Cross-Defendants’ Special Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP); 2  – Defendants’ Demurrer to Xchange USA, Inc. and Xchange Logistics Corporation’s  First Amended Complaint; and 3  – Defendants’ Motion to Strike Xchange USA, Inc. and Xchange Logistics  Corporation’s First Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Xchange USA, Inc.’s and Xchange  Logistics Corporation’s special motion to strike (anti-SLAPP) and DENIES the  request for attorney’s fees and costs.  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First Amended  Complaint with 20 days’ leave to amend.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike as to the  allegations in the FAC pertaining to the addition of Xchange Logistics as a  plaintiff and the purportedly immaterial allegations, and GRANTS the motion with  respect to the prayer for special damages. Accordingly, the Prayer for Relief,  ¶ A, p. 7:3-4, is stricken with 20 days’ leave to amend.  Defendants are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within  five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a breach of contract action. On May 26, 2023, plaintiff Xchange  USA Inc. filed this action. On March 26, 2024, plaintiffs Xchange USA Inc. (Xchange  USA) and Xchange Logistics Corporation (Xchange Logistics) (collectively,  Plaintiffs) filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against defendants  MEG Home Plus (MEG), LLC, Jie Li, Cynthia Li, Jing Li (Jing) (collectively,  Defendants), and Does 1 to 25, alleging causes of action for breach of contract  and common count: open book account.  On February 15, 2024, cross-complainant Meg filed the operative  cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Xchange USA, Xchange Logistics, and Mia  Zhang, and Roes 1 to 99, alleging causes of action for fraud, breach of  contract, conversion, and cancellation of instrument.  PROCEDURAL  BACKGROUND – Anti-SLAPP  On April 2, 2024, Xchange USA and Xchange Logistics (collectively,  Moving Parties) filed a special motion to strike (anti-SLAPP) against each  cause of action in the cross-complaint. On March 29, 2024, MEG opposed the  motion.[1] On April 19, 2024, Moving Parties replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Anti-SLAPP  Code  of Civil Procedure section 425.16 permits the court to strike causes of action  arising from an act in furtherance of the defendant's right of free speech or  petition, unless the plaintiff establishes that there is a probability that the  plaintiff will prevail on the claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16.)  “The  anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s constitutionally  protected conduct from the undue burden of frivolous litigation.” (Baral  v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393 (Baral), italics in original.) “The  anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate defendants from any liability for  claims arising from the protected rights of petition or speech.  It only  provides a procedure for weeding out, at an early stage, meritless  claims arising from protected activity.” (Id., at p. 384, italics  in original.)  “Resolution  of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps. First, the defendant must  establish that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by section  425.16. If the defendant makes the required showing, the burden shifts to the  plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the claim by establishing a probability  of success.” (Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at p. 384, citation  omitted.) The California Supreme Court has “described this second step as  a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ The court does not weigh evidence or  resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is limited to whether the  plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual  showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It accepts the plaintiff’s  evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to determine if it  defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law. ‘[C]laims with the  requisite minimal merit may proceed.’” (Id., at pp. 384-385,  internal citations omitted.)              Where a cause of action is  predicated on both protected and unprotected activity, the court may strike  those parts predicated on protected activity, even if the moving party sought  to strike the entire cause of action. (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021)  11 Cal.5th 995, 1011 (Bonni).) Allegations that are merely incidental and  provide context without a right to recovery are not subject to the anti-SLAPP  statute. (Id., at p. 1012.)  EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS – Anti-SLAPP              The Court SUSTAINS  MEG’s evidentiary objection numbers 4 and 30 as to the language, “the breach  was not cured, and there was no notice that the breach would be cured,” on the grounds  that they assert improper legal conclusions. (See Towns v. Davidson (2007)  147 Cal.App.4th 461, 472.) The Court OVERRULES all of MEG’s other evidentiary  objections.  DISCUSSION – Anti-SLAPP  Timeliness  Code of Civil  Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (f), requires that a special motion to  strike be filed within 60 days of service of complaint, or later with court  permission. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (f).) Here, Moving Parties filed and  served their motion on April 2, 2024, which is less than 60 days from the time  MEG served the cross-complaint on them. (Proof of Service (2/20/24) [Xchange  USA]; Proof of Service (2/28/24) [Xchange Logistics].) The Court notes that MEG  did not file a proof of service of the cross-complaint as to Cross-Defendant  Mia Zhang, who does not otherwise seem to have appeared in this action. Accordingly,  the motion is timely.              First Prong – Protected Activity              Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (e),  defines protected activity as, “(1) any written or oral statement or writing  made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other  official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or  writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a  legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding  authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place  open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public  interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the  constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in  connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).) While filing a lawsuit is an exercise of the  constitutional right of petition, an anti-SLAPP motion against a  cross-complaint must show that it alleges acts in furtherance of the right of  free speech or petition in connection with a public issue. (Kajima  Engineering and Const., Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th  921, 929 (Kajima).)              Summary  of Arguments – Protected Activity  Moving Parties contend that the harm complained of in  the cross-complaint arises out of protected activity. Moving Parties contend  Xchange[2] and MEG entered into a partial settlement agreement (PSA) related to the  original complaint, which gave Xchange the right to auction off MEG’s cargo if  MEG breached the PSA. Moving Parties contend MEG breached the PSA, Xchange gave  proper notice to cure, and MEG failed to cure. Moving Parties contend Xchange  properly provided notice to all relevant parties and scheduled the action for  February 22, 2024. Moving Parties then contend MEG filed the cross-complaint on  February 15, 2024, alleging fraud, breach of contract, and conversion, and  alleging that the harm for each of those causes of action involved MEG  defending itself against the original complaint, and taking legal action to  stop Xchange Logistics from selling MEG’s goods at auction. Moving Parties  contend the auction was a remedy provided under the PSA.  In opposition, MEG contends most of the evidence is  inadmissible, and that the motion fails to show that MEG entering into a  contract with Xchange Logistics arises from Xchange USA’s petitioning activity.  MEG contends there is no evidence that shows the allegations of entering into  the PSA six months before litigation as having any connection to a judicial  proceeding. MEG then contends the motion fails to show that activities relating  to auctioning MEG’s goods arises from Xchange USA’s petitioning activity. MEG  contends Xchange USA’s name is missing from the notice of auction and that  there is no evidence Xchange USA actually auctioned off any goods. MEG contends  Xchange Logistics was never a party to this action until MEG filed the  cross-complaint.  MEG further contends that the auctioning activities  are not covered under the terms of the PSA and that the claims still do not  arise from Xchange USA’s petitioning activities. MEG contends there is no  evidence of any breach of the PSA. MEG then contends the PSA expired at the  time of the auction, and that it terminates 75 days from the “Delivery Date”  (as defined in the PSA), and that the Delivery Date was changed to October 16,  2023, so the auction of the goods on February 22, 2024, was past the deadline.  MEG contends that the claims at issue do not arise from suing in court, which  MEG admits is petitioning activity. MEG contends that it only requests attorney  fees as damages for defending against Xchange USA’s lawsuit against Xchange  Logistics, and that therefore Xchange USA cannot ask these claims to be  stricken since they are not brought against Xchange USA. MEG also contends  Xchange Logistics cannot ask the allegations to be stricken because the  purported petitioning activity is of Xchange USA.              Analysis  – Protected Activity  The Court finds that Moving Parties’ actions in  connection with the PSA are not constitutionally protected activities under  Civil Code section 425.16. “A breach of contract claim can arise from  protected activity if the action allegedly breaching the contract is  itself protected. [Citations.]” (Bonni, supra, 11  Cal.5th at p. 1025, italics added.) None of the legal authorities Moving  Parties cited in their moving papers directly support their contention that  performing under a contract is a constitutionally protected activity for  purposes of an anti-SLAPP motion. (See 19:3-21:3.) In fact, the legal authority  that the Court found tends to show that performing or failing to perform under  a contract by itself is not a protected activity. “The simple breach of  contract alleged in the instant case does not arise from such constitutionally  protected activity.” (Applied Business Software, Inc. v. Pacific Mortgage  Exchange, Inc. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1118 (Applied Business).)  Moreover, even if a settlement agreement is entered  into in connection with a judicial proceeding, its breach does not necessarily constitute  a protected activity. (Applied Business Software, Inc. v. Pacific Mortgage  Exchange, Inc. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1117-1118 (Applied Business).)  More specifically, the Second District of the Court of Appeal stated that:  [T]he gist of plaintiff's complaint  is not that defendant did something wrong by acts committed during the course  of the underlying federal action, but rather that defendant did something  wrong by breaching the settlement agreement after the underlying action had  been concluded. Under the explanatory provisions in subdivision (e) of section 425.16,  defendant's entering into the settlement agreement during the pendency of the  federal case was indeed a protected activity, but defendant's subsequent  alleged breach of the settlement agreement after the federal case was concluded  is not protected activity because it cannot be said that the alleged breaching  activity was undertaken by defendant in furtherance of defendant's right of  petition or free speech, as those rights are defined in section 425.16. Thus, the instant suit is based on alleged conduct of the  defendant that is not protected activity.  (Applied  Business, supra, 164 Cal.App.4th at p. 1118, italics added.)              The  fact that the parties entered into the PSA in connection with the original  complaint during the pendency of this action does not automatically bring it  within the scope of a constitutionally protected right under Civil Code section  425.16. (See Id.)  Furthermore, the Court also does not find MEG’s  allegations regarding the auctioning of its goods to be directed at protected  activity. (See Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 17, 22, 30.) This is merely performance  under an agreement and, as noted above, the parties’ respective performances in  connection with the PSA by themselves are not constitutionally protected  activity, even if the PSA was entered into during pending litigation. (See Applied  Business, supra, 164 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1117-1118.) Additionally, MEG’s claims  are not based on the PSA, but rather are based on the service contract from  December 2022 between Xchange Logistics and MEG. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 17, 20, Ex.  B.)  Finally, the Court does not find that MEG’s damage  claims regarding defending itself against Moving Parties’ litigation brings it  within the scope of a protected activity. (See Cross-Complaint, ¶ 17.) “[T]o  determine the applicability of the anti-SLAPP statute, we look to the allegedly  wrongful and injurious conduct of the defendant, rather than the damage which  flows from said conduct.” (Renewable Res. Coal., Inc. v.  Pebble Mines Corp. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 384, 396-397, italics in  original.) Here, the allegedly wrongful and injury producing conduct is MEG  being deceived into entering into the service contract with Xchange Logistics,  (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 16), Xchange Logistics’ failure to perform under the service  contract, (Id., ¶ 22), and Xchange Logistics’ wrongfully withholding MEG’s  goods and planning to auction off those goods, (Id., ¶¶ 29-30).  The Court also notes the following language from the  Court of Appeal in Kajima:  “A compulsory cross-complaint on a ‘related cause of  action’ against the plaintiff (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a)) would  rarely, if ever, qualify as a SLAPP suit arising from petition activity. By  definition, a ‘related cause of action’ is ‘a cause of action which arises out of the same  transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause  of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.’ (Code Civ.  Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c), italics added.) The SLAPP suit is not ‘related’ to  the transaction or occurrence which is the subject of the plaintiff's  complaint, but arises out of the litigation process itself.”  (Kajima, supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at p. 934.)  The cross-complaint is based on the same set of facts  as Moving Parties’ original complaint and the FAC. In fact, they involve the  same parties and have claims based on the same service contract between MEG and  Xchange Logistics. (FAC, Ex. 2; Cross-Complaint, Ex. B.) Thus, at most, the  cross-complaint is a compulsory cross-complaint and not a SLAPP suit. (See Kajima,  supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at p. 934.)              Based on the foregoing, the Court finds Moving Parties  have not met their moving burden in showing that the cross-complaint is  directed toward protected activity. The Court therefore need not consider the  second prong regarding whether Plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of  prevailing on the merits. (See Applied Business, supra, 164 Cal.App.4th  at pp. 1118-1119.)  Therefore, the Court DENIES Moving Parties’  anti-SLAPP motion. The Court further DENIES Moving Parties’ request for  attorney’s fees and costs, given its denial of the anti-SLAPP motion.  CASE  NAME:  Xchange  USA Inc. v. MEG Home Plus, LLC, et al.  2  – Defendants’ Demurrer to Xchange USA, Inc. and Xchange Logistics Corporation’s  First Amended Complaint; and 3  – Defendants’ Motion to Strike Xchange USA, Inc. and Xchange Logistics  Corporation’s First Amended Complaint  PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND –  Demurrer              On April 16, 2024, Defendants MEG, Jie Li, and Jing Li  aka Cynthia Li (collectively, Moving Defendants) demurred to the First Amended  Complaint. On May 16, 2024, Plaintiffs opposed the demurrer. On May 23, 2024, Moving  Defendants replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer              A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of  other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function  of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for  purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are  assumed to be true. (Id.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)   DISCUSSION –  Demurrer  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Moving  Defendants were required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by  video conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,  subd. (a).) Counsel for Moving Defendants indicates having met and conferred by  telephone on April 15, 2024, which the Court finds sufficient. (Wenyao Decl., ¶  2.)  First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract  “A cause of action for breach of contract requires pleading of a  contract, plaintiff's performance or excuse for failure to perform, defendant's  breach and damage to plaintiff resulting therefrom. [Citation.] A written  contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint  or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by  reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual,  Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)  Moving Defendants demur to the First Cause of Action for breach of  contract on the grounds that it is uncertain. Moving Defendants contend the  First Cause of Action is uncertain because it cannot be ascertained what the  theory of liability is. More specifically, Moving Defendants contend each party  is alleged to be acting as an agent or alter ego for any other party, which  leads to virtually limitless combinations by which any particular defendant  could be liable. Moving Defendants contend an additional issue of uncertainty  is that the FAC alleges all of the Defendants are all the other Defendants’  alter ego, but the individual Defendants cannot be the alter ego of other  individuals. Moving Defendants also contend it cannot be ascertained how Moving  Party is liable. Moving Defendants further contend the First Cause of Action is  also uncertain because it cannot be ascertained which contract is at issue, as  there are two different contracts attached to the FAC.  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend the First Cause of Action is not  uncertain because a plain reading makes it clear that the breach of contract  claim is directed at all individuals as alter egos of the corporate entity, and  that nothing in the FAC suggests the individual Defendants are alter egos of  each other. Plaintiffs contend the FAC specifically identifies Exhibit 2 as the  contract that was breached.  The Court finds the First Cause of Action is subject  to demurrer for uncertainty. While demurrers for uncertainty are generally  disfavored and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a  defendant cannot reasonably respond, (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins.  Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848), the Court finds the First  Cause of Action is sufficiently ambiguous here. The FAC attaches two written  contracts and numerous invoices from before January 1, 2023, i.e., before the  allegedly effective date of the second contract. (See FAC, ¶¶ 17-18, 26, 28, Exs.  2-3, pp. 37-46.) The FAC does not allege that the second contract superseded  the first, nor does there appear to be any terms in the second contract  indicating that it superseded the first contract. (See Id., ¶¶ 17-30,  Exs. 1-2.)  Furthermore, Plaintiffs are not parties to both  contracts. (See FAC, Exs. 2-3.) If Plaintiffs are only suing on the second  contract as they contend in their opposition, then Xchange USA arguably should  not be a party to this action since Xchange USA is not a party to the second  contract. (See Id., Ex. 2.) Therefore, given that the FAC is based on  two different contracts, the First Cause of Action is subject to demurrer for  uncertainty. (See Zumbrun v. University of Southern California (1972) 25  Cal.App.3d 1, 9 [trial court properly sustained demurrers for uncertainty based  on two contracted related causes of action having been improperly combined into  one].) Also, given the combined causes of action into one, this cause of action  should be split into two. (See Id.)  Finally, the FAC is uncertain as to the basis for  liability as to each defendant. The FAC alleges “Plaintiffs and all Defendant  (as alter egos of one another) entered into a written agreement.” (See FAC, ¶  26.) The agreements attached as exhibits 1 and 2 to the FAC state that such agreements  are between MEG Home Plus. None of the other defendants are named as parties to  the agreement. "Alter ego" is not a cause of action, and a plaintiff  need not plead the words "alter ego" in a complaint to recover from  an individual as the alter ego of a corporate entity. (Favila v. Pasquarella  (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 934, 946. "A claim against a defendant, based on the  alter ego theory, is not itself a claim for substantive relief, e.g., breach of  contract or to set aside a fraudulent conveyance, but rather, procedural, i.e.,  to disregard the corporate entity as a distinct defendant and to hold the alter  ego individuals liable on the obligations of the corporation where the  corporate form is being used by the individuals to escape personal liability,  sanction a fraud, or promote injustice." (Hennessey's Tavern, Inc. v.  American Air Filter Co. (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1359; see also Leek  v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.) A plaintiff "must allege  sufficient facts to show a unity of interest and ownership, and an unjust  result if the corporation is treated as the sole actor." (Leek, supra,  194 Cal.App.4th at p. 415.) To allege alter ego, a party must allege that the  alleged alter ego dominated and controlled the other party; that a unity of  interest and ownership existed between the parties; that the entity was a mere  shell and conduit for Defendant’s affairs; that entity was inadequately  capitalized; that entity failed to abide by the formalities of corporate  existence; that the alleged alter ego used the entity’s assets as her own; and  that recognizing the separate existence of the entity would promote injustice. (Rutherford  Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235.) The  allegation of ultimate facts is sufficient to allege alter ego. (Rutherford  Holdings, LLC, 223 Cal.App.4th at 236 [citing Doe v. City of Los Angeles  (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550].)  Here, the FAC fails to specifically identify the  parties to the agreement and the specific parties alleged to be liable on an  alter ego theory. Plaintiffs must allege sufficient facts to establish an alter  ego theory as to each defendant alleged to be an alter ego. Here,  in paragraphs 13 through 16 of the FAC, Plaintiffs make alter ego allegations  as to specific factors that could aid a court in finding alter ego liability,  but it is unclear in the First and Second causes of action which party  Plaintiffs is alleging is the alter ego of which other party.  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the First Cause of Action with leave to amend.  Second Cause of Action – Common  Count: Open Book Account  “[A] common count, to be sufficiently pleaded, must state  not only the indebtedness of the defendant but also directly or impliedly the  relationship or the express or implied legal principle upon which a promise to  plaintiff is predicated.” (Vaughn v. Certified Life Ins.  Co. of Cal. (1965) 238 Cal.App.2d 177, 181.) While common count claims are generally not subject to  demurrer, they are subject to demurrer when they are based on the same facts as  the specifically pleaded claims. (Orloff v. Metropolitan Trust Co. (1941)  17 Cal.2d 484, 489.)  Moving Defendants demur to the Second Cause of Action for common  count: open book account on the grounds that it is uncertain. Moving Defendants  contend this cause of action is the same as the First Cause of Action and is defective  for the same reasons. Plaintiffs’ opposition does not respond to this argument.  The Court finds this cause of action subject to demurrer for  uncertainty, as it is based on the same facts as the First Cause of Action,  including the same two contracts. (FAC, ¶¶ 31-34, Exs. 1-2.) The Court further  construes Plaintiffs’ lack of argument on this cause of action as a tacit  admission that Moving Defendants’ arguments here are meritorious. (See Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and  Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C,  ¶¿9:105.10 .)  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  Second Cause of Action with leave to amend.  PROCEDURAL  BACKGROUND – Motion to Strike              On April 16, 2024, Moving  Defendants moved to strike the First Amended Complaint. On May 16, 2024,  Plaintiffs opposed the motion to strike. On May 23, 2024, Moving Defendants  replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike              “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), Moving Defendants were required to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) Counsel for  Moving Defendants indicates having met and conferred by telephone on April 15,  2024, which the Court finds sufficient. (Wenyao Decl., ¶ 2.)  Improperly Added Plaintiff  “A party may amend its pleading once without leave of  the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is  filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer  or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and served no  later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to  strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 472, subd. (a).) “The court may, in furtherance of  justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading  or proceeding by adding… name of any party…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.  (a)(1); Pasadena Hosp. Assn., Ltd. v. Superior Ct. (1988) 204  Cal.App.3d 1031, 1035.)  Moving Defendants contend the FAC improperly added  Xchange Logistics as a plaintiff to this action, and that Plaintiffs should  have first obtained leave of court to amend the complaint and add Xchange  Logistics as a plaintiff. In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that Plaintiff[3] exercised its right under Code of Civil Procedure section 472 to amend the  original complaint, and that an amendment to a complaint may encompass adding  or deleting parties to the complaint under Code of Civil Procedure section 473,  subdivision (a)(1).  The Court finds the addition of Xchange Logistics as  a plaintiff to the FAC was permitted under Code of Civil Procedure sections  472, subdivision (a). (See Code Civ. Proc., § 472, subd. (a).) Section 472  provides in pertinent part that "[any] pleading may be amended once by the  party of course, and without costs, at any time before the answer or demurrer  is filed, or after demurrer and before the trial of the issue of law thereon .  . . ." (Code Civ. Proc. § 472(a).) "This section states the right to  amend at the outset, for a limited period, without leave of court." (5  Witkin, Cal. Procedure (3d ed. 1985) Pleading, § 1119, p. 536.) In general, an  amendment may correct any part of the pleading. (Id., § 1108, p. 526.)  "Thus[,] . . . [the] parties may be changed or new parties brought  in." (Ibid.)” (Gross v. Dep't of Transp. (1986) 180  Cal.App.3d 1102, 1105.)  “Section 472 does not limit what types of amendments  may be made of course and without leave of court. The only limitations  expressed in section 472 are that the amendment be made before the answer or  demurrer is filed, or after the demurrer but before it is heard. …[It]  therefore follows that under § 472 any part of the pleading may be changed,  without leave, including the addition of a new party." (Id. [internal  quotations omitted].)  Xchange USA had the right to amend its original  complaint once as a matter of course per section 472, subdivision (a), which it  did when it filed the FAC on March 26, 2024. Such amendment could include the  addition of a new plaintiff.  Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion to strike as  to the allegations in the FAC pertaining to the addition of Xchange Logistics  as a plaintiff.  Prayer for Special Damages  Moving Defendants contend the prayer for special  damages in the FAC should be stricken because the FAC does not support any  request for special damages. In opposition, Plaintiffs contend the request for  special damages should not be stricken because Plaintiff[4] is seeking recovery of its contract damages, specifically transportation and  logistics costs, plus storage costs. Plaintiffs contend it should be  foreseeable that if MEG breached, Xchange[5] would have a possessory lien per Commercial Code sections 7209 and 7307, which  would in turn lead to further storage charges.  A plaintiff is entitled to recover all reasonable and  necessary expenses to which he may have been put by reason of a breach of  contract. If special damages are the natural consequences of the breach, they  may be recovered. (Walpole v. Prefab Mfg. Co. (1951) 103 Cal.App.2d 472,  489-490.)  [230 P.2d 36].) The FAC  alleges only that “Plaintiffs were harmed in an amount not less than $1.3  million dollars….” (FAC, ¶¶ 30, 34.) Plaintiffs then pray for special damages  in an amount not less that $1.3 million dollars. (FAC, Prayer for Relief ¶ A.) Plaintiffs  fail to allege with any particularity, facts showing that these damages  "directly and naturally" resulted "in the ordinary course of  events" from the breach of the contract. ( Civ. Code, § 1787.) Plaintiffs’  arguments in the Opposition are not considered facts pled in the FAC.  Therefore, the Court GRANTS the motion to strike the  prayer for special damages, with leave to amend.  Immaterial Allegations  Moving Defendants contend the  other allegations should be stricken as immaterial. In opposition, Plaintiffs  contend they are unable to reasonably respond to the argument that portions of  the FAC are not drawn in conformity with the laws, rules of court, or court  order, as Moving Defendants do not explain which of the laws, rules, or orders  were violated. Plaintiffs also contend they are unable to reasonably respond to  the argument that portions of the FAC are immaterial, since they do not explain  why they believe each portion is immaterial, and some of the challenged  portions of the FAC contain the actual contracts executed between the parties  and the amount of damages sought. Plaintiffs contend the contracts provide  background information as well, which contract was breached. Plaintiffs contend  they present the state of the dispute after the breach and attempts at  resolution.  The Court agrees with Plaintiffs. Moving Defendants  fail to provide the Court with adequate grounds to consider the motion to  strike allegations as immaterial.  Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion to strike the  allegations as immaterial.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES Xchange USA, Inc.’s and Xchange  Logistics Corporation’s special motion to strike (anti-SLAPP) and DENIES the  request for attorney’s fees and costs.  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First Amended  Complaint with 20 days’ leave to amend.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike as to the  allegations in the FAC pertaining to the addition of Xchange Logistics as a  plaintiff and the purportedly immaterial allegations, and GRANTS the motion with  respect to the prayer for special damages. Accordingly, the Prayer for Relief,  ¶ A, p. 7:3-4, is stricken with 20 days’ leave to amend.  Defendants are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within  five calendar days of this order.     