  Case Number:  23PSCV01453    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Ibrahim  Mobarak, et al. v. Lourdes Juarez Garrison  Cross-Defendant  Ibrahim Mobarak’s Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant Ibrahim Mobarak’s motion to  strike portions of the cross-complaint without leave to amend. Cross-Defendant is  ordered to serve and submit a proposed Order of Dismissal within ten calendar days of this  order.               Cross-Defendant Ibrahim Mobarak is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within ten calendar days of this  order.  BACKGROUND  This is an auto accident case. On May 10, 2023, plaintiffs Ibrahim  Mobarak (Ibrahim), Mia Mobarak, Kristian Mobarak, and Berlynn Mobarak (collectively,  Plaintiffs or Cross-Defendants) filed this action against defendant Lourdes  Juarez Garrison (Defendant or Cross-Complainant) and Does 1 to 10, alleging  causes of action for motor vehicle and general negligence.  On November 27, 2023, Cross-Complainant filed the operative  cross-complaint against Ibrahim and Roes 1 to 25, alleging causes of action for  apportionment of fault, indemnification, and declaratory relief.  On April 26, 2024, Ibrahim moved to strike portions of the cross-complaint.  On May 23, 2024, Cross-Complainant opposed the motion. Ibrahim did not reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD              “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES              The Court notes  that Cross-Complainant filed and served the opposition on May 23, 2024, more  than three days after it was due on May 20, 2024. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1005,  subd. (b).) The Court exercises its discretion to still consider the  opposition, but admonishes Cross-Complainant to comply with the requirements of  the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24  Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), Ibrahim was required to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) Ibrahim provided no declaration  evidencing any meet-and-confer efforts. (Id., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).) Nevertheless, the  Court may not deny a motion to strike for failure to adequately meet and  confer. (Id., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) The Court will  still consider the motion to strike, but admonishes Ibrahim to comply with the  requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.  Analysis  Ibrahim seeks to strike each cause of action in the  cross-complaint on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action, is duplicative of the affirmative defenses pled  in the answer to the complaint, and is otherwise improper against Ibrahim. With  respect to the First Cause of Action for indemnification, Ibrahim contends it  is equivalent to comparative negligence. Ibrahim then argues that it is  improper because Cross-Complainant has asserted affirmative defenses of voluntary  assumption of risk, negligence of others, apportionment of fault, lack of  causation, and failure to wear proper seatbelts and safety restraints. Ibrahim  contends that even if he bears some comparative fault, it will be reflected in  a reduction of the total liability by virtue of Cross-Complainant’s affirmative  defenses. Ibrahim also contends the passenger Plaintiffs are fault-free, but  even if they are comparatively negligent, the answer asserts the affirmative  seatbelt defense. Ibrahim contends the cross-complaint is proper as to the Roe  cross-defendants, but not as to Ibrahim or the passenger Plaintiffs.  In opposition, Cross-Complainant contends Ibrahim has  not demonstrated that any allegations are false, irrelevant, or improper, or  that the cross-complaint violates any laws, court rules, or order of the Court.  Cross-Complainant contends that the purported duplicative nature of the  affirmative defenses alleged in the answer to the complaint is a novel theory  of law, and that there is no rule or statute cited that allows for striking the  pleading via a motion to strike. Cross-Complainant otherwise contends the  cross-complaint properly pleads all required elements for indemnification.  The Court finds Ibrahim’s motion to be well taken. Equitable  indemnity is an equitable doctrine that apportions responsibility among  tortfeasors responsible for the same indivisible injury on a comparative fault  basis. (American Motorcycle Assn. v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d  578, 598.) “[T]he equitable indemnity doctrine originated in the common sense  proposition that when two individuals are responsible for a loss, but one of  the two is more culpable than the other, it is only fair that the more culpable  party should bear a greater share of the loss.” (Id. at p. 593.) “Although  the body of law defining and applying principles of equitable indemnity has not  fully gelled but is still evolving, one thing is clear: The doctrine applies  only among defendants who are jointly and severally liable to the plaintiff.”  (BFGC Architects Planners, Inc. v. Forcum/Mackey Construction, Inc.  (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 848, 852, emphasis added.) Thus, “a right of equitable  indemnity can arise only if the prospective indemnitor and indemnitee are  mutually liable to another person for the same injury.” (Fremont  Reorganizing Corp. v. Faigin (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1153, 1177, emphasis  added.)  Cross-Complainant alleges in its indemnification (equitable  indemnity) count that in the principal action (the Complaint) Ibrahim alleges  conduct entitling him to compensatory damages against Cross-Complainant.  (Cross-Complaint, First Cause of Action, ¶ 7.b.) Cross-Complainant further  alleges that if found liable, his liability would be based solely upon a derivative  form of liability resulting from an obligation imposed upon him by law, and  therefore he would be entitled to complete indemnity from each cross-defendant,  which includes only Ibrahim as the cross-defendant named. (Cross-Complaint,  First Cause of Action, ¶ 7.c.) There are no allegations that Cross-Complainant  and Ibrahim are liable to another person for the same injury, only that Ibrahim  is liable to Cross-Complainant for the injuries Ibrahim suffered. Thus, there  is no basis for equitable indemnity.  Moreover, this First Cause of Action is duplicative  of affirmative defenses in Cross-Complainant’s answer. The answer asserts  affirmative defenses of comparative fault alleging any damages suffered by Ibrahim  are the result of the comparative fault of Ibrahim and must be adjusted  accordingly. (Answer – Tenth, Eleventh Affirmative Defenses.) The Second Cause  of Action for apportionment of fault likewise alleges that if Cross-Complainant  is liable for any damages suffered by Ibrahim, those damages were caused in  whole or in part by Ibrahim and Ibrahim should be required to pay a share of  Ibrahim’s judgment in proportion to his comparative negligence.  (Cross-Complaint, Second Cause of Action, ¶ 8.a., b.) Thus, the Second Cause of  Action against Ibrahim also duplicates Cross-Complainant’s affirmative defenses  — both allege Ibrahim, not Cross-Complainant, is responsible for his own  damages (Answer – First, Tenth, Eleventh Affirmative Defenses.) Therefore, Cross-Complainant  can obtain the remedy he seeks via his affirmative defenses and the  Cross-Complaint is unnecessary. (See Lauriedale Associates, Ltd. v. Wilson  (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1439, 1444 [The cross-complaint was properly dismissed as  unnecessary because equivalent relief was available through affirmative  defenses asserted by defendant].)  Finally, "when an issue can be raised by means  of an affirmative defense, a trial judge may therefore dismiss a declaratory  relief claim raising the same questions in the cross-complaint." (C.J.L.  Construction, Inc. v. Universal Plumbing (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 376, 391; see  also Welfare Investment Co. v. Stowell (1933) 132 Cal.App. 275, 276-278  [trial judge "properly" struck cross-complaint when all of the issues  raised by that pleading were likewise alleged as affirmative defenses].) Here, the  Third Cause of Action for declaratory relief seeks a declaration regarding  liability alleging that the subject accident was caused in whole or in party by  Ibrahim’s negligence. (Cross-Complaint, Third Cause of Action, ¶ 9.) As with  the first and second causes of action, the Third Cause of Action raises the  same issues of comparative negligence/fault asserted in the Answer as  affirmative defenses. Thus, the Third Cause of Action can be stricken.  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion  to strike the First, Second and Third Causes of Action in the Cross-Complaint  without leave to amend as to Ibrahim.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant Ibrahim Mobarak’s motion to  strike portions of the cross-complaint without leave to amend. Cross-Defendant is  ordered to serve and submit a proposed Order of Dismissal within ten calendar days of this  order.               Cross-Defendant Ibrahim Mobarak is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within ten calendar days of this  order.