  Case Number:  23STCV03601    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  49 CIC Inc. v. Prestige Default Services, LLCDEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendant Prestige Default Services, LLCRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff CIC Inc.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:  Plaintiff CIC Inc., as Trustee of the Serra Trust, alleges it placed a bid with Defendant Prestige Default Services, LLC, to obtain the residential home at a trustee’s sale. Plaintiff alleges it was the only party to bid on the property and submitted a cashier’s check sufficient to cover the bid. Defendant, however, allegedly rejected Plaintiff’s bid and offered to return the funds. Plaintiff alleges Defendant wrongfully rejected the bid in violation of California Civil Code § 2924m. The Complaint asserted a single cause of action for specific performance. This court previously sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the Complaint with leave to amend. Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint on October 16, 2023, asserting two causes of action for (1) breach of contract and (2) quiet title based on the same underlying facts. This court sustained Defendant’s Demurrer to the FAC with leave to amend.Plaintiff filed its Second Amended Complaint on February 08, 2024, asserting causes of action against Prestige for (1) “breach of agreement to sell real property” and “damages.” Defendant Prestige Default Services, LLC, now demurrers to the Second Amended Complaint. Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. Generally speaking, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) This was Plaintiff’s third attempt to state any viable claim against the Defendant.  Because the Second Amended Complaint has again failed to survive demurrer, it has become relatively clear to this Court that there is no reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Accordingly, no leave to amend is to be given.As such, a judgment for dismissal with prejudice is to be entered pursuant to CCP § 581 (f)(1).  Defendant is to file and serve a proposed judgment consistent with this ruling.  Any and all future dates are advanced and vacated. Moving party to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:DemurrerI. Meet and ConferThe Declaration of Christopher H. Swisher, Counsel for Defendant, reflects that the parties met and conferred.II. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  III. AnalysisFollowing successful demurrers to the Complaint and First Amended Complaint, Defendant now demurrers to the Second Amended Complaint. In the SAC, Plaintiff asserts causes of action against moving Defendant for (1) “breach of agreement to sell real property” and (2) “damages.” The action arises from a dispute over a residential real property at 23058 Serra Drive, #126, Carson, CA 90745, and the post-sale bidding process set forth in Civil Code section 2924m. (SAC ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that “Prestige agreed in writing” with the Beneficiary “via the deed of trust to sell the Property to the highest bidder pursuant to the beneficiary's instruction and consistent with the California Civil Code.” (Id. ¶¶ 9, 30.) Plaintiff further alleges that “Prestige knew that a third party would benefit from the written agreement in that the third party would be entitled to purchase the Property from Prestige upon the default of the trustor of the deed of trust and upon the written instructions of the beneficiary of the deed of trust,” and therefore “Plaintiff is a third party beneficiary of the written contact.” (Id.) Plaintiff further alleges that it submitted the highest bid for the property at the trustee’s sale, but that Defendant “wrongfully rejected” it on violation of Civil Code section 2924m. (Id. ¶¶ 14, 17, 18.) The question therefore becomes whether Plaintiff is a third-party beneficiary of the deed of trust, entered into between Defendant Prestige, on one hand, and an unnamed “trustor” and “beneficiary,” on the other.  [FN 1]“A cause of action for breach of contract requires proof of the following elements: (1) existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant's breach; and (4) damages to plaintiff as a result of the breach.”  (Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.)  Relatedly, “[t]o obtain specific performance after a breach of contract, a plaintiff must generally show: ‘(1) the inadequacy of his legal remedy; (2) an underlying contract that is both reasonable and supported by adequate consideration; (3) the existence of a mutuality of remedies; (4) contractual terms which are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to enforce; and (5) a substantial similarity of the requested performance to that promised in the contract.’” (Real Est. Analytics, LLC v. Vallas (2008) 160 Cal. App. 4th 463, 472 [emphasis added].)“[U]nder California's third party beneficiary doctrine, a third party — that is, an individual or entity that is not a party to a contract — may bring a breach of contract action against a party to a contract only if the third party establishes not only (1) that it is likely to benefit from the contract, but also (2) that a motivating purpose of the contracting parties is to provide a benefit to the third party, and further (3) that permitting the third party to bring its own breach of contract action against a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.”  (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal. 5th 817, 821.)Defendant argues that it was not a “motivating purpose” of the parties to the deed of trust to provide a benefit to Plaintiff. The court agrees with that position.Here, there are no allegations suggesting that it was a motivating purpose of the Defendant, Trustor, or Beneficiary of the deed of trust to benefit Plaintiff or any other future purchaser of the property. It is not clear why these parties would have any motivation or intention to benefit a third party who was merely a purchaser, not to mention one like Plaintiff who was unascertainable at the time the written agreement was entered into. Indeed, Plaintiff itself alleges, perhaps more accurately, that “[t]he motivating purpose of the contract was to receive the highest price available for Prestige.” (SAC ¶ 9.) Therefore, the First Cause of Action fails.Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action is labeled “damages.” The cause of action is based on the same facts underlying the breach of contract cause of action. The only difference is Plaintiff seeks the remedy of damages instead of specific performance. Because Plaintiff has not stated a claim for breach of contract, its claim for damages based on that breach also fails. Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. Generally speaking, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) This was Plaintiff’s third attempt to state a viable claim.  Because the Second Amended Complaint has again failed to survive demurrer, there is no reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Accordingly, no leave to amend is given.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   June 05, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - As noted by this Court in its prior ruling on the demurrer to the FAC, this new theory of recovery should have been pled in the original Complaint (or at worst in the FAC).  Be that as it may, as a cautionary measure this Court allowed this new amendment to be made in the SAC, with the express understanding that it could be attacked by demurrer in order to test its legal viability.  See, Final Ruling on Demurrer to FAC (2/7/24). Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.