 Case Number:  22AVCV00187    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a breach of contract action.
Plaintiff Patricia Woodward (“Plaintiff”), daughter to Spencer Wallace, Jr.
(“Mr. Wallace”), alleges that Mr. Wallace informed Defendant Janice Wallace
(“Wallace”), wife of Mr. Wallace until his passing, that his property located
at 2534 Carmina Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90016 (the “Property”) was to be given to
Plaintiff upon his passing. Plaintiff contends that this was told to Wallace on
several occasions and Mrs. Wallace acknowledged to Plaintiff that the house
would go to her. Plaintiff further alleges that this intention was also
codified in a writing when Wallace sent Plaintiff an acknowledgement of full
distribution that gave Plaintiff 100% legal and equitable title in the Property
(Exhibit 2) and by a follow up letter on or around November 2021 (Exhibit 3).
Plaintiff believes that Wallace willfully and intentionally conspired with
other defendants and sold the property below its actual value.  
 
On March 21, 2022, Plaintiff filed her
Complaint. 
 
On May 05, 2022, Plaintiff filed her First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
 
On June 14, 2022, Defendants ACE Realty
(“ACE”) and Cedric Age (“Age”) were placed into default. 
 
On June 21, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed
Stewart Title of California, Inc. The dismissal request did not specify as to
whether the dismissal was with or without prejudice. 
 
June 23, 2022, Defendant Tiger 11, Inc.
(“Tiger 11”) was placed into default.  
 
On August 11, 2022, the Court consolidated
this action with 22AVCVP00173.
 
On June 08, 2023, the Court vacated the
consolidation. The Court also granted the oral motion to set aside the default
of Defendant Tiger 11 and gave 15 days leave to amend.
 
On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”). 
 
On August 22, 2023, the Court held a hearing
on the Demurrer with Motion to Strike as to the SAC filed by Federal Escrow.
The Court sustained the Demurrer as to the First Cause of Action (Breach of
Contract against all defendants), Sixth Cause of Action (Fraud –
Misrepresentation against all defendants), and Tenth Cause of Action (Breach of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing) as to all defendants. The Demurrer was overruled
as to the Third Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty against all
Defendants), Fourth Cause of Action (Conversion against all Defendants), Fifth
Cause of Action (Fraud – Concealment against all defendants), Seventh Cause of
Action (Negligence against all defendants), Eighth Cause of  Action (NIED against all defendants), Ninth
Cause of Action (IIED against all Defendants), Twelfth Cause of Action (Unjust
Enrichment against all Defendants), Thirteenth Cause of Action (Violation of
Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200), and Fourteenth Cause of Action (Declaratory
Relief against all defendants). Federal Escrow’s Motion to Strike was granted.
The Court gave leave to amend as to the Sixth Cause of Action (Fraud –
Misrepresentation against all Defendants) and to the matter of punitive
damages. The Court ordered Plaintiff to file an amended complaint by October
25, 2023, allowing an opportunity for the remaining Demurrers, one with a
Motion to Strike, to be heard.
 
The respective responsive pleadings had
various continuations. 
 
On November 07, 2023, the Court held a
hearing on the (1) Demurrer filed by Wallace; and the (2) Demurrer with Motion
to Strike filed by Tiger 11, ACE, and Age. Both are directed to the SAC.
Wallace’s Demurrer was overruled as to the Second Cause of Action (Breach of
Contract against Wallace), the Third Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary
Duties against all defendants), the Fourth Cause of Action (Conversion against
all defendants), the Fifth Cause of Action (Fraud – Concealment against all
Defendants), Eighth Cause of Action (Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
(“NIED”) against all defendants), Ninth Cause of Action (Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress (“IIED”) against all defendants), Twelfth Cause of Action
(Unjust Enrichment against all defendants), and Fourteenth Cause of Action
(Declaratory Relief against all defendants). The Court did not address
Wallace’s Demurrer to the Seventh Cause of Actin (Negligence against all
defendants) and Eleventh Cause of Action (Quiet Title against Tiger 11) as no
argument was presented by Wallace and the quiet title claim was directed at
Tiger 11 only. Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s Demurrer was overruled as to
uncertainty, the Fourth Cause of Action (Conversion against all defendants),
Fifth Cause of Action (Fraud – Concealment against all defendants), the Sixth
Cause of Action (Fraud- Misrepresentation against all defendants), the Seventh
Cause of Action (Negligence against all defendants), the Eighth Cause of Action
(Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress against all defendants), the Ninth
Cause of Action (Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress against all
defendants), the Eleventh Cause of Action (Quiet Title against Tiger 11), the
Twelfth Cause of Action (Unjust Enrichment against all defendants), Thirteenth
Cause of Action (Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200, et seq. against
all defendants), and the Fourteenth Cause of Action (Declaratory Relief against
all defendants); and sustained as to the First Cause of Action (Breach of
Contract against Defendants Cedric Age, Ace Realty, and Federal Escrow), Third
Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duties against all defendants), and Tenth
Cause of Action (Breach of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to all defendants). Age,
ACE, and Tiger 11’s Motion to Strike was granted in part as to those portions
of the prayer identified as: “….AS TO THE THIRD, SEVENTH, TENTH, ELEVENTH,
TWELFTH, AND FOURTEENTH CAUSES OF ACTION….2. For punitive damages in the amount
in excess of $3,300,000.00,” and DENIED as to the remaining requests. Leave to
amend was granted only as to the Sixth Cause of Action (Fraud-
Misrepresentation against all defendants).
 
On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
following amendment to fictitious names: (1) Doe 1 to FCI Lender Services, Inc.,
(2) Doe 2 to 1 Sharpe Opportunity Intermediate Trust (“1 Sharpe”), and (3) Doe
3 to Line 1 SPE LLC (“Line 1”). 
 
On March 26, 2024, 1 Sharpe filed a
declaration in support of automatic extension. 
 
On April 12, 2024, Line 1 was placed in
default.
 
On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion
for Leave to Amend to File a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”), subsequently
granted on May 14, 2024. 
 
On May 06, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed FCI
Lender Services, Inc. and 1 Sharpe. The request for dismissal did not discuss
prejudice.
 
The operative pleading is the TAC, filed May
16, 2024, which alleges thirteen (13) causes of action for: (1) Breach of
Contract against Wallace; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty against Wallace,
Defendant Federal Escrow, Inc. (“Federal Escrow”), and Stewart Title (3)
Conversion against all Defendants except Defendant Line 1; (4) Fraudulent
Concealment against all Defendants except Line 1; (5) Fraudulent
Misrepresentation against Wallace, Tiger, ACE, Cedric; (6) Negligence against
all Defendants except Line 1; (7) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
(“NIED”) against all Defendants except Line 1; (8) IIED against all defendants;
(9) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealings as to Wallace; (10)
Quiet Title against Tiger 11 and Line 1; (11) Unjust Enrichment against all
defendants except Line 1; (12) Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200
against all defendants except Line 1; and (13) Declaratory Relief against all
defendants.
 
As Doe 1 and Doe 2 are mentioned in the TAC,
the Court inquires as to FCI Lender Services, Inc. and 1 Sharpe’s status in the
action.
 
On August 01, 2024, Stewart Title filed its
Demurrer with Motion to Strike.
 
On September 03, 3034, Plaintiff filed her
Oppositions.
 
On September 10, 2024, Stewart Title filed
its Replies. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
-----¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Meet and Confer Requirement– Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and
435.5.) It appears from Erika M. Prager (“Prager”)’s declaration that the
requirement has been met. (See Demurrer and Motion to Strike at Decl. Pager ¶¶ 3-4.)

 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – The
Court notes that the TAC includes new factual allegations regarding Stewart
Title. While not summarized, ante, the Court has taken the entirety of
the new pleadings into consideration. 
 
For clarity, the following causes
of action have been brought against Stewart Title: Second Cause of Action
(Breach of Fiduciary Duty), Third Cause of Action (Conversion), Fourth Cause of
Action (Fraudulent Concealment), Sixth Cause of Action (Negligence), Seventh
Cause of Action (NIED), Eighth Cause of Action (IIED), Eleventh Cause of Action
(Unjust Enrichment), Twelfth Cause of Action (Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200), and Thirteenth Cause
of Action (Declaratory Relief).
 
Stewart Title demurs to the Second Cause of Action, Fourth Cause of
Action, Eighth Cause of Action, Eleventh Cause of Action, and Twelfth Cause of
Action.
 
As an initial note, the TAC alludes to a policy notification in
paragraphs 58 and 59; however, these statements do not have a corresponding
exhibit. (See TAC ¶¶ 58-59 [no citation to attached exhibits].) As such, these
allegations are conclusory. 
 
i.                   
Demurrer
 
a.      Second
Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty) 
 
Stewart Title argues that the
facts alleged in the TAC fail to establish the existence of or imposition of a
fiduciary duty between itself and Plaintiff. Stweart Title expands by stating
that it did not have a contractual relationship with Plaintiff and the fact
that it is a title company alone does not allow such a relationship to be
imposed. Stewart Title presents that Plaintiff’s reliance on J’Aire
Corporation v. Gregory (1979) 24 Cal.3d 799 (“J’Aire”) is misplaced
as an application of the facts in this case demonstrates that Plaintiff does
not and cannot establish the existence of a special relationship with Stewart
Title. Stewart Title further argues that Plaintiff’s reliance on Connor v.
Great Western Savings and Loan Association (1968) 69 Cal.2d 850 (“Connor”)
is misplaced as it was superseded in 1969 by Cal. Gov. Code § 3434. 
 
Plaintiff argues that she has
sufficiently pled fiduciary duty by (1) citing the J’Aire holding as the
J’Aire holding states that a duty is owed based on certain factors being
established, 
does not state exactly what duty
a third-party title companies owes a plaintiff, and Plaintiff believes the duty
to be a fiduciary duty as no case law has been provided otherwise; and (2)
Plaintiff has pled breach and damages in paragraph 106 and 107 of the TAC.
 
The Court notes that while
Plaintiff’s section “a” states “[p]laintiff has sufficiently pled the three
factors for breach of fiduciary duty[,]” only two are outlined in the
opposition brief. 
 
“‘The elements of a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty are: (1) existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of
the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by the breach.’” (Gutierrez
v. Girardi (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 925, 932.) 
 
“A fiduciary must tell its principal of all
information it possesses that is material to the principal's interests.” (Michel
v. Moore & Associates, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 756, 762.) 
 
The Court notes that the Restatement
(Second) of Torts Section 874 treats breach of fiduciary duty as a tort that
subjects a fiduciary to liability to the beneficiary for harm caused by the
breach. The Court turns to California case law for the application of
conspiracy to breach of fiduciary duty: 
 
Some courts, noting the close relationship
between conspiracy and aiding and abetting, have suggested that the law should
treat conspiracy to breach a fiduciary duty and aiding and abetting a breach of
fiduciary duty similarly. For example, in In re County of Orange (Bankr.
C.D.Cal. 1996) 203 B.R. 983, citing Applied Equipment Corp. and Kidron,
the court stated that it saw “no reason for treating the vicarious tort of
aiding and abetting breach of a fiduciary duty differently from that of
conspiracy to breach a fiduciary duty. ‘Conspiracy is a concept closely allied
with aiding and abetting. A conspiracy generally requires agreement plus an
overt act causing damage. Aiding and abetting requires no agreement, but simply
assistance. The common basis for liability for both conspiracy and aiding and
abetting, however, is concerted action.’” (Id. at p. 999, quoting Janken
v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 78 [53 Cal. Rptr. 2d
741].) In Howard v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 745 [3 Cal. Rptr.
2d 575] the issue was whether a client attempting to plead a cause of action
for aiding and abetting against an attorney had to comply with Civil Code
former section 1714.10, which required the plaintiff to obtain a court order
before pleading such a civil conspiracy claim. The court noted that “[i]n the
abstract, there may be a distinction between an aiding and abetting cause of
action and one for civil conspiracy,” but held that because the alleged conduct
fell “within the ambit” of the statute, the statute applied to the plaintiff's
aiding and abetting claim. (Howard, at p. 749, fn. omitted.) And in K
& S Partnership v. Continental Bank, N.A. (8th Cir. 1991) 952 F.2d 971,
the court stated, “[k]nowing participation in a breach of fiduciary duty ‘is
analogous to a cause of action … for aiding and abetting a securities fraud,’
where the primary violation involves a breach of fiduciary duty. [Citation.]
Likewise, liability for civil conspiracy is in substance the same thing as
aiding and abetting liability. Civil conspiracy requires an agreement to
participate in an unlawful activity and an overt act that causes injury, so it
‘does not set forth an independent cause of action’ but rather is ‘sustainable
only after an underlying tort claim has been established.’ [Citations.]” (Id.
at p. 980.) 
 
California law, however, does not treat
conspiracy to breach a fiduciary duty and aiding and abetting a breach of
fiduciary duty similarly. In Casey v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn., supra,
127 Cal.App.4th 1138, on which the trial court relied, a trustee in bankruptcy
sued three banks, alleging that they aided and abetted the fiduciaries of the
bankrupt corporation in a scheme to divert funds from the corporation. One of
the causes of action was aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty. (Id.
at pp. 1141–1142.) Citing this court's opinion in Saunders v. Superior Court
(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 832, 846 [33 Cal. Rptr. 2d 438], the court in Casey
observed that “California has adopted the common law rule for subjecting a
defendant to liability for aiding and abetting a tort. ‘“Liability may … be
imposed on one who aids and abets the commission of an intentional tort if the
person (a) knows the other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives
substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b) gives
substantial assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the
person's own conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to
the third person.” [Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (Casey, supra, at
p. 1144.) The trustee in Casey attempted to allege liability under the
first theory, and the banks challenged the sufficiency of the allegations of
“‘substantial assistance.’” (Casey, at p. 1145.) The court noted “that
liability for aiding and abetting depends on proof the defendant had actual
knowledge of the specific primary wrong the defendant substantially assisted.”
(Ibid.) The court concluded that the trustee had failed to allege facts
showing that the banks knew the fiduciaries were misappropriating corporate
funds. Thus, the trustee failed to state a cause of action for aiding and
abetting a breach of fiduciary duty. (Id. at p. 1153.) 
 
Citing Casey, Saunders, and
the Restatement Second of Torts, the court in Berg & Berg Enterprises,
LLC v. Sherwood Partners, Inc. (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 802 [32 Cal. Rptr. 3d
325] explained: “Despite some conceptual similarities, civil liability for
aiding and abetting the commission of a tort, which has no overlaid requirement
of an independent duty, differs fundamentally from liability based on
conspiracy to commit a tort. [Citations.] ‘“[A]iding-abetting focuses on
whether a defendant knowingly gave ‘substantial assistance’ to someone who
performed wrongful conduct, not on whether the defendant agreed to join the
wrongful conduct.” [¶] … [W]hile aiding and abetting may not require a
defendant to agree to join the wrongful conduct, it necessarily requires a
defendant to reach a conscious decision to participate in tortious activity for
the purpose of assisting another in performing a wrongful act. …’ [Citation.]
The aider and abetter's conduct need not, as ‘separately considered,’
constitute a breach of duty. [Citations.]” (Id. at pp. 823–824, fn.
10.) 
 
In Neilson v. Union Bank of California,
N.A. (C.D.Cal. 2003) 290 F.Supp.2d 1101, the court thoroughly reviewed
California case law and concluded that under California law a defendant can be
liable for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty in the absence of an
independent duty owed to the plaintiff. (Id. at p. 1135.) After noting
that conspiracy and aiding and abetting “are closely allied forms of
liability,” the court found that “[n]o California case, however, holds that a
party must owe the plaintiff a duty before he or she can be held liable as an
aider and abettor. Rather, California cases outlining the elements of aiding
and abetting liability have consistently cited the elements of the tort as they
are set forth in the Restatement (Second) of Torts, § 876, and have omitted any
reference to an independent duty on the part of the aider and abettor. Under
this formulation, liability may properly be imposed on one who knows that
another's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and substantially assists or
encourages the breach.” (Id. at p. 1133.) 
 
The Neilson court explained why this
is so: “Unlike a conspirator, an aider and abettor does not ‘adopt as his or
her own’ the tort of the primary violator. Rather, the act of aiding and
abetting is distinct from the primary violation; liability attaches because the
aider and abettor behaves in a manner that enables the primary violator to
commit the underlying tort. [Citations.] … Because aiders and abettors do not
agree to commit, and are not held liable as joint tortfeasors for committing,
the underlying tort, it is not necessary that they owe plaintiff the same duty
as the primary violator. Conspirators, by contrast, are held liable for the
tort committed by their co-conspirator. [Citation.] Because liability is
premised on the commission of a single tort, it is logical that all
conspirators must be legally capable of committing the wrong.” (Neilson v.
Union Bank of California, N.A., supra, 290 F.Supp.2d at pp.
1134–1135, fn. omitted.) “Additionally, causation is an essential element of an
aiding and abetting claim, i.e., plaintiff must show that the aider and abettor
providedassistance that was a substantial factor in causing the harm suffered.
[Citations.] … This difference too demonstrates the distinction between the
forms of liability, and argues in favor of a rule that permits the imposition
of aider and abettor liability in the absence of a duty owed directly to the
plaintiff.” (Id. at p. 1135; see Simi Management Corp. v. Bank of
America, N.A. (N.D.Cal. 2013) 930 F.Supp.2d 1082, 1099, fn. 15 [“‘liability
for aiding and abetting may exist even where the defendant's conduct does not
independently breach a duty to the plaintiff’”]; Villains, Inc. v. American
Economy Ins. Co. (N.D.Cal. 2012) 870 F.Supp.2d 792, 795 [“‘[t]he
differences between conspiracy and aiding and abetting are not merely semantic’
and … ‘[t]hese differences have led several courts … to recognize that a
non-fiduciary can aid and abet a breach of fiduciary duty’”]; Granewich v.
Harding (1999) 329 Ore. 47 [985 P.2d 788, 793–794] [“[l]egal authorities …
virtually are unanimous in expressing the proposition that one who knowingly
aids another in the breach of a fiduciary duty is liable to the one harmed
thereby,” and “[n]one of those authorities even implies that liability for
participants in the breach of fiduciary duty is confined to those who
themselves owe such duty”]; see also Heckmann v. Ahmanson (1985) 168
Cal.App.3d 119, 127 [214 Cal. Rptr. 177] [third party greenmailer purchasers of
corporation's shares in takeover attempt can be liable for aiding and abetting
breach of fiduciary duty of corporation's directors who authorized
corporation's purchase of the third parties' shares at a premium]; accord,
Feinberg Testamentary Trust v. Carter (S.D.N.Y. 1987) 652 F.Supp. 1066,
1083.) 
 
[. . .] 
 
Thus, there are two different theories
pursuant to which a person may be liable for aiding and abetting a breach of
fiduciary duty. One theory, like conspiracy to breach a fiduciary duty,
requires that the aider and abettor owe a fiduciary duty to the victim and
requires only that the aider and abettor provide substantial assistance to the
person breaching his or her fiduciary duty. (Casey v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn,
supra, 127 Cal.App.4th at p. 1144; Coffman v. Kennedy (1977) 74
Cal.App.3d 28, 32 [141 Cal. Rptr. 267].) On this theory, California law treats
aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty and conspiracy to breach a
fiduciary duty similarly. Courts impose liability for concerted action that
violates the aider and abettor's fiduciary duty. (See Janken v. GM Hughes
Electronics, supra, 46 Cal.App.4th at p. 78; In re County of
Orange, supra, 203 B.R. at p. 999.) The second theory for imposing
liability for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty arises when the
aider and abettor commits an independent tort. (See Casey, supra,
at p. 1144; Saunders v. Superior Court, supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at
p. 846.) This occurs when the aider and abettor makes “‘a conscious decision to
participate in tortious activity for the purpose of assisting another in
performing a wrongful act.’” (Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Sherwood
Partners, Inc., supra, 131 Cal.App.4th at p. 823, fn. 10; accord, Central
Bank of Denver, N. A. v. First Interstate Bank of Denver, N. A. (1994) 511
U.S. 164, 181 [128 L. Ed. 2d 119, 114 S. Ct. 1439].) 
 
(American Master Lease LLC v. Idanta
Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1473-77 (“American Master
Lease”).) 
 
Simultaneously, there is are other opinions
from the same appellate circuit discussing conspiracy and breach of fiduciary
duty: 
 
By its nature, tort liability arising from a
conspiracy presupposes that the conspirator is legally capable of committing
the tort--that he owes a duty to the plaintiff recognized by law and is
potentially subject to liability for the breach of that duty. Standing alone, a
conspiracy does no harm, engenders no tort liability, and does not per se give
rise to a cause of action. It must be activated by the commission of an actual
tort. (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 503, 511, [28 Cal. Rptr. 2d 475, 869 P.2d 454].) Relying on that rule, Doctors'
Co. rejected an insured's effort to allege a conspiracy to violate
Insurance Code section 790.03 against an insurer and the attorney (and expert)
retained by the insurer to assist with the insured's defense against a third
party's claim, explaining that a cause of action for civil conspiracy does not
arise "if the alleged conspirator, though a participant in the agreement
underlying the injury, was not personally bound by the duty violated by the
wrongdoing and was acting only as the agent or employee of the party who did
have that duty." (Doctors' Co. v. Superior Court, supra, 49
Cal.3d at pp. 41-42, 44, italics added; see also Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins. Co.
(1973) 9 Cal.3d 566, 576, [108 Cal. Rptr. 480, 510 P.2d 1032] [insurer's
adjusters and attorneys are not liable on a theory of conspiracy to breach the
implied covenant of good faith because the adjusters and attorneys are not
parties to the insurance contract and because the agents and employees of a
corporation cannot conspire with their corporate principal or employer when
they act in their official capacities and not as individuals for their
individual advantage].) 
 
(Everest Investors 8 v. Whitehall Real
Estate Partnership Xi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 1102, 1106-07; see also 1-800
Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 568, 590 [“Conspiracy is
not an independent cause of action, but rather a doctrine imposing liability
for a tort upon those involved in its commission. [Citation.] And ‘tort
liability arising from conspiracy presupposes that the coconspirator is legally
capable of committing the tort, i.e., that he or she owes a duty to plaintiff .
. . and is potentially subject to liability for breach of that duty.’ (Id.
at p. 511.)”].) 
 
As alleged, Plaintiff is not a
principal to an agreement with Stewart Title nor is there a contract at play
between Stewart and Plaintiff. Plaintiff has pled that she is owed a duty as
she was a beneficiary of the Trust and the rightful owner of the Property. (See
TAC ¶ 100.) This is further emphasized in paragraph 102(c) of the TAC, in which
Plaintiff discusses liability of a title company to third parties along with
various citations which Plaintiff believes imposes these duties. (See TAC ¶ 102(c).)
Regarding the case citations, a complaint does not properly include citations
to case authority. (See generally Krug v. Meehan (1952) 109 Cal.App.2d
274, 277 [“The complaint must allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts or
conclusions of law."].) 
 
Regarding J’Aire as,
argued in the moving papers, J’Aire discusses a general duty of care,
not a fiduciary duty. (See J’Aire, supra, 24 Cal.3d 799
[generally].) Further, J’Aire is distinguished as it discusses the
duties of a contractor to a tenant which led to economic harm. (See ibid.)
 
Plaintiff does not dispute
Stewart Title’s moving argument as to Connor. 
 
As pled, Stewart Title owes a
duty to Plaintiff as a third party. (See TAC at ¶¶ 100, 102(c).) Neither party
provides substantive argument to this matter. That is, neither party has
provided argument other that J’Aire, distinguished ante, and Connor.
To the extent that Seeley v. Seymour (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 844 (“Seeley”),
cited in the TAC, is applicable, the Court directs the parties to page 860
which states: “The liability of title companies when they act as escrow holders
for negligence in carrying out their duties is, of course, well recognized.
(E.g., Amen v. Merced County Title Co. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 528, 532 [25
Cal.Rptr. 65, 375 P.2d 33]; Zang v. Northwestern Title Co. (1982) 135
Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [185 Cal.Rptr. 176]; Axley v. Transamerica Title Ins.
Co. (1978) 88 Cal.App.3d 1, 9 [151 Cal.Rptr. 570].) Equally beyond dispute
is the principle that the standard of care for professionals, including title
companies, is that of other professionals within their area of expertise. [Citation.]”
Seely discusses liability of a title company under the standards of
negligence and duty of care, not fiduciary duty. Stewart Title has shown that
there is a defect is apparent on the
face of the pleading.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
The Court notes that this section of the Demurrer has an argument
related to punitive damages. The Court believes punitive damages are more
adequately discussed in the Motion to Strike and directs the parties infra
for such information.
 
b.      Fourth
Cause of Action (Fraudulent Concealment)
 
Stewart Title argues that
Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action is not pled with the requisite specificity
as it is conclusory only. Stewart Title further argues that (1) Plaintiff’s
Complaint fails to establish any elements of fraud as it does not allege that
Stewart Title concealed or suppressed information from Plaintiff and, to the
extent the TAC appears to suggest that by not contacting Plaintiff to inform
her about her 10% ownership interest in the Subject Property, there is no basis
provided for why such an action constitutes concealment or suppression of a
material fact; (2) the TAC fails to establish why Stewart Title would have a
duty to inform Plaintiff about her 10% ownership interest; (3) the TAC fails to
allege intent to defraud; and (3) the TAC fails to allege that Plaintiff would
have behaved of acted in a different manner had she been contacted.
 
Plaintiff argues that she has
pled fraudulent concealment as follows:
 
·        
How: Stewart concealed the Plaintiff’s
ownership interest from her. (See TAC Para. 119(k)); 
·        
When: specifically, between January 18,
2022, and January 24, 2022, (See TAC Para. 60, 119(k)); 
·        
Where: phone conversation, at the very
least (See TAC Paras. 60-64, 119(k)); 
·        
To whom: Plaintiff (See TAC Paras. 60-64,
119(k)); and 
·        
By what means: concealment of facts.
 
Plaintiff further argues that she
has addressed all the elements of a fraud action:
 
·        
Plaintiff alleges defendant concealed her
interest. (See TAC Para. 119k)
·        
Plaintiff alleges a duty owed by Defendant. (See
TAC Para. 102(c))
·        
Plaintiff alleges intentional behavior. (See TAC
Paras. 60-64)
·        
Plaintiff alleges she did not have knowledge of
her interest. (See entire TAC.)
·        
Plaintiff alleges the loss of her property,
financial, and emotional damages
 
“The elements of fraud that will
give rise to a tort action for deceit are: “ ‘(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.)
 
The Court incorporates its
analysis in part “a” regarding duty as set forth herein. As pled, there is a
defect on the face of the TAC regarding the element of duty for this cause of
action. The Court further notes that the duty alleged in this cause of action
in based on the allegation regarding the 10% interest which the Court has
discussed, ante, and found to be conclusory. (See TAC ¶ 119(k).) 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Fourth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. 
 
c.       Eighth
Cause of Action (IIED)
 
Stewart Title argues that the TAC
has not alleged that any conduct by Stewart Title reaches the level of
outrages, there is no allegation that Stewart Title carried out or engaged in
outrageous conduct with the intention of causing Plaintiff to suffer any severe
or extreme emotional distress, and Plaintiff cannot state a claim for IIED on a
theory of reckless disregard. 
 
Plaintiff argues that she has
alleged conduct in paragraphs 151 to 152 of the TAC and presents that it is for
a trier of fact to decide whether Stewart Title’s conduct is outrageous.
Plaintiff further argues that under McMahon v Craig (2009) 176 Cal. App.
4th 1502 (“McMahon”), “[i]t is not enough that the conduct be
intentional and outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or
occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware[]” and presence
is only required if Plaintiff was present. 
 
The Court cautions Plaintiff’s
counsel, Stefon A. Jones (“Jones”), against arguments regarding his own train
of thought. (See Opposition 7:7-8 [“If that is not seen as outrageous conduct,
I do not know what is.”].) Such arguments are not based on any legal authority
and are not appropriate for legal memoranda in this context. 
 
Crouch provides a summary of IIED at the demurrer stage in the context of
California law: 
 
A cause of action for IIED
requires proof of: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and
(3) the defendant's extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate
cause of the severe emotional distress. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46
Cal.4th 1035, 1050 [95 Cal. Rptr. 3d 636, 209 P.3d 963].) 
 
A defendant's conduct is
considered to be outrageous if “it is so ‘“‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’”’” (Hughes v. Pair, supra,
46 Cal.4th at p. 1051; see Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001 [25 Cal. Rptr. 2d 550, 863 P.2d 795]; see also
Rest.2d Torts, § 46, com. d, p. 73.) Liability for IIED does not extend to
“‘“mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other
trivialities.”’” (Hughes v. Pair, supra, 46 Cal.4th at p. 1051.)
Malicious or evil purpose is not essential to liability for IIED. (Spinks v.
Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1045
[90 Cal. Rptr. 3d 453].) 
 
California's definition of
extreme and outrageous conduct is based on comment d to section 46 of the
Restatement Second of Torts. (See Hughes v. Pair, supra, 46
Cal.4th at p. 1051.) Comment d to section 46 states: “Liability has been found
only where the conduct has been so outrageous in character, and so extreme in
degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be regarded as
atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a civilized community. Generally, the
case is one in which the recitation of the facts to an average member of the
community would arouse his resentment against the actor, and lead him to
exclaim, ‘Outrageous!’” (Rest.2d Torts, § 46, com. d, p. 73.) 
 
(Crouch, supra, 39 Cal.App.5th
at 1007.) 
 
In Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, the appellate court held: “ ‘Behavior may be
considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which
gives him power to damage the plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is
susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or
unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness
through mental distress.’ [Citation.]” 
 
Plaintiff has cited to McMahon,
which is binding precedent on this Court. McMahon is patently a
different situation. In McMahon, plaintiff dog owner sued defendant
veterinarians for malpractice and intentional infliction of emotional distress
after her dog died in their care and the McMahon Court held (1) the
California Supreme Court held that the negligent performance of a commercial
contract does not entitle a plaintiff to recover emotional distress damage (McMahon,
supra, 176 Cal.App.4th at 1513), (2) except “when the express object of
the contract is the mental and emotional well-being of one of the contracting
parties” (ibid.), and (3) “ ‘[i]t is not enough that the conduct  be intentional and outrageous. It must be
conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of
whom the defendant is aware[]’ ” (id. at 151-16.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges the conduct was
directed at her in paragraph 152 of the TAC; however, this allegation appears
to be conclusory. That is, this is cause of action as to Stewart Title appears
to be based on “failing to have a legal professional review the Trust,” “)
failing to verify Woodward’s consent and knowledge regarding the transactions,”
and “failing to protect the interest of a third party, all with the intention
of causing, or in reckless disregard of the probability of causing, severe
emotional and physical pain and distress to Woodward.” (Compare TAC ¶ 152 with
¶¶ 56-64.) Plaintiff is basing the IIED claims on Stewart Title’s alleged
duties. 
 
It is unclear to the Court
whether such action is (1) directed at Plaintiff, (2) considered “outrageous” due
to the issues regarding the presentation of Stewart Title’s duties, as
discussed ante.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Eighth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
The Court notes that this section of the Demurrer has an argument
related to punitive damages. The Court believes punitive damages are more
adequately discussed in the Motion to Strike and directs the parties infra
for such information.
 
d.      Eleventh
Cause of Action (Unjust Enrichment) 
 
Stewart Title argues that
California does not recognize unjust enrichment as a cause of action and, had
it, the TAC fails to establish such a claim against Stewart Title as there are
no allegations that Stewart Title was unjustly enriched at Plaintiff’s expense.

 
Plaintiff argues that unjust
enrichment is a valid theory for recovery and Plaintiff does allege that
Stewart Title has been unjustly enriched at the expense of Plaintiff  due to the benefit derived from the wrongful
sale of the Property, violations of Stewart Title’s duties, and conversion. 
 
It appears that appellate courts differ as
to their opinions on whether unjust enrichment is a cause of action. (See Lectrodryer
v. SeoulBank (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 723 (“Lectrodryer”) [a case in
the Second Appellate District, recognizing a cause of action for unjust
enrichment] and Rutherford Holdings LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 221 [a case in the Sixth Appellate District, holding “[u]njust
enrichment is not a cause of action, however, or even a remedy, but rather a
general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies...it is
synonymous with restitution.”].)  
 
When appellate decisions are in conflict on
a point, the court exercising inferior jurisdiction must choose between the
conflicting decisions. (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court of Santa
Clara County (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456.) “ 
 
In 2015, the California Supreme Court
held:  
 
An individual who has been unjustly enriched
at the expense of another may be required to make restitution. (See Ghirardo
v. Antonioli (1996) 14 Cal.4th 39, 51 [57 Cal. Rptr. 2d 687, 924 P.2d 996];
see also Rest.3d Restitution and Unjust Enrichment, § 1; 1 Witkin, Summary of
Cal. Law (10th ed. 2005) Contracts, § 1013, p. 1102.) Where the doctrine
applies, the law implies a restitutionary obligation, even if no contract
between the parties itself expresses or implies such a duty. (See Buss, supra,
16 Cal.4th at p. 51.) Though this restitutionary obligation is often
described as quasi-contractual, a privity of relationship between the parties
is not necessarily required. (Ibid.; see CTC Real Estate
Services v. Lepe (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 856, 860–861 [44 Cal. Rptr. 3d
823].) 
 
Restitution is not mandated merely because
one person has realized a gain at another's expense. Rather, the obligation
arises when the enrichment obtained lacks any adequate legal basis and thus
“cannot conscientiously be retained.” (Rest.3d Restitution and Unjust
Enrichment, § 1, com. b, p. 6.) 
 
(Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. v. J.R.
Marketing L.L.C. (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 988, 998 (“Hartford Casualty Ins. Co.”)
[emphasis added].) 
 
As such, the Court allows unjust enrichment
as a cause of action. 
 
Plaintiff has alleged:
 
Woodward repeats and realleges each and every allegation contained in
paragraphs 1-163 of this Complaint and by reference incorporates the same
herein and makes each a part thereof.
 
As a result of the breaches and wrongful acts of Defendants described
throughout this Complaint, Defendants have been unjustly enriched at the
expense of Woodward. Defendants have derived and continue to derive a benefit
from the wrongful sale of Woodward’s Property, violations of their duties, as
well as from the conversion of Woodward’s property.
 
Defendants are under an obligation to pay Woodward forthwith all
amounts by which they have been unjustly enriched, which sum is to be proven at
trial but informed and believed to be above the jurisdictional limit.
 
(TAC ¶¶
165-67.) 
 
Further,
as to a benefit, the allegation regarding the benefit Stewart Title received
states, “Woodward is informed and believes and thereon alleges that Stewart
disregarded the fact of who actually held title in order to sell the Property
and make money.” (TAC at ¶ 63.) 
 
However, it is unclear whether
Stewart has been unjustly enriched on these allegations alone. Paragraph 63 is
conclusory and, as pled, Stewart Title’s enrichment is based on a conclusory
allegation. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is
SUSTAINED as to the Eleventh Cause of Action.
 
e.       Twelfth
Cause of Action (Violation of
Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200)
Stewart Title argues that this
cause of action fails to state a legal claim for a violation of Cal. Bus. Code
§§ 17200, et. seq., as it does not allege any unlawful, unfair, or
fraudulent business acts or practices on the part of Stewart Title and is
conclusory in nature. 
 
Plaintiff argues that she has
pled facts that suffice in paragraphs 168 to 173, specifically Plaintiff
highlights that she has pled, “Stewart, knowing of Woodward’s interest, failed
to properly inform and protect her. Instead, it allowed the Property to be
taken from her. Without Stewart, the sale could not have gone through” in
paragraph 170. Plaintiff presents that Stewart Title is a title company whose
job it is to protect third party owners from having their property stolen from
them and, here, it did not. 
 
There are no citations to
Plaintiff’s argument that a title company has a job to protect third party
owners from having their property stolen from them.
 
Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 permits
recovery for “any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice.”¿
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.)¿ To successfully plead a UCL claim for unfair
business practices, a plaintiff must allege facts justifying relief in the form
of protecting the public from unfair business practices or deceptive
advertising. (Day v. AT&T Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 325,
331-332.)  
 
Pursuant to Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204,
a private party must have “suffered injury in fact and has lost money or
property as a result of the unfair competition” to pursue a claim. “To satisfy
the narrower standing requirements imposed by Proposition 64, a party must now
(1) establish a loss or deprivation of money or property sufficient to qualify
as injury in fact, i.e., economic injury, and (2) show that that economic
injury was the result of, i.e., caused by, the unfair business practice or
false advertising that is the gravamen of the claim.” (Kwikset Corp. v.
Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 322.) “There are innumerable ways in
which economic injury from unfair competition may be shown. A plaintiff may (1)
surrender in a transaction more, or acquire in a transaction less, than he or
she otherwise would have; (2) have a present or future property interest
diminished; (3) be deprived of money or property to which he or she has a
cognizable claim; or (4) be required to enter into a transaction, costing money
or property, that would otherwise have been unnecessary.” (Id. at
323.)¿ 
 
Plaintiff alleges, in relevant part:
 
Federal, an escrow company, and Stewart, a title company, performing
fraudulent and tortious acts to improperly allow its buying parties to acquire
title to homes is of the utmost danger to the public. These acts of defrauding
the true owner of the Property for others’ benefit are of the utmost danger to
the buyers and sellers i.e., public.
 
(TAC ¶ 171(c).) 
 
However, this statement is based
on the conclusory allegations found in paragraphs 58-64. 
 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS
the Demurrer to the Twelfth Cause of Action.
 
-----
Motion to Strike
 
Stewart Title seeks to strike the
following language:
 
·        
Page 16, Paragraph 88, Lines 17 – 20:
“Defendants collectively and/or individually acted with malice, fraud, and
oppression…and their acts were despicable, and Woodward is therefore entitled
to punitive damages,” as improper and irrelevant under Code of Civil Procedure
§436 (a) and (b).
·        
Page 22, Paragraph 106, Lines 21 – 24:
Defendants collectively and/or individually acted with malice, fraud, and
oppression…and their acts were despicable, and Woodward is therefore entitled
to punitive damages,” as improper and irrelevant under Code of Civil Procedure
§436 (a) and (b).
·        
Pages 27 – 28, Paragraph 127, Lines 26 – 28, 1 –
3: “…Defendants are guilty of oppression, fraud and malice. ‘Malice’ is defined
in the statute as conduct ‘intended by the defendant to cause injury to
Plaintiff [sic], or despicable conduct that is carried on by the defendant with
a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.’ In this
case, it is clear that defendants engaged in despicable conduct with a willful
and conscious disregard for the rights of Plaintiff…,” as improper and irrelevant
under Code of Civil Procedure §436 (a) and (b).
·        
Page 28, Paragraph 127, Lines 10 – 12:
“‘Oppression’ means ‘despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.’ In this case
[sic] Defendants subjected Woodward to cruel and unjust hardship,” as improper
and irrelevant under Code of Civil Procedure §436 (a) and (b). 
·        
Page 28, Paragraph 127, Lines 19 – 21: “…were
despicable, vile, outrageous, and outside the bounds of human decency,
sufficient to justify an award of exemplary and punitive damages,” as improper
and irrelevant under Code of Civil Procedure §436 (a) and (b). 
·        
Page 35, Paragraph 156, Lines 1 – 4: “…and
criminal behavior, such as to constitute oppression, fraud, or malice pursuant,
[sic], entitling Woodward to punitive damages. Because of Defendants’ behavior,
which Woodward believes constitutes oppression, Woodward seeks punitive damages
a [sic] total amount to be established by proof at trial,” as improper and
irrelevant under Code of Civil Procedure §436 (a) and (b). 
·        
Page 39, Paragraph 173, Lines 2 – 3:
“…Stewart…acted with oppression and fraud,” as improper and irrelevant under
Code of Civil Procedure §436 (a) and (b).
·        
Page 39, Paragraph 173, Lines 4 – 6:
“Accordingly, Woodward is entitled to an award of punitive damages against
Defendants, and each of them, in an amount sufficient to punish and make an
example of them according to proof at trial,” as improper and irrelevant under
Code of Civil Procedure §436 (a) and (b). 
·        
Page 40, Prayer as to the Second, Fourth, and
Twelfth Causes of Action, Paragraph 2, Line 9: “For Punitive Damages to be
proven at trial,” as improper and irrelevant under Code of Civil Procedure §436
(a) and (b).
As Stewart Title’s Demurrer is
sustained in its entirety, there is no basis for punitive damages against
Stewart Title in the TAC.
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Strike
is GRANTED.
 
------
 
Replies
 
Regarding the Demurrer, Stweart
Title argues (1) vicarious liability fails as the TAC makes only conclusory
allegations regarding conspiracy between Stewart Title and the other defendants
and fails to allege conduct or behavior on the part of Stewart Title itself;
(2) the Second Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty relies on
contractual relationships (citing TAC ¶ 102; however, the TAC does not allege a
contract between Plaintiff and Stewart Title and there are no alleged facts
that would impose a fiduciary obligation on Stewart Title; (3) Plaintiff has
failed to address Stewart Title’s arguments for the Fourth Cause of Action for
Fraudulent Concealment, including why failure to contact Plaintiff would
constitute an act of concealment or suppression of a material fact, and there
are no allegations regarding intent; (4) Plaintiff has not met the elements of
IIED; (5) Unjust Enrichment is not an independent cause of action in
California; and (6) the facts alleged in the TAC are insufficient to establish
a claim for an alleged violation of California Business and Professions Code §§
17200, et seq.
 
Regarding the Motion to Strike,
Stewart Title argues that Plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages are
insufficiently pled as the allegations consist of boilerplate language and are
based on conclusory allegations as the TAC fails to allege specific conduct or
behavior on the part of Stewart Title that constitutes or is capable of
constituting malice, oppression, or fraud. Stewart Title further argues that
the claims for punitive damages are based on causes of action that are
insufficiently pled and legally defective.
 
The Replies do not impact the
Court’s analysis, ante. Accordingly, the Court’s opinion remains the
unchanged. 
 
-----
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976),
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave to amend is liberally
granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all probability,
amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co.
(1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
This is Plaintiff’s fourth pleading of
record. Plaintiff previously presented to the Court that leave to amend was
necessary as she obtained new facts and evidence regarding Stewart Title’s
liability. However, the allegations in the TAC are substantially similar to that
of previous pleadings. The new additions in the TAC regarding Stewart Title are
found in paragraphs 59-64. 
 
The Court believes that it is probable
from the nature of the defects and the previously pled complaints that the Plaintiff
cannot state a claim against Stewart Title. (See FAC [included Stewart Title as
a defendant; alleged “Woodward is informed and believes and thereon alleges
that Cedric engaged the services of Stewart Title of California, Inc.
(“Stewart”) for the purposes assuring title.”]; see also SAC [allegation
regarding Stewart Title “Woodward is informed and believes and thereon alleges
that Stewart being a reputable title company would have and/or should have
asked to see the Trust and would have seen Wallace did not have the authority
to sell the Property and that at least 10% of the legal and equitable title was
vested in Woodward, who had not consented to the sell[;]” however, Stewart
Title not named as a defendant].) 
 
Accordingly, the Court does not allow
leave to amend. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Stewart Title’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Defendant Stewart Title’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED.