 Case Number:  23AVCV01352    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  A14 Defendant
Carrington Mortgage Services, LLC (“Carrington”) demurs to the First through
Fourth Causes of Action within the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
The
gravamen of Carrington’s arguments for the First through Third causes of action
are related to standing. That is, Plaintiff has not alleged that she is the
borrower under the Loan or that she can step into the shoes of the borrower.
The
Court has reviewed the both the Complaint and the FAC. There are no changes
made as to the allegations related to standing. The Court will not repeat its
previous 7-page Statement of Decision on this matter, but highlights what it
deems to be important: 
The
Complaint states only that Decedent was a borrower to the loan. This is further
supported by Exhibit A, the Deed of Trust, showing Decedent as the borrower.
(See Exh. A at p. 1 and signature lines [signed by Decedent].) From the
incorporated exhibits, it appears that even after Decedent had passed, nothing
was done to change Decedent’s status as borrower. (See Exh. C [Decedent
mentioned as borrower]; Exh. D [Decedent mentioned in Decl. Pursuant to Cal.
Civ. Code § 2923.55(c)].) There are no allegations in the Complaint as to
whether Plaintiff is a borrower, or can step into the shoes of the borrower
individually or as an administrator of Decedent’s estate. Thus, an issue of
standing exists on the face of the Complaint.  

(05/28/2024
Statement of Decision at p. 5.) 
This
issue remains in the FAC. (See FAC ¶¶ 10-19 [no changes to factual allegation;
“PLAINTIFF alleges that on or about August 31, 2017, Robert Stewart, Jr.
[“Decedent”] obtained a mortgage loan on the Subject Property from CMS. . .”];
see also FAC Exh. A at p. 1 and signature lines [signed by Decedent] at p. 1
and signature lines [signed by Decedent], Exh. C [Decedent mentioned as
borrower]; Exh. D [Decedent mentioned in Decl. Pursuant to Cal. Civ. Code §
2923.55(c)].) 
The
Court previously provided leave to amend based on standing: 
Leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under
California law leave to amend is liberally granted, “leave to amend should not
be granted where, in all probability, amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette
v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. (1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial
court does not abuse its discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave
to amend¿if either (a) the facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no
liability exists, or (b) it is probable from the nature of the defects and
previous unsuccessful attempts to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a
claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857,
889.)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
Here,
the deficiencies within the Complaint are related to standing. The Complaint,
noticeably, does not include any factual allegations as to Plaintiff’s
standing. The Court believes there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment.  
 
Accordingly,
leave to amend is allowed.  
 
(05/28/2024
Statement of Decision at p. 7.) 
Plaintiff
did not amend the pleadings to address the standing issue. (Compare FAC and TAC
at ¶¶ 24-27, 35-50, 52, 59-67.)
The
Court further notes that it had stated that “Plaintiff is not alleged to be the
borrower nor are there any allegations regarding whether [Plaintiff] can step
into the shows of the borrower individually or as an administrator of
Decedent’s estate” and  “the allegations
raise a question as to whether Plaintiff is proceeding as an individual or an
administrator of the estate.” (05/28/2024 Statement of Decision at p. 6.) 
As
the standing issue remains and impacts all causes of actions, the Demurrer is
SUSTAINED. 
The
Court notes that Plaintiff has incorporated a multitude of case law in FAC. A
complaint does not properly include citations to case authority. (See generally
Krug v. Meehan (1952) 109 Cal.App.2d 274, 277 [“The complaint must
allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts or conclusions of law."].)
Regarding leave to amend, leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave
to amend is liberally granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in
all probability, amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund
Ins. Co. (1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).  “A trial court does not
abuse its discretion when it sustains a demurrer without leave to
amend if either (a) the facts and the nature of the claims are clear and
no liability exists, or (b) it is probable from the nature of the defects and
previous unsuccessful attempts to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a
claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th
857, 889.)  Plaintiff has not made any changes regarding the
allegations surrounding standing. Like the previous Complaint, the FAC does not
include any factual allegations as to Plaintiff’s standing. The Court notes for
clarity that the statement, “Plaintiff is. . . the rightful and
lawful owners of real property commonly known as 43481 30th Street W
#3, Lancaster, CA 93536, (“Subject Property”), and is her personal and
principal residence[]” is conclusory as the evidence does not lead to a
reasonable inference that Plaintiff is the lawful owner. Rather, the evidence
shows that Decedent is the lawful owner and the borrower under the loan.
Because Plaintiff has not made any changes regarding her standing between the
Complaint and the FAC, the Court informs Plaintiff that this will be the final
time leave to amend is given. 
 
Defendant Carrington Mortgage Services, LLC
(“Carrington”) Demurrer is SUSTAINED.
Plaintiff Andrea Cervantes as Administrator of
the Estate of Robert Stewart is to file an amended pleading within 30 days of
this Court Order.