

Hearing Date:             July
10, 2024
Case Name:                Nidiam Gutierrez, et al. v.
Arturo Berrera and Juanita Berrera, as Trustees of the Berrera Family Trust UTD
August 23, 2007
Case No.:                    22STCV15021
Motion:                       Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor
Moving
Party:             Petitioner Nidiam
Gutierrez

Responding Party:      None


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Petition is granted.
 

 
On May 5, 2022, Plaintiffs Nidiam
Gutierrez, Luis Aparicio, Erik Anguiano, and minor Plaintiff Alessandro
Anguiano Gutierrez, by and through his guardian, Nidiam Gutierrez, filed an
action against Arturo Berrera and Juanita Berrera[1],
as trustees of The Berrera Family Trust Utd August 23, 2007 for (1) breach of
contract, (2) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (3) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, (4) negligence, and (5) nuisance.  Plaintiffs allege that they rented a
residential property owned and operated by Defendants and Defendants failed to
maintain the property in habitable conditions despite numerous complaints from
Plaintiffs.  As a results, Plaintiffs
sustained damages.
 
On May 9, 2022, the Court granted Nidiam
Gutierrez’s Application for Appointment of Guardian Ad Litem and appointed her guardian
ad litem of her twelve-year-old son Alessandro Anguiano Gutierrez.
 
            On May 24,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Settlement indicating a conditional
settlement had been reached.
 
            On June 7,
2024, Petitioner Nidiam Gutierrez (“Petitioner”) filed the instant Petition for
Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor (“Petition”) on behalf of minor Claimant Alessandro Anguiano
Gutierrez (“Claimant”).
 
            No
opposition has been filed.
 
Legal
Standard for Approval of Minor’s Compromise
 
            Court approval is required
for all settlements of a minor’s claim.  (Prob.
Code §§ 3500, 3600, et seq.; CCP
§ 372.) “‘[W]ithout trial court approval of the proposed compromise of the
ward’s claim, the settlement cannot be valid. 
[Citation.] [¶] Nor is the settlement binding [on the minor] until it is
endorsed by the trial court.’”  (Pearson v. Superior Court (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th
1333, 1338.)  A minor, like Claimant,
“shall appear either by a guardian or conservator of the estate or by a
guardian ad litem appointed by the court in which the action or proceeding is
pending, or by a judge thereof, in each case.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 372(a)(1).)  Alternatively, the petitioner may file a
declaration demonstrating that he or she has a right to compromise the minor’s
claim under Cal. Probate Code § 3500. 
 
            Regarding the substance of the Petition, to obtain court
approval of the settlement of a minor’s claims, the petitioner must file a complete and “verified petition for
approval of the settlement and must disclose ‘all information that has any
bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise.’ [Citations.]”  (Barnes
v. Western Heritage Ins. Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 249, 256; Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 7.950.)  (Italics added.)
 
Under Probate Code § 3505, if a petition is unopposed,
the Court must issue a decision on the petition at the conclusion of the
hearing.
 
Discussion
 
            Having
reviewed the instant Petition, the Court makes the following findings.
 
Petitioner Nidiam
Gutierrez seeks an order approving the proposed compromise of a pending action
on behalf of minor Claimant Alessandro Anguiano Gutierrez.
 
If
approved, the action will settle in the total amount of $10,000, to paid to the
Claimant in a lump sum.  Defendants have
also offered to pay $110,000 to the other parties in the action, including the
Petitioner, for claims arising out of the same incident.  There are no medical expenses or attorney’s
fees to be deducted from the gross settlement amount.  The net proceeds of the settlement, in the
amount of $10,000, are to be deposited in an insured account, subject to
withdrawal only on authorization of the Court. 
Petitioner has provided the Court with details regarding the financial
institution where the sum is to be deposited and filed an MC-355 Proposed Order
to Deposit Funds in Blocked Account.  Moreover,
Petitioner has properly filed an MC-351 Proposed Order and Proof of Service.
 
The Court finds that the Petition
has been properly filed and the settlement amount is fair and reasonable based
on the circumstances of the case and supporting documentation.  
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Petition is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
The Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor, filed by Petitioner Nidiam Gutierrez on behalf of minor
Claimant Alessandro Anguiano Gutierrez is granted.  Moving
party to give notice.
 


