 Case Number:  22STCV38594    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On December 12, 2022, Plaintiff Elena
Perez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Los Angeles
Unified School District (“Defendant”) and Does 1-20 for negligence and wrongful
death. 
On March 1, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On October 22, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for
sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel. 
The motion was set for hearing on December 17, 2024.  On December 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  On December 10, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply.  The Court
continued the hearing to January 15, 2025. 
On January 10, 2025, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a late
declaration supporting Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion.  On January 14, 2025, Defendant filed a reply and
other papers in response to Plaintiff’s counsel’s late declaration.  On January 15, 2025, Defendant filed a notice
of lodging confidential treatment records, school records, and juvenile police
records.  The Court has not reviewed or considered
the papers filed on January 10, 14, and 15, 2025. 
Trial is currently scheduled for April 2, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant asks the Court to impose non-monetary sanctions on Plaintiff’s counsel. 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion. 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Defendant’s evidence 
          Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s counsel Luis Carrillo
(“Plaintiff’s counsel”) made improper comments during two depositions conducted
in this case.  According to Defendant,
during the deposition of Claudia Castillo, Plaintiff’s counsel “misled Ms.
Castillo to believe her son could be held liable in these proceedings, offered
unsolicited legal advice to Ms. Castillo that she should condition her
cooperation with the School District on the School District agreeing to remove
her son’s name from the jury verdict form in this matter, called School
District liars and falsely accused School District counsel of intending to lie
to the jury to hold [Castillo’s son] liable in this case.”  (Motion p. 5.)  In addition, Defendant argues, during the
deposition of Daniel Trejo, Plaintiff’s counsel “repeatedly interrupted the
deposition to accuse School District counsel of lying, fabricating evidence,
and witness tampering.”  (Motion p. 5.)
 Defendant
asks the Court to sanction Plaintiff’s counsel “to deter him from committing
future misconduct and mitigate the impact of his misconduct on witnesses,
School District counsel, and the parties.” 
(Motion p. 6.) 
          The Court has reviewed the deposition excerpts attached to
Defendant’s motion, which include the following: 
Castillo deposition 
1.    Pages 46-49
 Plaintiff’s
counsel asked Castillo the following questions: 
“Did
[Defendant’s counsel] tell you that they wanted to protect LAUSD?”
“Did
[Defendant’s counsel] tell you that they wanted to blame your son for what
happened to Melanie Ramos?”
“Did
[Defendant’s counsel] tell you that at the trial of this case the jury will
have to fill out a verdict form that will have your son’s name on it and the
district on it?  Did they tell you that?”“Did
[Defendant’s counsel] ever tell you they wanted to blame [your son] for 90
percent or 100 percent what happened to Melanie Ramos?” 
“Did
[Defendant’s counsel] tell you that when the case goes to trial, they are going
to try to put all the blame for Melanie’s death on your son?  Did they ever tell you that?”
“In
that verdict form [Defendant’s counsel] want to put your son’s name on it so
that your son will take 90 percent of the blame and the school district will
take 5 or 10 percent.  Did they ever tell
you that?”
“When
this case goes to trial, [Defendant’s counsel] don’t want the jury to award any
money to the mother from the district. 
They want the jury to blame your son for what happened to Melanie.  Did they ever tell you anything like that?
“And
did [Defendant’s counsel] ever explain to you that they were willing to lie to
get their objective of blaming your son?”
“Did
[Defendant’s counsel] tell you that they wanted to mislead the jury to think
that the drugs were sold at a park so that they could blame your son and the
district would not be liable to pay any damages?  Did they tell you that?” 
2.    Pages 49-53 
Plaintiff’s
counsel had the following exchange with Castillo: 
Plaintiff’s
counsel: “Did you know that you can tell them to sign a document not to blame
your son for what happened to Melanie?”
Castillo:
“I didn’t know that.”
Plaintiff’s
counsel: “Yes.”
Castillo:
“I thought my son had already done his time, though.”
Plaintiff’s
counsel: “You are correct.  He did his
time based on what the juvenile court did. 
But this is a different court. 
We’re in a court where we’re suing the district, not for jail but for
money damages, and if they want to talk to you again, you have the right to
tell them I want you to sign an agreement that you are not going to put my
son’s name on the verdict form so that the jury doesn’t blame him for any
percent of what happened to Melanie Ramos.” [¶¶]  “You have that right.  You have that right to insist.”
 Defendant’s counsel objected that Plaintiff’s counsel
was engaging in witness tampering. 
Plaintiff’s counsel responded, “You are the one that tampers with
witnesses.  You are the one that gets
witnesses to perjure themselves . . . .” 
Defendant’s counsel also objected that Plaintiff’s counsel
was dissuading the witness and acting unethically.  Plaintiff’s counsel responded: “You are the
unethical one.  You and Quintana lied to
the juvenile court when you wanted to get [Castillo’s son] brought to Los
Angeles.  You misrepresented
everything.”  Defendant’s counsel stated that Plaintiff had told Castillo she had a right not to
cooperate.  Plaintiff’s counsel
responded, “You are lying again” and “You are the biggest liar I’ve ever met in
my life.”  The following exchange took place:Defendant’s counsel: “What you just did, Mr. Carrillo,
is say a witness has a right not to – has a right to insist upon getting a
benefit in exchange for testimony.”
Plaintiff’s counsel: “No. No. No.”
Defendant’s counsel: “You just said it.”
Plaintiff’s counsel: “No,
you misconstrue everything.”
Defendant’s counsel: “That’s the words.”
Plaintiff’s counsel: “No, I knew what I said.”
Defendant’s counsel: “I heard what you said twice.”
Plaintiff’s counsel: “It’s not what you said right
now.  You are lying again.”
Defendant’s counsel: “No, I’m not.”
Plaintiff’s counsel: “You lie all the time.”
Defendant’s counsel: “No, I don’t.”
Plaintiff’s counsel: “Yes, you do.  When you guys sent that document to the
juvenile court, you lied and made misrepresentations.”
Defendant’s counsel: “No, we didn’t.”
Plaintiff’s counsel: “Okay, what I’m doing now, I dare
you to report me to the state bar. 
Okay?  Because I feel confident
I’m not doing what you are saying you [sic] are [sic] doing.”
Defendant’s counsel: “Look, in any event --”
Plaintiff’s counsel: “In any event –”
Defendant’s counsel: “—what you said is on the
record.”
 Daniel Trejo deposition
         Pages
37-38, 43
  Plaintiff’s
counsel: “I’m sorry, Mr. Trejo, that I have to make so many objections because
the School District attorneys have this myth, this idea that the –”
Defendant’s
counsel: “Mr. Carrillo, I’m going to cut you off.”
Plaintiff’s
counsel: “No.  Because you—all you guys
are liars.  You and Rudy Ruiz, you’re all
liars.  You’re inventing that [the drugs
on which Melanie Ramos overdosed were] supposedly bought at a park.  The LAPD has already told you that it was not
bought at a park.” 
Defendant’s
counsel objected that Plaintiff’s counsel was testifying and interfering with
the deposition.  Plaintiff’s counsel
responded, “You guys are lying to the courts when you say stuff like this. . .
. [¶]  You guys make lies to the juvenile
court.  You make lies in your papers. . .
. [¶]  [Y]ou guys are trying to invent
lies.” 
Plaintiff’s
counsel: “You’re already badgering with witness with your lies, Mr. Quintana. .
. . Detective Lamberti has already told you unethical lawyers that there was no
[drug] purchase at the park, and you guys are still trying to invent that there
was a purchase at the park. . . . [¶] 
I’m just calling you out because you and Mr. Ruiz are liars.  And you try to invent evidence that doesn’t
exist.” 
B.   Defendant’s request for sanctions 
Defendant
asks the Court to “intervene to remedy, mitigate, and monitor” Plaintiff’s
counsel’s behavior by imposing sanctions. 
(Motion p. 14.) 
C.   Plaintiff’s opposition 
In
opposition, Plaintiff states: “This is a high-stakes case that has taken an
emotional toll on plaintiff and her attorneys. In such instances, passionate
advocacy can create friction between the parties and their attorneys.
Nevertheless, [Plaintiff’s counsel] recognizes his ethical duties to opposing
counsel and seeks an amicable solution to this dispute. Thus, in an effort to
preserve Court resources and resolve this dispute, [Plaintiff’s counsel] will
meet and confer with opposing counsel to address his concerns.”  (Opposition p. 4.) 
Plaintiff
also asks the Court to deny the motion because Defendant did not specify the
sanctions Defendant was requesting or comply with the requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.040. 
D.   Defendant’s reply 
In
its reply, Defendant argues that Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 does
not apply because Defendant is appealing to “the Court’s broad ‘inherent
equity, supervisory and administrative powers.’ ”  (Reply p. 5, quoting Department of Forestry
& Fire Protection v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 170-171.)  Defendant clarifies that it is not seeking
monetary sanctions.  Instead, Defendant “requests
that the Court order Mr. Luis Carrillo to abstain from any attempt to dissuade
witnesses from cooperating with the defense.” 
(Reply p. 5.) 
E.   Analysis 
The
deposition excerpts quoted above show that Plaintiff’s counsel violated his
ethical obligations during the two depositions by: 
·       Calling Defendant’s counsel liars
·       Telling Castillo that Defendant’s counsel would lie and
mislead the jury to achieve Defendant's counsel’s objectives
·       Accusing Defendant’s counsel of being unethical
·       Suggesting to Castillo that she could condition her
cooperation with Defendant’s counsel on Defendant removing the name of Castillo’s
son from the verdict form
  Even
if Plaintiff’s counsel was reacting to objections by Defendant’s counsel, Plaintiff’s
counsel’s accusations of lying and unethical conduct were disproportionate and disruptive. 
The
Court grants Defendant’s motion and orders Plaintiff’s counsel to comply with
the California Rules of Professional Conduct, the Los Angeles Superior Court’s
Guidelines for Civility in Litigation (Appendix 3.A), and other applicable laws,
rules, and decisions governing the conduct of California attorneys. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s motion for
sanctions.  The Court orders Mr. Luis
Carrillo, counsel for Plaintiff Elena
Perez, to comply with the California
Rules of Professional Conduct, the Los Angeles Superior Court’s Guidelines for
Civility in Litigation (Appendix 3.A), and other applicable laws, rules, and
decisions governing the conduct of California attorneys. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.