 Case Number:  24STCV19026    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



ALADDIN DINAALI 
  
        
  vs.
 
INTERLACED SOCIAL LLC, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV19026 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 23, 2024



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for a preliminary injunction is DENIED. 
 
            On
7/30/2024, in properia persona Plaintiff Aladdin Dinaali filed suit
against Interlaced Social, LLC, Augustin Pulido, and Kenneth Barlow, alleging:
(1) breach of contract; (2) unfair business practices; (3) fraud; (4) fraud;
(5) fraud; (6) negligence; (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress;
(8) negligent infliction of emotional distress; and (9) common counts.  
 
            On
9/23/2024, Plaintiff moved for a preliminary injunction. 
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion advances two grounds for a preliminary injunction. 
 
One,
Plaintiff argues he is entitled to a preliminary injunction on the grounds that
Defendants are conducting business in California without proper registration
deliberately evading service of legal documents such as summons and complaints.
However, Plaintiff submits no supporting evidence of this, nor does Plaintiff
provide legal authority to show this can be the basis of a preliminary
injunction.
 
            Second,
Plaintiff argues that a preliminary injunction should be granted because
Doublelist, a dating site owned by Interlaced Social, is running a prostitution
operation. However, Plaintiff has not submitted any evidence which could show
that any harm to Plaintiff could not be satisfied by monetary damages, nor has
Plaintiff proposed a constitutionally permissible injunction whereby this Court
could shut down the DoubleList dating website, or could refer individuals for
criminal prosecution at the pleading stage. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court has no legal authority before it by which to grant an injunction.
(“This failure to cite pertinent legal authority is enough reason to reject the
argument”); Akins v. State of California (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1, 50, 71
(contention waived by failure to cite legal authority).
 
            The
Court urges Plaintiff to consult with an attorney to pursue these claims. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 