 Case Number:  24STCV09146    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



EAST
  WEST BANK 
  
         vs.
 
VALENTINA
  PAPAZIAN, et al. 
  


 Case No.: 
  24STCV09146 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 23, 2024




 
Plaintiff’s
motion to Defendant Gevork Papazian to provide responses to Plaintiff’s Demand
for Inspection of Documents is GRANTED. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and
severally with counsel, $700.00. 
Compliance is ordered within 14 days.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant Arshavir Khachikian to provide responses to
Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Special Interrogatories (Set
One) is GRANTED. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel,
$700.00.  Compliance is ordered within 14
days.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant Arshavir Khachikian to provide responses to
Plaintiff’s Demand for Inspection of Documents is GRANTED. Defendant is
sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00.  Compliance is ordered within 14 days.
 
On 4/11/2024,
Plaintiff East West Bank (Plaintiff) filed suit against Valentina Papazian,
Takuhi Papazian, Arshavir Khachikian, Gevork Papazian, and Hagop Papazian
(collectively, Defendants) filed a complaint for unlawful detainer.  
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to compel the following: (1) Defendant Gevork Papazian’s
responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Inspection of Documents; (2) Defendant
Arshavir Khachikian’s responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (Set One)
and Special Interrogatories (Set One); and (3) Defendant Arshavir Khachikian’s
responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Inspection of Documents.
 
            The
motions are unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
I.                  
Defendant Gevork
Papazian’s Responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Inspection of Documents
 
On 5/24/2024,
Plaintiff propounded a Demand for Inspection of Documents (Set One) upon
Defendant Gevork Papazian via personal service to Defendant’s counsel. To date,
no responses have been received, and Defendant did not oppose this motion. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant Gevork Papazian to
provide responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Inspection of Documents is granted.
Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00. ($350/hr
x 2 hr.) 
 
II.              
Defendant Arshavir
Khachikian’s Responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (Set One) and
Special Interrogatories (Set One)
 
On 5/24/2024,
Plaintiff propounded Special Interrogatories and Form Interrogatories upon
Defendant Arshavir Khachikian via overnight mail. To date, Defendant has not
complied.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant Arshavir Khachikian to
provide responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Special
Interrogatories (Set One) is granted. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and
severally with counsel, $700.00. ($350/hr x 2 hr.) 
 
III.           
Defendant Arshavir
Khachikian’s Responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Inspection of Documents
 
            On
5/24/2024, Plaintiff propounded a Demand for Inspection of Documents (Set One)
upon Defendant via personal service to Defendant’s counsel. To date, no
responses have been received, and Defendant did not oppose this motion. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant Arshavir Khachikian to
provide responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Inspection of Documents is granted.
Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00. ($350/hr
x 2 hr.) 
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 