  Case Number:  22SMCV02950    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Thanou, v. Mahgerefteh
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02950
MOTION:                  Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint 
HEARING DATE:   11/13/2023
 
Legal
Standard
 
            A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§
430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate
facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim
against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie
(1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,
or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations omitted.)
 
            A
special demurrer for uncertainty is disfavored and will only be sustained where
the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s
of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if
the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)

 
            “Liberality in permitting amendment
is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to
show in what manner plaintiff can amend the complaint,
and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading. (Id.)
 
Analysis
 
First Cause of
Action for Breach of Warranty of Habitability
 
Defendant argues that the first amended complaint (FAC) fails to state
sufficient facts supporting the conclusory allegations that Plaintiff
made requests to Defendant to remedy the unhabitable conditions.  A tenant
may sue a landlord for damages resulting from a landlord’s breach of the
warranty of habitability. (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 1281,1297.) “The elements of such an affirmative claim are [1]
the existence of a material defective condition affecting the premises'
habitability; [2] notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable
time after the tenant's discovery of the condition; [3] the landlord was given
a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and [4] resulting damages.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiff alleges the existence of
material defects with the Subject Property. The violations include: deteriorated flooring, walls, ceilings
and cabinets, inadequate fire protection, faulty electrical wires and outlets,
inadequate heating and ventilation, improper sewage disposal, deteriorated
walls and ceilings, inoperable doors and windows, excessive odors,
dysfunctional plumbing systems, dampness, and infestations of cockroaches,
bedbugs, and other vermin. (FAC ¶ 16.)
Further, the following substandard conditions existed all throughout the
Subject Property: a. Mold/mildew
b. Deteriorated and defective roof. c. Cockroach, bed bug and rat infestation.
d. inoperable windows and unlockable doors, windows and gates. e. inoperable
and/or malfunctioning household appliances; f. deteriorated and worn walls and
ceilings; g. defective plumbing and faulty and leaking pipes. h. lack of/faulty
proper electrical wiring as well as exposed wires in the kitchen, which create
a hazard; i. non-installation of window safety bars to law conforming pop-out
window bars; and railings in the front and back steps j. non-repairs of the
extensive and deep cement cracks in the flooring of the garage and outside
areas, creating a walking hazard; k. non-repair of the dishwasher from day 1,
and inoperable trash compactor; l. failing to unstack (un-stackable) washer and
dryer placed on top of another, illegally, creating a hazard; m. failing to
repair deep cracks in the stucco; failing to repair defective waterproofing on
the Subject Property n. failing to repair leaky toilets; o. failing to repair
or replace rotted walls; and p. failing to investigate and remediate
significant mold damage to the Premises. (FAC ¶¶ 18-21.)
 
Plaintiff alleges facts showing
that the landlord had reasonable notice of the habitability conditions and that
the landlord was given a reasonable time to cure the deficiencies. The Subject
Property has been subject to multiple inspections by the Los Angeles Housing
and Community Investment Department and the Los Angeles Department of Public
Health that resulted in citations against the Defendant for multiple violations
of the California County Code, the California Health and Safety Code and the
Los Angeles Municipal Code. (FAC ¶ 11.) Further, the cited violations were not
abated within 35 days of these notices.
(FAC ¶¶ 12-15.) Plaintiff notified the Defendant, their Property
Managers about the habitability violations, but Defendants have failed to
correct the habitability conditions. (FAC ¶ 23.) The FAC notes that Defendants
have been cited repeatedly for the same conditions at the Subject Property for more
than four years. (FAC ¶ 24.) Defendants have been aware of the conditions
since at least 2020, at which point Plaintiff first made complaints and the City/County
cited Defendants. (¶ 27.) In spite of these numerous notices and orders to comply
from government entities, Defendants have failed to correct the cited
deficiencies throughout the Subject Property. (¶¶ 25, 32.) 
 
While Plaintiff does not state
precisely when they informed Defendant, or when the City cited Defendant for
violations, the above facts still demonstrate that Defendants have had notice
of the issues for four years, and for more than 35 days after the City cited
the conditions. Thus, the FAC states facts showing notice to the landlord of the condition for a reasonable time
after the tenant's discovery and that the landlord has had more than reasonable
time to correct the deficiencies. Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to
this cause of action.
 
Second Cause of
Action for Promissory Fraud
 
Defendant argues that the FAC fails
to state facts meeting the heightened pleading standard for a fraud claim. The
elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184; Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638 [“An action for promissory
fraud may lie where a defendant fraudulently induces the plaintiff to enter
into a contract.”].) In California, fraud must be pled with specificity. (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity
demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and
by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of
America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) 
 
Defendant asserts that there are no
specific facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
alleged representations were tendered, nor specific facts as to the elements of
knowledge of falsity, intent to defraud, and justifiable reliance. Examining
the allegations, the Court concurs that the FAC does not meet the heightened
pleading standard.
 
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant
promised to lease the Plaintiff the Subject Property which the Defendant
advertised as luxury property with two car garage, 2,500 sq ft of living space,
next to the Beverly Hills park and available for use for short term airbnb.”
(FAC ¶ 38.) “At the time the Defendant put forth the advertisement/listing, the
Defendant did not intend to keep this promise as the Defendant knew the
listing/advertisement to be false.” (¶ 39.) “Defendant intended the Plaintiff
to rely on the promise made in the property listing.” (¶ 40.) The promises were
false because “Defendant failed to deliver the Subject Property as listed and
assured as the Subject Property turned out to be: a. Anything but luxury. b.
Close to a noisy tennis court instead of a serene park. c. 1,320 sq ft instead
of the advertised 2,500 sq ft. d. Unavailable for use for short term air bnb
because the Defendant revoked the same. e. One with a decrepit garage with
buckled floor having the Defendant’s scaffolding occupying one-half of the
garage; and f. Several other anomalies.” (FAC ¶ 42.)
 
Plaintiff does not allege the
substance or the specifics of the representation. Plaintiff only generally
alleges that Defendant “promised” to lease the Plaintiff as “advertised.”
However, Plaintiff does not allege what the promise or advertisements were,
how/by what means the promises or advertisements were made, when they were
made, where they were made, or to whom they were made. Without these essential
facts, the fraud claim cannot proceed.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to this cause of action.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
The covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is implied by law in every contract, and it acts “as a supplement to
the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging
in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants)
frustrates the other party’s rights to the benefits of the contract.” (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-1032.) The elements for breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing are: (1) existence of a contract between plaintiff and
defendant; (2) plaintiff performed his contractual obligations or was excused
from performing them; (3) the conditions requiring defendant’s performance had
occurred; (4) the defendant unfairly interfered with the plaintiff’s right to
receive the benefits of the contract; and (5) the plaintiff was harmed by the
defendant’s conduct. (Merced Irr. Dist. V. County of Mariposa (E.D. Cal.
2013) 941 F.Supp.2d 1237, 1280 [discussing California law].) 
 
The FAC alleges that the Lease
Agreement for the Subject Property contained an implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, which obligated Defendant to perform the terms and conditions
of the Lease Agreement fairly and in good faith and to refrain from doing any
act that would prevent or impede or cause damages and injuries to the Plaintiff
or in any way prevent Plaintiff from performing any or all of the conditions of
the Lease Agreement that Defendant agreed to perform, or any act that would
deprive Plaintiff of the benefits of the Lease Agreement. (FAC ¶ 62.) Plaintiff
performed under the Lease by paying her rent and reasonably expected the
Defendant to deliver the Subject Property as listed/advertised. (¶ 63.) Defendant
breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing under the Lease “by
failing to meet his obligations under the Lease Agreement under several guises.”
(¶ 65.) Notably, a copy of the Lease is attached to the FAC. (See FAC, Ex. A.)
 
The FAC provides no further details
on how Defendant breached the implied covenant, beyond the general assertion
that Defendant breached the Lease agreement’s terms. The FAC does not allege
facts showing that Defendant prevented or impeded Plaintiff from receiving the
benefits of the Lease. At most, Plaintiff generically and ambiguously states a
breach of contract. (FAC ¶65.) However, “[a] ‘breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual
duty itself’ and it has been held that ‘[b]ad faith implies unfair dealing
rather than mistaken judgment . . ..’” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific
Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) As the allegations
only state a breach of the express terms of the lease, without more, the FAC
fails to state facts to support the implied covenant claim.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend.  Plaintiff
has five days to file an amended complaint. 
