 Case Number:  23VECV05449    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV05449 FINANCIAL SERVICES V MINASYAN
[TENTATIVE] ORDER: 
Plaintiff Financial Services Vehicle Trust’s Application for Writ of
Possession is GRANTED. The Court waives an undertaking from Plaintiff Financial
Services Vehicle Trust.  For redelivery
of the vehicle or to stay delivery, Defendant Arpine Oganesyan is ordered to
post an undertaking in the amount of $86,000.00.
Introduction 
Plaintiff Financial Services Vehicle Trust by and through
its servicer BMW Financial Services NA, LLC (Plaintiff) moved for a writ of
possession against Defendant Arpine Oganesyan (Defendant).  
On April 3, 2024, a writ of possession was issued against
Co-Defendant Aram Minasyan. 
Discussion 
Plaintiff’s proof of service showed that Defendant was
served with the summons and complaint and notified of the hearing on the
application.  (Code Civ. Proc. sec.
512.010.)
Plaintiff provided a declaration from BMW Financial Services
NA, LLC (BMW FS) to show the probable validity of their claim and right to
repossess the vehicle from Defendant because Plaintiff provided evidence
showing Defendant’s entry into the Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement, Plaintiff
assignor’s performance of delivery of the vehicle, Defendant’s breach in
failing to pay, and Plaintiff’s damages. 
(Code Civ. Proc sec. 512.040.)  Plaintiff
further provided that the vehicle is in the custody and control of Defendant
and located at Defendant’s residence as reflected in the agreement or at
Defendant’s new residence.  (Code Civ.
Proc. sec. 512.060.)  With Defendant’s
breach, Defendant no longer has rights to possess and further refused to
surrender the vehicle.  Plaintiff has
shown their rights to possession.    
Plaintiff submitted evidence of the value of the
vehicle.  The evidence shows that the
account balance plus expenses exceeds the value of the vehicle and no equity
exists for the Defendant.  The Court
finds that the requirement to post an undertaking is waived.  (Code Civ. Proc. sec. 515.010.)  
Plaintiff requested a re-delivery bond of $86,000.00 be
imposed upon Defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc.
sec. 515.020.)  Plaintiff submitted that
their undertaking would have been the account balance plus an attorney fees and
costs.  The Court finds that the request
for a re-delivery bond to be proper.  
IT IS
SO ORDERED, MOVING PARTY TO GIVE VERBATIM NOTICE OF THIS RULING.