 Case Number:  23VECV04618    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04618 VIRTUE V MCGARRY
[TENTATIVE] ORDER: 
Plaintiff Virtue at the Pointe, LLC’s Demurrer to the Answer is
OVERRULED. 
Plaintiff Virtue at the Pointe, LLC’s Motion to Strike the
Answer is DENIED.
Introduction 
Plaintiff Virtue at the Pointe, LLC (Plaintiff) demurred to
Defendant David McGarry’s (Defendant) Answer. 
Plaintiff’s demurrer placed into issue all 28 Affirmative Defenses
(AD).  Plaintiff further moved to strike
Defendant’s Answer and requested that all 28 ADs be stricken.              
Discussion 
The Points and Authorities (P&A) in support of
Plaintiff’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike fail to meet Plaintiff’s initial
burden as the moving party to show insufficient fact pleading, uncertainty, or
cite to allegations that are irrelevant, false, or improper.  A judge in a civil case is not “'obligated to
seek out theories [a party] might have advanced, or to articulate for him that
which … [a party] has left unspoken.'”  (Mesecher
v. County of San Diego (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686.)  “Contentions are waived when a party fails to
support them with reasoned argument and citations to authority.  [Bolding added.]”  (Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003)
111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.)  Plaintiff’s
P&As on both motions only provided citation to legal authority and failed
to present any argument applying the legal authority to the
allegations/ADs.  Plaintiff’s assertions
were conclusory and only blanket statements that the ADs were devoid of facts,
uncertain, or irrelevant, false, or improper. 
Due to the lack of any application of law to the ADs, Plaintiff’s
P&As are insufficient to support the demurrer and motion to strike.  
Further, Plaintiff’s contention in the demurrer that all the
ADs were uncertain is improper because the contention failed to specify what
aspect of each AD made it uncertain. 
Demurrers for uncertainty are strictly construed, because discovery can
be used for clarification, and apply where defendants cannot reasonably
determine what issues or claims are stated. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
The demurrer and motion to strike are unpersuasive.
The demurrer is OVERRULED and the motion to strike is
DENIED.  
IT IS
SO ORDERED, DEFENDANT TO GIVE VERBATIM NOTICE OF THIS RULING.