 Case Number:  23VECV04168    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04168 BARNETT V ROYAL
GARDENS
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Anza Management Company’s Demurrer
to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the First,
Third, Eighth and Tenth Causes of Action and OVERRULED as to the Ninth, Twelfth,
and Thirteenth causes of action.   Leave
to amend is limited to curing the pleading defects identified and not to add
new causes of action.
Introduction 
The Demurrer was filed by
Defendant Anza Management Company (Defendant) and moved against the Plaintiff
Aleisha Barnett’s (Plaintiff) Complaint. 
Defendant demurs to seven causes of action: the first cause of action (COA)
for battery, the third COA for intentional infliction of emotional distress
(IIED), the eighth COA for violation of Civil Code sec. 1941.3, the ninth COA
for violation of Civil Code sec. 1942.4, the tenth COA for negligent violation
of statutory duty to maintain habitable conditions, the twelfth COA for private
nuisance, and the thirteenth COA for public nuisance. 
Discussion 
First and Third Causes of Action
– Battery and IIED
At the initial April 9, 2024
hearing on Defendant’s Demurrer, the Court requested further briefing as to the
intent element of battery.  Specifically,
the Court requested that the parties address the issue of willful misconduct to
support the intent element of battery. 
(City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 754, fn.
4 and Acosta v. Glenfed Development Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1278, 1294.)  Defendant filed supplemental briefing and
Plaintiff did not.  
At issue is whether there is
sufficient factual allegations to plead a willful disregard of Plaintiff’s
rights or safety.  The Court was
originally inclined to overrule the demurrer to the battery and IIED causes of action.  However, the Court is no longer persuaded
that the Complaint sufficiently alleged facts to plead the intent element via
an allegation that Defendant willfully disregarded Plaintiff’s rights or
safety.  Plaintiff alleged that she gave
notice to Defendant of the cockroach infestation in October 2021.  In response, Defendant offered to “put roach
powder in the unit.”   However, Plaintiff
rejected the offer and requested professional pest control services.  Plaintiff alleged that the request was
ignored.  (Compl. pars. 13, 16.)  However, 
these allegations show that Defendant responded to Plaintiff’s
complaint.  The fact that Defendant did
not agree to Plaintiff’s requested method of eradication is not seen as a
“willful disregard” of Plaintiff’s rights/safety.  A difference of opinion on the proper remedy
is not sufficient to plead a “willful disregard”. 
Plaintiff then alleged that the
infestation continued and a cockroach was pulled from her ear in January
2023.  (Compl. pars. 17-19.)  Plaintiff notified Defendant of the injury and
Defendant retained a professional pest control service in February, 2023, April
2023, May 2023, June 2023, and July 2023. 
(Compl. pars. 20-26.)  These
allegations also show that Defendant responded to Plaintiff’s complaint.  The facts are insufficient to show any
disregard of Plaintiff’s rights/safety. 
The fact that the eradication service was ineffectual and that Plaintiff
continued to see cockroaches does not detract from the factual allegations that
Defendant responded to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
The pleading defect identified as
to the intent element as to battery also applies to the third COA for IIED
The Demurrer to the First and
Third causes of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  
Eighth Cause of Action –
Violation of California Civil Code section 1942.3
Plaintiff states that she
mistakenly alleged Civil Code Section 1941.3 as a cause of action, and that
this was an attorney error and should have been listed as Civil Code Section
1942.3. Plaintiff requests leave to amend this cause of action as set forth
above. The Court grants Plaintiff’s request. Thus, the demurrer as to the
eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Ninth Cause of Action – Violation
of California Civil Code section 1942.4
California Civil Code section
1942.4 prohibits a landlord from demanding or collecting rent, issuing a notice
for rent increase, or issuing a three-day notice to pay rent or quit if the
dwelling lacks certain standard characteristics or is deemed substandard, as
outlined in specific sections of the Health and Safety Code. (See Civil Code
section 1942.4 subd. (a).) These conditions include a written notice from a
public officer or employee about existing substandard conditions or nuisances
that have not been addressed within 35 days after notice, with the delay being
without good cause, and the assurance that these conditions were not caused by
the tenant. (See id. subd. (a)(1)-(4).)
In section 1942.4 subdivision
(b), it states that landlords who fail to comply with these conditions may be
liable for actual and special damages to the tenant, ranging from $100 to
$5,000, along with potential attorney fees and court costs. (See Civil Code §
1942.4 subd. (b).) Courts may also order landlords to correct any substandard
conditions or nuisances that significantly affect the occupants’ health or
safety. (See id. subd. (c).) This section allows for additional remedies
alongside those provided by leases, rental agreements, or other statutory or
common law, excluding landlords pursuing rights under a specific chapter of the
Government Code regarding compliance. (See id. subd. (f).)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
fails to plead sufficient facts to support this cause of action because it
generically pleads that Defendant was on notice but does not specify if the
notice is written or not, and if the notice was given or not by a public
officer or employee who is responsible for the enforcement of any housing law.
However, under subdivision (a)(1), it may be sufficient to show that “The
dwelling substantially lacks any of the affirmative standard characteristics
listed in Section 1941.1 or violates Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety
Code, or is deemed and declared substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of
the Health and Safety Code because conditions listed in that section exist to
an extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare
of the public or the occupants of the dwelling.” (Civil Code § 1942.4 subd.
(a)(1).) The allegations in the complaint are sufficient as Plaintiff alleges
the rented dwelling unit from Defendants lacked necessary standard characteristics
defined by Civil Code § 1941.1 and failed to address a cockroach infestation
despite being notified multiple times by Plaintiff. The Complaint alleges that
the Los Angeles County Public Health Department’s inspection confirmed the
infestation, advising immediate remedy (Compl. ¶ 25), and despite ongoing
complaints from Plaintiff about the infestation, Defendants did not abate the
condition. (Compl. ¶ 161.) Thus, the demurrer as to the ninth cause of action
is OVERRULED.
Tenth Cause of Action – Negligent
Violation of Statutory Duty to Maintain Habitable Conditions
Defendant contends that Negligent
Violation of Statutory Duty to Maintain Habitable Conditions is not a
recognized cause of action and is duplicative of other allegations in the
Complaint. It argues that the Complaint fails to distinctly state which actions
by Defendant support this cause of action, making it uncertain and
unintelligible.
Plaintiff fails to distinguish
how this cause of action is separate from the second cause of action for
negligence. Indeed, in support of this cause of action, Plaintiff asserts that
the complaint sufficiently alleges Defendant’s breach of duty in maintaining
safe and habitable living conditions. However, it is unclear that this is not
duplicative of the second cause of action for negligence. Thus, the demurrer as
to the tenth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Twelfth and Thirteenth Causes of
Action – Private Nuisance; Public Nuisance
To establish an action for
private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use
and enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest
in the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, that is, that it
causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3) “the
interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it
must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or
amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of
the land.” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th
248, 262-263, citations, italics, brackets, and quotation marks omitted.)
In determining whether a
particular activity constitutes a public nuisance a court considers three
elements: (1) the proscribed act, (2) whether the result of the act interferes
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, and (3) whether the act affects
a sufficient number of persons. (People v. McDonald (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 521,
535.)
Defendant challenges both
nuisance claims by arguing that Plaintiff has not pleaded sufficient facts to
establish the necessary elements for either private or public nuisance.
Specifically, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not shown that Defendant’s conduct
was a substantial factor in causing the alleged harm or that the seriousness of
the harm outweighs the social utility of Defendant’s conduct. The Court
disagrees. 
Plaintiff alleges that there was
a cockroach infestation at the Apartment Complex, which poses a health risk to
tenants and the public by potentially spreading the infestation beyond the
complex. (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 13-41, 180-193.) Plaintiff further claims that
Defendants had knowledge of the infestation yet failed to maintain the
apartments properly, thereby assisting in the nuisance’s creation. Such
allegations are said to be sufficient for a cause of action for public
nuisance. (Id. ¶¶ 41-57.) Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ awareness and
inaction regarding the cockroach infestation significantly and unreasonably
interfered with their enjoyment of the apartment, including an incident where a
cockroach entered Plaintiff’s ear, further supporting the claims for both
public and private nuisance. (Id. ¶¶ 13-58, 184.) The Court finds that the
Complaint clearly states the alleged negligence of Defendants to address the
cockroach infestation and that this conduct interfered substantially with the
enjoyment of Plaintiff’s property. Further, since this issue applied to the
whole apartment complex, the Court finds that the public nuisance claim is
supported. (Compl. ¶¶ 44-58.) Thus, the demurrer as to the twelfth and
thirteenth causes of action are OVERRULED.
Leave to Amend
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect
can be cured by amendment”]. Because there is a reasonable possibility of
amendment, Plaintiff will be granted twenty (20) days leave to amend.
Conclusion
Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED
WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the First, Third, Eighth and Tenth Causes of
Action and OVERRULED as to the Ninth, Twelfth, and Thirteenth causes of action.
IT IS SO ORDERED, MOVING PARTY TO GIVE VERBATIM NOTICE OF
THIS RULING.
______________
Tentative ruling: Motion to quash
service of summons – Granted on the grounds that Ana Fuentes is not authorized
to accept service of summons on Royal Gardens at Kittridge Apartments and on no
other grounds.  
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
MOVING PARTY TO GIVE VERBATIM NOTICE OF THIS RULING.