  Case Number:  19STCV03217    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed:      10/2/22¿ 
¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ 
Department 27¿ 
Tentative Ruling¿ 
 
Hearing Date:           3/15/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿ 
Case No./Name:       19STCV03217 MADISON CASTELLANOS, A MINOR vs
LOS ANGELES COMMUNITY COLLEGE
Motion:                    MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Moving Party:           Defendant LOS ANGELES COMMUNITY COLLEGE
Responding Party:    Plaintiff 
Notice:                     Sufficient¿ 
 
Ruling:                     SUMMARY
JUDGMENT IS DENIED.
 
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION TO ISSUES 1,2,3 AND 6 IS DENIED.
 
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION TO ISSUES 4 AND 5 IS GRANTED.
 
 
¿ 
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
On January 30, 2019, Plaintiff filed the present
case, alleging injury from an incident where her school teacher, Yenifer
Galicia (“Galicia”), closed a door on her finger, resulting in the severance of
parts of her pinky. Plaintiff asserts two causes of action: (1) Negligence and
Dangerous Condition of Public Property and (2) Premises Liability. The
allegations focus on the school district's negligence due to its teacher's
failure to ensure no children were near the door when closing it, and the
absence of protective measures or layers around the door's edges to prevent
accidents. Plaintiff further alleges that the door, having sharp edges,
constituted a dangerous condition, especially around very young children.
Defendant now moves the court for summary judgment, arguing that the discovery
responses provided by Plaintiff were factually devoid and introduced evidence
that its employees did not act negligently. Alternatively, Defendant seeks
summary adjudication on the following six issues: 1) No breach of duty for
Plaintiff's negligence claim; 2) No proximate cause for the negligence claim;
3) Defendant's property was free from any dangerous conditions; 4) Defendant
did not create the alleged dangerous condition; 5) Plaintiff cannot demonstrate
that Defendant was negligent in the use or maintenance of the property; 6)
Defendant's actions did not substantially cause Plaintiff's injury. 
Although Plaintiff brings forth two causes of action
for 1) negligence and dangerous condition of public property, and 2) premises
liability, it is well-established law that a public entity, such as Los Angeles
Community College District, cannot be liable under general tort principles in
the absence of a specific statute that declares the entity may be liable. (Gov.
Code, § 815(a); Trinkle v. Cal. State Lottery (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th
1198, 1202). The applicable statutes here are Government Code Section 835, for
dangerous condition of public property and Government Code Section 815.2(a),
which states, "A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by
an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his
employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise
to a cause of action against that employee." Plaintiff thus has two potentially
viable causes of action: 1) a claim under Section 815.2, related to the
teacher's negligence, and 2) a dangerous condition of public property under Section
835.
Legal Standard¿ 
¿ 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through
the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite its allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve its dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843). “Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119).¿¿ 
¿ 
A “defendant moving for summary judgment must
show the plaintiff’s causes of action have¿no merit.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849, emphasis added).
In other words, summary judgment is not to be granted simply because a case is
“weak” or because a “weak” showing was made in opposition. (Hagen v.
Hickenbottom¿(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 168, 187-188, superseded by statute on
another point as recognized in¿Rice v. Clark¿(2002) 28
Cal.4th 89, 96;¿Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 589, 722. [“to avoid summary judgment a
showing need not be strong; it need only be sufficient to raise a triable issue
of fact.”]).¿ 
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial
burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there
are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519). A defendant moving for summary judgment
or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). The elements of negligence are (1) a legal duty owed to
plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage
to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006)
137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318). 
 
Defendant has two methods to shift the burden
of proof. In addition to the standard method of presenting evidence that
negates an essential element, the defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery
responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an
essential element of the cause of action sued upon. (Union Bank v. Superior
Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 590).¿“Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).¿ 
 
 
GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 835 
 
The sole statutory basis for
imposing premise liability on public entities as property owners is Government
Code section 835. (See Zelig v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27
Cal.4th 1112, 1131- 32.) To establish a dangerous condition of public property
under Government Code section 835, Plaintiff must prove (1) the property was in
a dangerous condition at the time of injury; (2) the injury that occurred was
proximately caused by the dangerous condition; (3) the kind of injury that
occurred was reasonably foreseeable as a consequence of the dangerous
condition; and (4) either: 
 
(a) the dangerous condition was created by a
public employee’s negligent or wrongful act or omission within the scope of his
or her employment, or 
 
(b) the public entity had actual or
constructive notice of the dangerous condition with sufficient time before the
injury occurred to have taken reasonable measures to protect against the
injury. (Gov. Code, § 835.) 
 
Analysis
 
1.  Dangerous Condition (Issue 3)
 
Defendant requests summary adjudication on the issue
that Defendant's property did not contain any dangerous conditions. In meeting
its initial burden, Defendant refers to Plaintiff's discovery responses to
Defendant's Special Interrogatory No. 40, which requested Plaintiff to state
all facts in support of her contention that there are dangerous conditions at
the care center. (Exhibit I.) Plaintiff objected to this request on the grounds
that it was vague, overly broad, and unduly burdensome and that it invaded the attorney-client
privilege and work product doctine. (Exhibit J-1.) Defendant did not pursue
this matter further, and thus Plaintiff did not provide additional responses to
interrogatory No. 40 in her further responses to Defendant’s special interrogatories
(Exhibit J2.)
Defendant cannot meet its burden by relying on Plaintiff’s
objections. Objections are not treated the same as factually devoid
interrogatories responses (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
892-93). When the plaintiffs in Union Bank v. Superior Court (2005)
130 Cal.App.4th 378 stated “mere beliefs” in response to a
question requesting all facts supporting an element of their claims,
the logical inference was that after discovery they possessed no facts to
support that element. (Id.) However, no such logical inference of an
absence of facts can be drawn from an objection even though it was not a proper
objection. (Id.)  For summary
judgment purposes, an objection is not the equivalent of a factually devoid
response, and therefore cannot be used to shift the burden. (Id.) Thus,
Defendant has failed to meet its burden and Summary Adjudication to Issue 3 is
DENIED.
2.  Dangerous Condition Created by Defendant’s
Employee (Issue 4 and 5)

Defendant seeks summary adjudication on issues 4 and 5 that Defendant did not
create the dangerous condition and was not negligent in the use or maintenance
of the property. These two issues relate to element 4(a) of Gov. Code, § 835,
requiring Plaintiff to prove that (a) the dangerous condition was created by a
public employee’s negligent or wrongful act or omission within the scope of his
or her employment. 
 
It should be noted that granting summary
adjudication does not dispose of Plaintiff's dangerous condition of public
property cause of action as long as Plaintiff can prove element 4(b) that the
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition with
sufficient time before the injury occurred to have taken measures to protect
against the injury. In addition to the first three elements under section 835,
Plaintiff can satisfy its burden of proof by establishing either element 4(a)
or 4(b).
 
A. 
Defendant’s
Initial Burden
 
Defendant points to Plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories 44 to meet its
initial burden. Interrogatory 44 requested Plaintiff to state all facts in
support of her contention that Defendant was responsible for the
"planning, design, supervision, control, construction, installation,
servicing, management, inspection, operation, signing, maintenance, and
repair" of the door involved in the INCIDENT at the CHILD CENTER, as
alleged in the Complaint. (Exhibit I.) Initially Plaintiff objected to this
special interrogatory, but provided further responses stating that defendants
were responsible for insuring that the property was safe, they were aware that
children put their hands in area that maybe dangerous, and defendants should
have taken safety measures knowing that children were on premise to prevent
children from harm. (Exhibit J2.) The responses did not contain any specific
facts, but rather only legal conclusions and mere beliefs. A logical inference
can be made that after discovery plaintiff possessed no facts to support this
particular issue. Thus, Defendant has met its initial burden. 
 
B. 
Plaintiff’s
Burden
 
A party cannot avoid summary judgment based on mere
speculation and conjecture but must instead produce admissible evidence that
raises a triable issue of fact. (Crouse v. Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1509, 1524). "If Plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted." (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467).
Public property is deemed to be in a dangerous
condition within the meaning of section 835 if it "is physically damaged,
deteriorated, or defective in such a way as to foreseeably endanger those using
the property itself." (Cordova v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 190
Cal.Rptr.3d 850, 853-54.) Furthermore, public property has been considered to
be in a dangerous condition if its design, location, or a physical feature
while in use may create a danger. (Bonanno v. Central Contra Costa Transit
Authority (2003) 30 Cal.4th 139, 149.) The Court has examined Plaintiff's
evidence and concludes that Plaintiff failed to introduce any evidence
demonstrating that Defendant or its employees either created or negligently
maintained the property that resulted in a physical feature of the property, like
the door, to create a risk of harm. Thus, Plaintiff has failed to raise a
triable issue of fact. Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Issues
4 and 5 is GRANTED.
 
3.  Breach and Causation for the Negligence claim
 
Defendant seeks summary adjudication on issues 1, 2,
and 6, contending that Defendant did not breach its duty and did not cause
Plaintiff's injury. It is undisputed that Defendant's employee, Galicia, closed
the door on Plaintiff's finger, severing pieces of her pinky. (UMF 10-11). The
remaining question is whether Defendant breached her duty of care and whether
Plaintiff's injury is a foreseeable result of that breach.
"Although a school district is not an insurer
of its pupils' safety [citation], our cases have established that a school
district bears a legal duty to exercise reasonable care in supervising students
in its charge and may be held liable for injuries proximately caused by the
failure to exercise such care. [Citations.] We reaffirmed this rule in Dailey
v. Los Angeles Unified Sch. Dist. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 741, 747, declaring that
'California law has long imposed on school authorities a duty to supervise at
all times the conduct of the children on school grounds and to enforce those
rules and regulations necessary to their protection.' [Citations.] The standard
of care imposed upon school personnel in carrying out this duty to supervise is
identical to that required in the performance of their other duties. This
uniform standard to which they are held is that degree of care 'which a person
of ordinary prudence, charged with [comparable] duties, would exercise under
the same circumstances.' [Citations.]" (Hoyem v. Manhattan Beach City
School Dist. (1978) 22 Cal.3d 508, 513). The degree of adequate
supervision, such as its comprehensiveness and intrusiveness, should align with
the students' maturity level, ensuring it is suited to their capacity for
discretion, judgment, and self-control appropriate to their age. (Dailey v.
Los Angeles Unified Sch. Dist. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 741, 748).
 
A.  Parties’ Respective Burdens
 
Defendant introduced several pieces of evidence to
meet its initial burden. First, Galicia was reported to continuously warn,
"Be careful with your fingers, be careful, walking feet," as she was
closing the door (Yasamin Zarabi Depo. 44:11-17 Exhibit C). The Unusual Incident
Report stated that Galicia was carefully closing the door and telling the
children to watch their fingers. Galicia continued to tell children to watch
their fingers as the door was almost closed. Plaintiff then stuck part of her
left hand on the left/other side of the door and her pinky was pinched by the
door. (Unusual Incident Report, Exhibit F), Galicia stated in the Campus
Incident Report that as she was closing the door from the inside of classroom
CDC 122, she was making sure the toddlers did not have their fingers near the
door jam. When she closed the door from the inside, that is when Plaintiff put
her left pinky finger on the other side of the door jam. (Campus Incident
Report Exhibit G.)
However, the evidence does not address whether the
teachers were overseeing all of the children, including Plaintiff, near the
door. Several critical questions remain unanswered, including: Was Galicia
distracted by two other children near her, causing her not to notice Plaintiff on
the other side of the door? How quickly did Plaintiff place her hand in the
door crack? Did Galicia ensure the area near the door was clear before closing
it? Did Galicia ensure that she had a full view of the door and the children
near the door when she closed it? The evidence presented in the moving papers
appears to reveal that Galicia was watching over the two children next to her
and cautioning them to careful as she closed the door. While this level of
caution might be deemed sufficient for adults or adolescents, the present case
involves very young children under the age of two. The degree of adequate
supervision, such as its comprehensiveness and intrusiveness, should align with
the students' maturity level, ensuring it is suited to their capacity for
discretion, judgment, and self-control appropriate to their age. (Dailey v.
Los Angeles Unified Sch. Dist. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 741, 748.) Considering their
very limited awareness of danger, self-control, and discretion, the Court
concludes that reasonable minds can differ on whether Galicia, merely by
issuing a verbal warning to be careful, fulfilled her duty of care, or whether
the harm was a foreseeable consequence of Galicia's failure to meet her duty of
care.
Moreover, even if Defendant can meet its initial
burden, Plaintiff produced a declaration stating that “on the date of the
incident, I never heard anyone tell me to be careful, or to stay away from the
door, or that the door is closing, before one of the teachers closed the door
on my finger." (Exhibit 1 Castellanos Decl. ¶ 6.)[1] Given Defendant's heavy
reliance on Galicia issuing warnings to the children before she closed the
door, Plaintiff's declaration raises a triable issue of fact. Summary
Adjudication as to Issues 1, 2 and 6 is DENIED.
 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
¿ 
 
 
 


