 Case Number:  23STCV15278    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed:      6/30/23
¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ 
Department 27¿ 
Tentative Ruling¿ 
 
Hearing Date:           3/15/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿ 
Case No./Name:       23STCV15278 TOMAS JESUS MARTINEZ vs TARGET
CORPORATION
Motion:                    MOTION TO SUBSTITUTE SUCCESSOR IN
INTEREST  
Moving Party:           Plaintiff
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                     Sufficient¿ 
Ruling:                     MOTION TO SUBSTITUTE SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST IS
DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE
 
 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the present slip and fall case
on 6/30/23. Plaintiff died on July 7, 2023, but plaintiff’s claims survive his
death. DOMITILA MARTINEZ, as decedent’s personal representative and executor of
decedent’s estate, now moves the Court to be substitute as successor in
interest in the present case.
 
Legal Standard
 
California Code
of Civil Procedure section 377.31 provides that the decedent’s personal
representative or, if none, the decedent’s successor in interest may continue a
decedent’s pending action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30; see Adams v. Superior
Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 71, 78-79.) A successor in interest is the
beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who
succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that is
the subject of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Section 377.33
provides that the court in which an action is continued may make any order
concerning parties that is appropriate to ensure proper administration of
justice, including the appointment of the decedent’s successor in interest as a
special administrator or guardian ad litem.  
 
Under Section 377.32(a), the person
who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a pending action
or proceeding as the decedent's successor in interest under this article, shall
execute and file an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of perjury under
the laws of this state stating all of the following: 
 
(1) The decedent's name. 
(2) The date and place of the decedent's death. 
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent's estate.” 
(4) If the decedent's estate was administered, a copy of the final order
showing the distribution of the decedent's cause of action to the successor in
interest. 
(5) Either of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof: 
     (A) “The affiant or declarant is the
decedent's successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent's interest in
the action or proceeding.” 
     (B) “The affiant or declarant is
authorized to act on behalf of the decedent's successor in interest (as defined
in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to
the decedent's interest in the action or proceeding.” 
(6) “No other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding
or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.” 
(7) “The affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury
under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and
correct.” 
(b) Where more than one person
executes the affidavit or declaration under this section, the statements
required by subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that
fact.
(c) A certified copy of the decedent's
death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Id.,
§ 377.32(c).)¿ 
Analysis
Plaintiff did not comply with CCP § 377.32, which
requires a declaration providing specific information for the continuation of
an action after a decedent's death. The required details that are missing in
Plaintiff’s affidavit include CCP § 377.32 (a)(2) the place of death, (3) a
declaration confirming that “No proceeding is now pending in California for the
administration of the decedent's estate,” and (4) if the decedent's estate was
administered, a copy of the final order that demonstrates the distribution of
the decedent's cause of action to the successor in interest. Additionally, it
must be stated that (6) “No other person has a superior right to commence the
action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending
action or proceeding.” Although the decedent’s death certificate was provided,
it is illegible. Plaintiff needs to provide a legible copy of the defendant’s
death certificate.
Thus, Plaintiff’s present motion is DENIED without
prejudice.
 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:          
       
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.            
     
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.            
     
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.           
   
 