 Case Number:  22STCV29020    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed:      9/6/22
¿¿¿¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿¿¿¿ 
Department 27¿¿¿¿ 
Tentative Ruling¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Hearing Date:           3/15/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿¿¿¿ 
Case No./Name:       22STCV29020 JAMES KIM vs
CALIFORNIA COMMERCE CLUB, INC
Motion:                    MOTION TO COMPEL SUPPLEMENTAL
INTERROGATORIES RESPONSES
Moving Party:           Defendant California Commerce Club
For Motion to Compel Initial Responses/ Plaintiff for Motion to Compel
Deposition
Responding Party:    Plaintiff For Motion to Compel
Initial Responses/ Defendant for Motion to Compel Deposition
Notice:                     Sufficient¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Ruling:                               DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SUPPLEMENTAL INTERROGATORIES IS DENIED. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL
DEPOSITION IS GRANTED IN PART AND CONTINUED IN PART
 
                                                DEFENDANT’S REQUEST
FOR SANCTIONS                                        SANCTIONS IS
GRANTED IN PART AND                                                CONTINUED IN PART;  
                                                PLAINTIFF’S
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS                                      CONTINUED 
¿¿
 
MOTION TO
COMPEL RESPONSES TO SUPPLEMENTAL INTERROGATORIES
  
 
Background   
 
On October 10, 2019, Plaintiff filed the
present assault and battery lawsuit. On September 13, 2023, Defendant Commerce
propounded discovery, including Supplemental Interrogatories, Set One, on
Plaintiff. Responses were due on October 17, 2023, but no responses were
provided. Defendant now moves the court to compel Plaintiff to provide
discovery responses to the discovery request at issue.
 
Legal Standard 
 
A plaintiff may make a demand for
production of documents and propound interrogatories without leave of court at
any time 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the
party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.020, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) The demand for
production of documents is not limited by number, but the request must comply
with the formatting requirements in Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.030. A party
may propound 35 specially prepared interrogatories that are relevant to the
subject matter of the pending action and any additional number of official form
interrogatories that are relevant to the subject matter of the pending action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a)(1) - (a)(2).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
The party whom the request is
propounded upon is required to respond within 30 days after service of a
demand, but the parties are allowed to informally agree to an extension and
confirm any such agreement in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a);
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.270, subd. (a)
- (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.270, subd. (a) - (b).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If a party fails to timely respond
to a request for production or interrogatories, the party to whom the request
is directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230, and waives any objection, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)¿¿The party propounding the
discovery requests may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) Unlike a motion to compel further discovery responses, a
motion to compel initial discovery responses does not have any meet and confer
requirements.¿ 
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may
impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes
failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)¿¿¿A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable
monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare
Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Analysis 
 
It is
undisputed that Plaintiff did not serve timely initial discovery responses.
However, Plaintiff provided discovery responses on March 5, 2024, before the
date of the hearing. Thus, the present motion is moot.
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
 
Background
 
On
November 16, Defense counsel, Michael Ryan, issued a notice of unavailability
from December 12 through December 19, 2023, and from December 21, 2023, to
January 1, 2024, due to arbitration commitments and international travel. On
December 11, 2023, Plaintiff served notices for the depositions of 35 Persons
Most Knowledgeable (PMQ), scheduled for January 3, 2024. On December 19, during
one of the few days that defense counsel was available in December, he
contacted Michael Kim, Plaintiff's attorney, to meet and confer and narrow the
scope for both depositions and written discovery via a stipulation and clearer
definition of PMQ categories. As part of their meet and confer, counsel agreed
that Plaintiff would provide photographs of individuals, after which the defense
would identify those individuals  and
clarify their scope of knowledge. 
 
Given this ongoing discussion and defense
counsel’s unavailability, Defendant did not object to the January 3
depositions. On January 2, 2024, having received no objections, Kim emailed
Ryan to confirm the next day's deposition. Ryan replied that the depositions
would not proceed due to ongoing discussions to narrow the list of individuals
to be deposed. Later that day, Defendant sent a draft stipulation to Plaintiff.
On January 3, 2024, the deposition was nevertheless held, but Defendant did not
appear. Plaintiff is now seeking a court order to compel the PMQ depositions,
while defense counsel contends that Plaintiff knew he was away for most of
December and when he was available the parties were still engaged in narrowing
the scope, issues, and identifying individuals for deposition through meet and
confer efforts.
 
Legal Standard
 
Any party may obtain
discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral  deposition
of any person, including any party to the action.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.) A
properly served deposition notice is effective to require a party or
party-affiliated deponent to attend and to testify, as well as to produce
documents for inspection and copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).)   
 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . or employee
of a party . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450, subd. (a).)  
 
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (b)(2).)   

Analysis
 
Based on the sequence of events, defense counsel Michael Ryan was
unavailable for a significant portion of December, limiting opportunities to
meet and confer with the Plaintiff. When available, he engaged in discussions
regarding the scope of depositions and the identification of necessary
individuals to be deposed. The Court reviewed the email exchanges and noted
that the parties exchanged photographs of individuals for deposition purposes
and potentially narrowed down the list of individuals. Ryan also sent a draft
stipulation on January 2, 2024. Considering the parties' prior meet and confer
efforts, the court ORDERS the parties to further meet and confer and to
schedule a PMQ deposition within 30 days from today and meet and confer
regarding requested documents.
 
SANCTIONS
 
Defendant is entitled to sanctions
in relation to the Supplemental Discovery to which Plaintiff responded late,
which necessitated the filing of a motion. 
The Court awards reasonable sanctions to Defendant against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally, in the amount of $500 to be within
30 days.
 
With regard to sanction for the
deposition and documents related thereto, the Court continues that hearing to
May 1, 2024, at 1:30  p.m.   
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
 
 