  Case Number:  21STCV28160    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   May
9, 2024                                        
 
CASE NAME:           Wang
v. Liu
 
CASE NO.:                21STCV28160

 
MOTION
TO QUASH ORDER FOR APPEARANCE AND EXAMINATION, AND SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM
 
MOVING PARTY:  Nonparty
Liang Ly LLP
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Yongkang Wang
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Order
quashing Plaintiff Yongkang Wang’s Order for Appearance and Examination of
Jason Liang and Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Business Records of
non-party’s counsel, Liang Ly LLP;
2.      Alternatively,
protective order limiting the scope of both the order for examination and
subpoena;
3.      Order
for attorney’s fees in the amount of $9,060.00.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Liang
Ly LLP’s Motion to Quash Order for Appearance and Examination, and Subpoena
Duces Tecum is GRANTED. 
2.      The
moving party and Plaintiff’s requests for attorney’s fees are both DENIED. 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On July 30, 2021, Plaintiff Yongkang Wang (Plaintiff) filed
a Complaint against Defendant Ashley Liu (Defendant) and DOES 1 through 10,
inclusive for: (1) Fraud by Intentional Misrepresentation; (2) Promissory Fraud;
(3) Conversion; (4) Breach of Oral Agreement; (5) Breach of Written Agreement;
(6) Unjust Enrichment; and (7) Business & Professions Code §17200.
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant made false statements of
material fact to Plaintiff to induce Plaintiff to enter into a currency
exchange agreement and remit $1.53 million to Defendant. 
 
On March 15, 2024, Liang Ly LLP (Liang LLP) brought the
instant motion to quash order for appearance and examination, and subpoena duce
tecum. On April 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On May 2, 2024, Liang
LLP filed a reply. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3(g)
states in relevant part, “[a]ny consumer whose personal records are sought by a
subpoena duces tecum and who is a party to the civil action in which this
subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to the date for production, bring a
motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice
of the bringing of that motion shall be given to the witness and deposition
officer at least five days prior to production. The failure to provide notice
to the deposition officer shall not invalidate the motion to quash or modify
the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the deposition officer as an
affirmative defense in any action for liability for improper release of
records.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3(g).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 708.200,
states in pertinent part, “[i]n any proceeding under this article, the court
may, on motion of the person to be examined or on its own motion, make such
protective orders as justice may require.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.200.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Liang LLP argues the subpoena and order for appearance and
examination are improper on their face because they are facially defective and
overbroad. Specifically, Liang LLP argues Plaintiff has been misinformed about
Defendant being the CEO of A-May Investment and having a controlling interest
because non-party and non-judgment debtor, A-May Investment has no CEO but
co-managed by Defendant and Hongmei Jin. Liang LLP also asserts Ms. Jin and Defendant
are currently in a lawsuit Case No. 19STCV17961, where Defendant is alleged to
have misappropriated project funds, which shows that Defendant does not have a
controlling interest. Similarly, Liang LLP asserts Plaintiff’s own declaration
admits that Liang LLP, which is counsel for A-May Investment does not possess
or control any asset belonging to Defendant. Likewise, Liang LLP contends
Plaintiff failed to tender the required fees for mileage from the third party’s
place of residence to the place of examination per Code of Civil Procedure
section 708.120(f). Furthermore, Liang LLP argues Plaintiff’s subpoena broadly
seeks bank statements of all trust accounts Liang LLP holds on behalf of A-May
Investment LLC since January 2020 and all documents relating to any transfer
over $500 made to or from those trust accounts starting January 2020, where
A-May Investment does not hold any property belonging to Defendant, Liang LLP
is a third-party who is not a judgment debtor, and Jason Liang has already
informed Plaintiff’s counsel that Liang LLP does not hold any special trust
account that matches Plaintiff’s description. Moreover, Liang LLP contends the
subpoena seeks records protected from disclosure by the attorney-client
privilege and protected from disclosure by third-party’s right to privacy. Additionally,
Liang LLP contends the subpoena seeks records not relevant or reasonably
calculated to lead to discovery of admissible evidence and was not issued for a
legitimate purpose. Alternatively, Liang LLP requests the Court enter a
protective order limiting the scope of both the order for examination and the
subpoena. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the order for examination
and subpoena seeks only trust account bank records of A-May Investment LLC, a
business which Defendant has a financial interest. Specifically, Plaintiff
asserts Liang LLP concedes Defendant is a co-managing member of A-May
Investment and the most recent statement of information filed with the
Secretary of State on April 21, 2022, listed Defendant as A-May Investment’s
sole member and CEO. Similarly, Plaintiff contends Ms. Jin’s complaint alleges
A-May Investment is the Alter-Ego of Defendant and under Defendant’s sole
domination and control. Likewise, Plaintiff argues the present motion fails to
establish that Mr. Liang and Liang LLP is not a third  person within the meaning of sections
708.120(a) and 708.130 for the purpose of a post-judgment enforcement
proceeding. Furthermore, Plaintiff contends the bank records are not subject to
attorney-client privilege because the primary purpose of any communications
between Liang LLP and A-May Investment related to A-May Investment’s trust
account is not for legal advice but rather the business purpose of fulfilling
the Liang LLP’s duty as custodian of the funds. Plaintiff also argues that Mr.
Liang waived his right to challenge the service of the notice on grounds that
it failed to tender mileage fees because he appeared at the hearing date on the
notice and his office address is within one mile of the Court. Finally,
Plaintiff contends the order for appearance and subpoena are not overbroad
because they only seek bank records of A-May Investment’s trust account which
holds the net sales proceeds of the Long Beach Project. 
 
In reply, Liang LLP argues the order for examination cannot
be enforced because Plaintiff concedes that he had failed to tender the
required witness fee at the time he served the notice and Mr. Liang appeared
for the hearing under the threat of Plaintiff’s counsel that a bench warrant
would be issued if he did not appear. Liang LLP reiterates that A-May
Investment is not a judgment debtor and its property does not belong to
Defendant; the order for examination and subpoena seek to invade the
attorney-client privilege; and the order for examination and subpoena are
overbroad and improper because Plaintiff applied for a third-party judgment
debtor’s examination per section 708.120 not section 708.130, which permits a
more expansive inquiry. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 708.120(a), “[u]pon
ex parte application by a judgment creditor who has a money judgment and proof
by the judgment creditor by affidavit or otherwise to the satisfaction of the
proper court that a third person has possession or control of property in which
the judgment debtor has an interest or is indebted to the judgment debtor in an
amount exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250), the court shall make an
order directing the third person to appear before the court, or before a
referee appointed by the court, at a time and place specified in the order, to
answer concerning such property or debt. The affidavit in support of the
judgment creditor’s application may be based on the affiant’s information and
belief.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.120(a).)
 
In Fox Johns Lazar
Pekin & Wexler, APC v. Superior Court (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1210, the
court held that “the purpose of section 708.120 is to provide a tool that
allows a judgment creditor to find property or money that is owed to the
judgment debtor. To this end, it allows the judgment creditor to obtain an
order to examine a third party who it believes possesses the judgment debtor's
property or owes the judgment debtor a debt over $250. The judgment creditor
must prove to the court's satisfaction that either one of these circumstances
exists before the court will issue an order requiring the party to appear for
an examination. Further, the statute clearly provides that the third party is
to answer questions regarding the subject property or debt. Section 708.120
does not allow for a more expansive examination.” (Fox Johns Lazar Pekin & Wexler, APC v. Superior Court (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1221 (Fox Johns).)
As such, “it is not the mechanism to allow a judgment creditor to discover the
identity of a law firm's clients, review the law firm's billings of other
clients, or otherwise obtain information about entities that may be the alter
ego of the judgment debtor.” (Id.)
Furthermore, Fox Johns concluded “a
subpoena must be tethered to a case” after finding that the subpoena sought
documents relating to the law firm’s billing invoices to clients in the action,
who paid the invoices, and documents sufficient to identify the firm’s clients.
(Id. at 1222.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 708.120(f), “[a]n order
made pursuant to subdivision (a) is not effective unless, at the time it is
served on the third person, the person serving the order tenders to the third
person fees for the mileage necessary to be traveled from the third person’s
residence to the place of examination. The mileage fees shall be in the same
amount generally provided for witnesses when legally required to attend civil
proceedings in the court where the examination proceeding is to be conducted.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 708.120(f).)
 
The Court finds that the order for appearance and
examination is proper because it seeks documents from Mr. Liang and Liang LLP
upon information and belief that they hold a special trust account on behalf of
A-May Investment LLC, which Defendant holds an interest in and serves as a CEO.
(Yan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2.) This information is relevant to the case at bar, i.e.,
enforcement of post-judgment proceedings. Furthermore, it does not appear that
the information is sought to discovery entities that may be alter egos of
Defendant. However, the subpoena does appear to be overly broad. Although the
subpoena seeks bank records from any trust account for A-May Investment since
January 2020, it also seeks all documents relating to any transfer of over $500
made to and from the A-May Investment trust accounts held by Liang LLP starting
from January 2020, which could contain billing invoices evidencing transfers
made to and from the purported trust accounts. In turn, potentially revealed
billing invoices would show who paid the invoices and identify the firm’s
clients. As such, the subpoena should be limited to documents evidencing any
transfer of over $500 made to and from the A-May Investment trust accounts held
by Liang LLP starting from January 2020 excluding billing invoices, who paid
the invoices, and documents that would identify the firm’s clients. Nevertheless,
the order for appearance and examination, and subpoena are not effective per
Code of Civil Procedure section 708.120(f) because Plaintiff did not tender mileage
fees necessary for Mr. Liang’s travel from his residence to the place of
examination. 
 
Therefore, the order should be quashed and re-served in
compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 708.120(f). 
 
Sanctions
 
“Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making an order
pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under Section
1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable
expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable
attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith
or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of
the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2(a).)
 
Here, Liang LLP’s seeks $9,060.00 in attorney’s fees for (1)
6.5 hours drafting this motion; (2) 2.5 hours drafting a reply to the
opposition; (3) 1.0 hour preparing for and attending the hearing on the motion
at $900.00 per hour; and (4) $60.00 in costs for having to bring the motion. (Schein
Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.) While Liang LLP’s counsel has shown that his billing rate is
reasonable given years of practice, educational background, and positions he
has held in major law firms, the Court finds that the motion was not opposed in
bad faith. Furthermore, one of the requirements of the subpoena although
overbroad was not oppressive. Thus, sanctions are not warranted at this time.
Similarly, the Court finds that the motion was not made in bad faith, so
Plaintiff’s counsel request for sanctions is also unwarranted at this time. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Liang
Ly LLP’s Motion to Quash Order for Appearance and Examination, and Subpoena
Duces Tecum is GRANTED. 
2.      The
moving party and Plaintiff’s requests for attorney’s fees are both DENIED. 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              May, 9, 2024               __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 