 Case Number:  24SMCV03324    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Frank v. Veliz, et al.



Case No.:


24SMCV03324


Complaint Filed:


7-10-24           




Hearing Date:


11-7-24


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


17


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE
DAMAGES
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Chase Fitzgerald
McIntyre and Charles McIntyre
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Jodi Frank
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants Chase Fitzgerald McIntyre and Charles
McIntyres’ Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from Plaintiff Jodi Frank’s Complaint
is DENIED. Plaintiff’s allegations of Defendant’s alleged intoxication at the
time of the incident at issue rise to a level of malice needed for a punitive
damages claim under CC §3294.
 
 
REASONING
 
            “[A] motion to strike is generally
used to reach defects in a pleading which are not subject to demurrer. A motion
to strike does not lie to attack a complaint for insufficiency of allegations
to justify relief; that is a ground for general demurrer.” (Pierson v. Sharp
Memorial Hospital, Inc. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342.) A motion to
strike may be directed to all or a portion of a complaint, cross-complaint,
answer, or demurrer. (See Code Civ Proc., § 435, subdiv., (a).) On a motion to
strike, a judge must read the complaint as a whole, considering all parts in
their context, and must assume the truth of all well-pleaded allegations. (See Atwell
Island Water Dist. v. Atwell Island Water Dist. (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 624,
628, as modified (Feb. 27, 2020).)
 
            As part of the meet and confer
process, the moving party shall identify all of the specific allegations that
it believes are subject to being stricken and identify with legal support the
basis of the deficiencies. The party who filed the pleading shall provide legal
support for its position that the pleading is legally sufficient, or, in the
alternative, how the pleading could be amended to cure any legal
insufficiency.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subdiv., (a)(1).) “The parties shall
meet and confer at least five days before the date a motion to strike must be
filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subdiv., (a)(2).)
 
            A judge may, on a motion to strike
made under CCP § 435 or at any time at the judge's discretion,
“strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter in a pleading,” on terms
the judge “deems proper.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).).  “[I]rrelevant
. . . matter” means an immaterial allegation in a pleading and includes an
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or
defense. (Code Civ. Proc. § 431.10(b)(1) and (c).)
 
            CC §3294(a) provides, “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Cal Civ. Code
§ 3294, subdiv. (a).) 
 
            “Malice is ‘conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.’ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is ‘despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person's rights.’ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) Despicable conduct is
conduct that is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome
that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such
conduct has been described as having the character of outrage frequently
associated with crime.” (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)
 
            “One who willfully consumes alcoholic beverages to the
point of intoxication, knowing that he thereafter must operate a motor vehicle,
thereby combining sharply impaired physical and mental faculties with a vehicle
capable of great force and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a conscious
disregard of the safety of others. The effect may be lethal whether or not the
driver had a prior history of drunk driving incidents.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 897.)
 
            Defendants Chase Fitzgerald McIntyre (“Chase”) and
Charles McIntyre (“Charles”) (collectively “Defendants”) argue that Plaintiff Jodi
Frank (“Plaintiff”) has not alleged particularized facts to support a punitive
damages award against Defendants, and conclusory allegations and
unsubstantiated facts that Defendant Chase was intoxicated is not enough to establish
malice. (Motion, pp. 8–9.) 
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s Complaint does not meet
the punitive damages standards under both Taylor
and Dawes. In Taylor
numerous allegations were included in the complaint to reach a punitive
damages claim including “defendant's history of alcoholism, his prior arrests
and convictions for drunk driving, his prior accident attributable to his
intoxication, and his acceptance of employment involving the transportation of
alcoholic beverages.” Taylor. (Taylor, supra, 24
Cal.3d at p. 896.)  
 
            The Taylor court went onto state that the
additional factors alleged in the complaint are not “essential prerequisites to
the assessment of punitive damages in drunk driving cases.” (Ibid.)  In Dawes, the Court found that
punitive damages were sufficiently supported by allegations that the driver,
while intoxicated, ran a stop sign, zigzagged in and out of traffic at speeds
in excess of 65 mph in a 35 mph zone, all with reckless disregard of the probable
consequences of said conduct and with reckless disregard of the safety of
others. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 87–88.). “[T]he
term “malice” as used in Civil Code section 3294 has been interpreted as
including a conscious disregard of the probability that the actor's conduct
will result in injury to others.” (Id., at p. 88.) “The risk of injury
to others from ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but
it is not necessarily probable.” (Id., at p. 89.) 
 
             
 
            Plaintiff’s complaint states the following allegations:
 
1.    
Defendant CHASE FIZGERALD MCINTYRE, for a substantial
period of time, had known that he had serious problems with alcohol intake or
drug use, and was well aware of the serious nature of driving under the
influence of alcohol or drugs and had a tendency, habit, history, practice,
proclivity, and inclination to drive a motor vehicle while under the influence
of alcohol or drugs (Compl., ¶ 28.)
2.    
Upon information and belief, on or about August 13,
2022, CHASE 4 FITZGERALD MCINTYRE consumed alcohol and/or drugs to the point of
legal intoxication, and knew he would drive a motor vehicle, knowing full well
that the drinking of alcoholic beverages or use of drugs would occur prior to
any attempt to drive his motor vehicle (Id., ¶ 29.)
3.    
Defendant CHASF. FITZGERALD MCINTYRE knew that
consuming this quantity of drugs or alcohol would substantially impair his
ability to drive, and chose to willfully, wantonly, and knowingly consume said
excessive amounts of alcoholic beverage or drugs, knowing that he would be
required to drive himself without the assistance of any other persons. While
consuming said drugs or alcohol, Defendant CHASE FITZGERALD MCINTYRE knew that
he would then immediately go to his automobile and operate said vehicle on said
highway. (Id., ¶ 30.)
4.    
Defendant CHASE FITZGERALD MCINTYRE knew that the
consumption of drugs and alcoholic beverages can and does cause an increased
risk of accidents, as opposed to not ingesting drugs and alcoholic beverages
prior to driving. Defendant CHASE FITZGERALD MCINTYRE knew the amount of
alcohol that he consumed and despite knowing of the dangers to the driving
public, decided to drive his automobile after the rapid consumption of drugs or
alcohol. Defendant CHASE FITZGERALD MCINTYRE was arrested and/or charged with
the violation of driving under the influence. Defendant CHASE FITZGERALD
MCINTYRE had no drugs or alcohol from the time of the accident till the time
that he was tested. (Id., ¶ 31.)
5.    
Despite knowing he was unfit to drive, Defendant CHASE
FITZGERALD MCINTYRE entered the I-405 northbound. Defendant CHASE FlTZGERALD
MCINTYRE observed cones on the 1-450 northbound freeway and knew that
construction was occurring and that extra caution was required. Defendant CHASE
FITZGERALD MCINTYRE knew or should have known that he was in a construction
zone and that the speed limit was 55 mph; however, he chose to drive at speeds
in excess of 70 mph. (Id., ¶ 32.)
6.    
Defendant CHASE FITZGERALD MCINTYRE having rapidly
ingested a large amount of drugs or alcohol knew, or should have known, of the
probable seriousness of injury to others, which would result from their
driving, and thus demonstrated a conscious disregard for the rights and
safeties of others, thus constituting despicable conduct and malice. (Id.,
¶ 33.)
7.    
Defendant CHASE FITZGERALD MCINTYRE was under the
influence of alcohol and had driven under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs
on prior occasions and was fully aware of the probable dangerous consequence of
his conduct. Defendant CHASE FITZGERALD MCINTYRE willfully and deliberately
engaged in despicable II conduct to drive his automobile knowing the danger to
the public which in fact was a cause of the accident heretofore mentioned. (Id.,
¶ 34.)
8.    
Defendant CHASE FITZGERALD MCINTYRE 14 did, willfully
and voluntarily, consume sufficient quantities of alcohol and/or drugs with knowledge
that he would thereafter be operating a motor vehicle. (Id., ¶ 35.)
 
            Plaintiff has alleged all the necessary facts to reach a
claim for punitive damages under Taylor and Dawes. The Court must
accept all allegations as true at the pleading stage, and thus Defendant’s
arguments that Plaintiff’s alleged facts about Defendant’s history of excessive
alcohol are incorrect, or false, cannot be considered. (See Atwell Island
Water Dist. v. Atwell Island Water Dist. (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 624, 628, as
modified (Feb. 27, 2020) [“We read allegations of a pleading subject to a
motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth”].)
 
            Thus, Defendants Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages from Plaintiff’s Complaint is DENIED