  Case Number:  20STCV36800    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Tax
Costs
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Utopia Kates
Resp. Party:    Defendant Palisades Charter High School
 
 
        The
Motion is GRANTED. Defendant’s Memorandum of Costs is STRICKEN. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On September 25,
2020, Plaintiff Utopia Kates filed her Complaint against Defendant Palisades
Charter High School on causes of action arising from Plaintiff’s employment by
Defendant. 
 
On February 23, 2023,
the Court granted summary adjudication in favor of Defendant and against
Plaintiff on Plaintiff’s causes of action for retaliation, negligent
supervision, whistleblower retaliation, promissory estoppel, fraud, defamation,
intentional infliction of emotional distress, violation of the unfair
competition law, and declaratory relief. 
 
From November 13 to
17, 2023, the Court held a jury trial in this matter. 
 
On November 17, 2023,
the Jury found in favor of Defendant and against Plaintiff on Plaintiff’s cause
of action for race discrimination, which was the only cause of action tried. 
 
On January 9, 2024,
Defendant filed its Judicial Council Form MC-010, Memorandum of Costs
(Summary). 
 
On January 23, 2024,
Plaintiff filed her Motion to Strike Costs, or, in the Alternative, Tax Costs.
In support of her Motion, Plaintiff concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of
Nicole C. Burgos; and (2) Proposed Order. 
 
On January 29, 2024,
the Court entered Judgment in this matter. 
 
On January 31, 2024,
Defendant filed its Opposition to the Motion. In support of its Opposition,
Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Jade M. Brewster; and (2)
Proposed Order. 
 
On February 9, 2024,
Plaintiff filed her Reply. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“Except as otherwise expressly provided
by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover
costs in any action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).)
 
Prevailing parties seeking to claim
costs must comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(a), and parties
seeking to contest costs must comply with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1700(b). 
 
The Court separately considers each
category of contested costs, including: (1) whether they are specifically
allowable or specifically prohibited; (2) whether they were incurred, whether
or not paid; (3) whether they were reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation; and
(4) whether they are reasonable in amount. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1033.5, subds.
(a), (b), and (c)(1)–(3).
 
“Items not mentioned in this
section and items assessed upon application may be allowed or denied in the
court’s discretion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(4); see also Foothill-De Anza Cmty. Coll.
Dist. v. Emerich (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 11, 30.)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant claims $22,389.22 in
costs, which comprises of:
 
(1)      
$991.20
in filing and motion fees;
(2)      
$6,692.55
in deposition costs;
(3)      
$2,065.96
in service of process costs;
(4)      
$12,218.76
in court reporter fees; and
(5)      
$420.75
in electronic filing or service fees.
 
(MC-010, p. 1.)
 
        Plaintiff moves
the Court to strike the costs in their entirety or, in the alternative, tax
costs to those reasonably necessary to conduct the litigation and supported by
statute. (Motion, p. 8:8–10.)
 
        Plaintiff
argues: (1) that Defendant has not met its burden to establish Plaintiff’s
claims were frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless; (2) the court reporter fees
are not recoverable as they were not ordered by the Court; and (3) service
costs to several of Plaintiff’s subsequent and former employers were not
reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation to be reasonable here.
(Motion, pp. 4:14–15, 7:16–8:4.)
 
        Defendant
opposes the Motion, arguing: (1) that Plaintiff continued to litigate this
action after it became evident that most of the causes of action were without
foundation; (2) that Defendant is at least entitled to some costs related to
non-FEHA claims; and (3) that these costs were necessarily incurred.
(Opposition, pp. 4:2–3, 5:6, 6:1.)
 
        In her Reply,
Plaintiff argues that the FEHA and non-FEHA causes of action were intertwined
and inseparable, which results in Defendant not being entitled to costs.
(Reply, p. 2:2–4.)
 
B. 
    Whether
Defendant is Entitled to Costs
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“We conclude Government
Code section 12965(b) is an express exception to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1032(b) and the former, rather than the latter,
therefore governs cost awards in FEHA cases. The FEHA statute expressly directs
the use of a different standard than the general costs statute: Costs that
would be awarded as a matter of right to the prevailing party under Code of Civil Procedure section 1032(b) are instead awarded
in the discretion of the trial court under Government Code section
12965(b). By making a cost award discretionary rather than mandatory, Government Code section 12965(b) expressly excepts FEHA
actions from Code of Civil Procedure section 1032(b)'s mandate for a
cost award to the prevailing party.” (Williams v. China Valley Indep. Fire
Dist. (2015) 61 Cal.4th 97, 105, referring to language that is now codified
in Government Code section 12965, subdivision (c)(6).)
 
“In the case of failure to eliminate
an unlawful practice under this part through conference, conciliation,
mediation, or persuasion, or in advance thereof if circumstances warrant, the
director in the director’s discretion may bring a civil action in the name of
the department, acting in the public interest, on behalf of the person claiming
to be aggrieved.” (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“In civil actions brought under this
section, the court, in its discretion, may award to the prevailing party,
including the department, reasonable attorney’s fees and costs, including
expert witness fees, except that, notwithstanding Section 998 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, a prevailing defendant shall not be awarded fees and costs
unless the court finds the action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless
when brought, or the plaintiff continued to litigate after it clearly became
so.” (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (c)(6).)
 
        “Government Code section 12965, subdivision (b)'s exception to
the mandatory award of litigation costs under section 1032, subdivision (b),
implements a clear legislative goal of encouraging potentially meritorious FEHA
suits. (Williams, supra, 61 Cal.4th at p. 112.) Although section 1032, subdivision (b),
also serves an important purpose, relieving a party whose position was
vindicated in court of the basic costs of litigation, when those costs have not
been increased by the inclusion of additional theories of liability to the
primary FEHA claim asserted, the express public policy of Government Code section 12965, subdivision (b), controls.
Unless the FEHA claim was frivolous, only those costs properly allocated to
non-FEHA claims may be recovered by the prevailing defendant.” (Roman v. BRE
Props., Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1040, 1062, referring to language that
is now codified in Government Code section 12965, subdivision (c)(6).)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
        Plaintiff alleged
that one set of conduct led to her being fired from her newly-appointed
position with Defendant. While allegations regarding certain portions of these
actions also implicated separate causes of action (such as allegations that
implicated defamation), all of the allegations and causes of action were
inextricably intertwined, and the Court has not been presented with any
evidence that would indicate the costs to this litigation were increased by the
non-FEHA causes of action. This was particularly the case after the Court
granted summary adjudication on the majority of the causes of action in this
case, leaving but one FEHA cause of action for the Jury to try.  The Court determines that all of Defendant’s
costs in this matter were inextricably intertwined, without any of the non-FEHA
causes of action increasing the costs. 
 
        Therefore,
Government Code section 12965, subdivision (c)(6) entirely controls here, not
Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (b). Thus, the Court must
determine whether “the action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless when
brought, or the plaintiff continued to litigate after it clearly became so.”
 
        The Court does
not find that the action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless when
brought, or that Plaintiff continued to litigate after it clearly became so.
Plaintiff brought a cogent, serious Complaint with specific allegations of what
she believed to be unlawful, race-based discrimination. Even after the motion
for summary judgment, the basis for her Complaint remained and went to trial because
there was some evidence that supported her claim. At trial, it was at least
plausible that Plaintiff could have won based on the evidence she presented.
Indeed, after the Jury announced its verdict, a poll of the Jury showed that
two members of the Jury would have found for Plaintiff.  Although Plaintiff did not convince
three-quarters of the jurors that her claim was meritorious, it would be
incorrect to find that this action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless. 
 
        Thus, Defendant
is not entitled to its costs for this matter. 
 
        Given the above
ruling, the Court need not and does not decide which costs would have been acceptable
had Plaintiff’s action been found to be frivolous. 
 
 
III.    
Conclusion

 
The Motion is GRANTED. Defendant’s
Memorandum of Costs is STRICKEN. 
 