  Case Number:  23STCV01414    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  1 Moving Party:             Specially
Appearing Defendants CRS Management, Inc. and Aaron S. Yi 
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Delmar Gordillo Vidal 
Ruling:                        Motion denied as to
CRS Management, Inc. and off calendar as to Aaron S. Yi.  The Court will set an OSC re: filing of proof
of service on Mr. Yi.  
 
This
is a wage-and-hour proposed class action. 
Specially appearing defendants CRS Management, Inc. (CRS) and Aaron S.
Yi (collectively, Defendants) move to quash service of summons pursuant to Code
Civ. Proc. § 418.10 on the grounds that they were not properly served with the summons
and complaint.  
 
“When
a defendant challenges the court's personal jurisdiction on the ground of
improper service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.’”  (Summers v.
McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.)  
 
Plaintiffs
have filed only a declaration from Plaintiff’s lawyer Jose Garay, Esq.  Although there is a proof of service on file
dated October 30, 2023 stating that an opposition was served alongside the
declaration, there is no indication that the opposition was filed with the
Court and the Court has received none. 
Nonetheless, the Court will consider the declaration.  
 
1.     
Service on CRS Management, Inc.
 
Service
on a corporation may be made by personal delivery to the corporation’s agent
for service of process, or to “the president, chief executive officer, or other
head of the corporation, a vice president, a secretary or assistant secretary,
a treasurer or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief financial officer, a
general manager, or a person authorized by the corporation to receive service
of process.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 416.10(a),
(b).)  Alternatively, in lieu of delivery
to one of those people, 
 
a
summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during
usual office hours in his or her office or, if no physical address is known, at
his or her usual mailing address, other than a United States Postal Service
post office box, with the person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by
thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left. When service is effected by leaving a copy of the summons
and complaint at a mailing address, it shall be left with a person at least 18
years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof. Service of a
summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 415.20(a).)
 
CRS’s
Statement of Information indicates that its business address is 942 W. Arrow
Highway #6, Covina, California 91722. 
(Garay Decl., Ex. 2.)  The proof
of service of summons indicates that Plaintiff left the papers at CRS’s
business address with someone named Gil Han and then mailed the papers to that
address, care of Aaron S. Yi, who is also the agent for service of process.  (See Garay Decl., Ex. 3.)  This would tend to establish proper service
on CRS.  In reply, CRS’s counsel contends
(but Mr. Yi does not declare) that no one matching the description of Gil Han “is
a manager” and that it is “unlikely that someone this young [25] could be
presumed a manager of the establishment.” 
Even if Mr. Yi had declared to the facts counsel recites, Code Civ. Proc.
§ 415.20(a) does not require that the person be presumed a manager, only that
the person with whom the papers are left be “apparently in charge” of the premises
and be at least 18 years of age and informed of the contents of the
papers.  This does not create a dispute
as to service, and the motion will be denied as to CRS.
 
2.     
Service on Aaron S. Yi
 
No
proof of service has been filed as to Mr. Yi in his individual capacity.  There was no declaration of diligence with
respect to serving Mr. Yi in his individual capacity.  (See Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20(b).)  Since Plaintiff does not at this time assert
that personal jurisdiction has been established over Mr. Yi, there is nothing
to quash, and so the motion is off calendar as to Mr. Yi.  
 
That
said, counsel are advised to meet and confer as to service on all parties and
move this case forward.  Mr. Yi declares
that he is personally present at CRS’s premises in this county, and there is no
reason why the parties cannot stipulate to service on Mr. Yi.  The Court will set an Order to Show Cause
with respect to service on Mr. Yi and other unserved defendants for December
13, 2023 at 10:30 a.m.
 
Conclusion
 
For
the foregoing reasons, the motion is denied as to defendant CRS Management,
Inc. and off calendar as to defendant Aaron S. Yi.  CRS is to file a Notice of Appearance within
15 days of this order.  (Code. Civ. Proc.
§ 418.10(b).)  Counsel for Plaintiff and
Mr. Yi are ordered to meet and confer to see if they can agree on service, and
if not, Plaintiff should proceed to serve Mr. Yi as provided under the law. As
this case was filed ten months ago, the Court sets an order to show cause why Plaintiff
should not be sanctioned for failure to file proof of service on Mr. Yi and
other unserved defendants for December 13, 2023 at 10:30 a.m. The
Initial Status Conference will also be continued to this date and time.  The OSC will be discharged if Plaintiff files
a proof of service on Mr. Yi before that date. 
Counsel for CRS to give notice.