  Case Number:  23AHCV02364    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER RE: MOTION FOR JURISDICTIONAL DISCOVERY  I.        INTRODUCTION
          Plaintiff Dedicato Treatment Center,
Inc. provided substance abuse treatment services to A.N. (the “Patient”), who
was enrolled in a health insurance plan established by Defendant Salt River
Pima-Maricopa Indian Community.  Plaintiff
is a treatment center based in Sierra Madra, CA.  Plaintiff alleges the Patient was a dependent
of D.N., an employee of Defendant who was a Plan Participant and who paid
premiums to the Plan.  
          Plaintiff alleges the Patient sought
treatment from it on September 25, 2019. 
Plaintiff contacted the third-party administrator of Defendant’s health
care plan, IEC Group, Inc. d/b/a AmeriBen (“AmeriBen”) regarding the health
benefits to which A.N. was entitled to under Defendant’s plan.  On that date and several times thereafter, Plaintiff
alleges the AmeriBen representative confirmed that (1) the Patient was covered
under the Plan; (2) Dedicato was eligible to provide treatment to the Patient;
(3) Dedicato had diagnosed Patient as requiring a specific court of treatment;
and (4) Dedicato was authorized to provide that recommended course of treatment
to Patient.  Thereafter, Plaintiff
contacted AmeriBen several times regarding authorization for further treatment
and AmeriBen stated each time that such treatment was authorized.  
          Plaintiff alleges these statements by
AmeriBen qualify as an agreement to pay either the provider’s routine, normal
rates or the provider’s reasonable rates for the treatment.  Plaintiff provided a total of 18 courses of
treatment on 18 occasions between September 25, 2019 and February 18,
2021.  Plaintiff sent 15 invoices
totaling $508,000, of which AmeriBen has only paid $72,265, leaving Dedicato
with $435,735 in unpaid services. 
Plaintiff has demanded that AmeriBen and Defendant pay the balance
owed.  AmeriBen and Defendant have
refused to do so.  
          In an effort to recover this
outstanding balance, Plaintiff filed a federal lawsuit against AmeriBen on June
13, 2022.  AmeriBen successfully moved to
dismiss pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. Proc. Rule 12(b)(7) on November 22, 2022.  However, the federal court granted leave for
Plaintiff to amend the federal complaint and name Defendant as a
defendant.  
          On December 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed
a First Amended Complaint in federal court against Defendant.  On October 2, 2023, the federal district
court granted Defendant’s motion to dismiss pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. Rule
12(b)(1).  The federal district court dismissed
the FAC against Defendant for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.
          In response, on October 11, 2023,
Dedicato filed this action in state court realleging the same contract claims
against Defendant as raised in the federal action.  On December 21, 2023, this Court granted
Defendant’s motion to quash for lack of minimum contacts and personal
jurisdiction.  The Court’s December 21,
2023 order granting Defendant’s Motion to Quash does not grant leave to
amend.  However, the December 21, 2023
Minute Order indicates that a status conference re: filing of a First Amended
Complaint is set for May 22, 2024.  
          On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the operative First Amended Complaint against Defendant.  Plaintiff alleges (1) breach of contract; (2)
breach of implied contract; (3) breach of the duty of good faith and fair
dealing; (4) promissory estoppel; (5) quantum meruit; and (6) unfair
competition.  
          On February 28, 2024, Defendant filed
a Motion to Quash to the FAC.  On March
8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Allow Jurisdictional Discovery and to
Continue Schedule re: Motion to Quash. 
On April 2, 2024, a Stipulation and Order was entered setting
Plaintiff’s Motion to Allow Jurisdictional Discovery before Defendant’s Motion
to Quash for hearing.  
          Plaintiff’s Motion to Allow
Jurisdictional Discovery and to Continue Schedule re: Motion to Quash is now
before the Court.  For the reasons stated
below, Plaintiff’s Motion for Jurisdictional Discovery and to Continue Schedule
re: Motion to Quash is GRANTED.
 II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          “A trial court has the discretion to continue the hearing
on a motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction to
allow the plaintiff to conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues.”  (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1173.)  “A
plaintiff is generally entitled to conduct discovery with regard to a
jurisdictional issue before a court rules on a motion to quash.”  (Goehring v. Superior Court (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 894, 911.)  “The plaintiff
has the right to conduct discovery with regard to the issue of jurisdiction to
develop the facts necessary to sustain this burden.”  (Mihlon v. Superior Court (1985) 169
Cal.App.3d 703, 710.) 
          To prevail on a request “for jurisdictional discovery, the
plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the production
of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.”  (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I &
II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 127.) 
A continuance may be denied if there is no showing that discovery would
likely produce evidence of additional “contacts.”  (Beckman v. Thompson (1992) 4
Cal.App.4th 481, 486–487.)  Continuances
are within the sound discretion of the Court. 
           III.     ANALYSIS
Plaintiff
makes a sufficient showing that discovery could lead to evidence of additional
contacts necessary to oppose Defendant’s Motion to Quash.  Plaintiff’s theory of liability against
Defendant is based on AmeriBen’s status as an agent or independent contractor.  (FAC, ¶¶8-18.)  Plaintiff alleges AmeriBen was hired by
Defendant to administer Defendant’s health care plan  (Id.) 
Plaintiff alleges AmeriBen agreed, in its capacity as Defendant’s plan
administrator, to pay for medical services provided to the Patient by Plaintiff.  (FAC, ¶¶21-49.)  
Plaintiff
limits its request for jurisdictional discovery to specific jurisdiction.  A court may exercise specific jurisdiction
over a nonresident defendant only if: (1) the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to
or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion
of personal jurisdiction would comport with ‘fair play and substantial
justice.’”  (Jayone Foods, Inc. v.
Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553 (citing Pavlovich
v. Supr. Ct. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268).)
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant purposefully availed itself of California’s forum
benefits through AmeriBen, who contracted with California providers on Defendant’s
behalf and for Defendant’s benefit, i.e. the benefit being provision of
services to Defendant’s plan participants. 
Plaintiff argues Defendant also purposefully availed itself by ratifying
and binding itself to any and all agreements made between AmeriBen and
providers, including California providers like Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶14, Ex. A,
Third-Party Plan Administrator Agreement, §3.8.)  
Plaintiff
is therefore attempting to establish Defendant’s purposeful availment of
California’s benefits based on the actions and contacts of a third party,
AmeriBen.  The Court previously stated in
its order granting Defendant’s Motion to Quash in response to the original
complaint that, “The manager of the healthcare plan, Ameriben, and the
Community are not one and the same.”  (Order
dated December 21, 2023, Hon. Margaret L. Oldendorf, 5:3-4.)  
Although
AmeriBen and Defendant are not “one and the same,” they need not be for
purposes of personal jurisdiction to find that AmeriBen’s contacts can be
imputed to Defendant.  In fact, “reliance
on state substantive law of agency and alter ego to determine the
constitutional limits of specific personal jurisdiction is unnecessary and is
an imprecise substitute for the appropriate jurisdictional question.  The proper jurisdictional question is not
whether the defendant can be liable of the acts of another person or entity
under state substantive law, but whether the defendant has purposefully directed
is activities at the forum state by causing a separate person or entity
to engage in forum contacts. 
That constitutional question does not turn on the specific state law
requirements of alter ego or agency, although the inquiry may be similar in
some circumstances.”  (Anglo Irish
Bank Corp., PLC v. Supr. Ct. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 969, 984
(evidence supported finding that individuals who visited California for purpose
of engaging in economic activity with California residents were acting on
behalf of their employers and on behalf of parent company of employer;
individuals’ contacts could therefore be attributed to parent company despite
absence of employment relationship.)  Thus,
“activities that are undertaken on behalf of a defendant may be attributed to
the defendant for purposes of personal jurisdiction if the defendant
purposefully directed those activities at the forum state, regardless of the
specific requirements of alter ego or agency” and the “state law of alter ego
and agency does not determine the constitutional limits to the exercise of
specific personal jurisdiction.”  (Anglo
Irish Bank Corp., supra, 165 Cal.App.4th at 974.)  
“The
actions of third parties…generally are irrelevant to whether defendants, like
Developers, purposefully availed themselves of a forum's benefits.  Only when a defendant purposefully directs a
third party's activities toward the forum state can the actions of the third
party be imputed to the defendant.  Thus,
even when a third party is involved, the focus of our inquiry remains on the
defendant's actions and intent.”  (Farina
v. SAVWCL III, LLC (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 286, 296.)
Plaintiff
is alleging that AmeriBen’s contacts with California are attributable to
Defendant, because they were undertaken at Defendant’s direction and for
Defendant’s benefit.  Certainly, evidence
that AmeriBen agreed to pay Plaintiff for services rendered to Defendant’s plan
participant as the administrator of Defendant’s Plan would be relevant to
whether AmeriBen purposefully engaged in contacts with California at the
direction and for the benefit of Defendant, i.e. the benefit being fulfillment
of Defendant’s obligation to provide medical benefits under its Plan.  Likewise, evidence of negotiations between
AmeriBen and Defendant regarding their business relationship and any specific
discussions regarding provision of benefits in California or through California
providers would be relevant.  Plaintiff
sufficiently demonstrates that the requested topics of discovery would likely
yield evidence supporting its theory that AmeriBen acted at Defendant’s
direction and for Defendant’s benefit when it purposefully engaged in contacts
with California.  
Defendant’s
opposition is unpersuasive, particularly since a plaintiff is “generally
entitled” to jurisdictional discovery before a court rules on a motion to quash.  (Goehring v. Superior Court (Bernier)
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 894, 911 (Goehring), citing Mihlon v. Superior Court
(1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 711.)  Defendant
argues Plaintiff is estopped from requesting discovery given that it failed to
do so in response to its first Motion to Quash. 
Defendant is incorrect.  Plaintiff
requested leave to conduct jurisdictional discovery in its opposition to the
motion to quash, which was timely filed before the hearing date and before the
Court ruled on the first motion to quash. 
The Court denied the request and indicated in its December 21, 2023
Order that a request for jurisdictional discovery “must” be made by separate
motion, citing In re: Auto Antitrust Cases I and II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
100, 127.  However, In re: Auto
Antitrust Cases I and II imposes no such requirement.   The Court merely noted that “[i]n order to
prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery, the
plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the production
of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.”  (In re: 
Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th
at 127.)  
Thus,
Plaintiff timely requested a continuance to conduct jurisdictional discovery
but the Court previously denied it.  Plaintiff
has now filed a separate motion for jurisdictional discovery in response to a
different motion to quash for lack of personal jurisdiction under a different
pleading, the FAC.  
Defendant
also argues Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that discovery will likely lead to evidence
of facts establishing specific jurisdiction. 
Defendant argues AmeriBen is entirely irrelevant to whether Defendant
purposefully availed itself of California’s benefits.  As explained above, the Court disagrees.
Defendant
also objects to Plaintiff’s failure to submit specific discovery requests for
the Court to review and approve. 
Defendant also objects to Plaintiff’s topics of discovery, arguing they
are overbroad, pertain to general jurisdiction and seek irrelevant
information.  The Court agrees that
Plaintiff must submit specific proposed jurisdictional discovery for the Court
to review and approve, and the topics should be narrowly tailored
jurisdictional discovery based on the Court’s ruling granting Plaintiff’s
request for a jurisdictional discovery. 
However, neither of these objections are grounds to deny the request for
jurisdictional discovery, which Plaintiff is “entitled” to obtain to respond to
Defendant’s Motion to Quash.  If
Defendant believes the jurisdictional discovery propounded is outside the scope
permitted given the Court’s ruling, Defendant may assert these objections in
response to the discovery requests.  
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Allow Jurisdictional Discovery and to Continue Hearing on Motion to
Quash is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is only allowed to
propound written discovery as follows:  20
special interrogatories, 20 form interrogatories, 20 RFPs and 20 RFAs.  Once this discovery is propounded and
responses received, if Plaintiff believes the responses are deficient or that
additional discovery is necessary, it may file motions to compel as necessary.
IV.     CONCLUSION
          Dated:
June 20, 2024                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT