  Case Number:  21STCV21563    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  F51  AUGUST 6,  2024    MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD  FAITH SETTLEMENT  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 21STCV21563    Motion  Filed: 4/30/24   MOVING  PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Defendant Mario Mendoza, Jr. (“Moving Defendant”) RESPONDING  PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Toyota Motor North America, Inc. (“Cross-Complainant”) NOTICE:  OK   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An order finding the settlement  entered between Moving Defendant and Plaintiff to be in good faith pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, and dismissal of Cross-Complainant’s  cross-complaint against Moving Defendant.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The motion  is denied without prejudice.   BACKGROUND   This is a motor vehicle negligence  and products liability action in which Plaintiff City of Los Angeles alleges  that on 6/29/20, two of its employees were injured in an auto collision caused  by Moving Defendant, who was driving a vehicle manufactured by  Cross-Complainant. (Compl. pp.  3–5.)    On 6/9/21, Plaintiff filed its  complaint, alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1)  Motor Vehicle Negligence; and (2) Products Liability. On 8/19/22,  Cross-Complainant filed its answer.     On 10/25/23, Cross-Complainant  filed its cross-complaint, alleging against Moving Defendant the following  causes of action: (1) Total Indemnity; (2) Partial Indemnity; (3) Declaratory  Relief; (4) Contribution; and (5) Negligence. On 1/31/24, Moving Defendant  filed his answer thereto.   On 4/30/24, Moving Defendant filed the instant application  for determination of good faith settlement. On 7/24/24, Cross-Complainant filed  its opposition. No reply has been filed to date.   ANALYSIS   A plaintiff may settle with one of  several joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract without releasing the  others, provided that the settlement is made in “good faith” pursuant to Code  of Civil Procedure section 877.6. “Where there are multiple defendants, each  having potential liability for different areas of damage, an allocation of the  settlement amount must be made. … Failure to do so may preclude a ‘good faith’  determination because there is no way to determine the appropriate set off  pursuant to section 877 against the nonsettling defendant.” (L. C. Rudd  & Son, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 742, 750.)   Once there is a showing made by the  settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good faith  shifts to the non-settlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in good  faith. (Fisher v. Superior Court (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d 47; Code Civ.  Proc. § 877.6, subd. (d).) The ultimate determinant of good faith is whether  the settlement is grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person at the  time of settlement would estimate the settlor’s liability to be. (City of  Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal. App. 3d 1251, 1262.)   In making such a determination, the  Court considers several factors: (1) A rough approximation of the plaintiff’s  total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability; (2) The amount paid  in settlement; (3) A recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement  than if found liable at trial; (4) The allocation of the settlement proceeds  among the plaintiffs; (5) The settlor’s financial condition and insurance  policy limits, if any; and (6) Evidence of any collusion, fraud, tortious  conduct between the settlor and the plaintiff aimed at making the non-settling  parties pay more than their fair share. (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde  & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)   Here, Moving Defendant asserts that he “settled the  claims of Darren Hutchinson and Jimmy Brants and their respective workers’  compensation claims with the City of Los Angeles. With respect to Darren  Hutchinson’s claim, the parties reached the following agreement: the plaintiff  CITY OF LOS ANGELES received $39,000 and Darren Hutchinson received $26,000.  With respect to Jimmy Brants’ claim, plaintiff CITY OF LOS ANGELES received  $40,000 and Darren Hutchinson received $24,000.” (Mot. 3:24–4:1.) Moving  Defendant further asserts that the settlement satisfies each Tech-Bilt factor  because “these settlements for both of Defendant MENDOZA’s insurance  policies reflect his proportionate responsibility to the parties involved in  the accident.” (Id. at 6:1–2.)   Cross-Complainant argues in opposition that the motion is  premature because Moving Defendant “does not include any facts in the  declaration filed concurrently with his motion that points to his actual  liability in the underlying case.” (Opp. 5:11–13.) “As such, declaring  Mendoza’s settlement with Plaintiff to be in good faith would be an abuse of  discretion without adequate and essential discovery being completed.” (Id. at  5:19–21.)   The  Court agrees with Cross-Complainant, and further notes that the motion lacks  facts or evidence measuring Plaintiff’s damages in this action. Without an approximation  of the total damages, there can be no determination of whether the proposed  settlement is reasonably within the ballpark based on Moving Defendant’s  proportional liability. Therefore, the Court is unable to make a good faith  determination based on “rough approximation of the plaintiff’s total recovery  and the settlor’s proportionate liability.” (Tech-Bilt, 38 Cal.3d  at 499.)   The Court notes that Moving  Defendant has failed to reply to Cross-Complainant’s opposition. Based on the  foregoing, the Court agrees with Cross-Complainant that, at this juncture, there  is insufficient evidence before the Court to make a determination of whether  the settlement entered into between Plaintiff and Moving Defendant was made in  good faith. Accordingly, the motion is denied without prejudice.   CONCLUSION   The motion  is denied without prejudice.