  Case Number:  23STCV20095    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 23, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Tristar Claims Management Services, Inc.
v. Jackson Risk Management, Inc. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV20095            
 
MOTION
TO SEAL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Tristar Claims Management Services, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 4/18/24
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for conversion that was filed on August 22, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s principal misappropriated confidential and
sensitive personal information belonging to Plaintiff’s claimants. 
 
Plaintiff moves to file an exhibit
accompanying a declaration in support of Plaintiff’s pending Motion for Default
Judgment and Permanent Injunction under seal. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff moves to file Exhibit B
of the Declaration of Michael Kunkel in Support of Plaintiff’s pending Motion
for Default Judgment and Permanent Injunction under seal. 
 
The sealing of court records is
governed by California Rules of Court rules 2.550 and 2.551. (Mercury
Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 68.) The
presumption of open access to court records does not apply to “records that are
required to be kept confidential by law.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.550(a)(3).) A party seeking to seal a court record or seeking to file a
record under seal must do so by motion or application supported by a
declaration showing facts justifying the record’s sealing.  (Id.,
rule 2.551(b)(1).) California Rules of Court rule 2.550(d) states: “The court
may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts
that establish: 
(1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes
the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the
record; 
(3) A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored;
and 
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.”  
(Id.
Rule 2.550(d).) 
 
            Once sealed, a record can only be
unsealed by order of court.  (Id., rule
2.551(h)(1).)  So long as it remains under seal, all parties must
refrain from filing anything not under seal that would disclose the sealed
matter.  (Id., rule 2.551(c).)  If a party files a
new document referring to sealed matter, it must submit an unredacted version
of the document under seal and a redacted one for the public
record.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(5); H.B. Fuller Co. v.
Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 889.) 
 
            The
Exhibit which Plaintiff seeks to have sealed is a spreadsheet listing interactions
of a laptop used by Defendant’s principal with Defendant’s Google Mail account
and Plaintiff’s claims management software. Plaintiff contends that the Exhibit
contains sensitive personal information including claimant names, claim
numbers, summary information, and settlement information, in which the
claimants have an overriding privacy interest. Plaintiff contends that this
information could expose Plaintiff to liability if it were publicly disclosed. Plaintiff
also argues that the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored because it only
concerns a single exhibit and that there is no less restricted means available
to protect the confidential information.
            Upon
reviewing the materials lodged conditionally under seal, the Court finds that
the materials which Plaintiff moves to seal reference, include, or constitute
confidential personal information involving claimants and thus there is an
overriding constitutional privacy interest that overcomes the right of public
access to these records and supports sealing the record. The Court also finds
that there is a substantial probability that this interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed as that interest is, by definition, an interest
against disclosure of these materials. The Court also finds that the proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored to shield only the materials which should be
protected from disclosure, and that there is no less restrictive means to
achieve the interest in protecting these materials from disclosure under that
section. 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to File Exhibit B of the Kunkel Declaration Under Seal is
GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
//
 
//
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: April 23, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 