 Case Number:  24SMCV02781    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  205 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
PATRICK
  BERTRANOU, et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
KENNETH KAI
  CHANG, et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  24SMCV02781
 
  Hearing Date:  January 7, 2025
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
   DEFENDANTs KENNETH KAI CHANG, 
   BERESFORD PROPERTIES, LLC AND 
   HUI O KA LA, LLC’S DEMURRER TO 
   FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
This
is a fraud and financial elder abuse case. 
Plaintiffs Patrick Bertranou and Walker Land LLC allege that Defendant
Kenneth Kai Chang approached Bertranou about a real estate development project
Chang had underway in Honolulu, Hawaii.  (First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶¶ 17-18.)  The
project was for a 328-unit condominium building called the Ililani. (Id.
¶ 18) 
Chang
allegedly asked Bertranou to loan him and his company, Defendant Hui O Ka La,
$3.5 million at 20% simple, annual interest, for no more than ten quarters but
with repayment possible in less than a year if all went well.  (Id.)  The oral agreement was orally modified so that
the interest rate would be 10% per annum, not 20%.  (Id. ¶ 6.)  As an incentive to Bertranou, Chang allegedly
suggested the loan be structured as two written option agreements, which would
result in Bertranou paying a capital gains rate on interest income.  (Id. ¶ 19.)  
The
first option would involve the acquisition by Hillgreen Capital, LLC (“Hillgreen”),
Bertranou’s personal company, and FMG, LLP (“FMG”), the personal company of Bertranou’s
partner, Michael Lehrer, of an option from Defendant Beresford Properties, LLC (the
“Beresford Option Agreement”).  (Id.
¶ 22.)  This option would then be
assigned by Hillgreen and FMG to Walker Land, LLC (“Walker Land”), an entity
created by Bertranou and Lehrer to hold their interests in the deal.  (Id.)  The second option agreement would involve Hui
O Ka La and Chang acquiring the option from Walker Land (the “Walker Land
Agreement”). (Id.)   It is alleged
that “the real deal was the oral loan agreement for $3.5 million, at 20% simple
interest, for no more than ten quarters.” 
(Id.)
Chang
allegedly drafted the written option agreements and sent them to Bertranou for
his review.  (Id. ¶ 26.)  After reading through the written option
agreements, Bertranou called Chang to let him know that the documents did not
work for him because there was no express requirement that Chang exercise the
Walker Land option.  (Id.)  According to Plaintiffs, Chang allegedly told
Bertranou not to worry, that they had an oral agreement, and that the written
option agreements were drafted “for the sole purpose of giving [Bertranou] the
opportunity to pay taxes at capital gains rates.” (Id.) Nonetheless,
Chang purportedly stated that he would revise “the documents to require Hui O
Ka La and [Chang] to exercise the Walker option by the end of ten quarters.” (Id.)

Plaintiffs
allege that Chang sent Bertranou a new set of documents and allegedly
represented that the revisions reflected the changes that they had discussed. (Id.
¶ 27.)  Plaintiffs allege that Bertranou
was distracted after observing blood in his urine and making an initial visit
to a urologist.  (Id.)  Bertranou was diagnosed with cancer.  Bertranou was allegedly “reeling, mentally
and emotionally.  And Chang knew
it.”  (Id.)  Bertranou claims he relied on Chang’s
assurances about the oral agreement and signed the written option agreements
without reading them.  (Id.)  Bertranou then lent $3.5 million to Chang and
Hui O Ka La. (Id.) 
Plaintiffs
allege that Chang asked he and Hui O Ka La be given a grace period until April
2023 to repay the loan, given the COVID-19 pandemic. (Id. ¶ 30.)  Bertranou agreed.  (Id.) In April 2023, Chang allegedly
requested an additional grace period until April 2024. (Id. ¶ 29.)  Bertranou again agreed. (Id.)  On March 4, 2024, Chang and Hui O Ka La made
an interest payment of $31,250. (Id. ¶ 30.)  Bertranou then demanded payment in full. (Id.)
Plaintiffs allege that no further payments have been made by Defendants. (Id.)

The original complaint alleged seven claims
for (1) breach of contract, (2) open book account, (3) account stated, (4)
money lent, (5) financial elder abuse, (6) fraud, and (7) negligent
misrepresentation. 
The Court sustained in part and overruled in
part Defendants’ demurrer to the original complaint.  The Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to
the breach of oral contract and fraud causes of action with leave to
amend.  
This hearing is on Defendants’ demurrer to
the FAC.  Defendants argue that (1) Plaintiffs’
contract claims cannot survive because they are based on sham allegations that
contradict the earlier complaint; the FAC fails to plead facts overcoming Civ.
Code § 1624’s bar on the type of agreement
advanced by Plaintiff; Plaintiff’s new allegations that the written option
agreements are a sham and there was instead an “oral contract” is time barred,
and the Court did not grant Plaintiff’s leave to assert an implied in fact
contract claim, and (2) Plaintiffs’ fraud claim fails because there is no intent
to defraud as Defendants made payments on the loan.
 
MEET AND CONFER 
Code
Civ. Proc. §430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before
the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41(a)(3).)  Defendants submit the declaration of Ashlei M. Vargas which
attests the parties met and conferred by telephone on November 1, 2024, which
is less than five days before the demurrer was filed on November 5, 2024.  Notwithstanding, the Court cannot sustain or
overrule a demurrer based on an insufficient meet and confer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(4).) 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer to a complaint may be general
or special.  A general demurrer
challenges the legal sufficiency of the complaint on the ground it fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Lewis v.
Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A special demurrer
challenges other defects in the complaint, including whether a pleading is
uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).)  The term uncertain includes the issue of
whether the pleading is “ambiguous and unintelligible.”  (Id.)  A demurrer for uncertainty should be
sustained if the complaint is drafted in such a manner that the defendant
cannot reasonably respond, i.e., the defendant cannot determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts are directed against the
defendant. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer,
a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice,
or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all
facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court
does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp.
Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)    
Leave to amend must
be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See
Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the
defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens
Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should
not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed,
can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable
possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the
Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.)
ANALYSIS
Contract Claims
Defendants
argue that the FAC is a sham pleading because Plaintiffs are now alleging that
the written option agreements are a sham to get around the Court’s prior order
that the option agreements’ “integration clauses bar a claim for breach of an
oral contract covering the same subject matter.”  The Court disagrees.
The
original complaint alleged that the written option agreements were a mere
artifice, a “tax dodge,” and “[i]n reality, the deal would remain a simple,
oral loan agreement for $3.5 million in principal, plus 10% annual interest,
with a term of two years.”  (Compl. ¶18.)
 The FAC merely states more explicitly
that the written agreements are a sham. 
Further, contrary to Defendants’ argument, Plaintiffs were not seeking
to enforce the written option agreements in the original complaint.  Rather, Plaintiffs were seeking to enforce
the “real” oral agreement.  Accordingly,
there is no sham.  (Zakk v. Diesel
(2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 431, 449 (the sham doctrine does not apply
where plaintiff merely clarifies the basis for relief).)
Defendants
argue as an additional basis for dismissing the contract claims that the FAC
fails to plead facts overcoming the Civ. Code § 1624’s bar on the type of
“agreement” advanced in this case, i.e., for more than $100,000 and
necessitating terms beyond one year.  The
Court disagrees.
Section 1624(a)(1) states
that an agreement that by its terms is not to be performed within one year from
the making of the agreement is invalid unless it, or some note or memorandum of
it, is in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged or his or her
agent.  This rule applies only to those
contracts which, by their terms, cannot possibly be performed within one year.
(Foley v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal. 3d 654,
674-675; White Lighting Co. v. Wolfson (1968) 68 Cal. 2d 336,
343.)  For a contract
to be within Civ. Code § 1624(a)(1), there must not be the slightest
possibility that it can be fully performed within one year. (Id.)  
Here, the Complaint alleges that the oral
agreement was for “no more than ten quarters, but with repayment possible in
less than a year if all went well.”  (FAC
¶20.)  Accordingly, there was a
possibility that the contract could be fully performed within one year, which
takes it out of the statute of frauds.  Based
upon the face of the complaint and alleged terms of the oral contract, the
Court cannot determine as a matter of law that the oral contract by its terms
could not possibly be performed within one year of its making.
A
contract or promise to loan money or to extend credit in an amount greater than
$100,000 is also subject to the statute of frauds.  (Civ.
Code, § 1624, subd. (a)(7).)  However, where the contract has been fully
performed, “the remaining promise is taken out of the statute of frauds and the
party who performed may enforce it against the other.”  (Secrest v. Security National Mortgage
Loan Trust 2002-2 (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 544, 556; see also Dutton
v. Interstate Investment Corp. (1941) 19 Cal.2d 65, 70 (“the finding
of the trial court that Dutton had fully performed all of his obligations under
the contract operates to remove the bar of the statute [of frauds]”]; Dean
v. Davis (1946) 73 Cal.App.2d 166, 168 (“The statute of frauds
has no application to an executed agreement.”); Marr v. Postal Union
Life Ins. Co. (1940) 40 Cal.App.2d 673, 679 (“Where … there has been
full performance upon the part of the party seeking to enforce the contract,
the doctrine of estoppel arises … .”).) 
Here, Plaintiff fully performed on the loan agreement by giving
Defendants $3.5 million.  (FAC ¶¶ 35,
40.)
Defendants
next argue that Plaintiffs’ contract claims are time-barred.  The Court disagrees.  
The statute
of limitations on a claim for a breach of an oral
contract is two years.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 339.)  Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs allege they stopped making payments in or around November 2021,
which triggers the limitations period.  (FAC
¶ 29.)  But Defendants’ argument is
misleading.  The FAC alleges that even
though Defendants stopped making interest payments, they expressly acknowledged
that they were obligated to pay interest on the loan and they asked for several
grace periods within which to repay the loan, to which Plaintiff consented.  (FAC ¶¶ 30, 32.)  The grace periods expired in April 2024, when
Plaintiff demanded the full repayment of the loan, and Defendants refused.  (Id. ¶ 32.)  Two years from April 2024 is April 2026, and
Plaintiff filed their Complaint in June 2024, well within the limitations
period.
Additionally,
Defendants raised no such argument in relation to Plaintiffs’ breach of oral
contract claim as asserted within the initial complaint and are now barred from
doing so.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(b)
(“A party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after a demurrer to an
earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not demur to any portion of
the amended complaint . . . on grounds that could have been raised by demurrer
to the earlier version of the complaint[.]”).) 
As to
the implied in fact contract claim, Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs’
addition of that particular claim exceed this Court’s grant of leave to amend
the breach of oral contract claim.  But even
the addition of a new cause of action may be appropriate after a demurrer has
been sustained with leave to amend where it “directly responds to the court’s
reason for sustaining the earlier demurrer.”  (Patrick
v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1015.)  Here, the Court concludes that the addition
of the implied in fact contract claim was in response to the Court’s reason for
sustaining the demurrer to the breach of oral contract claim.
Accordingly,
the Court overrules the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ contract claims.     
Fraud Claim
            Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have failed to plead an intent
to defraud, that Plaintiffs rely exclusively on Defendants’ non-performance to
allege an intent to defraud, and nonperformance alone cannot create an inference
of an intent to defraud.  The Court disagrees.
Fraud requires:
(1) a misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity or scienter; (3) intent to
defraud or induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.
 (See Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  The facts
constituting every element of the alleged fraud must be alleged with
particularity.  (Goldrich v. Natural Y
Specialities, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782.)  
Under
California law, “something more than nonperformance is required to
prove the defendant’s intent not to perform his promise’ . . . To be sure,
fraudulent intent must often be established by circumstantial evidence.  Prosser, for example, cites cases in which
fraudulent intent has been inferred from such circumstances as defendant’s
insolvency, his hasty repudiation of the promise, his failure
even to attempt performance, or his continued assurances after it was
clear he would not perform . . . . However, if [the] plaintiff adduces no
further evidence of fraudulent intent than proof of nonperformance . . . ,
he will never reach a jury.” (Tenzer v. Superscope, Inc. (1985) 39
Cal.3d 18, 30-31.)  
Here, Plaintiffs
have alleged more than non-performance.  They
allege that Defendants represented they would amend the written option
agreements to require Chang to exercise the Walker Land Option and that the
agreements had in fact been revised.  Defendants
also represented that the oral agreement was the real agreement, and the
written option agreements were a construct to enable Plaintiffs to declare the
interest as capital gains, should Plaintiffs choose to do so.  But Defendants did not revise the option agreements,
and they are now claiming the option agreements are the real agreements.  (Compl. ¶73.) 
These allegations are sufficient to create the inference of an intent to
defraud.       
            Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer to the
fraud claim.  

CONCLUSION
For
the foregoing reasons, the Court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED: January 7, 2025                                                      ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court