 Case Number:  22STCV02290    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 25, 2022, Plaintiff Insurance Company of the
West (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Angel Granado
(“Granado”), Priority Workforce, LLC (“Workforce”), and Does 1-10 for general negligence. 
On
February 2, 2024, Workforce filed a demurrer and request for judicial notice to
be heard on May 8, 2024. On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
May 1, 2024, Workforce filed a reply. 
The Court continued the hearing to June 4, 2024. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Workforce
asks the Court to sustain the demurrer to the complaint. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to overrule the demurrer. 
WORKFORCE’S REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
          Granted 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demurrer 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
* * *
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25
(Cal. Practice Guide), emphasis omitted.) 
B.   Negligence 
The
elements of a negligence claim are (1) a legal duty of care, (2) breach of that
duty, and (3) proximate cause resulting in injury.  (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
February 3, 2020, at 3851 S. Santa Fe
Avenue, Vernon, CA 90058, Fernando Garduno (“Garduno”) was operating a forklift
in the course and scope of his employment with Hannibal Industries, Inc.
(“Hannibal”).  Plaintiff was Hannibal’s
workers’ compensation insurer. 
Angel
Granado was operating a separate forklift at the same location in the course
and scope of his employment with Workforce. 
Granado failed to use reasonable care in the operation of the forklift,
causing a collision between the two forklifts. As a result, Garduno was
injured, requiring Plaintiff to provide worker’s compensation benefits to
Garduno. 
Workforce
is vicariously liable for damages as Granado’s employer.  In addition, Workforce failed to use
reasonable care in its hiring, training and/or supervision of Granado.  Defendants’ negligence caused Garduno’s
injury and Plaintiff’s damages. 
Under
Labor Code sections 3850, et seq., Plaintiff seeks damages in subrogation for
worker’s compensation benefits paid to and on behalf of Garduno for sums
according to proof.  Benefits are
continuing. 
B.   Workforce’s demurrer 
Workforce
argues the complaint’s allegations are conclusory and fail to allege facts
showing that Workforce owed Plaintiff a duty of care, breached that duty, or
caused Plaintiff’s damages.  Workforce
also contends the complaint is vague, ambiguous and uncertain. 
Plaintiff
opposes the demurrer, arguing the complaint sufficiently pleads a negligence
claim. 
C.   Analysis 
A
complaint must contain “[a] statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise language.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.10, subd. (a)(1).)  “The essential elements to be pleaded to
state a cause of action are determined by the substantive law.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶
6:121, p. 6-37 (Cal. Practice Guide).) 
“The
‘facts’ to be pleaded are those upon which liability depends—i.e., ‘the facts
constituting the cause of action.’  These
are commonly referred to as ‘ultimate facts.’” 
(Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:123, p. 6-39.)  “ ‘The complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.’ ”  (Ibid., quoting C.A. v. William S.
Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 54 Cal.4th 861, 872.) 
“Lawyers
and judges have struggled with these distinctions.  ‘Ultimate facts’ are those that raise the
issues on which the right to recover depends – i.e., the essential elements of
the cause of action.  All the facts that
are material to the cause of action – i.e., the facts that make a difference to
the outcome of the case – must be alleged [citation].  [Citations.] 
By contrast, allegations of unnecessary detail and generalized argument
may be objectionable as ‘evidentiary’ pleading and ‘legal conclusion,’
respectively.”  (Cal.
Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:124, pp. 6-39 to 6-40; see id., ¶
6:125, p. 6-40 [allegation that defendant drove while under the influence of
alcohol pleads an ultimate fact; allegation that defendant drove immediately
after consuming a fifth of vodka pleads evidentiary matters; allegation that
defendant drove in violation of California drunk driving laws pleads a legal
conclusion].) 
A
leading treatise concludes that “[t]he distinction between ‘ultimate facts’ and
‘evidentiary’ matters is of diminishing importance because a complaint will be
upheld if it provides the defendant with ‘notice of the issues sufficient to
enable preparation of a defense.' "  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:128,
pp. 6-43 to 6-44, quoting Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42
Cal.4th 531, 549-550 (Doe).)  “Thus,
plaintiff need only plead such facts as are necessary ‘to acquaint a defendant
with the nature, source and extent of his claims.’ ”  (Id., ¶ 6:128, p. 6-44, quoting Doe,
supra, 42 Cal.4th at p. 550.) 
“Ordinarily,
negligence may be alleged in general terms, without stating the acts
constituting negligence or detailing the particular manner in which plaintiff’s
injury occurred.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 6:129, p. 6-44.)  “On the other hand, a bare allegation that ‘defendant’s
negligence caused plaintiff’s injury’ is not sufficient.  Plaintiff must allege the acts or omissions
that are claimed to have constituted the negligence.”  (Ibid.) 
The
Court has evaluated the complaint in light of these authorities and concludes it
pleads ultimate facts that state a cause of action for negligence under
theories of vicarious liability and negligent hiring, training, and
supervision.  The complaint acquaints
Workforce with the nature, source, and extent of Plaintiff’s claims.  It is not vague, ambiguous, or
uncertain.  The Court overrules the
demurrer. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court OVERRULES Defendant Priority Workforce, LLC’S demurrer to Plaintiff
Insurance Company of the West’s complaint. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.