 Case Number:  22AHCV01111    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



OMAR TORRES ANGULO, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV01111
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO TAX COSTS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 30,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiffs Lizette Torres and Omar
Torres Angulo filed this lemon law action against defendant General Motors LLC on
November 17, 2022. On March 18, 2024, a notice of settlement was filed.
Plaintiffs filed their memorandum of costs on April 2, 2024. Defendant filed
this motion to tax costs on April 17, 2024.
Defendant takes issue with Plaintiffs’
request for $150 in jury fees, $32.40 in filing costs
for particular discovery motions, $514.30 in service of process costs related
to deposition notices of nonparties, $28,069.66 in photocopies of exhibits and
demonstratives, $12.34 for filing fees associated with a “notice of change of
address”, and $8.00 in “document download costs.” 

II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section 1032 (all
statutory references to follow are to the Code of Civil Procedure except when
otherwise indicated) provides for recovery of costs by a prevailing party. Allowable
costs under Section 1033.5 must be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation, rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation, and
must be reasonable in amount.¿An item not specifically allowable under Section 1033.5(a)
nor prohibited under subdivision (b) may nevertheless be recoverable in the
discretion of the court if they meet the above requirements (i.e., reasonably
necessary and reasonable in amount).¿If the items appearing in a cost bill
appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to
show that they were not reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v. California State Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th
761, 773-774.)¿On
the other hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue
and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs.¿(Ibid.)
Whether a cost item was reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a
question of fact for the trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of
discretion.¿(Ibid.)¿However, because the right to costs is
governed strictly by statute, a court has no discretion to award costs not
statutorily authorized.¿(Id.)¿Discretion is abused only when, in its
exercise, the court “exceeds the bounds of reason, all of
the circumstances being considered.”¿(Ibid.) In ruling upon a motion to tax costs,
the trial court’s first determination is whether the statute expressly allows
the particular item and whether it appears proper on its face, if so, the
burden is on the objecting party to show the costs to be unnecessary and
unreasonable. Where costs are not expressly allowed by statute, the burden is
on the party claiming the costs to show that the charges were reasonable and
necessary.
III.       
DISCUSSION 
Jury Fees
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs should
not be entitled to $150 in jury fees because this case never went to trial.
Section 1033.5 specifically authorizes the recovery of jury fees and such a
deposit is reasonably necessary to the litigation in order for Plaintiffs to preserve
their right to a jury trial. The Motion to tax the jury fees is DENIED. 
Filing Fees for Discovery Motions
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs should
not recover $32.40 in filing costs for particular discovery motions filed in
January and February 2024 because motion practice was unnecessary. The Court
disagrees. With respect to Plaintiffs’ motion regarding further supplemental
production of documents, which was filed on December 7, 2023, the Court
concluded that monetary sanctions were appropriate to address Defendant’s
failure to comply with its previous order to serve supplemental responses by
October 16, 2023, and imposed sanctions in the amount of $5,2720. As noted in
its minute orders dated January 4 and February 13, 2024, Plaintiffs pointed out
that Defendant served unverified responses nearly two weeks after the
Court-ordered deadline and only did so after Plaintiffs’ counsel sent an
inquiry. Defendant’s supplemental production was also inexplicably incomplete. Furthermore,
Defendant’s verified supplemental responses and production only occurred after
Plaintiffs filed their motion; therefore, it cannot be said that Plaintiffs’ motion
was unnecessary. 
As for Plaintiffs’ motion for an order
compelling the deposition of Defendant’s PMK, filed on January 30, 2024,
Defendant does not provide any explanation for why this motion was purportedly
unnecessary. And, as Plaintiffs point out in their opposition brief, Defendant
had refused to produce its PMK, thereby necessitating motion practice. 
Service of Process Costs
Defendant argues that $514.30 in
service of process costs related to deposition notices of nonparties even
though such costs are expressly allowed by section 1033.5(a)(4). These
nonparties include dealership technicians who worked on Plaintiffs’ vehicle.
Although Defendant broadly states that “none of this work . . . advanced
Plaintiffs’ case”, Plaintiffs adequately explain that the individuals served were
dealership technicians who worked on Plaintiffs’ vehicle and therefore
percipient witnesses who were able to authenticate repair orders at issue in
this case. 
Photocopies of Exhibits
Defendant moves to strike $28,069.66 in
photocopies of exhibits and demonstratives, and trial documents and binders. A prevailing
party is not entitled to recover costs associated with preparing photocopies of
exhibits and demonstratives under section 1033.5(a)(13) if the items were not
presented to the trier of fact; nevertheless, these costs may be awarded by the
trial court in its discretion under section 1033.5(c)(4). (Segal v. ASICS America Corp. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 651, 665.) Here, the
trial binders were ordered by the Court in its trial order to be prepared by
March 7, 2024, in time for the final status conference held on March 14, 2024.
Although Plaintiffs provided multiple settlement offers throughout the
litigation, Defendant did not respond until after the final status conference
took place. Therefore, the Court exercises its discretion to allow these costs
as reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation. 
Filing Fees for Notice of Change of
Address
Defendant’s motion to strike $12.34 for
filing fees associated with a “notice of change of address” is denied. A party
is required to provide the Court with an accurate address for service of
notices throughout the litigation. 
“Document Download Costs” 
Defendant’s motion to strike $8.00 in
“document download costs” is denied. Plaintiffs explain that these costs were
associated with obtaining copies of the Court’s minute orders which they did
not receive otherwise. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion to tax costs is
DENIED. 
Dated
this 30th
day of July, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 