  Case Number:  23STCV21894    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant
The Lobster LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action
Defendant
The Lobster LLC moves to compel arbitration of this action by plaintiff Donna
Pociecha.  
Evidentiary
Objections
            Plaintiff makes 15 objections to
defendant’s evidence.  All 15 objections
are overruled.
Existence
of Agreement
            Plaintiff argues defendant did not meet
its burden of proving plaintiff entered the purported arbitration agreement.  The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the
parties.  (CCP § 1281.2.)  It can meet the “initial burden to show an
agreement to arbitrate by attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement
purportedly bearing the opposing party’s signature.”  (Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1060.)  Only after the opposing
party “challenge[s] the validity of that signature” must the moving party
“establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the signature was authentic.”  (Ibid.)  An
employer can meet its burden of proving the employee signed an arbitration
agreement using “a declaration from [its] custodian of records.”  (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021)
72 Cal.App.5th 158, 286 Cal.Rptr.3d 891, 901.)  “[T]he custodian of a document need not have been present or employed
when the document was created or signed to authenticate a document in a
company’s files.”  (Iyere v. Wise Auto
Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 758 (Iyere).)  
Defendant
presents testimony by Luis Garcia, who has been “in charge of bookkeeping and maintenance
of personnel records” since 2014. 
(Garcia Decl., ¶ 1.)  He states, “The
employee file for plaintiff Donna Pociecha includes an Arbitration Agreement
dated May 1, 2015, a true and correct copy of which is attached as Exhibit ‘A.’  The signature for The Lobster is that of
former General Manager Jack De Nicola and I recognize Ms. Pociecha’s signature
on the document, as consistent with her other signed documents for The Lobster.”  (Id., ¶ 2.)  This testimony by a custodian of defendant’s
personnel records adequately authenticates the arbitration agreement.
Plaintiff
does not effectively rebut defendant’s evidence.  “[A]n individual is capable of recognizing
his or her own personal signature.  If
the individual does not deny that the handwritten personal signature is his or
her own, that person’s failure to remember signing is of little or no
significance.”  (Iyere, supra, 87
Cal.App.5th at p. 757.)  “If a party confronted with his or her
handwritten signature on an arbitration agreement is unable to allege that the
signature is inauthentic or forged, the fact that that person does not recall
signing the agreement neither creates a factual dispute as to the signature’s
authenticity nor affords an independent basis to find that a contract was not
formed.”  (Id. at p. 757.)  
The
arbitration agreement includes a handwritten signature and Social Security
Number.  (Garcia Decl., Ex. A, p.
2.)  The acknowledgment of receiving the
employee handbook and arbitration agreement also includes a handwritten
signature.  (Garcia Decl., Ex. B.)  Plaintiff only states she does not recall
signing the arbitration agreement.  (Pociecha
Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)  She does not deny the signatures’
authenticity.  Her testimony that she
does not recall signing the documents does not suffice to rebut defendant’s
evidence.    
The
court finds defendant meets its burden of proving plaintiff signed the
agreement to arbitrate.  
Delegation
of Gateway Issues
            Plaintiff argues the agreement is
unconscionable and therefore unenforceable. 
Plaintiff also argues the agreement does not apply to her second cause
of action for failure to hire her in 2021, as opposed to her cause of action
for discrimination during prior employment that ended in 2020.  
These
are gateway issues of arbitrability.  The
parties agreed to delegate such issues to the arbitrator.  “Parties to an arbitration agreement may
agree to delegate to the arbitrator, instead of a court, questions regarding
the enforceability of the agreement. 
[Citation.]  They ‘can agree to
arbitrate almost any dispute—even a dispute over whether the underlying dispute
is subject to arbitration.’ ”  (Tiri
v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 241.)  “There are two prerequisites for a delegation
clause to be effective.  First, the
language of the clause must be clear and unmistakable.  [Citation.] 
Second, the delegation must not be revocable under state contract
defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.”  (Id. at p. 242.)
1.
        Clear and Unmistakable
Delegation
The
arbitration agreement includes a clear and unmistakable delegation clause.  It provides, “[T]he parties agree that the
arbitrator shall decide if a claim is arbitrable and that any court action
joining arbitrable claims shall be stayed pending the outcome of the
arbitration of the arbitrable claims.” 
(Garcia Decl., Ex. A, § 1.)  Using
plain language, this sentence unmistakably provides that an arbitrator, not a
court, must determine which claims are arbitrable.  
Plaintiff’s
reliance on Jack v. Ring LLC (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1186 is
misplaced.  There, the court found a
delegation clause not clear and unmistakable based on the following rule: “ ‘Even
broad arbitration clauses that expressly delegate the enforceability
decision to arbitrators may not meet the clear and unmistakable test, where
other language in the agreement creates an uncertainty in that regard.’ ”  (Id. at p. 1197.)  The court reasoned that, while the delegation
clause stated “the arbitrator ‘shall have exclusive authority to resolve all
disputes’ relating to the ‘enforceability ... of these Terms,’ including ‘any
claim that all or any part of these Terms are void or voidable’ … another
provision … contemplates that ‘a court’ may decide the enforceability of the
subsection of the arbitration provision that requires arbitration to ‘be
conducted only on an individual basis and not in a class, representative or
private attorney general action.’ ”  (Id.
at p. 1199.)  The court held, “[T]he
arbitration provision points in two directions on the question whether a court
or an arbitrator is to decide the enforceability of the agreement to arbitrate,
at least with respect to challenges to the ‘subsection’s limitations as to a
particular claim for relief’ such as plaintiffs’ claim here that the
limitations are unenforceable …  .  Because of this uncertainty, we cannot
conclude the parties clearly and unmistakably delegated to the arbitrator
exclusive authority to decide whether the arbitration provision is valid.”  (Ibid.)
Here,
plaintiff argues paragraph 3 constitutes such an inconsistent provision because
it “states the court (judicial action) will be involved with other matter and ‘forms
of relief.’ ”  (Opp., p. 11.)  That section of the agreement provides, “The
arbitrator shall be entitled to award all sums and forms of relief as could be
awarded or granted in a judicial or administrative action predicated on the
same claims for relief, including, as applicable, expedited and permanent
injunctive relief, punitive damages, statutory penalties, and recovery of
attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses (except for arbitration fees (as limited by
paragraph 4 below)).”  (Garcia Decl., Ex.
A, § 3.)  
Nothing
in that section, nor any other part of the agreement, suggests that a court and
not an arbitrator will determine whether claims are arbitrable, including
whether the agreement is unconscionable or whether it applies to certain claims
by a party.  It merely provides that the
arbitrator can award the same relief a court would have the power to
award.  As plaintiff’s opposition
acknowledges (Opp., pp. 12-13), giving the arbitrator that power is required to
make the agreement enforceable.  (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83,
103 (Armendariz) [“an arbitration agreement may not limit statutorily
imposed remedies such as punitive damages and attorney fees”].)  
Only
two other parts of the arbitration agreement refer to a “court” or “judicial”
proceeding.  First, the delegation clause
itself states “any court action joining arbitrable claims shall be
stayed.”  (Garcia Decl., Ex. A, § 2.)  Second, the agreement provides, “Employee
shall not bear any costs of arbitration beyond those which he/she would incur
in filing a state court action.” 
(Id., § 4.)  Like the
provision regarding the arbitrator’s powers to award various remedies, this
provision is required to make the agreement enforceable.  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at pp.
110-111 [“when an employer imposes mandatory arbitration as a condition of
employment, the arbitration agreement or arbitration process cannot generally
require the employee to bear any type of expense that the employee would not be
required to bear if he or she were free to bring the action in court”].)  Neither provision indicates a court would
decide gateway issues of arbitrability.
Finally,
the agreement also includes one reference to “trial by jury.”  (Garcia Decl., Ex. A, § 10.)  It expressly provides the parties “are
waiving and foregoing any right to a trial by jury on the claims subject to
arbitration.”  (Ibid.)  Nothing in the agreement suggests a court
would decide gateway issues.  It clearly
and unmistakably delegates issues of arbitrability to the arbitrator.  Parties to this agreement would reasonably
expect an arbitrator to determine questions of unconscionability and the scope
of the agreement. 
2.
        The Delegation Clause Is Not
Revocable
The
arbitration agreement’s delegation clause is not unconscionable or otherwise
revocable.  “If the party’s challenge is directed to the agreement as a whole—even if
it applies equally to the delegation clause—the delegation clause is
severed out and enforced; thus, the arbitrator, not the court, will determine
whether the agreement is enforceable.  In
contrast, if the party is making a specific challenge to the delegation clause,
the court must determine whether the delegation clause itself may be enforced
(and can only delegate the general issue of enforceability to the arbitrator if
it first determines the delegation clause is enforceable).”  (Malone v. Superior Court (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 1551, 1559–1560, citing Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson
(2010) 561 U.S. 63, 70; accord Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2015)
238 Cal.App.4th 227, 245.)  
Plaintiff does not challenge the delegation
clause.  Plaintiff only argues the entire
agreement is unconscionable.  Plaintiff
shows low procedural unconscionability.  “
‘Arbitration contracts imposed as a condition of employment are typically
adhesive.’ ” (Davis v. Kozak (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 897, 906 (Davis).)  “By itself, however, adhesion establishes
only a ‘low’ degree of procedural unconscionability.”  (Id. at p. 907.)  Plaintiff therefore must make a greater
showing of substantive unconscionability. 
(Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 185.)  Plaintiff does not argue the delegation clause is substantively
unconscionable.  It is not.  The delegation clause is fully mutual.  
Pursuant to the delegation clause, the court
therefore does not reach any other issues of arbitrability.  The arbitrator must decide those gateway
issues.
Disposition
            Defendant The Lobster LLC’s motion
to compel arbitration is granted. 
Plaintiff Donna Pociecha is hereby ordered to arbitrate this
action against defendant The Lobster LLC. 
Under the agreement’s delegation clause, the arbitrator shall determine
if this action or any part of it is not arbitrable.  The court hereby stays the entire
action pending the conclusion of the arbitration proceeding. 