  Case Number:  23STCV20323    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JORGE
  L. VASQUEZ HERNANDEZ,
individually, and on behalf of all others
similarly
  situated,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CALIBER AEROSPACE, LLC, a Texas
Limited Liability Company; EMPLOYER
SOLUTIONS STAFFING GROUP II, LLC, a
Minnesota Limited Liability Company; and
DOES 1 through
  10, inclusive,
  
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV20323
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY APPROVAL OF CLASS
  AND PAGA REPRESENTATIVE ACTION SETTLEMENT
 
Date: July 26, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: JORGE
L. VASQUEZ HERNANDEZ, individually, and on behalf of all others similarly
situated (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
 The motion is unopposed.
 
BACKGROUND
             On August 24, 2023, Plaintiff brought this
action against Defendants CALIBER AEROSPACE, LLC and EMPLOYER SOLUTIONS
STAFFING GROUP II, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”) for civil penalties under
the Private Attorneys General Act of 2004, California Labor Code §§ 2698 et
seq. (“PAGA”) stemming from Defendants’ alleged violations of the Labor Code.  Upon joint stipulation seeking leave of court
to file Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which was granted,
Plaintiff filed the operative FAC asserting the following causes of action: 1) Violation
of Labor Code §§ 204, 246, 510, 1194, 1198 (Failure to Pay All Wages); 2)
Violation of Labor Code §§ 226.7, 512 (Failure to Provide Meal Periods); 3)
Violation of Labor Code § 226.7 (Failure to Provide Rest Periods); 4) Violation
of Labor Code § 226, (Failure to Keep Accurate Itemized Wage Statements); 5)
Violation of Labor Code §§ 201-203 (Failure to Pay Wages Upon Termination of
Employment); 6) Violation of Labor Code § 2802 (Failure to Reimburse for
Necessary Expenditures); 7) Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et
seq. (Unfair Business Practices); and 8) Violation of the Private Attorneys
General Act, Labor Code sections 2698, et seq.
 
            On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion for preliminary approval of class and PAGA representative action
settlement (the “Motion”).  No opposition
or reply has been filed. 
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
Approval of class action settlements occurs in two
steps.  First, the court preliminarily
approves the settlement and the class members are notified as directed by the
court.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.769(c), (f); Cellphone Termination Fee Cases (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1118.)  Second, the court conducts
a final approval hearing to inquire into the fairness of the proposed
settlement.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.769(e); Cellphone Termination Fee Cases, supra, 180 Cal.App.4th at
1118.)  “Any party to a settlement
agreement may serve and file a written notice of motion for preliminary
approval of the settlement.”  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.769(c).)  “The
settlement agreement and proposed notice to class members must be filed with
the motion, and the proposed order must be lodged with the motion.”  (Id.) 
 
“‘The trial court has broad discretion to determine
whether the settlement is fair.’”  (Cellphone
Termination Fee Cases, supra, 180 Cal.App.4th at 1117 [quoting Dunk v.
Ford Motor Co. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1801].)  In determining whether to approve a class
settlement, the court’s responsibility is to “prevent fraud, collusion or
unfairness to the class” through settlement and dismissal of the class action
because the rights of the class members, and even named plaintiffs, “may not
have been given due regard by the negotiating parties.”  (Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. v. Kintetsu
Enterprises of America (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 46, 60.)  
 
ANALYSIS
A.        Class Certification is Appropriate.
 
A class action is proper “when the question is one
of a common or general interest, of many persons, or when the parties are
numerous, and it is impracticable to bring them all before the court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 382.)  The party seeking certification bears the
burden of establishing the existence of an ascertainable class and a
well-defined community of interest among class members.  (Dunk v. Ford Motor Co. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 1794, 1806.)
 
The proposed class consists of approximately 82 class
members, all of whom may be identified by reference to Defendants’ records that
pertain to non-exempt status and dates of employment.  (Motion, p. 9; Class Action and PAGA Settlement
Agreement (“Settlement”), ¶ 4.1.)  Class members
share a common interest in determining whether Defendants violated wage and
hour requirements under state and related federal law, including the following
issues: i. Whether or not Defendants paid proper wages to the Class; ii. Whether
or not Defendants provided meal periods to the Class; iii. Whether or not
Defendants provided rest periods to the Class; iv. Whether or not Defendants
paid compensation timely upon separation of employment to former Class Members;
v. Whether or not Defendants paid compensation timely throughout Class Members’
employment; vi. Whether or not Defendants provided accurate itemized wage
statements to the Class; vii. Whether or not waiting-time penalties are
available to the Class for violation of California Labor Code § 203; viii.
Whether or not Defendants reimbursed for necessary business expenses pursuant
to California Labor Code § 2802; ix. Whether or not Defendants engaged in unlawful
or unfair business practices affecting the Class in violation of California
Business and Professions Code §§ 17200-17208; and x. Whether or not Plaintiff
and the Class are entitled to penalties pursuant to PAGA.  (Declaration of Lilit Tunyan in Support of
Plaintiff’s Motion (“Tunyan Decl.”), ¶ 37.) 
Thus, based on the commonality of issues and numerosity of class
members, class resolution is a superior method of adjudication.
 
Plaintiff’s
claims, as alleged in the FAC, are typical of the class and arise from the same
common questions, and Plaintiff is an adequate representative whose interests
align with the class.  Like other class members,
Plaintiff was employed by Defendants in a non-exempt position during the proposed
class period, and Plaintiff claims that he was subject to the same policies
alleged to have impacted the entire class.  (Tunyan Decl., ¶ 36.)  Plaintiff alleges that he and other class members
share the same claims stemming from Defendants’ alleged violations of the Labor
Code.
 
Additionally, the proposed class counsel is
qualified to represent the class. Plaintiff’s counsel is experienced in wage
and hour class action litigation and has no conflicts of interest with absent class
members. (Tunyan Decl., ¶¶ 20-26, 39.) 
 
Accordingly, class certification is appropriate.
 
B.        The PAGA Penalties Are Appropriate.
A court must review and approve any PAGA penalties
sought as part of a proposed settlement agreement.  (Lab. Code § 2699, subd. (l).)  “[C]ivil penalties recovered by aggrieved employees
shall be distributed as follows: 75 percent to the Labor and Workforce
Development Agency for enforcement of labor laws and education of employers and
employees about their rights and responsibilities under this code, to be
continuously appropriated to supplement and not supplant the funding to the
agency for those purposes; and 25 percent to the aggrieved employees.”  (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (i).)  The PAGA penalties here comply with this
requirement.  (Settlement, p. 9, ¶ 3.2.5.)
Accordingly, the PAGA penalties are appropriate, subject to a finding that the settlement
is fair.
 
Additionally, a proposed PAGA settlement must be
submitted to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency (“LWDA”) at the same
time that it is submitted to the court for review and approval.  (Lab. Code § 2699, subd. (l)(2).)  Here, counsel for Plaintiff provided a copy
of the notice of the PAGA settlement to the LWDA through the online submission
portal.  (Tunyan Decl., ¶¶ 42-43; Exh.
2.)  Thus, Plaintiff demonstrated
compliance with Labor Code section 2699(l)(2).
 
C.        The Terms of Settlement Are Fair.
Settlement of a class action requires court approval
to prevent fraud, collusion, or unfairness to the class.  (Dunk, supra, 48 Cal.App.4th at 1800-1801.)  In making the fairness determination, “a
presumption of fairness exists where (1) the settlement is reached through
arm’s-length bargaining; (2) investigation and discovery are sufficient to
allow counsel and the court to act intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in
similar litigation; and (4) the percentage of objectors is small.”  (Id. at p. 1802.)
 
The proposed settlement was reached through a
mediation session with Michael Young, Esq., “a highly experienced and
well-regarded mediator for wage and hour class action litigation,” during which
“the Parties discussed at length the burdens and risks of continuing with the
litigation as well as the merits of the claims and defenses.” (Tunyan Decl., ¶ 7.)  In connection with the mediation, the parties
engaged in substantial discovery and investigation, including, inter alia, “the
exchange of informal data and discoverable information in preparation for the
settlement negotiations.  The Parties
have analyzed payroll and other data pertaining to Plaintiff and the Class
during the relevant Settlement Period, including but not limited to the numbers
of former and current members of the Class, average workweeks, sample size time
and pay records and average rate of hourly pay, wage and hour policies.” (Id.
¶ 5.)  The settlement was therefore
reached through arm’s-length bargaining with sufficient investigation to allow
counsel and the Court to act intelligently.
 
Defendants will pay a gross settlement amount of $110,000.00,
which is about 74% of the $148,367.80 estimate of risk-adjusted recovery
(excluding interest) at this stage in the litigation.  (Tunyan Decl., ¶¶ 10(c), 17; Settlement, ¶
3.1.)  Of this amount, no more than $10,000.00
will be paid to Plaintiff as a class representative service payment, no more
than $36,666.67 will be paid as attorney fees, no more than $16,000.00 will be
paid as class counsel litigation expenses payment, no more than $10,000.00 will
be paid for settlement administration, and $15,000.00 will be paid as PAGA
penalties.  (Settlement, pp. 7-9, ¶ 3.)  Of the PAGA payment, $11,250.00 (75%) will be
paid to the LWDA and $3,750.00 (25%) will be allocated to the individual PAGA
payments. Class members’ individual payments will be based on their number of
workweeks during the class period.  (Settlement,
p. 8, ¶ 3.2.4.)
 
Incentive payments are based on the expense and risk
undertaken by named plaintiffs for the benefit of other class members.  (Munoz v. BCI Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of
Los Angeles (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 399, 412.)  Based on Plaintiff’s involvement in this
action (Tunyan Decl. ¶ 32), a $10,000.00 payment to Plaintiff is reasonable.
 
The requested $36,666.67 in attorney fees is
reasonable and consistent with fee awards in class actions.  (Chavez v. Netflix, Inc. (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 43, 66, fn. 11 [“Empirical studies show that, regardless whether
the percentage method or the lodestar method is used, fee awards in class
actions average around one-third of the recovery,” internal quotation marks
omitted].)  Additionally, the requested $16,000.00
in costs is reasonable.
 
The parties agreed to recommend Phoenix Class Action
Administration Solutions (“Phoenix”) as the settlement administrator.  (Tunyan Decl., ¶ 33.)  Based on the Court’s experience, the
$10,000.00 requested fee is reasonable.
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff’s counsel has
extensive experience in labor and employment law, including class and
representative actions.  (Tunyan Decl.,
¶¶ 20-26.)
 
There are no objectors to the settlement at this
time, so at the preliminary approval stage, the proposed settlement is entitled
to a presumption of fairness.
 
D.        The Notice Procedure Is Appropriate.
The Notice to Class Members (“Notice”) will issue
within 14 days of receipt of the Class List (Settlement, ¶ 7.4.2).  The Notice describes how to dispute workweeks,
submit an objection in writing, in person, or through an attorney, or request
exclusion (Settlement, ¶¶ 7.4 – 7.7)
 
The content of the Notice contains a brief
explanation of the case, a statement regarding exclusion from the class, a
procedure for exclusion, a statement that judgment will bind all non-excluded
members, and a statement that any member who does not request exclusion may appear
through counsel, in compliance with California Rules of Court, rule
3.766(d).  If a class member wants to be
excluded, one can exclude himself or herself from the Settlement by submitting
a written request for exclusion or otherwise notifying the Administrator in
writing.  Class members do not need to
take any action to submit a claim if they do wish to remain in the class.  (Exh. A to Settlement, Notice.)
 
Accordingly, the proposed notice procedure is appropriate.
            
RULING
            Based on all the foregoing,
Plaintiff’s Motion is GRANTED.  
 
The
Court sets the following dates related to the settlement:
 
Defendants
must provide the Class Data to the Administrator within 14 days of the preliminary
approval.  The Administrator must serve
notices to Class Members within 14 days of receiving the Class List.  Members of the Settlement Class shall have 45
calendar days from the mailing of the Class Notice to object or opt out.  The Final Approval Hearing is set for
November 5, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  Class
Counsel shall file the Motion for Final Approval of Settlement at least 16
court days prior to hearing.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 26th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



