 Case Number:  821STCV42481    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DR. PAYAM
  VAHEDIFAR, an Individual;
SHADI VAHEDIFAR, an Individual, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
BRIAN PAYA, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV42481
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
  SETTLEMENT
 
Date: July 26, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



AND RELATED
CROSS-ACTIONS.
______________________________________
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
SIMCO PACIFIC CORP. (“Simco”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers.  The motion is unopposed.
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises out of a landlord-tenant
relationship. Plaintiffs’ complaint (the “Complaint”) alleges: (1) violation of
Civil Code section 1950.5; (2) statutory fraud or deceit and common law fraud;
(3) intentional misrepresentation; (4) negligent misrepresentation; (5)
fraudulent concealment; (6) negligence; (7) negligence per se; (8) conversion;
(9) breach of fiduciary duty; (10) breach of contract; (11) breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (12) violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200, et seq.; (13) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; (14) negligent infliction of emotional distress; (15) unjust
enrichment and restitution; (16) intentional interference with contractual
relations; and (17) conspiracy to breach contract and to interfere with
contractual relations.
 
            On April 19, 2024, Simco filed the
instant Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement (the “Motion”).  
 
DISCUSSION
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 877.6, subdivision (a)(1), provides, in relevant part,
that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action wherein it is alleged
that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”  “A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims
against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).)  Although a determination that
a settlement was in good faith does not discharge any other party from
liability, “it shall reduce the claims against the others in the amount stipulated”
by the settlement.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877, subd. (a).) 
 
“The party asserting the lack of good
faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) 
 
In City of Grand View Terrace v.
Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, the court
provided the following guidance regarding a motion for a good faith settlement
determination: 
 
This court notes that of the hundreds of
motions for good faith determination presented for trial court approval each
year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and granted summarily by the
trial court.  At the time of filing in many cases, the moving party does
not know if a contest will develop.  If each motion required a full
recital by declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual response
to all of the Tech-Bilt factors, literally thousands of
attorney hours would be consumed and inch-thick motions would have to be read
and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would waste valuable
judicial and legal time and clients’ resources. . .. That is to say, when no
one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith,
accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is
sufficient. 
 
If the good faith settlement is contested,
section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable ground rule for the
hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good faith on the
contesting party.  Once there is a showing made by the settlor of the
settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good faith shifts to
the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in good
faith.  If contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should
be filed which in many cases could require the moving party to file
responsive counterdeclarations to negate the lack of good faith
asserted by the nonsettling contesting party.  (192 Cal.App.3d 1251,
1260-1261 [citation omitted].)  (Emphasis
supplied.)
 
In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499, the
California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts
are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section
877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the
settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a
settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable
after a trial.  Other relevant considerations include the financial
conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as
the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of nonsettling defendants.”
 
The settlement agreement that Plaintiffs
and Simco (collectively, “Parties”) entered into in April 2024 (the “Settlement
Agreement”) is attached in support of the Motion.  (Declaration of Lee David Lubin (“Lubin Decl.”),
Exh. A.)  Under the Settlement Agreement,
Simco agrees to pay $3,000 to Plaintiffs within fifteen (15) days of
the entry of the Order determining that it is a good faith settlement, in exchange for dismissal of Plaintiffs’ claims.  In addition, Parties have agreed to
bear their own attorneys’ fees and costs.  The Settlement Agreement also includes a
general release, which contains, among other items, a waiver of Civil Code §
1542 provisions.  (Lubin Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. A.)  
 
Simco’s counsel attests that the “settlement
was entered in good faith and [was] a product of extensive arm’s length negotiations,
and not [a] result of collusion or fraud.” 
(Id., ¶ 2.)  Simco’s
counsel further attests that after negotiations, the Parties have agreed that a
$3,000 settlement represents Simco’s share of potential liability, taking into
consideration that Plaintiffs previously received $76,000 from Defendants Nina
Hunt and S&A Realty Corp through a prior settlement.  (Id., at ¶ 4.)
 
The Court notes that the main
basis of Plaintiffs’ claims appears to be that their $30,000 deposit for the
lease of the subject property was wrongfully converted in connection with the
itemized list of deductions after the pre-moveout walkthrough inspection.  The settlement amount of $3,000, when combined
with the $76,000 that Plaintiffs have already received in a prior settlement,
is more than double that of the at-issue property deposit.  Given the rough approximation of Plaintiff’s
total recovery, the Court finds that the settlement amount of $3,000 does
not weigh against a finding of good faith.
 
Importantly, the Court also notes that
the Motion is not contested.  There is,
therefore, no evidence to suggest that the Settlement Agreement was not entered
into in good faith.  There is no evidence
of fraud, collusion, or misconduct by the Parties, nor is there any proof that
the non-settling parties will suffer particularly severe consequences if the
settlement is approved.  In
law and motion practice, factual evidence is provided to the court by way of
declarations.  (Calcor Space Facility,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.).  The Court thus
finds no reason for the Motion to be denied. 
 
RULING
Accordingly, the Court finds
that the Settlement Agreement was entered into in good faith, and therefore, GRANTS
the Motion.
 
            Moving Party is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 26th day of July 2024




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 