 Case Number:  23SMCV04926    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is OVERRULED. 
The motion to strike punitive damages is MOOT because plaintiff has
withdrawn the claim for such damages. 
The remainder of the motion to strike is DENIED.  
 
Plaintiff sues defendants for the improper removal of trees
from her property and damage to her property. 
At issue is defendant Natural Wonders Trees, Inc.’s (Natural) challenge
to the pleadings.  
 
Plaintiff contends that on May 8, 2019, defendants spray
painted and then cut down several trees on plaintiff’s property even though she
objected.  Plaintiff goes on to say that
on May 23, 2019, it happened again even after plaintiff had produced a survey
to defendants showing that the trees were on her property and was reassured
that those trees would not be touched. 
On August 6, 2019, more trees were cut down notwithstanding promises
from a different party that it would not occur. 
More trees were cut down on September 30, 2022, and further the roots
were severed, which caused what was left of the trees to fall and almost injure
plaintiff and her dog.  Defendant Natural
demurs and plaintiff opposes.
 
To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege
ultimate facts sufficient to support the cause of action.  The court assumes all allegations to be
true.  But Natural’s defense is not that
the complaint fails to assert a cause of action against someone; Natural
claims only that the complaint (or aspects of it) does not state a cause of
action against National.  More
particularly, Natural objects to plaintiff’s decision to lump all defendants
together and not specify what specifically Natural did wrong as opposed to
others.  Natural notes that this is
especially troubling for fraud, where greater particularity than normal is
required.  
 
Plaintiff does not allege fraud as a cause of action, so the
pleading requirements for fraud do not apply here.  Plaintiff alleges that the defendants all
acted in concert.  That may or may not be
true, but for pleading purposes enough has been alleged.  Further, it is defendants who will best know
what role each played and what communications each had with the other.  The better time to test whether Natural is
properly sued for a particular cause of action is summary judgment, not
demurrer.  Natural also complains of the
conspiracy allegations.  But plaintiff is
not raising conspiracy as a cause of action (for good reason—it is not a cause
of action).  Plaintiff raises conspiracy as
a way to spread liability from the person who actually committed the wrongful
act to other defendants who conspired. 
That is a proper use, and the challenge to the conspiracy allegation is
best made in an evidentiary motion, not a pleading motion.
 
Natural has 15 days to answer.