  Case Number:  22SMCV00521    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  I The application is DENIED. 
The gist of the application is that CAIC wants to bring a summary
judgment motion based on the statute of limitations on the theory that the DOE
amendment does not relate back to the filing of the original complaint.  To prove it, CAIC wants to show that
plaintiffs’ counsel (and through counsel, plaintiffs) had knowledge that CAIC
was the issuer of the policy in question no later than November 3, 2022, when
Mercury’s counsel allegedly told plaintiffs’ counsel as much.  CAIC served discovery seeking what would
essentially be admissions that the November 2022 letter was written to
plaintiffs’ counsel, that plaintiffs’ counsel was at Mercury’s PMK deposition
where the same information was disclosed, and similar things.
 
This is just everyone being silly and petty.  The court frankly would be shocked if
plaintiffs’ counsel denied knowing that this was Mercury’s position at least as
of the time of the November 2022 letter. 
CAIC is welcome to attach the letter and a declaration from counsel
authenticating it as part of a summary judgment motion.  That, coupled with the policy itself, will
likely shift the burden as to whether plaintiffs’ counsel knew or suspected at
least those underlying facts by the date in question.  Plaintiffs are not likely to dispute the
fact—at least if the fact is not larded up with adjectives and spin.  If plaintiffs do contest the issue, the court
will have to consider whether more time is needed as a matter of due process to
allow CAIC to attempt to firm up the fact, which will almost certainly mean a
trial continuance at that time.  And, if
plaintiffs’ counsel is disputing the fact without some real heft to the
dispute, then this case will go to the back of the trial line—the court will
make no special effort to get the matter tried quickly as it did last
time.  (That is not to say that the court
will delay the trial unnecessarily; it is only to say that the court will not
prioritize this case over others where the parties are acting reasonably).  Far more likely, plaintiffs will argue the
legal significance of the letter or PMK deposition, but not the underlying
facts.  That is something plaintiffs are
entitled to do, but a trial delay is not needed to adjudicate legal
significance.
 
The court would advise CAIC to file its motion with
alacrity.  Right now, there is still
time.  That will not be true for very
long.  If the motion is filed less than
105 days before the trial date (assuming personal service), it will not be
heard.  But if it is timely filed, it
will be heard.  No continuance is needed.