 Case Number:  23STCV19761    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


July 8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV19761




MOTION:  


Motion for Protective Order




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Ariel Alfaro




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant Man Staffing LLC



 
MOTION
            Plaintiff
Ariel Alfaro (“Plaintiff”) moves for a protective order regarding Special
Interrogatories, set one (“SROG”), which Defendant Man Staffing LLC
(“Defendant”) propounded on Plaintiff. 
Defendant opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff fails to
specify the nature of the protective order she seeks in her notice of
motion.  Instead, Plaintiff simply states
she seeks a protective order “concerning” the SROG.  (See Notice of Motion for Protective
Order.)  The moving party must state in the
first paragraph of the notice of motion exactly what relief the party seeks,
and on what grounds.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1010; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110, subd. (a).)  As authority for the motion, Plaintiff cites
Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.020, which permits the Court to limit
discovery on a protective order if the Court determines that “the burden,
expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood
that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020,
subd. (a).)   Plaintiff also cites Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.090, which sets forth various types of protective orders a
responding party may obtain.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.090, subd. (a).)  These
citations do not provide sufficient notice of the specific protective order
Plaintiff seeks.  As such, the motion is
denied.
Further, to the
extent the court construes Plaintiff’s motion to request the Court strike
Defendant’s SROG in its entirety, the motion is without merit.  The court cannot strike an entire set of
interrogatories if any question in the set is proper.  (West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v.
Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) 
The SROG are not all improper, and they are tailored to Plaintiff’s
allegations.  (Declaration of Pouya B.
Chami, Exhibit B.) “[A] defendant in California courts may be required through
discovery to disclose not only the evidentiary facts underlying his affirmative
defenses and denials but also whether or not he makes a particular contention,
either as to the facts or as to the possible issues in the case.  A plaintiff, of course, is subject to
analogous requirements.”  (Burke v.
Superior Court of Sacramento County (1969) 71 Cal.2d 276, 281-282, internal
quotations and citations omitted.)
To the extent
Plaintiff challenges the necessity of Defendant’s SROG, the court finds the  SROG are justified.  To propound more than 35 special
interrogatories, a party must attach a declaration from the party’s counsel to
explain why more interrogatories are necessary. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.040, subd. (a), 2030.050.)  Defendant did that in this instance.  A party may use a motion for protective order
to challenge another party’s assertion more than 35 interrogatories are
warranted in the action.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.090, subd. (b)(2).)  On
such a motion, the burden is on the propounding party to prove the number of
questions is justified.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.040. subd. (b).) 
Plaintiff asserts
ten causes of action against Defendant in a 15-page complaint.  Each SROG Defendant propounded on Plaintiff
asks Plaintiff to state all facts in support of an allegation in Plaintiff’s
complaint, to identify all witnesses in support of an allegation in Plaintiff’s
complaint, or to identify all documents in support of an allegation in
Plaintiff’s complaint.  Thus, these
narrowly-tailored requests seek the evidence supporting Plaintiff’s complaint
and are not excessive. 
In reply,
Plaintiff cites this court’s order in an unrelated matter: Caputo v. Costco Wholesale Corporation
(Super. Ct. L.A. County, 2019, No. 19STCV24527) (Caputo).  Such an order is irrelevant with respect to this
case.  In any event, the court notes the
motion for protective order in Caputo was
procedurally proper, and it concerned a second set of 196 special
interrogatories, which the propounding party served after having served an
initial set of 177 special interrogatories, to which the responding party had
already responded.  The motion for
protective order in Caputo was sought, therefore, under vastly different circumstances in that Plaintiff in
this action apparently seeks to avoid responding to any SROG from Defendant. 
The parties’ individual
requests for sanctions against each other are denied. 
Defendant is to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 
 