 Case Number:  23STCV11070    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


July 8, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV11070




MOTIONS


Demurrer to Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Casa
  Lu-An Motel and Vanmalibhai Patel




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs Victoria Manriquez and Marissa Galaviz



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs
Victoria Manriquez and Marissa Galaviz (“Plaintiffs”) sued Defendants Casa
Lu-An Motel and Vanmalibhai Patel (“Defendants”) because Plaintiffs contend a
motel room Plaintiffs rented from Defendants had a bedbug infestation.  Defendants demur to the first cause of action
for battery, the third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress,
and the seventh cause of action for fraudulent concealment in Plaintiffs’
complaint.  Defendants also move to
strike the punitive damages allegations from the complaint.  Plaintiffs oppose the motions.  
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322,
subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the
court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is for
battery.  To state a claim for battery,
Plaintiffs must allege Defendants intentionally acted in a way that resulted in
harmful or offensive contact with Plaintiffs’ bodies; Plaintiffs did not
consent to the contact; and the contact harmed Plaintiffs.  (Brown v. Ransweiler (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 516, 526.)  Plaintiffs allege
Defendants’ intentional acts include: “(1) deliberate actions in failing to
properly and thoroughly inspect and clean the room assigned to Plaintiffs, and
to ensure the room was free from infestations of bedbugs, and the like, prior
to renting and assigning the room to Plaintiffs; (2) intentional and deliberate
failures to treat and eliminate infestation of bedbugs, and the like, occurring
in the rooms of the Subject Hotel; (3) intentional, deliberate, and reckless
choice not to inspect for bedbugs and the spread of bedbug infestations at the
Subject Hotel; (4) intentional, deliberate, and reckless choice in requiring
Plaintiffs to be assigned and isolated in the room of the Subject Hotel despite
having prior knowledge of the bedbug infestation from the Plaintiffs; (5)
intentional, deliberate, and reckless choice not to properly train housekeeping
staff to thoroughly clean and maintain the rooms in a sanitary and habitable
condition; (6) willful disregard of knowledge of Cimex lectularius (bedbugs)
infestation and other uninhabitable conditions in Plaintiffs’ room; and  (7) intentional, deliberate, and reckless
choice in failing to give notice to Plaintiffs of the presence of the said
uninhabitable conditions occurring in Plaintiffs’ room at the Subject Hotel.”  (Complaint, ¶ 53.)  These allegations are not of intentional
actions Defendants took that injured Plaintiffs.  Instead, these allegations are that
Defendants failed to maintain their hotel in an appropriate condition.  The Court sustains the demurrer to the first
cause of action with leave to amend.
Defendants demur to Plaintiffs’ third cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, or IIED.  “The elements of the tort of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.  Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as
to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.  The defendant must have engaged in conduct
intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will
result.”  (Potter v. Firestone Tire
& Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001, internal quotations and
citations omitted.)  
Plaintiffs allege Defendants knew the hotel
room Plaintiffs rented from Defendants had a bedbug infestation, but failed to
remedy the infestation before Plaintiffs occupied the room.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 83, 85.)  For pleading purposes, these allegations
suffice.  Plaintiffs allege Defendants
acted with reckless disregard for the likelihood of causing Plaintiffs severe
emotional distress due to the bedbug infestation.  The court overrules the demurrer to the third
cause of action.
Plaintiffs’ seventh cause of action is for fraud. 
Plaintiff must allege fraud with particularity.  “This means: (1) general pleading of the
legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause
of action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and specifically, and
the policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to
sustain a pleading that is defective in any material respect.”  (Wilhelm
v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324,
1331.)  To state a case of action for
fraudulent concealment, Plaintiffs must allege Defendants concealed or
suppressed a material fact that Defendants were under a duty to disclose to
Plaintiffs with the intent to defraud Plaintiffs; Plaintiffs were unaware of
the fact and would not have acted in the same way if Plaintiffs knew of the
concealed fact; and the concealment caused damages to Plaintiffs.  (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown
Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 868.)  
Plaintiffs allege,
“As evidenced by prior similar incidents and reviews posted on various online
platforms by prior guests and invitees, Defendants . . . were aware of the
presence of the infestation of bedbugs, and the like, to be present in the
rooms at their Subject Hotel.”  (Complaint, ¶ 143.)  Plaintiffs further allege, “Defendants’ . . .
failures to implement policies and procedures, training, and proper cleaning
processes of Plaintiffs’ room—to prevent an incident such as this and the
spread of insects, bed bugs, and the like—amounts to suppression and
concealment of existing unsanitary conditions in the rooms at the hotel.”  (Id., ¶ 144.)  However, Plaintiff does not allege specific
facts to support these conclusory allegations. 
Plaintiffs must amend.
To state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages
statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (Coll. Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (Coll. Hosp.).)  In that vein, a plaintiff must allege the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice is defined in the statute as conduct
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
(Coll. Hosp., supra,
8 Cal.4th at p.725.)  “The mere
allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages.  Not only must
there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be
alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.”  (Grieves
v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal citations and
footnotes omitted.)  
Plaintiffs allege Defendants acted with “willful
and conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’ right to be free from such tortious
behavior, such as to constitute oppression, fraud or malice pursuant to
California Civil Code Section 3294 . . . .” 
(See, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 
79.)  However, Plaintiffs do not allege
specific facts to support these conclusory allegations.  Accordingly, Plaintiffs have not alleged
facts to support the claim for punitive damages.
Defendants also
move to strike the prayer for attorney fees. 
Plaintiffs do not allege a basis for an award of attorney fees, nor do
Plaintiffs oppose the motion to strike the prayer for attorney fees.  Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to
strike the prayer for attorney fees without leave to amend.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’
demurrer to the first and seventh causes of action in Plaintiffs’ complaint is sustained
with leave to amend.  Defendants’ motion
to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages allegations is granted with leave to
amend.  Defendants’ motion to strike the
prayer for attorneys’ fees is granted without leave to amend.
Plaintiffs are to
file an amended complaint within 10 days of notice of this order.  
Defendants are ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 