 This is an employment action.  On April 17, 2023, Plaintiff Liliana A. filed a complaint against Defendant Pluto Acquisition Opco LL.C dba Universal Background Screening alleging causes of action regarding her employment with Defendant.   On October 27, 2023, the Court compelled this matter to arbitration. Plaintiff Liliana A. now seeks to vacate the stay in this matter and withdraw from arbitration because Defendant Universal Background Screening, Inc. failed to timely pay arbitration fees.  Plaintiff also seeks monetary, evidentiary, and/or terminating sanctions.Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.97(a)(1) states, “In an employment or consumer arbitration that requires, either expressly or through application of state or federal law or the rules of the arbitration provider, the drafting party to pay certain fees and costs before the arbitration can proceed, if the fees or costs to initiate an arbitration proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due date the drafting party is in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is in default of the arbitration, and waives its right to compel arbitration under Section 1281.2.”Defendant does not dispute that fees were not timely tendered.  Rather, Defendant argues that the Motion should be denied because “[i]n Hernandez v. Sohnen Enterprises, Inc., the appellate court specifically addressed whether the Federal Arbitration Act’s (‘FAA’) preempts the Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.97 [ ]. The appellate court found that the FAA does preempt section 1281.97.”In Reply, Plaintiff contends that the Court “could side with Second Appellate District Division 1 (Espinoza v. Superior Court), Second Appellate District, Division 2 (Gallo v. Wood Ranch USA, Inc), Second Appellate District, Division 3 (De Leon v. Juanita’s Foods), Second Appellate District, Division 8 (Hohenshelt v. Superior Court), Fourth Appellate District, Division 1 (Suarez v. Superior Court) or it can side with the sole Second Appellate District, Division 5 (Hernandez v. Sohnen Enterprises) which was truly fragmented as Presiding Justice Baker gave a blistering dissent.”“When there are conflicting court of appeal decisions on point, the trial court can choose to follow either of them; it can even adopt the position taken by another district, notwithstanding a conflicting decision emanating from the trial court's own district. (As a practical matter, however, trial courts usually adhere to the decisions from their own districts.)”  (Eisenberg et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Appeals & Writs (The Rutter Group 2005) ¶ 14:195, p. 14-72.)The Court chooses to follow Espinoza, et al., and finds that the FAA does not preempt Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.97.Further, as discussed, it appears undisputed that fees were not timely tendered.  Therefore, Plaintiff has a right to reinstate the action.  As to sanctions, the Court will only award monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff seeks $14,170 in sanctions; this represents the time associated with the instant Motion.The Court will award reduced sanctions in the amount of $3,500.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1281.97(d), 1281.99.)The Motion is granted.  The objections are overruled.  The Requests for Judicial Notice are granted.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 