On  January 9, 2023, Plaintiff Loomis Armored US, LLC (“Loomis”) filed the operative Complaint against Defendant Rafael Castillo for (1) fraud and (2) conversion.  Plaintiff alleges that it has a cash delivery service and that its employee, Castillo, stole $36,000 while making a delivery.  Motion to ConsolidateLoomis seeks to consolidate this matter with Rafael Castillo v. Loomis Armored US, LLC, et al., Case No. 23STCV04436, which is also in Dept. 20.  Loomis contends that there are overlapping questions of law, a common factual nucleus, and similar parties.  In 23STCV04436, Castillo has brought claims for discrimination, harassment, failure to prevent misconduct, wrongful discharge, and defamation against Loomis and also five of its employees, Jessie Hernandez, Nolan Tate, Ryan Shake, Urias Jimenez, and John Toliano.   Castillo therein alleges that he had been an excellent employee for years, but when Shake was hired, he orchestrated a scheme in which he hired two younger employees, had Castillo completely train them, and then fired Castillo through a false assertion that he stole $36,000.  Castillo alleges that the LAPD and District Attorney found no probable cause for an arrest and that he has not been charged for any crime.  Castillo opposes consolidation because the issues of fact and law and the identity of the parties are not sufficiently similar.  Castillo also argues that there would be great jury confusion as to the standards for the competing claims. Code Civ. Proc. § 1048(a) provides, “[w]hen actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the actions;¿it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”  The pleadings in the subject cases mirror a complaint and cross-complaint.  Given that both cases will closely examine whether Castillo stole the subject money, requiring similar evidence and witnesses, the Court, in the exercise of its discretion, grants the Motion.Motion for Leave to Amend Loomis also seeks leave to file a First Amended Complaint adding causes of action for (1) violation of Penal Code § 496 and (2) breach of fiduciary duty.  Loomis further seeks to remove its fraud claim.  The Court may, in the furtherance of justice, and upon any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 473, 576.)  In general, California courts liberally exercise discretion to permit amendment of pleadings in light of a strong policy favoring resolution of all disputes between parties in the same action.  (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939; Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  “[T]here is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.”  (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296.)  Pursuant to this policy, requests for leave to amend generally will be granted unless the party seeking to amend has been dilatory in bringing the proposed amendment before the Court, and the delay in seeking leave to amend will cause prejudice to the opposing party if leave to amend is granted.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490; Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.)  The decision on a motion for leave is directed to the sound discretion of the trial court.  (See generally Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2014) ¶¶ 6:637 et seq.)Castillo contends that “(1) Loomis fails to establish sufficient facts to allege California Penal Code § 496(a) against Defendant because such a claim requires a conviction—Mr. Castillo was never even charged with a crime and will not be charged; (2) Loomis claims that they are not adding facts to their proposed amended complaint. Mr. Castillo maintained money machines and transported cash—he is not a fiduciary, thus he cannot breach a fiduciary duty. Loomis would need new facts to make this contention; (3) Amending the complaint after Defendant planned, attempted to, and did conduct significant discovery on the existing causes of action, will cause Defendant severe prejudice; (4) The remedies provided by the causes of action in Plaintiff’s proposed amended complaint are significantly different from the remedies in Plaintiff’s initial complaint such that they do not relate back and are barred by the statute of limitations.”Castillo’s arguments as to a failure to allege a conviction, the application of the statute of limitations, and a failure to allege a fiduciary duty lack merit.  A demurrer or dispositive motion is the proper vehicle by which to hear these assertions.Further, there is no basis to find sufficient prejudice to preclude an amendment at this juncture.  Indeed, the trial in this matter is currently set for October 2025.  Because there is not sufficient prejudice, the Motion is granted.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.