 Case Number:  23AHCP00275    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SHANGHAI TONGSHENG INVESTMENT CO., LTD, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ZHOU
   XIAOGUANG, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCP00275
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: APPLICATION FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH ORDER AND ORDER FOR ISSUANCE
   OF WRIT OF ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEFENDANT YU YUNXIN 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   30, 2024




 


 


 



 
Plaintiff Shanghai Tongsheng Investment
Co., Ltd. (“Plaintiff”) applies for a Right to Attach Order and order issuing a
writ of attachment against defendant Yu Yunxin (“Defendant”). The application
is not opposed by Defendant, who is self-represented. The application cannot be
granted at this time, however, due to several procedural and evidentiary errors.

First, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 484.040, all of the following must be served on Defendant at
the times prescribed by section 1005(b): (1) a copy of the summons and
complaint, (2) a notice of application and hearing, and (3) a copy of the
application and of any affidavit in support of the application. Here, the proof
of service does not show that a copy of the summons and complaint was sent to
Defendant. Additionally, the proof of service shows that the place of mailing
is outside of California, therefore notice must include 16 court days as well
as 20 calendar days. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b); see also Code
Civ. Proc., § 684.120, subd. (b).) The documents were served by mail on
December 22, 2023, which is a week after it should have been initially mailed
out. 
Second, the declarations submitted in
support of this application are not properly executed. If a declaration is
executed outside California, the certification must be made “under penalty of
perjury under the laws of the State of California.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2015.5.)
The declaration of Ronging Wu, whom the Court notes is not yet admitted to practice
in California PHV, is not executed under penalty of perjury under the laws of
the State of California. Furthermore, Fengquan Li certifies the English
translations of the attached documents by stating that the translator is
“competent” in Mandarin and that they have translated the documents to the best
of their ability into English. Li does not state that Li is a certified
interpreter or set forth facts under penalty of perjury showing that Li is a
“qualified interpreter.” (CRC 3.1110, subd. (g) [all exhibits written in a
foreign language to be accompanied by an English translation, “certified under
oath by a qualified interpreter.”]) Defendant did not oppose or object to the
contents of the translation. However, at the very least, the attorney’s declaration
supporting the application should be properly executed. 
Third, Plaintiff submitted a proposed
order on Judicial Council Form AT-125 (which is for ex parte applications),
instead of AT-120 (which is for noticed hearings). 
Given these deficiencies, the Court continues
the hearing to March 19, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. so that Plaintiff may submit
revised declarations and a proposed order and give the amount of notice that is
required by statute. (Code Civ. Proc. 484.080.)  
Dated
this 30th
day of January, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.