  Case Number:  22AHCV00922    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



WILLIAM HENRY MEURER, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
QINPEI
   LI,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00922
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

January
   30, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff William Henry Meurer
(“Plaintiff”) seeks a partition by sale of real property located at 1109 Avon
Place in South Pasadena, California (the “Property”).  The Property is allegedly held equally as
joint tenants by Plaintiff and defendant Qinpei Li (“Defendant”).  Plaintiff alleges Defendant, who is the
tenant-in-possession, refuses to voluntarily sell the Property or buy out his
interest in the Property.
 
On September 19, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a motion for summary judgment. 

On January 16, 2024,
Defendant filed her opposition brief and supporting papers. 
No reply papers are on
file. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” 
(Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
381-382.) 
When a plaintiff moves for
summary judgment, they must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting
facts proving the essential elements of a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1520.) Once the plaintiff has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) 
III.       
Discussion 
“A partition action may be
commenced and maintained by … an owner of an estate for life. . . in real
property where such property or estate therein is owned by several persons
concurrently or in successive estates.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 872.210, subd. (a).)
“If the court finds that the plaintiff is entitled to partition, it shall make
an interlocutory judgment that determines the interests of the parties in the
property and orders the partition of the property and, unless it is to be later
determined, the manner of partition.” (Id., § 872.810.) “Notwithstanding¿Section
872.810, the court shall order that the property be sold and the proceeds be
divided among the parties in accordance with their interests in the property as
determined in the interlocutory judgment in the following situations: (a)
The parties agree to such relief, by their pleadings or otherwise. (b) The
court determines that, under the circumstances, sale and division of the
proceeds would be more equitable¿than division of the
property. For the purpose of making the determination, the
court may appoint a¿referee and take into
account [the referee’s]¿report.” (Code
Civ.Proc. § 872.820.)¿ 
The co-owner of a property
has “an absolute right to partition unless barred by a valid waiver.” (LEG
Investments v.¿Boxler¿(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 484, 493.) “In many
modern transactions, sale of the property is preferable to physical division
since the value of the divided parcels frequently will not equal the value of
the whole parcel before division. Moreover, physical division may be impossible
due to zoning restrictions or may be highly impractical, particularly in the
case of urban property.” (Butte Creek Island
Ranch v. Crim¿(1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 360,
365.) However,
the party seeking partition still has the burden to show that the sale and
division of the proceeds is “more equitable” than a physical division. (Ibd.) 
¿The
judgment of partition is left to the discretion of the trial court and the
determination of whether partition by sale is more equitable than physical
division requires a factual inquiry by the court. (See¿Richmond v.¿Dofflemyer¿(1980)
105 Cal.App.3d 745, 758-59, 765-66;¿Formosa Corp. v. Rogers¿(1951)
108 Cal.App.2d 397, 411-12 [abuse of discretion standard applied under prior
version of partition law requiring showing of “great prejudice” for finding of
partition by sale.]) This is because “a
partition suit is in equity” and “a court of equity has broad powers and
comparatively unlimited discretion to apply.” (Richmond, 105 Cal.App.3d at p. 758;¿Cunningham v.¿Frymire¿(1958) 160 Cal.App.2d 726,
729 [the trial court’s decision will not be disturbed “if there is any
substantial evidence” in support and an appellate court will not weigh
questions of fact determined by the trial court in a partition action.]) 
Plaintiff
presents evidence that they are entitled to a partition by sale. Plaintiff
declares Plaintiff and Defendant are co-owners of the Property.  (UMF Nos. 1-3.) Plaintiff has a 50% interest
in the Property and Defendant also has a 50% in the Property. (UMF Nos. 1-3) Plaintiff
declares that the Property is a single-family residence in a South Pasadena
subdivision and that partition by appraisal is not possible. (UMF Nos. 4-6.) 
In opposition, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff lost his interest in the Property and that she became the
sole owner through adverse possession when she built a fence around the
Property and changed the locks. (Li Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendant states she
explicitly told Plaintiff not to come onto the Property without her invitation
and in September 2019, she purchased and installed a metal door for “further
safety concerns” after “Plaintiff broke into [her] house, forcing his entrance
against my pushing the door to close him out.” (Li Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendant
submits copies of checks showing that she paid for property taxes from 2015
until 2023 and declares that Plaintiff did not pay for the Property’s
maintenance or its property taxes. (Ex. 23; Response to UMF No. 3.) Defendant
also argues that the Property can be divided and is not required to be sold
because the city of South Pasadena permits construction of an accessory
dwelling unit on the lot. (Response to UMF No. 4.) Defendant also identifies another
property in South Pasadena with two single-family houses on one lot which
recently sold for $1.2 million. Defendant additionally claims that Plaintiff
owes Defendant a significant amount of money since 2001 and that Plaintiff
promised Defendant he would not sell the property without her consent in order
to avoid taxes. (Response to UMF No. 7.) 
Defendant’s submitted
evidence raises a triable issue of material fact regarding the nature of
Plaintiff’s interest in the house and whether a partition by sale is preferable
to subdivision. Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for summary
judgment. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 30th
 day of January, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 