 Case Number:  24STCP00546    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTION TO QUASH OR MODIFY SUBPOENA
 
Date:               10/1/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:               Christian Arturo Llamas Corona
v. Claudia Llamas et al. (24STCP00546)
  
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
Plaintiff Christian Arturo Llamas Corona’s Motion to Quash
or Modify Subpoena is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff moves to quash or modify the subpoena that defendants
Claudia Llamas and Jessica Llamas issued to Corporate Kit Supply (“CKS”).
Defendants seek production of the following documents:
 
1. All documents relating to Yellow Owl
Properties Managements, Inc.
 
2. All purchase orders for products
relating to Yellow Owl Properties Managements, Inc.
 
3. All invoices for purchases of
products relating to Yellow Owl Properties Managements, Inc.
 
4. All receipts for purchases of
products relating to Yellow Owl Properties Managements, Inc.
 
5. All purchase confirmations for
products relating to Yellow Owl Properties Managements, Inc.
 
6. All communications regarding
purchases of products relating to Yellow Owl Properties Managements, Inc.
 
7. All records of requests for products
bearing the name “Yellow Owl Properties Managements, Inc”
 
8. All documents regarding products
bearing the name “Yellow Owl Properties Managements, Inc”
 
9. All documents reflecting mailing or
delivery information for purchases of products relating to Yellow Owl
Properties Managements, Inc.
 
10. All documents relating to orders
placed by CHRISTIAN LLAMAS.
 
11. All documents exchanged with
CHRISTIAN LLAMAS.
 
12. All communications with CHRISTIAN
LLAMAS.
 
13. All documents relating to orders
placed by Oliver Cisneros.
 
14. All documents exchanged with Oliver
Cisneros.
 
15. All communications with Oliver
Cisneros.
 
16. All documents relating to orders
placed by Emilio Cordova Lopez.
 
17. All documents exchanged with Emilio
Cordova Lopez.
 
18. All communications with Emilio
Cordova Lopez.
 
(Biggins Decl. ¶ 1 & Ex. 1.) 
 
Before addressing plaintiff’s
arguments concerning the subpoena, it is important to discuss the context in
which defendants issued the challenged subpoena.  Plaintiff alleges that he is the sole
shareholder and rightful owner of Yellow Owl Properties Managements, Inc.
(“Yellow Owl”). (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 6.) Plaintiff seeks a determination that defendants
are not officers and directors of Yellow Owl. (Compl. ¶ 7; Prayer ¶ 1.) In
support of plaintiff’s contention that he is the sole shareholder of Yellow
Owl, plaintiff relies on a black and white stock certificate issued to him. (Gregory
Decl. ¶¶ 2-4 & Exs. 1-3 [response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 with
respect to Request for Admission No. 2 and Stock Certificate on page 42].) The
certificate bears a copyright notice from “CORPORATE KIT SUPPLY CKS 2.”
(Gregory Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex. 3 at 42.) Defendants sought to inspect the stock certificate
presented by plaintiff, but, according to plaintiff’s counsel, neither
plaintiff nor his counsel have the original or color copy of the certificate.
(Burstein Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. 1.) Defendants subsequently issued a subpoena to CKS
seeking the documents listed above. 
 
There can be no serious doubt the
subpoena to CKS seeks relevant documents. Because plaintiff contends that he is
sole shareholder and owner of Yellow Owl, relies on a stock certificate purportedly
issued by CKS (Gregory Decl. ¶¶ 2-4 & Exs. 1-3), but does not have the
original or color copy of that certificate (Burstein Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. 1),
defendants has good cause to seek CKS records that may bear on the authenticity
of the certificate. (See CCP § 2017.010 [discovery may relate to
claim of party]; Compl. ¶¶ 1, 6.) The requested documents are reasonably
calculated toward this goal. 
 
Notwithstanding the clear
relevance of the documents sought by the subpoena, plaintiff raises a series of
arguments as to why the subpoena ought to be quashed nonetheless.
 
Plaintiff first asserts that the
subpoena was not served on a third party whose records are sought. CCP § 1985.3
requires notice to be served on a “consumer” whose “personal records” are being
sought from the “witness” named on the subpoena. (CCP § 1985.3(b), (e).) Here,
plaintiff contends that, under § 1985.3, defendants were required to have
served Oliver Cisneros, because he is an accountant and because the subpoena
seeks his personal records and records of his clients. (Mtn. at 2:8-17, citing
Biggins Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s argument depends on a complete misread of §
1985.3.  Section 1985.3 defines a “consumer”
as an individual who has transacted with or used the services of a “witness.”
(CCP § 1985.3(a)(2).) “[W]itness” for purposes of § 1985.3 is a list of
professionals, including an accountant, and types of professional entities.  (CCP § 1985.3(a).) “Personal records”
are defined as books, documents, or other writings pertaining to a consumer
which are maintained by any such witness. (CCP § 1985.3(a).) 
 
While it may be true that Cisneros
is an accountant, that does not matter for purposes of applying § 1985.3,
because Cisneros is not a “witness” under the subpoena.  The subpoenaed witness here is CKS. CKS is
not an accountant or any of the types of professions or entities listed in CCP §
1985.3(a)(1). Therefore, insofar as Cisneros might be a “consumer” of CKS, he
has not used the services of a “witness” as defined in CCP § 1985.3(a).  Accordingly, § 1985.3 has no application here,
and no notice was required to be given to Cisneros. 
 
Second, plaintiff argues that the
subpoena improperly seeks the products, as opposed to the business records, of
CKS. “Business records” refer to “an item, collection, or grouping of
information about a business entity,” including journals and books of account.
(Urban Pacific Equities Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
688, 693.) While a business records subpoena cannot be used to obtain a product
that the business sells (see Urban Pacific, 59 Cal.App.4th at 693
[business records subpoena cannot be used to obtain deposition transcript from
court reporter]), what defendants here seek are “purchase orders for products”
(No. 2), “invoices for purchases of products” (No. 3), “receipts for purchases
of products” (No. 4), “purchase confirmations for products” (No. 5),
“communications regarding purchases of products” (No. 6), “records of requests
for products” (No. 7), “documents regarding products” (No. 8), and “documents
regarding mailing or delivery information for purchases of products” (No. 9). Defendants
do not seek to subpoena CKS’s products as an end run around having to pay for
them.  Rather, defendants seek business
records concerning CKS’s purported issuance of Yellow Owl shares to plaintiff. 
 
In Reply, plaintiff further argues
that Request No. 1, which seeks all documents relating to Yellow Owl, necessarily
includes CKS’s corporate kit prepared for Yellow Owl, which, in plaintiff’s
view, was a product of the company. 
While it is true that Request No. 1 seeks records related to the
corporate kit presumably sold to Yellow Owl, which might include a copy of the
kit actually sold, the request is still properly viewed as seeking CKS’s business
records relating to Yellow Owl and does not implicate the concerns of
improperly using a subpoena to obtain CKS’s product without having to pay for it.  (See Urban Pacific, 59
Cal.App.4th at 693.)
 
Third, plaintiff contends that the
requests in the subpoena are burdensome. The Court disagrees. The instant
subpoena contains 18 requests and 2 definitions, one defining “DOCUMENT” and
the other defining “CHRISTIAN LLAMAS” to refer to plaintiff. (Biggins Decl. ¶ 1
& Att. 3 to Ex. 1.) By contrast, the subpoena in Calcor Space Facility,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, cited by plaintiff, contained
32 requests, expanded by three pages of definitions and another three pages of
instructions, which the Court of Appeal determined to be inadequately
particular. (Calcor, 53 Cal.App.4th at 219-20, 223.) 
 
In Reply, plaintiff raises a new
argument that Request Nos. 10-18 are overbroad because they may encompass CKS
records relating to more than just Yellow Owl. 
The Court is unpersuaded by plaintiff’s newly raised argument.  Request Nos. 10-18 encompass documents and
communications between CKS, on the one hand, and plaintiff Christian Llamas,
Emilio Cordova Lopez, and Oliver Cisneros, on the other hand.  Defendants contend that the categories of
documents sought by the subpoena are intended to capture “records related to
orders placed by Plaintiff, records relating to orders placed via an alias used
by Plaintiff, and records related to orders placed by Oliver Cisneros—the
original statutory agent for Yellow Owl.” (Opp. at 3.)  Plaintiff does not meaningfully argue
otherwise.  That Request Nos. 10-18 could
theoretically reach CKS records not relating to Yellow Owl does not render the
requests impermissibly overbroad or unduly burdensome (to the extent
plaintiff’s new argument is actually meant to imply the scope of the requests
renders them burdensome).  Indeed,
plaintiff presents no evidence that Request Nos. 10-18 will actually capture and
cause CKS to produce documents and records that are not relevant to the issues
in this litigation.
 
Fourth, plaintiff contends that
the subpoena was untimely served. A business records subpoena “shall command
compliance in accordance with Section 2020.430 on a date that is no earlier
than 20 days after the issuance, or 15 days after the service, of the
deposition subpoena, whichever date is later.” (CCP § 2020.410(c).) The
subpoena was issued on 7/25/24 and personally served on CKS on 7/30/24. (Biggins
Decl. ¶ 1 & Ex. 1; Gregory Decl. ¶ 7 & Ex. 6.) The date of compliance on
the subpoena was 8/15/24, 21 days after issuance and 16 days after service on
CKS. (Biggins Decl. ¶ 1 & Ex. 1.) The issuance and service of the subpoena
on CKS was timely. 
 
Plaintiff appears to contend that
the timing requirements of Section 2020.430 relate to service upon
plaintiff.  The timing requirements set
forth in Section 2020.430(c) refer to service of the deposition subpoena and
the custodian of records or other person qualified to certify the records.  Plaintiff cites no authority for the
proposition that these timing requirements should apply to service upon him in
addition to the deponent.  In any event,
even if the deadlines set forth in CCP § 2020.410(c) applied to service on an
opposing party, as opposed to service on a subpoenaed party, plaintiff was
served with notice of the subpoena on 7/26/24, which was more than 15 days (i.e.,
20 to be exact) before the 8/15/24 date of compliance. (Gregory Decl. ¶ 6 &
Ex. 5.) Even adding two court days for electronic service pursuant to CCP § 1010.6(a)(3)(B),
plaintiff was still served more than 15 days before the 8/15/24 date of
compliance.
 
Because plaintiff fails to demonstrate
any basis on which to quash the subpoena, the motion is DENIED. Non-party
deponent Corporate Kit Supply is ordered to comply with the subpoena dated
7/25/24 by no later than 10/18/24. 
 