 Case Number:  22STCV08051    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
8-6-24
Case
#: 22STCV08051
Trial
Date: 4-7-25
 
ATTORNEY DEPOSITION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Gavrielli Brands, LLC  
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Defendant, Empire Container Freight Station, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel the Deposition of Attorney Mainak D’Attaray
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff Gavrielli Brands, LLC imported certain footwear
for sale in the United stated under the “Tieks” brand. Third party Catrone
Freight Logistics coordinated the importation of the shipment(s) from the Port
of Long Beach and storage of the merchandise from the with defendant Empire
Container Freight Station, Inc. While Plaintiff utilized the services of
Defendant, beginning in 2017, Plaintiff began to discover missing merchandise appearing
for sale on eBay. When Plaintiff confronted Defendant, a counter demand for
$732,915.50 in storage charges was presented, and denial of access to the
property without payment. Plaintiff contends Defendant “stole” at least 21,528
pairs of shoes from the shipments at a retail value of $4.3 million. 
 
On March 7, 2022, plaintiff filed its complaint for Possession
of Personal Property, Conversion, Negligence, Promissory Fraud, and Unfair
Competition. A 170.6 challenge led to reassignment from Department 51 to 68. On
June 14, 2022, Defendant answered and filed a cross-complaint for Breach of
Contract, Open Account, and Unfair Business Practices. On December 7, 2022, a
first amended cross-complaint was filed. The court sustained the demurrer to
the first amended cross-complaint with 20 days leave to amend on February 6,
2023. The second amended cross-complaint was filed on March 2, 2023. On May 16,
2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the second amended cross-complaint
without leave to amend. 
 
On January 30, 2024, Empire Container Freight Station, Inc.
filed a 170.6 peremptory challenge to the court. The challenge was accepted and
the case reassigned. On February 23, 2024, the court (Department 1) entered a
subsequent stipulation rescinding the second filed 170.6 peremptory challenge
brought by Empire Container Freight Station, Inc., and restoring previously
vacated hearings and the trial.
 
On April 23, 2024, the court granted Plaintiff leave to file
a first amended complaint. On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint for Possession of Personal Property, Conversion, Negligence,
Promissory Fraud, and Unfair Competition.
 
RULING: Denied.
Plaintiff
Gavrielli Brands, LLC moves to compel the deposition of attorney for
Defendant,  Mainak D’Attaray. Plaintiff
moves on grounds that D’Attaray, as “general counsel” for Empire Container
Freight Station, Inc, D’Attaray, serves as an officer of the corporation and
subject to deposition. The court electronic filing system shows no opposition or
reply on file at the time of the tentative ruling publication cutoff. 
 
The
basis of the motion relies on a served notice of deposition to which Mr.
D’Attaray purportedly failed to appear. Plaintiff specifically seeks to
determine any potential insurance coverage, and presumes D’Attaray would be the
most logical source for such a determination. Propounded discovery seeking said
information remains unanswered. Plaintiff also references unpaid sanctions, and
seeks information on assets for potential collection on said sanctions awards. While
the motion appears unopposed, and Plaintiff relies on the lack of objections to
the deposition notice, the court elects to review the standard for attorney
depositions. 
 
Public
policy discourages attorney depositions due to attorney client and work product
privileged. (Spectra-Physics, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 1487, 1494.) “The circumstances under which opposing
counsel may be deposed are limited to those where (1) no other means exist to
obtain the information than to depose opposing counsel; (2) the information
sought is relevant and not privileged; (3) the information is crucial to the
preparation of the case.” (Id. at p.
1496; Estate of Ruchti (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 1593, 1602.) “Each of these prongs poses an independent hurdle to
deposing an adversary's counsel; any one of them may be sufficient to defeat
the attempted attorney deposition.” (Carehouse
Convalescent Hospital v. Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1558,
1563.)
 
The
motion overall lacks a sufficient showing of support compelling the deposition
of counsel, even if only for non-privileged information. While D’Attaray may
identify as an officer of the corporation, nothing in the motion demonstrates
D’Attaray as the exclusive source of said information for either insurance
coverage information or collection on the sanctions awards. While an argument
can be made for the importance of discovering potential insurance coverage, the
court finds nothing in efforts to collect on sanctions sufficiently relates to
adjudication of the underlying issues of the case. Other remedies exist for
both the collection of sanctions and non-responses to discovery, including
violated orders compelling discovery responses.
 
To
the extent any and all of the information sought may be considered privileged,
the court finds no basis for D’Attaray to waive any such privilege. “‘[T]he power to waive the corporate attorney-client
privilege rests with the corporation's management and is normally exercised by
its officers and directors. The managers, of course, must exercise the
privilege in a manner consistent with their fiduciary duty to act in the best
interests of the corporation and not of themselves as individuals.’ … [¶] …
Moreover, the implied waiver caused by asserting the advice of counsel defense
is ‘limited to situations where the client has placed into
issue the decisions, conclusions, and mental state of the attorney who will be
called as a witness to prove such matters.’ (Citation.) Thus, waiver is
established by showing that the client ‘“put the otherwise
privileged communication directly at issue and that disclosure is essential for
a fair adjudication of the action.”’ (Citation.)” (Venture Law Group v. Superior Court (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 96,
105; See Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Superior Court (1982)
137 Cal.App.3d 554, 559 [“‘the gravamen of [his]
lawsuit is so inconsistent with the continued assertion of [a] privilege as to
compel the conclusion that the privilege has in fact been waived’”].) “Because its attorneys' advice or state of mind is
not in issue, it has not impliedly waived its attorney-client privilege.” (Southern Cal. Gas Co. v. Public Utilities
Com. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 31, 42.)
 
The unopposed motion is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff
to give notice.
 