  Case Number:  22PSCV00257    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  City of El  Monte v. Lino James Ibarra, et al.  Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s Motion for Attorneys’ Fees  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s motion for attorneys’  fees in the reduced amount of $141,319.50.               Defendant Lincoln is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This  is a nuisance action relating to illegal sales of cannabis. On March 16, 2022,  plaintiff City of El Monte (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants  Lino James Ibarra (Ibarra), Michael Atencio, Manuel Aquino, Joseph Hernandez,  Jung Hsiang Chen, Ya Fen Hsu, Tucker Lincoln (Lincoln), Philip Gonzales, Shane  Sapp, H.C. Rue Royale Partner LLC (Rue Royale) (collectively, Defendants) and  Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for narcotics abatement (Health  and Safety Code section 11570 et seq.), public nuisance (Civil Code section  3479 et seq.), violation of El Monte Municipal Code (EMMC Chapters 5.18 and Ch.  1.19), violation of unfair competition law (Business and Professions Code  section 17200 et seq.), and violation of MAUCRSA (Business and Professions Code  section 26000 et seq.)  On  January 18, 2024, after the Court granted Lincoln’s motion for judgment on the  pleadings, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint against the  same Defendants and alleging causes of action for narcotics abatement (Health  and Safety Code section 11570 et seq.), public nuisance (Civil Code section  3479 et seq.), violation of El Monte Municipal Code (EMMC Chapters 5.18 and Ch.  1.19), violation of unfair competition law (Business and Professions Code  section 17200 et seq.), and violation of MAUCRSA (Business and Professions Code  section 26000 et seq.)  On  May 13, 2024, after the Court sustained Lincoln’s demurrer to the First Amended  Complaint, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against  the same Defendants, plus defendant Joseph Flores (Flores) who was also added  via doe amendment on May 14, 2024, alleging causes of action for narcotics  abatement (Health and Safety Code section 11570 et seq.), public nuisance  (Civil Code section 3479 et seq.), violation of El Monte Municipal Code (EMMC  Chapters 5.18 and Ch. 1.19).  On August 12, 2024, the Court sustained Lincoln’s demurrer to the  SAC without leave to amend, and directed Lincoln to submit a proposed judgment  for the Court’s review and signature. On August 19, 2024, the Court entered a  judgment of dismissal against Lincoln.  On October 14, 2024, Lincoln moved for attorneys’ fees. On  December 4, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On December 9, 2024, Lincoln  replied to the opposition.  LEGAL  STANDARD  “In any action on a contract,  where the contract specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which  are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the  parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the  party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in  the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees in  addition to other costs.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).)  The party seeking fees and costs  bears the burden to show "the fees incurred were allowable, were  reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation, and were reasonable in  amount." (Nightingale v. Hyundai Motor America (1994) 31  Cal.App.4th 99, 104.) To satisfy this burden, evidence and descriptions of  billable tasks must be presented in sufficient detail, enabling the court to  evaluate whether the case was overstaffed, the time attorneys spent on specific  claims, and the reasonableness of the hours expended. (Lunada Biomedical v.  Nunez (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 459, 486-487.)  “A trial court assessing attorney  fees begins with a touchstone or lodestar figure, based on the ‘careful  compilation of the time spent and reasonable hourly compensation of each  attorney… involved in the presentation of the case.” (Christian Research  Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1321.) “The reasonableness  of attorney fees is within the discretion of the trial court, to be determined  from a consideration of such factors as the nature of the litigation, the  complexity of the issues, the experience and expertise of counsel and the  amount of time involved. [Citation.] The court may also consider whether the  amount requested is based upon unnecessary or duplicative work. [Citation.]” (Wilkerson  v. Sullivan (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) “The courts repeatedly have stated that the trial court is in the  best position to value the services rendered by the attorneys in his or her  courtroom [citation], and this includes the determination of the hourly rate  that will be used in the lodestar calculus.[Citation.]” (569 E. Cnty.  Boulevard LLC v. Backcountry Against the Dump, Inc. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th  426, 436-437.) DISCUSSION  Summary of Arguments  Defendant Lincoln seeks attorneys’ fees under Civil Code section  3496 and under El Monte Municipal Code section 1.19.030. Lincoln contends he is  the prevailing party for purposes of attorneys’ fees under those code sections  because the Court ultimately sustained Lincoln’s demurrer to the SAC without  leave to amend and entered a judgment of dismissal with prejudice in favor of  Lincoln. Lincoln contends he may recover attorneys’ fees under Civil Code  section 3496 on nuisance abatement claims because the SAC sought to enjoin  unlawful narcotics activities at four different properties. Lincoln contends  Plaintiff maintained this action in bad faith and violated its own contract and  controlling precedent by being represented by a private firm on a contingent  fee basis without a neutral government attorney overseeing the case. Lincoln  then contends Plaintiff sought to recover attorneys’ fees under its own  ordinance, i.e., the El Monte Municipal Code, which in turn enables Lincoln to  recover attorneys’ fees under that law.  Lincoln contends the fees incurred were reasonable in light of the  work performed over the preceding two years, multiple motions attacking the  pleadings despite Plaintiff’s lack of standing, and extensive written discovery  exchanges. Lincoln contends this case entailed a significant amount of research  on various complex areas of law, and that the extent of work involved was  reasonable given how much Plaintiff was demanding in damages. Lincoln further  contends the rates requested are reasonable compared to the Laffey Matrix and  accounting for a 5% reduction due to differences between rates in the Los  Angeles and Washington D.C. legal markets. Lincoln’s attorneys’ rates for this  matter were $400.00 for new associates, $510.00 for more experienced  associates, and $820.00 for partners.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends that Lincoln is not the  prevailing party because the ruling on this motion for attorney fees will be  subject to appeal, and the appellate court will review the underlying legal  reasoning. Plaintiff contends Lincoln relies on a disputed conclusion that  although he may have financed and facilitated the illicit production and sale  of marijuana, he is a prevailing party because he did so outside the city  limits, and the Court should not find such a person to be a prevailing party. Plaintiff  then contends Lincoln cannot recover attorneys’ fees under El Monte Municipal  Code section 1.19.030, subdivision (b), because Plaintiff has not incurred any  attorneys’ fees, as Plaintiff’s representation is on a contingency fee basis.  Plaintiff also contends it did not prosecute this action in bad faith.  Plaintiff further contends the hours spent are unreasonable and  excessive. Plaintiff cites billing entries on June 27, 2023, reflecting two  attorneys attending the same video conference, and contends too many people  worked on researching and drafting a meet and confer letter regarding  Plaintiff’s supplemental responses. Plaintiff contends too many people worked  on preparing and drafting a motion to compel further responses, totaling over  fifty-five hours of work. Plaintiff notes that three attorneys worked on the  demurrer to the First Amended Complaint and spent over thirty hours drafting  that demurrer. Plaintiff then contends Lincoln’s lodestar should be reduced, as  Lincoln’s counsel fails to explain what matters he turned down to work on this  case.  Analysis              Generally, a prevailing party is one who obtained a net  judgment in his or her favor. (See Smith v. Rae-Venter Law Group (2002)  29 Cal.4th 345, 365, 370, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in Sonic-Calabasas  A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, fn. 6 (J. Chin, concur. and  dissent. opn.).) The Court also looks to who prevailed on a practical level. (Heather  Farms Homeowners Ass’n, Inc. v. Robinson (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1568, 1574.)  The Court finds Lincoln is the prevailing party here, as Lincoln obtained a  judgment of dismissal with prejudice from the entire action in his favor. Whether  Plaintiff can appeal the ruling on this motion for attorneys’ fees is  irrelevant, as Plaintiff cited no authority for that argument. Also, Lincoln  correctly contends in his reply that appealing from the ruling on this motion is  unavailing since Plaintiff has not appealed from the underlying judgment. (Hersey v. Vopava (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 792, 797; see  also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.406 [appeals must be made within 60 days of  rendition of judgment or order being appealed].)              The Court also finds that Lincoln is entitled to recover  attorneys’ fees under either El Monte Municipal Code section 1.19.030 or Civil  Code section 3496, subdivision (c), as this action involved abatement of public  nuisance and enjoining use of a building in connection with a controlled  substance. (See generally, SAC; El Monte Municipal Code, § 1.19.030; Civ. Code,  § 3496, subd. (c).) Plaintiff also requested attorneys’ fees upon initiating  this action. (Compl. (3/16/22), p. 18; El Monte Municipal Code, § 1.19.030,  subd. (a).) The Court finds unavailing Plaintiff’s argument regarding El Monte  Municipal Code section 1.19.030, subdivision (b), which limits the city’s liability  for attorneys’ fees to the amount the city incurred. Just because Plaintiff is  represented on a contingency fee basis does not mean Plaintiff has not incurred  attorneys’ fees for purposes of this motion. (See In re Marriage of Adams (1997)  52 Cal.App.4th 911, 914-915.) The fact that a fee has not been paid does not  mean it was not earned and that the client is not obligated to pay for it. (W. Coast Dev. v. Reed (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 693, 707.)  Moreover, if Plaintiff’s interpretation were correct, it would lead to  unilateral recovery of attorneys’ fees by the city, which Government Code  section 38733.5 prohibits. (Gov. Code, § 38733.5; City of Monte Sereno v. Padgett  (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1530, 1537.)  Additionally, as Lincoln correctly notes, Plaintiff  is in fact represented by two law firms here, i.e., Enso Law LLP, which is the  firm purportedly on the contingency fee basis, and Olivarez Madruga Law  Organization, LLP. Plaintiff presented no evidence or argument regarding the  fees incurred in connection with this other firm. Thus, Plaintiff has failed to  demonstrate that Lincoln’s recovery is limited under El Monte Municipal Code  section 1.19.030, subdivision (b).  A verified fee bill is prima facie evidence that the  costs, expenses, and services listed were reasonable. (Hadley v. Krepel  (1985) 167 Cal.App.3d 677, 682). After reviewing the invoices and billing  summaries provided by Lincoln and considering the nature and extent of the  litigation, the Court finds the hours billed are not reasonable. While this  matter implicated various areas of law that may have warranted initial  research, the case was simple to a certain extent, in that Lincoln is only one  party here and the issues were largely the same throughout the various motions  filed. The extent of Lincoln’s involvement in this case was primarily three motions  attacking the pleadings, i.e., the motion for judgment on the pleadings to the  original complaint, and the demurrers to the First and Second Amended  Complaints, along with some written discovery. (Kashfian Decl., Exs. 24-25.) Once  the work was done for the motion for judgment on the pleadings, there were only  a few new issues to address in the subsequent iterations of the complaint,  except for some issues improperly asserted in the SAC, which should have  reduced the amount of research and drafting needed on the subsequent motions.  It also appears to the Court this matter was  overstaffed and could have been handled more efficiently with fewer attorneys and  legal assistants. It is unclear to the Court why fifteen people were needed on  this case. (See Kashfian Decl., Exs. 24-25.) The Court notes that there was  excessive billing and duplicative work in terms of multiple people billing for  attending the same meeting, overlapping and duplicative research, excessive  research and hours billed on motions that largely involved the same issues, and  excessive hours billed and duplication in preparing and reviewing discovery  responses. For example, more than 77 hours were billed by six people on the motion  for judgment on the pleadings. More than 50 hours billed by five people drafting  initial discovery. More than 30 hours were billed for the demurrer and motion  to strike the First Amended Complaint and more than 20 hours were billed for  the reply. More than 51 hours were billed for the demurrer and motion to strike  the Second Amended Complaint. More than 8 hours were billed drafting the  opposition to a notice of related case. Lastly, more than 64 hours were billed  for the subject motion for attorney’s fees. Indeed, more than 303 hours were  billed on these motions and discovery, that should reasonably have been  completed in just over 100 hours.  The Court is also familiar with local rates for the  eastern Los Angeles legal community, and finds the rates Lincoln’s attorneys  request excessive. (569 E. Cnty. Boulevard LLC v. Backcountry Against the  Dump, Inc., supra, 6 Cal.App.5th at pp. 436-437.) The Court declines to  consider the Laffey Matrix because it is not specific to Southern California. The  rates Lincoln’s attorneys charged for associates approaches rates of partners  in this area, and Mr. Kashfian’s rate of $820.00 is much higher than partners  in this community. However, because Plaintiff did not challenge the hourly  rates, the Court will not reduce the hourly rates.  After reviewing the billing summary, the Court finds  that the nearly 600 hours billed on this case is extremely excessive as  identified above.  The court went through  the summary and decided a reasonable amount of hours for reasonably experienced  attorneys and paralegals, in similar circumstances, to do the tasks that Tucker’s  counsel claims to have done was approximately 400 hours. The Court exercises  its discretion to reduce the amount of attorney’s fees requested by 40% (a negative 40% multiplier). (See Morris v. Hyundai Motor America (2019) 41  Cal.App.5th 24, 38-40; Warren v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2018) 30  Cal.App.5th 24, 40 [“when a ‘“voluminous fee application”’ is made … the court  may … ‘“make across-the-board percentage cuts either in the number of hours  claimed or in the final lodestar figure”’”]. This amount more accurately  reflects the reasonable amount of attorney’s fees in a case which was not  particularly complex and which was handled by counsel experienced in this area  of law. The Court is not convinced that all of the attorneys, paralegals, and  law clerks, at these high rates, were necessary or reasonable to justify the  requested billed amount.              Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS  Lincoln’s motion for attorneys’ fees, but reduces the total amount requested by  40% or $94,213.00.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s motion for attorneys’  fees in the reduced amount of $141,319.50.                Defendant Lincoln is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.