 Case Number:  21STCV30288    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  DION NAWROCKI, Plaintiff(s), vs.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 21STCV30288  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. September 26, 2023   Plaintiff Dion Nawrocki (“Plaintiff”) attorney of record, Peter Hakim, Esq. of Downtown LA Law Group (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel, contending there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship that stands in the way of effective representation. Counsel declares he has made extensive efforts to remedy the issues with Plaintiff, but Plaintiff refuses to comply.   Counsel declares the moving papers were served on Plaintiff via mail at Plaintiff’s last known address, which counsel has been unable to confirm after making the efforts of mailing with return receipt requested. Ordinarily, the Court would find this insufficient to provide Plaintiff notice. However, Counsel provides he e-mailed the moving papers to Plaintiff, and Plaintiff confirmed receipt. Counsel’s attachment demonstrates Plaintiff responded directly to Counsel’s email, which specifically informed Plaintiff of the motion to be relieved as counsel and hearing date and provided an attachment of the moving papers. Counsel filed proof of service on Plaintiff and Defendant.  Trial is currently set for May 21, 2024. Therefore, there is sufficient time for Plaintiff to seek other counsel. Based on the foregoing, the motion is GRANTED; the ruling is effective upon filing proof of service of the final order.    Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.  If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance. Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 25th day of September 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   