  Case Number:  21STCV13985    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  BARBARA SPATZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CITY OF BELL GARDENS, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV13985  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  September 26, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff, Barbara Spatz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants City of Bell Gardens, County of Los Angeles, and State of California for an alleged dangerous condition of public property, wherein Plaintiff fell when she rode her bicycle over a non-cross-hatched vertical grate.  Plaintiff alleges the non-cross-hatched vertical grate in the bike lane of westbound Florence Ave. near the intersection of Emil Avenue constituted a dangerous condition. (Compl. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff filed amendments to complaint, naming the City of Los Angeles as Doe 1, Horizons Construction Company International, Inc. as Doe 2, and Ron’s Maintenance, Inc. as Doe 3. Plaintiff dismissed the City of Los Angeles on December 21, 2021. The City of Bell Gardens and the County of Los Angeles filed cross-complaints against each other. The City of Bell Gardens (“City”) now moves for summary judgment. Both Plaintiff and the County of Los Angeles (“County”) oppose the motion, and the City filed a reply.  Moving Argument  The City argues it is entitled to summary judgment because the City did not own and control the drain catch basin Plaintiff alleges caused the accident. The City also argues the drain catch basin did not make the City’s roadway or bike route dangerous, and that the City’s actions entitle it to immunity under Gov. Code § 835.4.  More specifically, the City contends Plaintiff’s complaint is that the drain catch basin should have been covered with a cross-hatched grate as to not catch a bicycle tire, as opposed to a simple vertical bar grate which caught Plaintiff’s bicycle tire. The City argues it did not own or control the subject drain catch basin, because it was adjacent to the roadway the City owns, and that the drain catch basin is instead owned and controlled by the County. The City also contends the adjacent roadway it did own was not itself dangerous, and there was no condition of the City’s roadway that forced Plaintiff to ride over the catch basin. Lastly, the City avers its actions were reasonable and therefore the City is immune.  Opposing Argument - Plaintiff Plaintiff asserts both the City and the County are responsible for the catch drain basin, and that the catch basin is located within the City’s streets and easement area. Furthermore, Plaintiff contends the City employed a cleaning service to maintain the catch basin. Plaintiff avers the City did not abandon ownership of the catch basin, because the County disputes the interpretation of abandonment, and the City also maintains a trash excluder located beneath the subject catch basin and the bike route.    Opposing Argument - County  The County contends the City’s motion does not reference the exact location of the subject incident. The County argues the exact location of the catch basin is in dispute, and that the 2012 agreement between the City and County regarding the installation of trash excluders creates a triable issue as to who maintained ownership and control over the Northwest corner drain where the subject incident occurred.   Reply Argument The City contends that neither Plaintiff or the County address who owns or controls the subject catch basin, and a failure to oppose the issue raised is an admission to the City’s affirmative defense that the City’s actions were reasonable. The City also argues that the subject catch basin is located in the northeast corner because Plaintiff testified she crossed the intersection of Emil Ave. when the incident occurred.  II. Request for Judicial Notice On April 27, 2023, the City requested judicial notice be taken of the (1) 1996 Kress Drain plans from the County of Los Angeles’ website, and (2) map of Los Angeles County Storm Drain System from the County of Los Angeles’ website under Evidence Code § 452(h). The requests are denied. On September 21, 2023, the City filed a second request for judicial notice of (1) the Claim for Damages filed by Plaintiff on the City on February 24, 2021, and an attached photograph of the subject intersection, (2) Declaration of non-ownership from Pat Ahumada from the City, (3), the City’s claim rejection notice to Plaintiff, (4) Plaintiff’s Complaint, and (5) the Map of Los Angeles County Storm Drain System. Request 1 as to Plaintiff’s Claim for Damages is granted; however, the request for the photograph is denied because it is unclear to the Court if the marked up photograph was attached to Plaintiff’s Claim for Damages and whether it is presented in its original form. Requests 3 and 4 are granted. Requests 2 and 5 are denied.    III. Motion for Summary Judgment Burdens on Summary Judgment Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.”  (Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)   The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66, [A] defendant may simply show the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation), a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)  Thus, a moving defendant has two means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute: “The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  (Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.)  Until the moving defendant has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)  B. Discussion  On December 10, 2020, at about 8:30 a.m., Plaintiff was riding her bicycle on a bike route on Florence Ave. near the intersection of Emil Ave. in the City of Bell Gardens when her bicycle tire caught in a drain catch basin in the concrete border next to the curb, causing her to fall and sustain injuries. (UMF 1.) Plaintiff was riding on a Class III bike route, which is a roadway shared by cars and bicycles. (UMF 2.) In 1966, the County upgraded and integrated its water sewage system, including the area around the subject drain catch basin; the County drew up the Kress Ave. Drain plans. (UMF 3.). The County’s Kress Ave. Drain plans were signed by both the County and the City’s Director of Public Works. (UMF 6.) In 2012, the Catch Basin Trash Insert Maintenance Agreement (“Agreement”) was executed between the County and City, in which the County recited that it was granting permission for the City to install trash excluders "within catch basins owned by the LACFCD [Los Angeles County Flood Control District], located within CITY streets." (UMF 7.) On page 3 of the Catch Basin Trash Insert Maintenance Agreement, it is further stated: "The TRASH EXCLUDERS are the property of the City. The LACFD shall retain ownership of the catch basins, exclusive of the TRASH EXCLUDERS." (UMF 8.) Pursuant to the Agreement, the City was to install, clear, or repair the trash excluders, but if the catch basin was itself damaged, then the City would report to the County or terminate the agreement to remove trash excluders/ (UMF 10.) The County’s response to form interrogatory 17.1 identified the County’s website as dispositive of the ownership of the catch basin. (UMF 11.)  The City further argues page 1 of the Kress Ave. Drain Plans recites that the “existing city drain” is “to be abandoned,” therefore indicating the County is taking possession of the drain and catch basin. The City also contends page 9 of the Agreement identifies the catch basin on Florence Ave. by the intersection of Emil Ave. as being “owned by” the County. The Court reviewed Page 1 of the Kress Ave. Drain Plans, which merely indicates: “Exist, City Drain…To Be Abandoned.” (Decl. Benash, Exh A.) There is no indication as to which entity is to assume control or maintenance over the City drain and catch basin. Furthermore, the typeface of Sheet 9 of the Agreement is too small and unclear for it to be legible. (Decl. Benash, Exh. B.) Therefore, taken altogether, the City’s evidence does not meet its moving burden, and that it is therefore entitled to judgment as a matter of law. However, even if the City did meet its burden, there exists triable issues of material fact raised by both Plaintiff and the County to deny the City’s motion. Plaintiff refers to Christopher Rave (“Rave”), who is the County’s person most knowledgeable (“PMK”). Rave declares the term “abandoned” means that portions of the system will no longer be used, and does not denote ownership of the abandoned infrastructure or transfer of ownership of the abandoned infrastructure. (Decl. Rave, ¶ 5.) The County and City dispute the meaning of abandonment within this context. The County also argues there are two drains located on Florence/Emil Ave., one in the Northeast corner, and one on the Northwest corner. The County contends sheet 9 of the Agreement only indicates that the Northeast corner of Florence Ave./Emil Ave. is owned by the County as symbolized by the “NE” under the “Location of Corner” column, but that Plaintiff identified the subject drain catch basin involved in the incident to be located on the Northwest corner of Florence/Emil Ave. The County refers to sheet 8 of the Kress Ave. Drain Plan, and argues it shows the Northwest drain was not to be maintained by the County of Los Angeles County Flood Control District (“LACFCD”). In sum, there are triable issues of material fact as to the ownership and control of the subject catch basin. The Court need not reach the City’s other arguments.   IV. Conclusion  Based on the foregoing, the City’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.  If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance. Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 25th day of September 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court     