 Case Number:  20STCV42444    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant
Lynette Scherer’s Demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with 30
days leave to amend.
 
I.                  
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) Cal.3d 311: “We
treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we give
the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts
in their context.” (Id. at p.
318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. [Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Defendant Lynette
Scherer (Defendant) demurrers to the third and fifth causes of action contained
in Plaintiff Gergis Ghobrial’s (Plaintiff) third amended complaint (TAC) for
FEHA harassment and intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED). Defendant
contends that the conduct alleged to have been committed by her consists only
of personnel management activity for which no liability for harassment or
emotional distress may lie, and further that any such actions were not
outrageous, pervasive, or severe, as required of the causes of action at issue.
(Demurrer at pp. 6–11.) 
 
An
individual supervisor may be personally liable for FEHA harassment that they
engage in. (See
Fiol v. Doellstedt (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1331.) And a claim for
intentional infliction of emotional distress requires extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant. (See Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc.
v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228,
1259.) To be actionable, the sexual harassment complained of must be
“sufficiently pervasive so as to alter the conditions of employment and create
an abusive working environment.” (Guthrey v. State of California (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 1108, 1122.) “Outrageous conduct” is an element of an IIED claim,
and the conduct alleged must be “so extreme as to exceed all bounds of decency
in a civilized community. ( Ibid.) The defendant's conduct must be directed to
the plaintiff, but malicious or evil purpose is not essential to liability.” (So
v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 671.)
The
conduct that the TAC alleges against Defendant Scherer is as follows. It is
alleged that she “harassed and otherwise wrongfully treated Plaintiff at his
place of employment.” (TAC ¶ 16.) Specifically, it is alleged that on November
6, 2019, the day after Plaintiff was notified of his termination, Defendant
“intentionally transmitted fabricated and detrimental employment records
concerning the professional performance and conduct of Dr. Ghobrial [Plaintiff]
to several personnel of LBMMC and MHS, including Nurse Thomas.” (TAC ¶¶ 63–64.)
These
allegations do not amount to outrageous conduct, or severe or pervasive
harassment. Plaintiff does not allege that he was party to the communications
at issue, or aware of them for the duration of his employment, or that they
contributed to the alleged abusive working environment. Indeed, Plaintiff in
prior motions has specifically alleged that he was unaware of the
communications until after Defendants made their document production in this
action in March 2022. (Demurrer RJN Exh. B.) The conduct alleged was thus not
severe, pervasive, or outrageous.
Indeed,
the conduct at issue constituted personnel management activity for which
liability may not be had under a theory of harassment or outrageous conduct. “Managing
personnel is not outrageous conduct beyond the bounds of human decency, but
rather conduct essential to the welfare and prosperity of society.” (Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996)
46 Cal.App.4th 55, 80.) Even “improperly motivated” personnel management
decisions do not fall within the ambit of the tort for outrageous conduct. (Ibid.)
By the same token, such actions do not constitute harassment:
We conclude, therefore, that the Legislature
intended that commonly necessary personnel management actions such as hiring
and firing, job or project assignments, office or work station assignments,
promotion or demotion, performance evaluations, the provision of support, the
assignment or non-assignment of supervisory functions, deciding who will and
who will not attend meetings, deciding who will be laid off, and the like, do
not come within the meaning of harassment. 
(Janken,
supra, 46 Cal.App.4th at pp. 64–65.) Here, this is the essence of
the complaint against Defendant Scherer: that she transmitted “willfully
fabricated damaging . . . performance records” to Defendants’ personnel
following Plaintiff’s notice of termination. (TAC ¶ 97.) Yet the preparation
and promulgation of “performance evaluations” are among those “commonly
necessary personnel management actions” for which liability for harassment and
IIED will not lie. (Janken, supra, 46 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 64–65.) 
 
Plaintiff
in opposition argues that Defendant did not raise any arguments concerning
Plaintiff’s lack of awareness of the offending communications in Defendant’s
prior demurrer, and is therefore precluded from doing so in the present
demurrer under Code of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subd. (b). (Demurrer at pp.
5–6.) But defendants are only precluded from raising new arguments “that could
have been raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the complaint.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (b). But Defendant’s arguments could not have been
raised as to the second amended complaint, because until Plaintiff filed the
third amended complaint, no conduct at all was alleged specifically against
Defendant Scherer, as the court noted in its May 10, 2023 ruling.
 
Plaintiff also argues that
Defendant’s arguments as to her own conduct do not account for the allegations
of conduct perpetrated by others, such as the disparate privileges afforded to
his white colleagues, the comments made to Plaintiff about his age and national
origin. (Demurrer at p. 10.) But this is to mistake the argument. An individual
FEHA defendant may be liable “for any harassment . . . that is
perpetrated by the employee.” (Gov. Code § 12940, subd. (j)(3).) While
Plaintiff alleges other instances of harassment, the only harassment alleged
against Defendant Scherer is the transmittal of fabricated performance records,
discussed above.
 
The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 