 Case Number:  22STCV01111    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant
Gary T. Greene’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is
DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION TO
STRIKE
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote
in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike
an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1322.)
The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437(a)). The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court
(1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
Defendant Gary T. Greene
(Defendant) moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages from Plaintiff
Daniel Becker’s First Amended Complaint (FAC) on the grounds that insufficient
facts are alleged to support the existence of malice, oppression, or fraud.
(Motion at pp. 4–7.) 
Punitive damages are allowed in non-contract cases when a
defendant is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd.
(a).) The terms are defined as:
“Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.
“Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1)–(3).) 
Something more than the mere commission of a
tort is always required for punitive damages. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Proof of
negligence, gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages. (Dawes v.
Sup.Ct. (Mardian) (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 88–89.) Punitive damages may be
recovered in an action for negligence or other nonintentional torts if the
plaintiff pleads and proves that the defendant acted with the state of mind
described as “conscious disregard” of the potential dangers to others. (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) When malice is based on a defendant’s conscious
disregard of Plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both despicable and
willful. (College Hospital v. Superior
Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 794, 713 (“College
Hospital”).)
The FAC here alleges ample basis for seeking
punitive damages against Defendant. It is not merely alleged that Defendant
committed a tort by failing to remedy various defects in Plaintiff’s unit,
including a leak of sewage onto his bed, but further that Defendant knew of the
defects prior to his lease of the premises (FAC ¶ 19), that he repeatedly
misrepresented that he had already retained professionals to deal with the
alleged problems (FAC ¶¶ 13, 19) , and at various points thereafter either
point-blank refused to remediate the defects, or attempted to persuade
Plaintiff to move out of the premises. (FAC ¶¶ 20–24.) It is alleged that
Defendant only made earnest efforts at remediation when directed to do so by
City inspectors. (FAC ¶ 30.) These allegations support the presence of malice,
oppression, and fraud.
The motion to strike is DENIED.