 Case Number:  23STCV23476    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  TRACI HINDEN, et al.,Plaintiffs,vs. DELILAH ANTOLINI, et al.Defendants.  Case No.:  23STCV23476 Hearing Date:  December 1, 2023    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT FILED BY DEFENDANTS KELLER WILLIAMS REALTY-LOS FELIZ, DARREN HUBERT, AND JOSEPH CLONINGER.The application for determination of good faith settlement filed by Defendants LF Assoc, Inc. dba Keller Williams Realty-Los Feliz (“KW”), Darren Hubert, and Joseph Cloninger is GRANTED.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.FACTUAL BACKGROUND   This is an action for breach of contract, fraud in inducement, negligent misrepresentation, intentional misrepresentation, and negligence. Plaintiffs allege that in December 2020, Plaintiffs bought a house recently renovated by Defendants. Defendant The Tower Group, LLC (“Tower”) is solely managed by Defendant Delila Antolini. In 2017, Antolini caused Tower to purchase the subject property to renovate and sell it. Tower then sold the property to Plaintiffs. Defendant Darren Hubert represented Antolini and Tower as their real estate agent. Defendant Joseph Cloninger was their real estate salesman working for Defendant KW, a brokerage firm. Defendants Jesus Mendoza Trujillo and James Edwards are contractors who worked on renovations on the property. Defendant Mid-Cities Engineering, Inc. is an engineering consulting firm that also worked on the renovations. After Plaintiffs purchased the property, Plaintiffs discovered leaking from irrigation and drainage pipes, which caused the front yard to flood. The flooding caused water intrusion into the walls of the garage. The garage also suffered from structural defects, defects to the waterproofing of its walls, and drainage defects. Defendants represented to Plaintiffs that the garage was an accessible rooftop deck. However, the roof cannot be used as a deck because its use as a deck violates Los Angeles zoning and building laws. The property has a defective sump pump, defective front stairs, improper grading, poorly constructed drain lines, a defective irrigation system, improperly constructed waterproofing in the front of the house, improperly constructed walls, defective wood decking, and other defects.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On September 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Complaint against Defendants Delilah Antolini, The Tower Group, LLC, Darren Hubert, Joseph Cloninger, LF Assoc, Inc. dba Keller Williams Realty Los Feliz, Jesus Mendoza Trujillo dba Quality Building Contractors’ Co., Edwards James Edwards III dba Edwards Builders and Developers, and Mid-Cities Engineering, Inc.On November 6, 2023, Defendants KW, Darren Hubert, and Joseph Cloninger (“Movants”) filed this motion for determination of good faith settlement. On November 17, 2023, Defendants Delilah Antolini and The Tower Group, LLC filed an opposition to the motion.On November 27, 2023, Plaintiffs joined Movants’ motion.EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONSMovants object to the declaration of Delilah Antolini.The following objections are SUSTAINED: 2.The following objections are OVERRULED: 1.DISCUSSIONCalifornia Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6(a)(1), provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”  “A determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”  (Code Civ. Proc. section 877.6(c).)  Although a determination that a settlement was in good faith does not discharge any other party from liability, “it shall reduce the claims against the others in the amount stipulated” by the settlement.  (Code Civ. Proc. section 877(a).)“The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) In City of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, the court provided the following guidance regarding a motion for a good faith settlement determination: If the good faith settlement is contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good faith on the contesting party. Once there is a showing made by the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in good faith. If contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases could require the moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate the lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting party. (192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1260-1261 [citation omitted].) In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt, Inc.), the California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section 877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial. Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.” The evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of information available at the time of settlement.” (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) “‘[A] defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.) The evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of information available at the time of settlement.” (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) “‘[A] defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.) “The party asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d)), should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute. Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.” (Id. at pp. 499-500.) “[A] court not only looks at the alleged tortfeasor's potential liability to the plaintiff, but it must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be responsible for the same injury. Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a settlement by an alleged tortfeasor. [Citation.]” (TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.) Code Civ. Proc., section 877 provides that where a release, dismissal, or covenant not to sue is given in good faith before judgment to one or more other co-obligors mutually subject to contribution rights, it shall reduce the claims against others in the amount stipulated by the release.The terms of the settlement agreement between Movants and Plaintiff include that Plaintiffs will release all claims against Movants in exchange for $50,000. (Motion, Exh. A.)1. A rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total recoveryPlaintiffs’ Complaint alleges that their damages exceed $100,000. (Compl., ¶31.) Defendants Antolini and Tower argue that in addition to the $100,000 demanded in the complaint, Plaintiffs pray for punitive damages, fees, and costs. Antolini and Tower allege that Movants’ proposed settlement would account for less than 10% of total damages. However, Antolini and Tower fail to provide any evidence or reasoning for how they arrived at this figure. As the parties challenging good faith, Antolini and Tower have the burden of proving settlement was not reached in good faith. Although Movants provide an estimate allegedly made by a defense expert, Movants likewise provide no evidence of Plaintiff’s total recovery. Thus, the evidence available shows that Plaintiff’s total recovery is at least $100,000. The proposed $50,0000 settlement is not grossly lower than Plaintiff’s total recovery. This factor weighs in favor of a finding of good faith.2. Settlor’s proportionate liability and the amount to be paid in settlementAntolini and Tower next argue that Movants are liable to them for indemnification on Plaintiffs’ claims. Antolini testifies that the subject property was sold as-is and Plaintiffs were advised to conduct investigations of the property. (Antolini Decl., ¶¶2-3.) Additionally, Plaintiffs’ own inspector approved repairs and modifications. (Id., ¶4.) Antolini and Tower also allege that they never certified that the property was free from defects, were not aware of any drainage issues, were never asked to make repairs related to the flooding, did not construct the garage which allegedly encroaches on a neighboring property, and never represented that the garage roof could be used as a deck. (Id., ¶¶5-7.) The only allegation in Antolini’s declaration about Movants’ liability is that they, as brokers, advised that Antolini and Tower  add chairs to the garage roof so that it would look similar to other houses. (Id., ¶7.) Movants did not advise whether a permit was required for such use. (Id.)Antolini’s declaration largely addresses whether it should be liable to Plaintiff for the claims alleged in the Complaint. The declaration does not address Movants’ liability to Antolini and Tower except for one paragraph alleging Movants advised Antolini and Tower to add chairs to the garage roof. Antolini and Tower do not cite any authority stating Movants had a duty to advise whether a permit was required to use the garage roof as a deck and fail to estimate Movants’ potential liability. Nevertheless, even assuming Movants had a duty to indemnify Antolini and Tower for Plaintiffs’ claims associated with the rooftop deck, the proposed settlement would be subtracted from any judgment against Antolini and Tower as required under Code Civ. Proc., section 877. Additionally, assuming Plaintiffs’ total recovery is $100,000, the proposed settlement of $50,000 is not out of the ballpark compared to Movants’ potential liability even assuming it was liable for the alleged misrepresentation about the rooftop deck.  This factor weighs in favor of a finding of good faith.            3. Financial condition of the settling DefendantNeither party addresses Movants’ financial condition. This factor does not weigh for or against a finding of good faith.4. Other FactorsOther factors also weigh in favor of a finding of good faith. It is not disputed that settling defendants should pay less for resolving a case early. Movants also allege that they reached settlement after mediation which took place on November 9, 2022 before Robert S. Mann of ADR Services, Inc. (Goor Decl., ¶2; Motion, Exh. A.) Because Movants and Plaintiffs reached settlement as a result of mediation, this factor weighs in favor of a finding of good faith.Because the amount Movants propose to pay in settlement is within the ballpark of its proportionate liability based on information currently available and there is evidence the parties reached settlement in good faith after mediation, the application for determination of good faith settlement is GRANTED.DATED: December 1, 2023 ________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 