 Case Number:  20STCV14201    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Vacate Dismissal, filed by Plaintiffs 
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On April
13, 2020, Jennifer Terlaje and Timothy Terlaje (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
filed a complaint against Rosario Guillen, Vicky Cortez, and Guillen Family
Child Care for the wrongful death of their children.
 
Default
was entered against defendants Rosario Guillen and Guillen Family Child Care on
June 2, 2022.
 
On August
9, 2023, there was no appearance at an OSC re Dismissal for Failure to Enter
Default Judgment.  The Court dismissed Plaintiffs’
complaint.
 
On January 26,
2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion to set aside the dismissal. No opposition
has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…” (Code Civ. Pro., §473, subd. (b).) 
To qualify for relief under section 473,
the moving party must act diligently in seeking relief and must submit
affidavits or testimony demonstrating a reasonable cause for the
default. (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 234.) 
“In a motion under section 473 the initial
burden is on the moving party to prove excusable neglect by a “preponderance of
the evidence. [Citations]”” (Kendall v. Barker (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d
619, 624.) “The moving party has a double burden: He must show a satisfactory
excuse for his default, and he must show diligence in making the motion after
discovery of the default.” (Id. at 625.)
Discussion
Plaintiffs’
counsel Justin H. King states that he missed the August 9, 2023 hearing due to
a calendaring error, and as a result, the matter was dismissed. (King Decl., ¶¶
12, 13.) Counsel attests the dismissal was due purely because of his mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect of counsel. (Id., ¶ 14.)
 
The Court finds
Plaintiffs have established the dismissal occurred due to counsel’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect due to the calendaring error.
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside the dismissal is
GRANTED.   
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside the dismissal is GRANTED.
 
The Court sets an OSC re Dismissal for Failure to Enter
Default Judgment in approximately 45 days.
 
Moving parties to give notice.
                                                                                             