  Case Number:  23SMCV01204    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Zarabi, et
al., v. Perez, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01204
MOTION:                  Motion
for Terminating Sanctions against Defendant John Perez
HEARING DATE:   6/25/2024
 
Legal
Standard
            
If a party fails to obey a
court order compelling it to provide a discovery response, “the court may make
those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction . . . In lieu of or in addition to
this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction . . ..” (CCP §§
2030.290(c), 2030.300(e), 2031.300(c), 2031.320(c).) Misuse of the discovery
process, which includes disobeying a court order to provide discovery, is
conduct subject to sanctions. (CCP § 2023.010(g).) Possible sanctions are: 
 
(a) [A] monetary sanction
ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct…. 
 
(b) [A]n issue sanction
ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in
accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the
discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order
prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from
supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses. 
 
(c) [A]n evidence sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from introducing designated matters in evidence. 
 
(d) [A] terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
 
(1) An order
striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process. 
 
(2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed. 
 
(3) An order
dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party. 
 
(4) An order
rendering a judgment by default against that party. 
 
(e) [A] contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
 
(CCP § 2023.030.) 
 
The party seeking to impose
sanctions need only show the failure to obey earlier discovery orders. (Puritan
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 877, 884 [interpreting
former statute dealing with “refusal” to comply].) However, numerous cases hold
that severe sanctions (i.e., terminating or evidentiary sanctions) for failure
to comply with a court order are allowed only where the failure was willful. (R.S.
Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495; Vallbona
v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545; Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp.
(2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) The burden of proof then shifts to the
party seeking to avoid sanctions to establish a satisfactory excuse for his or
her conduct. (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 201.) 
 
Analysis
 

Plaintiffs Daniel Zarabi, Shirin
Nourollah, and Parvin Nourollah move for terminating sanctions against
Defendant John M. Perez. Plaintiffs argue that this sanction is justified
because Defendant refused and failed to provide any substantive responses to any
of Plaintiffs’ discovery requests and has refused to cooperate with the Court’s
order compelling Defendant to provide further discovery responses and to appear
for his deposition. Defendant opposes the motion asserting that the requested terminating
sanctions would be improper because Defendant’s insurance agent has joined the
action and is actively defending against the liability and damages claims.
 
The record demonstrates the need
for greater sanctions against Defendant. On December 8, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiffs’ motions to compel further responses against Defendant. On January
5, 2024, the Court ordered Defendant to provide further responses to
Plaintiffs’ discovery requests within 20 days and to appear for his deposition
within 10 days at the noticed location, at a mutually agreeable time. (Ames
Decl. ¶8, Ex. 2.) Defendant did not provide any further responses by the
deadline of January 25, 2024. In response to meet and confer efforts, Defense
counsel confirmed that they could not reach Defendant. (Ames Decl. ¶¶10-13; Exs.
3, 4.) The Court notes that lesser sanctions, such as monetary sanctions, have
been ineffective to compel defendant to answer discovery. The Court further
finds that Defendant’s disobedience is willful. (See Cornwall v. Santa
Monica Dairy Co., (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 250 [a party’s failure to keep his
attorney informed as to his whereabouts may be deemed “willful” discovery
abuse, as to hold otherwise “would permit a litigant to disappear and not be
obliged to comply with our discovery statutes”].) Given Defendant’s willful
refusal to obey court orders and participate in this action, greater sanctions
are certainly warranted.
 
            The
Court finds the case of Thomas v. Luong instructive. (Thomas
v. Luong (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 76, 81-82.) In Thomas, the court
found that the trial court abused its discretion in striking the defendant’s
answer and entering default under similar circumstances. There, defendant Luong
initially answered a first set of written discovery without issue, but later failed
to appear for his noticed deposition or substantively answer any subsequent interrogatories.
(Id., at 78-79.) Luong’s counsel had lost contact with Luong. (Id.
at 79.) After Luong failed to appear or respond to discovery, the plaintiff
moved for terminating sanctions against Luong. Meanwhile, Luong’s counsel
advised their prospective arbitrator that Luong would be admitting liability,
and that they would only contest damages. (Id.) Despite this offer to stipulate
to liability, the trial court granted plaintiffs’ motions for terminating
sanctions and entered a default judgment.  (Id. at 80.)
 
The Thomas court held that full
terminating sanctions were improper in such an instance, because such a
sanction exceeded what was reasonably required to protect the plaintiff’s
interest and constituted a forfeiture of Defendant’s rights. (Id. at
82.) Critically, a lesser sanction was available: striking defendant’s answer
contesting liability and causation. The court reasoned that if liability was
not at issue, then there was no need for Luong’s deposition or any new answers
to interrogatories. The court explained that “had the trial court exercised the
lesser sanction of striking the defendant's pleadings insofar as they contested
liability or causation, the deposition of the defendant would have been
superfluous. If plaintiff required further protection, the additional lesser
sanction of precluding defendant from testifying at trial (or arbitration)
could have been imposed.” (Ibid.) Further, if liability is presumed, “much
of the information sought by the form interrogatories becomes irrelevant and,
if additional protection were required, the court could have imposed a further
lesser sanction of denying introduction of evidence contradicting or amending
the prior answers.” (Id.) In light of the availability of alternative
lesser sanctions, the Thomas court reversed the trial court’s order
striking the answer. (Id. at 83.)
 
            Here, the same
lesser sanction is available against Defendant. The Court may strike
Defendant’s answer only insofar as his denial of liability and causation or
grant an issue sanction establishing Defendant’s liability and causation.
Either way, the Court would establish liability against Defendant, but leave open
the question of damages. Such a sanction is more narrowly tailored to fit the
discovery abuse at bar than entering default against Defendant. Defendant’s
discovery abuse has unjustifiably hindered Plaintiffs’ ability to prove liability.
However, as with Thomas, Plaintiffs would not need discovery from Defendant
to prove their damages. Therefore, the sanctions should not extend to establish
damages. 
 
Accordingly, the motion for
sanctions is GRANTED in part. The Court strikes Defendant Perez’s answer
insofar as it denies the complaint’s allegations of liability and causation.
(Ans. ¶ 1.)  