  Case Number:  22STCV40862    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




jane doe

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
religious technology center

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV40862




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


April
   16, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to seal 
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion to compel arbitration
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Jane Doe       
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to Seal
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Church of
Scientology International, Bridge Publications, Inc., and Religious Technology
Center (joined by defendant Gavin Potter on September 21, 2023)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Jane Doe
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Arbitration
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with the motion to seal.  No opposition papers to the motion to seal were
filed. 
The court
considered the moving, joinder, amended opposition, and amended reply papers
filed in connection with the motion to compel arbitration.[1]

EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court sustains defendants Church of Scientology International,
Bridge Publications, Inc., and Religious Technology Center’s evidentiary
objection, filed on February 8, 2024, to the October 13, 2023 declaration of
Jane Doe (submitted as Exhibit 3 to plaintiff Jane Doe’s opposition to the
motion to compel arbitration) in its entirety because the declaration was not “certified
or declared by [plaintiff Jane Doe] to be true under penalty of perjury” as
required.  (Opp., Ex. 3, Oct. 13, 2023
Jane Doe Decl.; Code Civ. Proc., § 2015.5.) 
The court rules on defendants Church of Scientology International,
Bridge Publications, Inc., and Religious Technology Center’s evidentiary
objections, filed on February 8, 2024, to the February 2, 2024 declaration of
Jane Doe (submitted as Exhibit 4 to plaintiff Jane Doe’s opposition to the
motion to compel arbitration) as follows: 
Objections Nos. 1-4, 6-7, and 9-20 are overruled. 
Objections Nos. 5 and 8 are sustained. 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO SEAL
Plaintiff Jane Doe
(“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order sealing documents numbered as CSI
00024-32, attached as exhibits 6 and 8 to the “Supplemental Declaration of
Sarah Heller in Support of Church Defendants’ Motion to Compel Religious
Arbitration” filed by defendants Church of Scientology International,
Bridge Publications, Inc., and Religious Technology Center on February 8, 2024.[2]  (Supp. Heller Decl., Ex. 6 [redacted version
of CSI 00024], Ex. 8 [redacted versions of CSI 00025-00032].) 
Generally,
court records are presumed to be open unless confidentiality is required by
law.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).)¿ If the presumption of
access applies, the court may order that a record be filed under seal “if it
expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding
interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd.
(d).)
The court finds that (1) there
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record since the documents set forth (i) Plaintiff’s name and (ii) reflections
of a highly personal nature, (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the
record to ensure that Plaintiff’s identity and sensitive, personal information
about her are not disclosed, (3) a substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed, (4) the
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, and (5) no less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest. 
(Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.550, subd. (d); Supp. Heller Decl., Exs. 6,
8.)  The court therefore grants
Plaintiff’s motion.
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
Defendants Church of Scientology International (“Church of
Scientology”), Bridge Publications, Inc. (“Bridge”), and Religious Technology
Center (“RTC”) (“Church Defendants”), joined by defendant Gavin Potter
(“Potter”) (collectively, “Defendants”), move the court for an order compelling
Plaintiff to submit all the claims alleged in her Second Amended Complaint to
binding arbitration.
1.     Applicability
of Federal Arbitration Act 
As
a threshold matter, the court finds that Defendants have met their burden to
show that the Federal Arbitration Act (the “FAA”) (9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.)
governs this motion.  (Evenskaas v.
California Transit, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 285, 292 [“The party
asserting the FAA applies to an agreement has ‘the burden to demonstrate FAA
coverage by declarations and other evidence’”] [internal citation omitted].)
“‘The FAA’s basic coverage provision, section 2, makes the FAA
applicable to contracts “evidencing a transaction involving commerce.”  (9 U.S.C. § 2.)  Courts broadly construe section 2 to “provide
for the enforcement of arbitration agreements within the full reach of the
Commerce Clause.”  [Citation.]  “Accordingly, in most cases, the FAA mandates
arbitration when contracts involving interstate commerce contain arbitration
provisions.” ’  [Citations.]”  (Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport (2022)
75 Cal.App.5th 748, 761-762; 9 U.S.C. § 2 [“A written provision in . . . a
contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce” to arbitrate a
controversy shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for revocation of any contract].)  “The United States Supreme Court has
identified ‘three categories of activity that Congress may regulate under its
commerce power: (1) “the use of the channels of interstate commerce”; (2) “the
instrumentalities of interstate commerce, or persons or things in interstate
commerce, . . .”; and (3) “those activities having a substantial relation to
interstate commerce, . . . i.e., those activities that substantially affect
interstate commerce.” ’  [Citations.]”  (Evenskaas, supra, 81
Cal.App.5th at p. 293.)
Defendants have submitted evidence showing that (1) the Church of
Scientology’s Flag Service Organization in Clearwater, California (where the
arbitration agreement was executed) “is the worldwide spiritual headquarters of
the Scientology religion[,]” at which the Church of Scientology “ministers to
Scientologists throughout the world who come to Clearwater for Scientology
religious services, including services available only at” Flag Service
Organization; (2) the arbitration provision that is the subject of this motion
expressly states that the signee is waiving his or her right to file a lawsuit
with regard to any claim or dispute against that church, all other Scientology
churches, all organizations which espouse, present, propagate or practice
Scientology, and all persons employed by any such entity; and (3) the agreement
also includes procedures regarding the return of religious donations made to
Scientology churches.  (Heller Decl.,
¶¶ 1, 3, 7; Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, ¶ 6, subd. (a); Heller
Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, ¶ 5, subd. (c).)  
The court finds that Defendants’ evidence is sufficient to show that
the subject agreement “substantially affect[s] interstate commerce” because it
evidences transactions involving commerce since (1) the subject agreement was
executed by and between Plaintiff and “the worldwide headquarters of the
Scientology religion[,]” where the Church of Scientology ministers to its
members “throughout the world[,]” and (2) the agreement includes provisions
concerning the religious donations made to its churches.  (Evenskaas, supra, 81
Cal.App.5th at p. 293 [internal quotations omitted]; Heller Decl., ¶ 3;
Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, ¶ 5, subd. (c).)  Thus, the court finds that the FAA governs
the arbitration agreement that is the subject of Defendants’ motion.
2.     Existence
of Written Agreement to Arbitrate
The
FAA requires courts to direct parties to proceed to arbitration on issues
covered by an arbitration agreement upon a finding that the making of the
arbitration agreement is not in issue.¿ (9 U.S.C. § 4; Chiron Corp. v. Ortho
Diagnostic Sys. (9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130.)¿ “The court’s role
under the [FAA] is therefore limited to determining (1) whether a valid
agreement to arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement
encompasses the dispute at issue.”¿ (Chiron Corp., supra, 207 F.3d
at p. 1130.)¿ The FAA reflects “both a ‘liberal federal policy favoring
arbitration,’ [citation], and the ‘fundamental principle that arbitration is a
matter of contract,’ [citation].”¿ (AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion
(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)¿¿¿ 
“‘
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the petition
bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s enforcement.” ’”¿
(Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292, 302.)¿ To determine
the existence of an agreement, the court uses “a three-step burden-shifting
process.”  (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023)
87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755.)  “The
arbitration proponent must first recite verbatim, or provide a copy of, the
alleged agreement.  [Citations.]  A movant can bear this initial burden ‘by
attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement purportedly bearing the opposing
party’s signature.’”  (Ibid.
[internal citations omitted].)  “If the
movant bears its initial burden, the burden shifts to the party opposing
arbitration to identify a factual dispute as to the agreement’s existence . . .
.”  (Ibid.)  If the opposing party meets its burden to
“submit sufficient evidence to create a factual dispute” as to the existence of
the agreement, the burden shifts back to the arbitration proponent, who retains
the ultimate burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the
evidence.  (Ibid.; Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165-166.)
The court
finds that Defendants have met their burden of producing prima facie evidence
of an agreement to arbitrate this controversy.  (Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at
p. 755.)
Defendants
have submitted a copy of the “Religious Services Enrollment Application,
Agreement and General Release” (the “Agreement”), entered into by and between
Plaintiff, on the one hand, and Church of Scientology Flag Service Organization
(“Church FSO”), on the other hand. 
(Heller Decl., ¶ 1; Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement.)  The Agreement includes an arbitration
provision.  (Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement,
¶ 6.)  The arbitration provision
states, in relevant part, that, should any dispute, claim or controversy arise
between Plaintiff and Church FSO, any other Scientology church, any other
organization that espouses or practices the Scientology religion, or any person
employed by such entity, Plaintiff “will pursue resolution of that dispute,
claim or controversy solely and exclusively through Scientology’s internal
Ethics, Justice, and binding religious arbitration procedures, which include
application to senior ecclesiastical bodies including, as necessary, final
submission of the dispute to the International Justice Chief of the Mother
Church of the Scientology religion, Church of Scientology International (‘IJC’)
or his or her designee.”  (Heller Decl.,
Ex. 1, Agreement, ¶ 6, subd. (d).)  The
Agreement further states that any dispute that remains unresolved after review
by the IJC shall be submitted to binding religious arbitration in accordance
with the Church of Scientology’s arbitration procedures.  (Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, ¶ 6,
subd. (e).) 
The court
finds that Defendants have met their burden to produce evidence of an agreement
to arbitrate this controversy between Plaintiff and Church FSO which extends, as
express third-party beneficiaries, (1) to defendant Church of Scientology (as
“any other Scientology church or organization”), (2) to defendant RTC (as “any
other Scientology church or organization”), (3) to defendant Bridge (as “any
other organization which espouses, presents, [or] propagates . . . the
Scientology religion”), and (4) to defendant Potter (as a “person employed” by
the entities delineated in the agreement). 
(Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, ¶ 6, subd. (d) [extending
arbitration provision to all Scientology churches, entities espousing its
religion, and persons employed by those entities]; McShane Decl., ¶ 4
[stating that RTC is a church of Scientology and that its “central role and
function . . . is to ensure the orthodoxy of the Scientology religion”]; Farny
Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4, 7 [“Bridge serves as the primary publishing arm of
Scientology Scripture”]; SAC ¶ 57 [Potter “acted as an agent and employee
of” Church Defendants]; Fuentes v. TMCSF, Inc. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th
541, 552 [“‘a third party beneficiary of an arbitration agreement may enforce
it’” if the third party shows that the arbitration clause was made expressly
for its benefit].)  The court further finds
that Defendants have shown that the arbitration agreement encompasses the
claims alleged in Plaintiff’s operative complaint since the agreement applies
to “any dispute, claim or controversy” arising between Plaintiff and
Defendants.  (Heller Decl., Ex. 1,
Agreement, ¶ 6, subd. (d) [emphasis added].) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to identify a
factual dispute as to the Agreement’s existence.  (Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th
at p. 755.)
Plaintiff has not argued that she did not sign the Agreement or that
it is not authentic for any other reason. 
(Opp., pp. 2:20-21 [Plaintiff “signed the agreement”].)  Instead, Plaintiff contends that the
Agreement is invalid because (1) Defendants did not sign it, and (2) there was
no implied-in-fact agreement between the parties.
First, the court acknowledges that the Agreement was not signed by any
of the Church Defendants or the Church FSO. 
(Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, p. 6 [leaving blank the signature line
for the Church of Scientology].)  “However,
the writing memorializing an arbitration agreement need not be signed by both
parties in order to be upheld as a binding arbitration agreement.”  (Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 165, 176.)  Specifically,
“‘it is not the presence or absence of a signature [on an agreement]
which is dispositive; it is the presence or absence of evidence of an agreement
to arbitrate which matters.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Ibid.)  Thus, the absence of Church FSO’s signature,
alone, does not invalidate the Agreement. 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that the
Agreement was not accepted or agreed to by Church FSO.
The Agreement states that it “will become a legally binding agreement
between [the member] and the Church upon its acceptance by the Church or upon
[the member’s] commencing [his or her] participation in a Scientology Religious
Service, whichever occurs first.” 
(Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff asserts that, because she did not
commence participation in religious services at Flag, the Agreement did not
become binding.  (Opp., pp. 3:5-10, 14:15-19.)  However, as noted by Church Defendants in
their reply papers, the Agreement does not state that it becomes binding upon
the commencement of participation of religious services with Church FSO,
and instead becomes binding “upon [Plaintiff’s] commencing [her] participation in
a Scientology Religious Service[.]” 
(Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, ¶ 8 [emphasis added].)  “Religious Services” are defined to be “the
beliefs and practices set forth in the writings and spoken words of [L. Ron
Hubbard] on the subjects of Dianetics and Scientology published with the
identifying S and double triangle or Dianetics triangle symbol, and all
services or application of the principles of Mr. Hubbard provided to [the
signing member] by the ministers or staff of the Church [FSO] and all other
Scientology churches and organizations . . . .”  (Heller Decl., Ex. 1, ¶ 2, subd. (d)
[emphasis added].) 
Thus, Plaintiff has not shown that the Agreement did not become
binding solely because she might not have participated in religious services
offered by Church FSO as she contends. 
(Opp., p. 14:17-19 [Plaintiff “did not participate in Religious
Services at FLAG after signing the Agreement”] [emphasis added].)  Moreover, the court notes that Plaintiff’s
declaration indicates that (1) she resumed her studies at Advanced Org Los
Angeles—Plaintiff’s “home Scientology base”—in March and April of 2002 (i.e.,
after she signed the Agreement), and (2) completed independent work, dated
April 16, 2002, assigned to her by Advanced Org Los Angeles.  (Doe Decl., ¶¶ 3 [stating she’d been
granted a temporary leave from “Advanced Org Los Angeles,” which she describes
as her “home Scientology base”], 13.) 
Plaintiff has not shown that the independent work and resumed studies at
Advanced Org Los Angeles did not constitute religious services (i.e., work
relating to the beliefs and practices set forth in L. Ron Hubbard’s writings).  The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has
not shown that, after signing the Agreement, she did not participate in any
“Religious Services” as defined by the Agreement, such that the Agreement did
not become binding. 
Even if Plaintiff had produced evidence showing that she did not
participate in the types of religious services contemplated by the Agreement,
the court would find that (1) Defendants met their ultimate burden in proving
the existence of an arbitration agreement by submitting evidence showing that
Plaintiff did participate in religious services at Church FSO in the spring of
2002, and therefore (2) met their burden of showing that the Agreement became
binding, at the latest, in the spring of 2002. 
(Supp. Heller Decl., ¶¶ 17 [Plaintiff “participated in Ethics
programs at Flag in the Spring of 2002”], 18 [“Ethics programs involve the
study and application of the religious technology” of L. Ron Hubbard]; Lowrey
Decl., ¶¶ 4 [“I ministered an Ethics Program, a religious service, to
[Plaintiff] to assist with her spiritual development”], 6 [Exhibit 8 documents
“pertain to the Ethics Program I ministered to [Plaintiff] at Flag”]; 7-8; Golden
Door Properties, LLC v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th
733, 774 [exception to rule barring new evidence in reply “is for points
‘strictly responsive’ to arguments made for the first time in opposition”].)
Thus, the court finds that Defendants have met their burden (1) to
prove the existence of an arbitration agreement, and (2) to show that they, as
non-signatories, may enforce the arbitration agreement as third-party
beneficiaries of the Agreement.  
3.     Validity
of Agreement
Plaintiff contends that the arbitration provision in the Agreement is
invalid as a matter of law (1) pursuant to the Ending Forced Arbitration of
Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (the “EFAA”) (9 U.S.C. § 401
et seq.), and (2) under the reasoning set forth in McGill v. Citibank (2017)
2 Cal.5th 945 (“McGill”).
Preliminarily, the court notes that Defendants have argued that “the
threshold questions of invalidity and scope are to be determined by the
ecclesiastical arbitrators, not the Court[,]” because “the parties made clear
that civil courts should not hear any claim asserted against the Church
Defendants.”  (Mot., p. 17:2-4,
17:18-19.)  The court disagrees.
“Courts have held that ‘ “[t]here are two prerequisites for a
delegation clause to be effective. 
First, the language of the clause must be clear and unmistakable.  [Citation.] 
Second, the delegation must not be revocable under state contract
defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.” ’  [Citation.]” 
(Mendoza, supra, 75 Cal.App.5th at p. 773.)  Here, Defendants contend that the court
cannot adjudicate the scope of the Agreement because Plaintiff (1) consented
“to be bound exclusively by the discipline, faith, internal organization, and
ecclesiastical rule, custom, and law of the Scientology religion . . . in all
[her] dealings of any nature with the Church[,]” and (2) agreed that any claims
shall be resolved through their arbitration procedures.  (Heller Decl., Ex. 1, ¶ 6, subds. (a),
(d).)  However, the court finds that
these provisions are not “clear and unmistakable” clauses that delegate the
issues of arbitrability and validity to Church Defendants’ arbitrators.  (Mendoza, supra, 75 Cal.App.5th
at p. 773.)  Thus, the court will
determine whether the arbitration agreement set forth in the Agreement is valid
and enforceable.  (Ibid.)   
i.                
EFAA
The EFAA, enacted on March 3, 2022, “voids predispute arbitration
clauses in cases . . . involving sexual harassment allegations.”  (Murrey v. Superior Court (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 1223, 1230.)  Under the EFAA,
“at the election of the person alleging conduct constituting a sexual
harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute . . . , no predispute arbitration
agreement or predispute joint-action waiver shall be valid or enforceable with
respect to a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and
relates to the sexual assault dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.”  (9 U.S.C. § 402, subd. (a).)
The court finds that Plaintiff has met her burden to show that the
arbitration agreement set forth in the Agreement is a predispute arbitration
agreement relating to a sexual assault dispute and is therefore invalid and
unenforceable pursuant to the EFAA.  (9
U.S.C. § 402, subd. (a).)
“The term ‘predispute arbitration agreement’ means any agreement to
arbitrate a dispute that had not yet arisen at the time of the making of the
agreement.”  (9 U.S.C. § 401, subd. (1).)  A sexual assault dispute is defined to mean
“a dispute involving a nonconsensual sexual act or sexual contact, as such
terms are defined in section 2246 of title 18 or similar applicable Tribal or
State law, including when the victim lacks capacity to consent.”  (9 U.S.C. § 401, subd. (3).)  “[T]he date that a dispute has arisen for
purposes of the [EFAA] is a fact-specific inquiry in each case, but a dispute
does not arise solely from the alleged sexual conduct.  A dispute arises when one party asserts a
right, claim, or demand, and the other side expresses disagreement or takes an
adversarial posture.  [Citation.]  In other words, ‘[a] dispute cannot arise
until both sides have expressed their disagreement, either through words or
actions.’  [Citation.]  Until there is a conflict or disagreement,
there is nothing to resolve in litigation.” 
(Kader v. Southern California Medical Center, Inc. (2024) 99
Cal.App.5th 214, 222-223 [internal citations omitted].)  “[A] dispute does not arise simply because
the plaintiff suffers an injury; it additionally requires a disagreement or
controversy.”  (Id. at p. 223.)
The court acknowledges, as Church Defendants point out, that Plaintiff
has alleged that the sexual abuse that is the subject of this action occurred
from 1991 to approximately 1997-1998. 
(SAC ¶¶ 65, 77-78.)  However,
as set forth above, a dispute does not arise when the alleged sexual assault
occurs.  (Kader, supra, 99
Cal.App.5th at p. 222.)  Church
Defendants contend that Plaintiff has alleged that the dispute occurred before
she signed the Agreement in 2002 by alleging that she reported defendant
Potter’s sexual assault to Church Defendants, who subsequently forced her to
choose between marrying Potter or facing disciplinary action.  The court disagrees.
Plaintiff did not allege that she reported Potter to Church
Defendants, and instead has alleged (1) she confided in a coworker regarding
the sexual abuse committed by Potter, (2) that coworker thereafter informed
Church officials, and (3) Church Defendants responded to the disclosure of that
information by presenting Plaintiff with two options: marry Potter or be
branded for the Rehabilitation Project Force. 
(SAC ¶¶ 70, 96, subd. (g).) 
Plaintiff did not allege, in the paragraphs cited by Church Defendants
in their reply papers, that (1) she communicated a claim or complaint to Church
Defendants based on the sexual assault alleged in her complaint, or (2) she
demanded redress for Potter’s actions. 
(Reply, p. 6:11-15 [citing SAC ¶¶ 96, subd. (g), 116, 126, 130]; Kader,
supra, 99 Cal.App.5th at pp. 218, 224.) 
Further, Church Defendants have not pointed to any other evidence
establishing that Plaintiff asserted a right, claim, or demand to Church
Defendants at any other time.  The only
evidence as to the first time that Plaintiff asserted such a claim or demand is
the date of filing of this action.
Thus, the court finds that (1) the sexual assault dispute that is the
subject of this action arose on December 29, 2022, i.e., the date on which
Plaintiff filed the Complaint in this action; (2) Plaintiff signed the
Agreement containing the arbitration provision on February 25, 2002, and
therefore it is a predispute arbitration agreement; and (3) the dispute arose
after the date that the EFAA was enacted (March 3, 2022) and therefore
invalidates the predispute arbitration agreement.  (Kader, supra, 99 Cal.App.5th at
p. 225 [because the dispute in the case arose after the effective date of the
EFAA, “[t]he trial court properly concluded that the Act applied to invalidate
the predispute arbitration agreement” in that case].) 
ii.              
McGill
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to show that the
holding in McGill bars Defendants from enforcing the arbitration
agreement against Plaintiff.
In McGill, the Supreme Court of California (1) addressed the
question of “the validity of a provision in a predispute arbitration agreement
that waives the right to seek [the statutory remedy of injunctive relief
provided by the Consumers Legal Remedies Act, the unfair competition law, and
the false advertising law] in any forum[,]” and (2) held “that such a
provision is contrary to California public policy and is thus unenforceable
under California law.”  (McGill, supra,
2 Cal.5th at pp. 951-952 [emphasis added]; Id. at p. 963 [“the FAA does
not require enforcement of a provision in a predispute arbitration agreement
that . . . waives the right to seek in any forum public injunctive
relief under the UCL, the CLRA, or the false advertising law”] [emphasis in
original].)  While the court recognizes
that Plaintiff has prayed for injunctive relief (SAC ¶ 8), Plaintiff has
not directed the court to any provision set forth in the Agreement that
constitutes a waiver of her right to seek injunctive relief “in any
forum.”  (McGill, supra, 2
Cal.5th at p. 951; Opp., p. 9:1-12.)
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that McGill precludes
enforcement of the arbitration agreement.
4.     Unconscionability

Plaintiff further contends that the court cannot enforce the
arbitration provision in the Agreement because it is unconscionable.
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Church Defendants have
argued that the First Amended bars any unconscionability challenge to the
Agreement, relying on Serbian Eastern Orthodox Diocese for U.S. of America
and Canada v. Milivojevich (1976) 426 U.S. 696 (“Milivojevich”).
The court acknowledges that,
in deciding Milivojevich, the Supreme Court of the United States explained
that (1) “the First and Fourteenth Amendments permit hierarchical religious
organizations to establish their own rules and regulations for internal
discipline and government, and to create tribunals for adjudicating disputes
over these matters[,]” and (2) “[w]hen this choice is exercised and
ecclesiastical tribunals are created to decide disputes over the government and
direction of subordinate bodies, the Constitution requires that civil courts
accept their decisions as binding upon them.” 
(Milivojevich, supra, 426 U.S. at pp. 724-725.)  However, the Milivojevich case
concerned the removal of a Bishop and the decision of the Supreme Court of
Illinois which held that such removal was procedurally and substantively
defective under the internal regulations of the church and was therefore
invalid.  (Id. at p. 698.)  The Milivojevich Court held that
“[t]he fallacy fatal to the judgment of the Illinois Supreme Court [was] that
it rest[ed] upon an impermissible rejection of the decisions of the highest
ecclesiastical tribunals of th[e] hierarchical church upon the issues in
dispute, and impermissibly substitute[d] its own inquiry into church policy and
resolutions based thereon of those disputes.” 
(Id. at p. 708.) 
Doing so violated the First and Fourteenth Amendments because,
thereunder, “‘civil courts do not inquire whether the relevant (hierarchical)
church governing body has power under religious law (to decide such disputes)[,]’”
because to do so would allow the court to decide religious law.  (Id. at pp. 708-709.)  Here, however, Plaintiff has not requested
that the court reverse a decision made by Church Defendants or to interpret
religious law and governing church polity. 
Instead, Plaintiff has requested that the court find that the arbitration
provision is unconscionable.  
Thus, the court finds that
Church Defendants have not met their burden to show that the decision in Milivojevich bars the court from determining whether the Agreement is unconscionable
and therefore unenforceable.  The court
therefore evaluates whether Plaintiff has shown that the arbitration agreement
is unconscionable.
“‘[A]greements
to arbitrate [may] be invalidated by “generally applicable contract defenses,
such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.” ’”  (Beco, supra,
86 Cal.App.5th at p. 302.)  “The burden of proving unconscionability rests
upon the party asserting it.”¿ (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
126 (Kho).)¿ “Unconscionability entails an absence of meaningful choice
on the part of one of the parties together with contract terms which are
unreasonably favorable to the other party.”¿ (Iyere, supra, 87
Cal.App.5th at p. 759 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ It “‘has both a
“procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’
or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or
‘one-sided’ results.”¿ (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114 [citations omitted].)¿ “As a
matter of general contract law, California courts require both procedural and
substantive unconscionability to invalidate a contract.”¿ (Torrecillas v.
Fitness International, LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485, 492 (Torrecillas).)¿
Courts “apply a sliding scale, meaning if one of these elements is present to
only a lesser degree, then more evidence of the other element is required to
establish overall unconscionability.¿ In other words, if there is little of
one, there must be a lot of the other.”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿
i.                
Procedural
Unconscionability 
“Procedural
unconscionability pertains to the making of the agreement . . . .”¿ (Ajamian
v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)¿ Procedural
unconscionability “‘“focuses on two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’¿
[Citations.]¿ ‘Oppression’ arises from an inequality of bargaining power which
results in no real negotiation and ‘an absence of meaningful choice.’
[Citations.]¿ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the supposedly
agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed form drafted
by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.”’”¿ (Zullo v. Superior
Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484 [citations omitted].)¿¿¿¿¿¿
1.     Oppression¿ 
As
set forth above, “[o]ppression occurs where a contract involves
lack of negotiation and meaningful choice . . . .”  (Kho, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p.
126 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)  “Oppression generally ‘takes the form of a
contract of adhesion, “‘which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it.’”’”¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Carmona v. Lincoln
Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 (Carmona).)  “‘The circumstances relevant to establishing
oppression include, but are not limited to (1) the amount of time the party is
given to consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and type of pressure
exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the length of the
proposed contract and the length and complexity of the challenged provision;
(4) the education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the party’s
review of the proposed contract as aided by an attorney.’”  (Kho, supra, 8 Cal.5th at pp.
126-127.) 
Plaintiff
has submitted her declaration,[3] in which she
states that (1) officials at Church FSO noted that she was not partaking in
training; (2) she was informed that Church FSO needed to have paperwork showing
that she was on base for a legitimate purpose; (3) the Agreement was presented
to her for that purpose; (4) she was told that the failure to sign the
Agreement and other presented documents would result in Plaintiff and Flag
officers getting in trouble; (5) she was told that the documents “were
meaningless to [her] but would allow [her] to stay at” the Church FSO; (6) she
was not given an opportunity to read the documents; and (7) she was not told
that the Agreement contained an arbitration provision.  (Doe Decl., ¶¶ 6-7, 9.)  The court finds that Plaintiff’s testimony on
these points is credible.
The
court finds that Plaintiff has shown the existence of oppression because she
has shown that (1) the Agreement was a form contract that was offered to
Plaintiff on a take-it-or-leave-it basis (and thus was an adhesion contract), (2)
Plaintiff was expressly told by Church officials that failure to sign would get
her and other Flag officials in trouble (and therefore shows that she was subjected
to pressure to sign the Agreement in order to avoid getting both herself and
other officials in trouble), and (3) Plaintiff was not given the opportunity to
review the Agreement.
The court notes that, in
reply, Church Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s assertion of pressure cannot
be used to support a defense to enforcement of an agreement.  The court acknowledges that, as a general
rule, a church “is entitled to stop associating with someone who abandons it”
and to “warn that it will stop associating with members who do not act in
accordance with church doctrine.”  (Headley
v. Church of Scientology Intern. (9th Cir. 2012) 687 F.3d 1173, 1180.)  However, even if this conduct is protected,
Church Defendants have not shown that such threats cannot support a finding of
oppression based on the exertion of pressure on a party to sign an agreement.  (Kho,
supra, 8 Cal.5th at pp. 126-127.) 
The
court finds that this evidence establishes a moderate level of
procedural unconscionability.  
2.     Surprise
As discussed above, “[s]urprise is when a prolix printed form
conceals the arbitration provision.”¿ (Torrecillas, supra, 52
Cal.App.5th at p. 493; Fisher v. MoneyGram Intern., Inc. (2021) 66
Cal.App.5th 1084, 1095 [“Surprise involves the extent to which ‘the supposedly
agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed form drafted
by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms’”].)
The court finds that
Plaintiff has not established surprise as to the form of the Agreement.  
Although the court
recognizes that the arbitration provision set forth in the Agreement is on the
fourth page of the six-page agreement, the provision does not appear to have
been concealed.  (Heller Decl., Ex. 1,
Agreement, p. 4.)  Moreover, the sixth
page of the Agreement, above the signature line, states, in all capital letters
and bold typeface, that the signee understood that he or she was “forever
giving up [his or her] right to sue the church, its staff and any of the
hereinabove referenced releasees for any injury or damage suffered in any way
connected with Scientology religious services.” 
(Id. at p. 6.)  Thus, the court finds
that the form of the Agreement does not conceal the arbitration provision. 
While the court has found
that there was no surprise in regard to the form of the Agreement, the court
(1) has found relevant, in evaluating the existence of oppression, that Plaintiff
was told by Church officials that the Agreement (and other documents) “were
meaningless” to her and concealed, in their representations, the existence of
an arbitration agreement, and (2) notes that “[a] showing of either oppression
or surprise may render a contract procedurally unconscionable[,]” such that
this finding does not preclude the court’s finding of a moderate level of procedural
unconscionability.  (Fisher, supra,
66 Cal.App.5th at p. 1095 [emphasis added].) 
ii.              
Substantive
Unconscionability
“‘Substantive
unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an agreement’s actual terms and
to assessments of whether they are overly harsh or one-sided.¿ [Citations.]¿ A
contract term is not substantively unconscionable when it merely gives one side
a greater benefit; rather, the term must be “so one-sided as to ‘shock the
conscience.’”’”¿ (Carmona, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 85.)¿
“‘“[T]he paramount consideration in assessing [substantive] unconscionability
is mutuality.”’”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿ 
The court
finds that Plaintiff has shown that the arbitration provision set forth in the
Agreement is unilateral and lacks mutuality. 
Specifically, the court has identified four provisions showing that the arbitration
provision in the Agreement is not mutual.
First, in paragraph
6, subdivision (a), the Agreement states that Plaintiff’s freely given consent
to be bound by the rule and law of Scientology “means that I [i.e.,
Plaintiff[4]] am [is] forever abandoning,
surrendering, waiving, and relinquishing my [Plaintiff’s] right to sue,
or otherwise seek legal resource with respect to any dispute, claim or
controversy against the Church” and related, delineated entities.  (Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, ¶ 6,
subd. (a) [emphasis added].)  This
provision does not include a mutual obligation stating that Church Defendants
(as entities related to Church FSO) are similarly abandoning, surrendering,
waiving, and relinquishing their rights to sue or seek legal recourse against
Plaintiff in court.
Second, in paragraph
6, subdivision (c), the Agreement states that, “[s]hould I or anyone
acting or purporting to be acting on my behalf ever sue, or otherwise
seek legal recourse with respect to any dispute, claim or controversy” against
any Scientology church or related entities as set forth in the Agreement, “I
intend for the submission of this Contract to the presiding judicial
officer to be a complete and sufficient basis for the immediate dismissal of
any and all such proceedings with prejudice to further proceedings of any
kind.”  (Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement,
¶ 6, subd. (c) [emphasis added].) 
This provision (1) applies only to the initiation of a lawsuit by
Plaintiff or anyone acting on her behalf, and (2) does not permit Plaintiff, if
Defendants were to file a lawsuit against her, to use the Agreement to dismiss
such proceedings.  (Ibid.) 
Third, in paragraph
6, subdivision (d), the Agreement further explains that “should any dispute,
claim or controversy” arise between the parties, “I [i.e., Plaintiff]
will pursue resolution of that dispute, claim or controversy solely and
exclusively through Scientology’s” internal procedures.  (Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, ¶ 6,
subd. (d) [emphasis added].)  This
provision also obligates only Plaintiff and not Defendants.
Fourth, the
language set forth in paragraph 6, subdivision (e) further shows that Plaintiff
was the only party obligated to submit claims to arbitration.  For example, in describing the arbitration
procedure, the Agreement sets forth the following language: (1) “I will
submit a request for arbitration to the IJC[;]” (2) “in my request for
arbitration, I will designate one arbitrator[;]” and (3) “consistent
with my intention that the arbitration be conducted . . . .”  (Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, ¶ 6,
subd. (e) [emphasis added].)  The
language used in describing the arbitration procedure again contemplates that
the obligation to submit any arising claims or disputes to arbitration applies
only to Plaintiff, and therefore is not bilateral.
Finally,
the court notes that Church Defendants contend that “Plaintiff’s statement that
she agrees to arbitration of disputes creates mutual obligation.”  (Reply, p. 12:1-2.)  The court disagrees.  
The court
acknowledges that there are cases declining to find that “‘the mere inclusion
of the words “I agree” by one party in an otherwise mutual arbitration
provision destroys the bilateral nature of the agreement.’  [Citation.]” 
(Nguyen v. Applied Medical Resources Corp. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th
232, 252 [quoting Roman v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462,
1473].)  However, as set forth above, the
arbitration provision in the Agreement here includes various terms establishing
that the obligation to submit claims to arbitration is binding only on
Plaintiff, and therefore is not “an otherwise mutual arbitration provision”
within the meaning of those cases.  (Ibid.;
Heller Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, ¶ 6, subds. (a), (c), (d), (e).)
The court
finds that Plaintiff has established a high level of substantive
unconscionability by showing that the arbitration provision set forth in the
Agreement lacks mutuality and is “so one-sided as to shock the
conscience.”  (Carmona, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 85
[internal quotations omitted].)
Thus,
because Plaintiff has established (1) a moderate level of procedural
unconscionability, and (2) a high level of substantive unconscionability, the court
finds that Plaintiff has met her burden to show that the arbitration agreement
is unconscionable and therefore unenforceable.
5.    
Conclusion
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that (1) Defendants
have met their burden to show the existence of an agreement to arbitrate this
controversy, and (2) Plaintiff has met her burden to show that Defendants
cannot enforce the arbitration provision against her (i) because it is void
under the EFAA, and (ii) because it is unconscionable and therefore
unenforceable under California law.  
The court therefore denies Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration. 
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiff Jane
Doe’s motion to seal. 
            The court orders that the
“Supplemental Declaration of Sarah Heller in Support of Church Defendants’
Motion to Compel Religious Arbitration,” lodged with the court on or about
February 8, 2024 by defendants Church of Scientology International, Bridge Publications,
Inc., and Religious Technology Center, shall be filed under seal. 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (e), the court directs the clerk to file this order,
maintain the records ordered sealed in a secure manner, and clearly identify
the records as sealed by this order.¿¿ 
            The court denies (1) defendants Church of
Scientology International, Bridge Publications, Inc., and Religious Technology
Center’s motion to compel arbitration, and (2) defendant Gavin Potter’s joinder
to defendants Church of Scientology International, Bridge Publications, Inc.,
and Religious Technology Center’s motion to compel arbitration. 
            The court orders plaintiff Jane Doe
to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  April 16, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


