 Case Number:  22STCV18323    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 27, 2023                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Jeff Shin v. James Lai, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV18323            
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER DEEMING THE TRUTH OF MATTERS IN REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS (SET ONE);
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants James Lai, Kevin Lai, and Broadway Hill
Investment Group, LLC.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Jeff
Shin
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/06/22: Complaint filed.
·        
06/08/22: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
07/08/22: Cross-Complaint filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for fraud and breach of contract arising out of a
commercial lease dispute. 
 
Defendants move for an order
deeming the truth of the matters stated in Requests for Admissions (Set One)
propounded to Plaintiff, and for sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion for Order
Deeming the Truth of Matters in Requests for Admissions Propounded to Plaintiff
is DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
Defendants’ request for sanctions
is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move for an order
deeming the truth of the matters stated in Requests for Admissions (Set One)
propounded to Plaintiff. 
Legal
Standard
 
When a party to
whom requests for admission are directed fails to respond, the party
propounding the requests may move for an order that the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).)
“The court shall make this order [deem the requests admitted], unless it finds
that the party to whom the request for admissions have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with section 2033.220.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants served Requests for
Admissions (Set One) on Plaintiff via email and First-Class mail on June 13,
2023. (Declaration of Connor Inlow ISO Mot. Exh. A.) As of the time this motion
was filed, no responses had been received. (Id ¶ 6.) Plaintiff states in
opposition, however, that responses were served on October 16, 2023. (Declaration
of Albert Ng. ISO Opp. Exh. 6.) 
 
            Plaintiff argues that it should be
relieved from its failure to timely serve responses to requests for admissions based
on mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, citing Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.280 subdivision (a). Defendants argue in response that the Court
should not consider Plaintiff’s late responses because Plaintiff has not shown
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. Both parties overlook that
subdivision (a) is concerned with relief from waiver of objections, not
with Plaintiff’s ability to serve tardy responses. Instead, the parties should
have looked to subdivision (c), which states only that the respondent must
serve before the hearing on the motion a proposed response that is
substantially code-compliant. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).) 
 
            Plaintiff has served verified
responses to the Requests for Admissions that responds with admissions and
denials as required by section 2033.220. Defendant’s motion is therefore moot,
save for the issue of sanctions.
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendants request sanctions against
Plaintiff in the amount of $2,361.
 
Failure to respond or submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process for which
sanctions may be imposed. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(d); 2023.030(a).)
Sanctions are mandatory on the party or attorney or both whose failure to serve
a timely response to requests for admission necessitated a motion to deem
requests for admissions as admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)
 
            Here, Defendants request an award of
$2,361 based on 3.8 hours of attorney time actually billed on this motion at an
hourly rate of $295.00 per hour, plus an additional 4 anticipated hours, plus $60
in filing fees. (Inlow Decl. ¶ 7.) This request is unreasonably
inflated on its face. It should not require more than seven hours for an
attorney to prepare the papers for a motion of this nature. The Court has the
power to deny unreasonably inflated fee requests outright. (Chavez v. City of Los Angeles (2010) 47 Cal. 4th 970, 989-991.) That
authority is exercised here. Defendants’ request for sanctions is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Order
Deeming the Truth of Matters in Requests for Admissions Propounded to Plaintiff
is DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
Defendants’ request for sanctions
is DENIED. 
 
Moving Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 27, 2023                                 __________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 