  Case Number:  19STPB06779    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling   Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47     HEARING DATE:       October 27, 2023                                     CASE:           Audrey Haskell Family Trust 2011, et  al. v. Edward Lubin, et al.   CASE NO.:               19STPB06779     The Court has reviewed Partition Referee’s Notice of Motion  and Motion for Order:  (1) Approving and  Settling the Referee’s Final Report and Accounting; (2) Approving Final  Compensation and Reimbursement of Expenses; (3) Directing West Coast Escrow to  Release $250,000 in Escrow Account to Referee Estate; (4) Approving Referee’s  Recommended Distribution of Funds; (5) Exonerating All Bonds; (6) Terminating  the Referee Appointment; and (7) Retaining Jurisdiction re This Referee  Appointment, and the papers submitted in support thereof.  The Court has also reviewed Plaintiffs’  Response to Referee Final Report, in which Plaintiff confirm they have no  objections to the Report or opposition to the motion.     In addition, the Court has received an email from Defendant  Edward H. Lubin, which appears to be an improper ex parte communication to the  Court.  The record reflects, however,  that Plaintiffs’ Counsel and Partition Referee have both received a copy of  this email and responded to it with their objections, which the Court has also  read.    Construing Defendant Lubin’s email as an ex parte  application for a continuance of the hearing, the Court denies the request  because Defendant fails to demonstrate good cause for the request.  The absence of good cause is grounded on the  facts, inter alia, that he is currently represented by counsel who, for unknown  reasons, has delayed in seeking to be relieved as counsel for Defendant, that  Defendant raises no specific or even general objections to the Partition Referee’s  Report or motion, and that any further delay in resolving this matter would  prejudice Plaintiffs who have already waited for months to have this matter  completed, in large part because of the delays and intransigence of this very  defendant.    Based on its review of the motion and given the absence of  any substantive objections to it, the Court grants the motion of the Partition  Referee and supplements the award of fees to him to add 3 hours at $295 per  hour, or $885, to cover attorney’s fees generated to respond to Defendant’s ex  parte request, which amount shall be deducted from Defendant’s share of the  distribution.  Partition Referee is to  submit a proposed final order for the Court’s signature no later than November  13, 2023.  The Court sets a  non-appearance case review to consider the proposed order on November 16, 2023.    