 Case Number:  22STCV11178    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 27, 2023                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Johnny Smith et al. v. City of Los
Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV11178            
 
PITCHESS
MOTION FOR DISCOVERY OF PEACE OFFICER PERSONNEL RECORDS PURSUANT TO
EVIDENCE CODE SECTION 1043

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Johnny Smith, individually and as a
Personal Representative of the Estate of Aidan Smith, and Reily Smith 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant City of
Los Angeles,
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/01/22: Complaint filed.
·        
06/02/22: First Amended Complaint filed. 
·        
01/17/23: Second Amended Complaint filed.
·        
02/16/23: Cross-Complaint filed by County of Los
Angeles.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for negligence and wrongful death that was filed on
April 1, 2022.   In their Second Amended
Complaint, filed January 17, 2023, Plaintiffs contend that Defendants City of
Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, and others negligently breached their
duties to act to prevent the suicide of Plaintiffs’ family member, Aidan Smith (“Aidan”).
 
Plaintiffs move for discovery of
peace officer personnel records pursuant to Evidence Code section 1043.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs’ Pitchess motion
is GRANTED to the extent described herein. 
 
The Court sets an in camera
hearing for December 1, 2023, at 1:30 pm in Department 47, Stanley Mosk
Courthouse. The custodian of records is to produce at the hearing all
potentially responsive documents for in camera inspection by the Court. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiffs move for discovery of
peace officer personnel records pursuant to Evidence Code section 1043.
 
Legal Standard
 
Obtaining discovery of peace officers’
personnel records is a two-step process. First, the party seeking discovery
“must file a motion supported by affidavits showing ‘good cause for the
discovery,’ first by demonstrating the materiality of the information to the
pending litigation, and second by ‘stating upon reasonable belief’ that the
police agency has the records or information at issue.” (Warrick v. Superior
Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1019.) Second, if the Court finds good cause
for the discovery, “it reviews the pertinent documents in chambers and
discloses only that information falling within the statutorily defined
standards of relevance.” (Ibid.) 
 
The Pitchess procedure applies when “discovery or
disclosure is sought of peace or custodial officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the
Penal Code or information from those records.” (Evid. Code § 1043(a).) 
 
Penal Code § 832.5 applies to “complaints by members of the
public against the personnel of these departments or agencies.” (Penal Code §
832.5(a)(1).) “Complaints and any reports or findings relating to these
complaints shall be retained for a period of at least five years.” (Id.
§ 832.5(b).) They “may be maintained either in the peace or custodial officer’s
general personnel file or in a separate file designated by the department or
agency.” (Ibid.) 
 
The term “personnel records” is defined as follows: 
 
“Personnel
records” means any file maintained under that individual's name by his or her
employing agency and containing records relating to any of the following: 
 
(1)
Personal data, including marital status, family members, educational and
employment history, home addresses, or similar information. 
 
(2) Medical
history. 
 
(3)
Election of employee benefits. 
 
(4)
Employee advancement, appraisal, or discipline. 
 
(5)
Complaints, or investigations of complaints, concerning an event or transaction
in which he or she participated, or which he or she perceived, and pertaining
to the manner in which he or she performed his or her duties. 
 
(6) Any
other information the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy. 
 
(Penal Code § 832.8(a).) Under
Evidence Code section 1043, a party may seek disclosure of these records by
filing a regularly noticed motion with the appropriate court. (Evid. Code §
1043(a).)
 
Good Cause
 
Under Evidence Code section 1043, a Pitchess motion
must include:
 
(1) Identification of the proceeding in
which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or
disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the
governmental agency which has custody and control of the records, and the time
and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard.
 
(2) A description of the type of
records or information sought.
 
(3) Affidavits showing good cause for
the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to
the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon
reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or
information from the records.
 
(Evid. Code § 1043(b).) The good cause requirement creates a
“relatively low threshold for discovery.” (Riske v. Superior Court
(2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 647, 655-56.) A party seeking records need only
demonstrate through affidavits a “plausible factual foundation” for how the
records are material to the subject matter of the pending litigation. (Id.)
The affidavits may be based on information and belief, and may be made by
counsel, as the party seeking disclosure usually does not know the contents of
the records. (Abatti v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 39, 51.)
 
            Here, the
Notice of Motion identifies the proceeding, the party seeking disclosure, the
governmental agency with custody and control of the records, and the officers
whose records are sought, as required by subdivision (b)(1). The Notice of
Motion also describes the records sought, as required by subdivision (b)(2).
The Notice of Motion does not itself identify the statute under which the
motion is made, nor does it clearly identify itself as a Pitchess
motion. However, the statement of relevant authority set forth in Plaintiffs’ Memorandum
of Points and Authorities expressly recites the standard for a Pitchess motion.
(Motion pp. 4:16-5:28.) The Court therefore finds that Plaintiffs have
substantially complied with the procedural requirements of subdivisions (b)(1)
and (b)(2). 
 
            Plaintiffs’
Notice of Motion identifies 12 sets of peace officer records sought, which can
be divided into four categories: (1) Requests Nos. 1 and 2, which seek
documents relating to any case, complaint, or proceeding related to “the
Incident,” i.e., the self-inflicted shooting of decedent Aidan Smith on or
about December 17, 2019; (2) Requests Nos. 3 and 4, seeking the entire
personnel files for Amira and Eric Eppolito; (3) Requests Nos. 5 and 6, which
seek investigation notes or documents compiled during any investigation of “the
Incident” or the events leading up to it; and (4) Requests Nos. 7 through 10,
which seek any complaints against “any involved LAPD employee” related to
failure to investigate child neglect, failure to investigate gun possession by
a minor, failure to report an individual prohibited from possessing firearms
under Welfare & Institutions Code section 8100 et seq or by having
been placed on an involuntary mental health hold, or for failure to
cross-report child abuse or neglect. 
 
            Plaintiffs’
reply brief attempts to narrow these categories, redefining “Incident” as “the
access to Aidan Smith to the service weapons of Eric Eppolito and/or Amira
Eppolito beginning sometime in November 2019 leading to his self-inflicted
shooting on or about December 17, 2019.” (Reply p.2:6-8.) Plaintiffs redefine
Requests Nos. 1 and 2 to the entire personnel complaints against Eric and Amira
Eppolito and any attachments thereto related to the Incident, while adding four
additional requests for the entire internal affairs investigation files
regarding Eric and Amira Eppolito related to the incidents and the contents of
their personnel files related to neglect of duty, failure to report misconduct,
warnings, or misconduct in handling and securing weapons, or any other
documents concerning the “Incident.” Plaintiffs also redefined the scope of
Requests Nos. 7 through 10, renumbered 9 through 12, to limit their scope to
within five years of the “Incident,” i.e., from November 2014 through
the present. 
 
            With the
exception of Plaintiffs’ unilateral narrowing of the temporal scope of Requests
Nos. 7 through 10, the Court declines to consider Plaintiffs’ redefinition of
the categories of items sought, as the remainder, on their face, represent an expansion
rather than a reduction of the scope of the requests. As any material
requested via Pitchess motion must be specifically identified in the
Notice of Motion, any request that goes beyond the scope of those materials is
improper. (See Evid. Code § 1043(b)(2).) The Court will therefore limit its
examination to the issues as framed in the Notice of Motion, subject to the
additional limitation of the temporal scope of Requests Nos. 7 through 10 to
November 2014 through the present. 
 
The Declaration of Gregory Yates
attached to the motion states that a key element of Plaintiffs’ case against
the City of Los Angeles is whether a formal complaint was lodged or an
investigation conducted regarding the decedent’s access to an LAPD service
weapon and attempted suicide, for which he was placed on an involuntary hold.
(Declaration of Gregory Yates ISO Mot. ¶¶ 3-5; SAC ¶¶ 83-108.) Moreover,
complaints regarding failure to investigate child neglect, firearm possession
by a minor, cross-reporting of child abuse and neglect, or to report possession
of a firearm by an individual subject to an involuntary mental health hold or
otherwise prohibited from having firearms are facially relevant to Plaintiffs’
claims. (See, e.g., SAC ¶¶ 36-53.) 
 
Defendant, in opposition, argues
that this material is not relevant because the incident giving rise to this
case occurred entirely outside the City of Los Angeles, and any neglect by the
Eppolitos that may or may not have contributed to the decedent’s death is not a
police function. The Court considered these arguments in ruling on Defendant’s
demurrer to the First Amended Complaint and rejected them as unpersuasive based
on the allegations as pled at that time. The Court is therefore not persuaded
that these materials are not relevant or that good cause does not exist for, at
a minimum, in camera review of these materials. 
 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiffs
are not entitled to receive entire complaints, merely the names, addresses, and
telephone numbers of complainants and witnesses, nor conclusions by any
investigating officer. A party is not entitled to the subjective impressions
and conclusions of an investigating civil officer unless they are relevant. (Haggerty
v. Superior Ct. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1088-89.) Similarly, a party
is not entitled to materials from third-party complaints other than the names,
addresses, and phone numbers of the complainants absent a showing that further
information is required. (See, e.g., Kevin L. v. Superior Court (1976)
62 Cal.App.3d 823, 828-29.) Although such materials may be prohibited from
disclosure, they are not outside the scope of what should be produced for in
camera review. (See City of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Court (1989) 49
Cal.3d 74, 84.)
 
Finally, Defendant argues that the
scope of Plaintiffs’ requests is generally overbroad. Although such an
objection may be sufficient to warrant limitations on disclosure, the
Court is not persuaded, based on the allegations as pled, that they should not
be produced for in camera review. 
 
The Court therefore finds that
Plaintiffs have demonstrated good cause for in camera review of the
materials sought, subject to the limitation of Requests Nos. 7 through 10 offered
by Plaintiffs and described herein. 
 
In Camera Review
 
            The parties
agree that, pursuant to Evidence Code section 1045, the records sought must be
reviewed in camera to determine if the records are discoverable. 
 
[I]f “the
trial court concludes the defendant has fulfilled these prerequisites and made
a showing of good cause, the custodian of records should bring to court all
documents ‘potentially relevant’ to the . . . motion. . . . The trial court ‘shall examine the information in
chambers’ (Evid. Code, § 1045, subd. (b)), ‘out of the presence and hearing of
all persons except the person authorized [to possess the records] and such
other persons [the custodian of records] is willing to have present.’ … Subject
to statutory exceptions and limitations . . . the trial court should then
disclose to the [moving party] ‘such information [that] is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation.’ [Citations.]”  
 
(Haggerty, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at 1086,
bold emphasis added.) 
 
Evidence
Code section 1045 sets forth certain statutory limitations on relevance: 
 
(b)¿In
determining relevance, the court shall examine the information in chambers in
conformity with Section 915, and shall exclude from disclosure: 
 
(1)¿Information consisting of complaints concerning
conduct occurring more than five years before the event or transaction
that is the subject of the litigation in aid of which discovery or disclosure
is sought. 
 
* * * 
 
(3)¿Facts sought to be disclosed that are so remote
as to make disclosure of little or no practical benefit. 
 
(c)¿In
determining relevance where the issue in litigation concerns the policies or
pattern of conduct of the employing agency, the court shall consider whether
the information sought may be obtained from other records maintained by the
employing agency in the regular course of agency business which would not
necessitate the disclosure of individual personnel records. 
 
All document production will be limited as set forth in
Evidence Code § 1045(b) and (c). 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Pitchess
motion is GRANTED as described herein. 
 
The Court sets an in camera
hearing for December 1, 2023, at 1:30 pm in Department 47, Stanley Mosk
Courthouse. The custodian of records is to produce at the hearing all
potentially responsive documents for in camera inspection by the Court. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 27, 2023                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court