 Case Number:  23SMCV03493    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           So. Cal.
Injured Workers LLC v. Amigo Management LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV03493
MOTION:                  Motion
for Leave to Amend to File a First Amended Cross-Complaint
HEARING DATE:   11/15/24

 
Legal
Standard
 
If a party
wishes to amend a pleading after an answer has been filed, or after a demurrer
has been filed and after the hearing on the demurrer, or if he or she has
already amended the pleading as a matter of course, the party must obtain permission
from the court before amendment. (CCP §§ 473(a)(1), 576.) 
 
Motions
for leave to amend the pleadings are directed to the sound discretion of the
court. “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading . . ..” (CCP § 473(a)(1); see CCP §
576.) Policy favors liberally granting leave to amend so that all disputed
matters between the parties may be resolved. (See Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422,
1428.) Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may permit amendments
to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.”
(Atkinson v. Elk Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].) Where leave is
sought to add entirely new claims, the court may grant leave to amend if the
new claims are based on the same general set of facts, and the amendment will
not prejudice the opposing party. (Austin
v. Massachusetts Bonding & Ins. Co. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 596, 600-602; Glaser v. Meyers (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 770, 777 [holding
trial court did not abuse its discretion in permitting amendment of complaint,
which originally alleged constructive eviction, to allege retaliatory eviction
where the new claim was based on the same general set of facts].)
 
Although
denial is rarely justified, a judge has discretion to deny leave to amend if
the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced
the opposing party. (Morgan v. Superior
Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530; Hirsa v. Superior Court
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490). An opposing party is prejudiced where the
amendment would necessitate a trial delay along with a loss of critical
evidence, added preparation expense, increased burden of discovery, etc. (Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 [leave properly
denied where plaintiff sought leave on the eve of trial, nearly two years after
the complaint was originally filed and gave no explanation for the delay which
prejudiced defendant who did not discover or depose many of the witnesses who would
support the new allegations and had not marshaled evidence in opposition of the
new allegations].)
 
Procedurally,
a motion for leave to amend must state with particularity what allegations are
to be amended. Namely, it must state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted and/or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph,
and line number. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(2)-(3).) The motion must be accompanied
by a declaration specifying: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(b).) The motion must also be
accompanied by the proposed amended pleading, numbered to differentiate it from
the prior pleadings or amendments. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(1).) It is within the
court’s discretion to require compliance with Rule 3.1324 before granting leave
to amend. (Hataishi v. First American Home Buyers Protection Corp. (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 1454, 1469.)
 
Analysis
 
Cross-Complainant Funding4Doctors
LLC ("Funding") seeks leave to file a proposed First Amended
Cross-Complaint (FACC). Funding states that the amendment will add new causes
of action for: 1) Accounting against Martin J. Brill (“Brill”), Southern
California Injured Workers, LLC (“SCIW”), and David Wayne Fish (“Fish”) and
MOES 6-10; 2) Fraud – Concealment against Injured Workers Medical Group
("IWMG"), Vrijesh S. Tantuwaya, M.D. ("Dr. Tantuwaya"),
SCIW, Brill, Fish, R.P Dunnum, M.D., Inc. ("Dunnum") and R.P Dunnum
(“Dr. Dunnum”), and MOES 1-15; and 3) Conspiracy to Defraud against SCIW,
Brill, Fish, IWMG, Dr. Tantuwaya, Dunnum and Dr. Dunnum, and MOES 1-15.
 
Funding provides a copy of the FACC.
Funding explains that since it filed its initial cross-complaint, it has since
discovered that Cross-Defendants Dr. Tantuwaya, IWMG, Dunnum, Dr. Dunnum, Fish,
and proposed Cross-Defendants Brill and SCIW, were under investigation by the
Orange County District Attorney’s Office for fraud. Dr. Tantuwaya, Brill, and
Fish were subsequently indicted on felony fraud charges. Thus, Funding seeks to
add fraud causes of action against these parties. Funding proffers that
Cross-Defendants conspired to commit fraud, by, among other things, concealing
from Funding: (1) Fish paying individuals for referring patients to IWMG and
other medical corporations including Dunnum which contracted with SCIW; (2)
Fish also supplied medical service providers to treat patients on behalf of
IWMG and other medical corporations including Dunnum which contracted with
SCIW; (3) Fish had patients of IWMG and other medical corporations including
Dunnum which contracted with SCIW, referred for ancillary services contracted
with SCIW; (4) Fish directed pharmaceutical prescriptions of IWMG patients, and
patients of other medical corporations which contracted with SCIW; and (5) SCIW
billed insurance carriers on behalf of service providers for services they
rendered to patients who were referred to them at Fish’s direction. Further, IWMG
and Dunnum fraudulently withheld payment of funds due to Funding. Funding
therefore establishes the procedural requirements for leave to amend.
 
Cross-Defendants oppose the motion
primarily on the grounds that the claims substantively fail—the FACC fails to
state a claim for fraud or is contradicted by Cross-Defendants’
pleadings. Cross-Defendants’ arguments on the merits of the causes are not
well-taken on this motion for leave to amend. The Dunnum defendants posit the
only meritorious issue, that Funding failed to notice their inclusion on the
fourth cause of action. The Court concurs with Funding that this omission was
inadvertent and inconsequential. This error caused no prejudice to the Dunnam
Defendants. Cross-Defendants had notice of all the new allegations by way of
the redlined FACC.
 
The Court finds good cause for
amendment. The Court observes no delay in bringing this motion, or prejudice
stemming from such a delay. The proposed FACC is necessary and proper because
Funding claims an additional cause of action arising from the same facts as the
original Cross-Complaint and discovered said facts after Funding filing the
original Cross-Complaint. Conversely, denial of the motion would unfairly
prejudice Funding.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.  Funding to file the FACC within 2 court days.