 Case Number:  23SMCV02323    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Mohr, et al.,
v. NuBu22 LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV02323
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Compliance/Production
HEARING DATE:   10/25/2024

 
Legal
Standard
If a party permits inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of
documents in response to a request for production of documents, but thereafter
fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance
with that party's statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling compliance. (CCP § 2031.320(a).) The court “shall” impose a
monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §
2031.320(b).)
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff Mohr’s objections to evidence submitted in reply are
SUSTAINED.
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendants
NuBu22, LLC, Christian Yelich and Alecia Yelich (“Defendants”) move to compel Plaintiff
Jeff Mohr’s compliance with his responses to Defendants’ Requests for
Production of Documents (RPD), Set One. Defendants request that Mohr be ordered
to: (1) produce the documents he agreed to produce; (2) pay for an independent
forensic expert to image all his computers, email clients, handheld devices,
etc.; and (3) pay for an independent e-discovery vendor to collect his documents.
Defendants also request $8,500 in monetary sanctions against Mohr for his
failure to produce documents in compliance with his responses. 
 
On January 25, 2024,
Defendants propounded document requests to Plaintiffs. (Stein Decl., Ex. A.) On
March 6, 2024, Plaintiffs provided responses to the requests but did not
produce any documents and many of the responses were not code compliant. (¶ 5.)
At a May 23, 2024, Informal Discovery Conference (IDC), Plaintiffs indicated
that they would provide code-complaint responses and produce documents. (¶ 6.)
While Plaintiffs provided amended responses on June 21, 2024, many of the
responses were not code complaint. Defendants filed a motion to compel further
responses. On August 16, 2024, the court granted Defendants’ motion to compel
further responses as to RPD set one. Plaintiff provided second amended responses
on September 17, 2024. (Id., Ex. B.) Mohr
agreed to comply with the particular demands and produce all documents or things
in the demanded category that were within his possession, custody or control.
 
Defendants
contend that Mohr’s production was deficient. Defendants explain that he failed
to produce the agreed-upon documents in proper order, with email attachments, with
proper formatting, or with any electronically stored information (ESI),
including metadata. Defendants contend that Mohr collected the documents without
his counsel implementing “appropriate safeguards” to ensure that the production
was complete. 
 
Failure to Produce Emails
 
Defendants argue that Mohr failed to
produce certain communications made by Mohr in his capacity as president/board
member of the Corona Del Malibu Improvement Association, Inc. (CDMIA). Defendants
contend that Mohr failed to produce communications with the CDMIA Board and
members related to: 1) the maintenance of CDMIA roads (nos. 5, 6, 10, 11, 22,
23 and 25); 2) the installation of a gate on the NuBu22 Property, including an
email in which he proposed that the CDMIA send a letter to the City of Malibu
opposing the gate (nos. 2 and 19-21); 3) damage to roadways caused by
construction on the NuBu22 Property (nos. 1-4 and 6); 4) special assessments levied
against NuBu22 for construction at the NuBu22 Property (nos. 49 and 91); and 5)
the prospect of the CDMIA suing Defendants for damages (nos. 1-4, 22 and 25). 
 
Defendants believe that Mohr should have
these documents in his possession, since he sent or received such emails. Moreover,
Defendants obtained emails from CDMIA via subpoena which Mohr sent or received,
but these were not produced by Mohr even though the emails fall within the
scope of the requests. Examples of documents produced by the other Board
members, but not Mohr, were attached as Exhibits C-J to the Stein Declaration.
These emails range from 2019 to 2023.
 
Mohr responds that he conducted a search but was unable to locate any
of these emails. (Mohr Decl. ¶¶ 12-13.) Mohr explains that his general practice
since 2016 has been to delete large emails and emails which he does not believe
he will need in the future, or to print a copy of the email (sometimes without
attachments) and delete the email. (¶ 15.) Mohr assumes that he deleted the
emails proffered by Defendants at or about the time that he received them
without any belief at the time such emails would be relevant to this
litigation. (¶ 16.) The emails from 2023 were deleted before Defendants filed
their Cross-Complaint in December 2023. Mohr did not believe that his
relationship with the CDMIA or position there had any relevance to his dispute
with Defendants until they filed the cross-complaint. (¶ 17.)
 
The Court
finds it problematic that Mohr deleted potentially relevant emails after
initiating this suit, since those emails had concerned issues presented in his
complaint. Mohr made claims regarding the shared roadway yet he claims to have
deleted relevant emails from 2023 after filing this lawsuit. That said, these emails
were necessarily sent to others. This means that although Mohr no longer has
access to some deleted emails, defendants may still retrieve (and have
retrieved) such emails from other sources. Even if the emails were improperly
deleted, the Court is not convinced that Mohr has failed to produce documents in
his possession, custody or control. Thus, this point would not justify granting
the motion to compel compliance. On the other hand, if Defendants believe that
Mohr should be sanctioned for spoliation of evidence, then they must make an
appropriate motion.
 
Further, Defendants state Mohr also failed
to produce any documents relating to the business he improperly operated from
his home, even though he represented that such documents exist and that he
would produce them. (Stein Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.) With respect to Request No. 39,
Mohr originally agreed to produce any business permits between 2010 and 2020
and has confirmed that he does not possess any permits that would be responsive
to this request. (Mohr Decl. ¶ 18.) Thus, Mohr should amend his response to no.
39.
 
            Otherwise,
Mohr apparently complied with the RPDs. As such, the motion will only be
granted on the limited grounds that Mohr must amend his response to no. 39 but
denied as to any further production.
 
Collection Method, Missing Pages
 
Defendants argue that “many” of the
produced documents were missing attachments, had missing pages, or had pages that
were “out of order.” (Stein Decl., ¶ 11, Exs. K-N.) Defendants object to the manner in which the documents were
produced, as Defendants believe that it was inappropriate for Mohr to “self-collect”
the documents without his counsel implementing “appropriate safeguards.”
Defendants do not cite any controlling authority for this proposition. In any
event, Mohr shares information about his search, including the parameters of
the search, which complies with the cited federal case law. (Salinas v.
Cornwell Quality Tools Co., (C.D. Cal. Oct. 29, 2020) 2020 WL 8028616, at
*6; Toyo Tire & Rubber Co. v. CIA Wheel Grp., (C.D. Cal. Feb. 23,
2016) 2016 WL 6246384, at *1.) Mohr conducted a search of his
hardcopy and electronic files for documents that he had agreed to produce. (Mohr Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Mohr was directed by his prior counsel, Rich
Walton, to search for and produce potentially responsive and relevant
documents. (Id.) When Mohr collected documents for production, he manually
searched his computer and email accounts for electronic documents and emails
using relevant keywords. (Id. ¶ 6.) From his search, he saved all electronic
documents onto two thumb drives that were provided to Mr. Walton. (Id.) Mohr claims
to have produced all hardcopy documents that were in his possession. The
hardcopies were from files stored in open cardboard boxes in Plaintiffs’ garage
rafters. (Id., ¶ 7.) Notably, some of these records date back 30 years and many
were water damaged or infested. (Id.) It is therefore unsurprising that some of
the hardcopies might be incomplete, damaged, out of order, etc. Defendants have not persuasively stated his parameters or
method of collection were unreasonable under such circumstances.
 
Further, Defendants complain that Mohr did
not bates stamp any of the production. Yet, the cited documents are bates
stamped. Defendants do not explain why any failure to bates stamp would justify
compelling compliance, a forensic examination, or requiring Mohr hire an independent
e-discovery vendor.
 
ESI Format
 
Defendants argue that Mohr failed to
produce “any” documents with ESI, including metadata. (Stein Decl., ¶ 10.) To
the contrary, Mohr produced ESI. Defendants admit that he supplied two thumb
drives containing electronic information. Defendants do not adequately explain
why this was improper. Defendants reason that since many of the emails are
missing attachments, have pages out of order, or pages that missing and/or
incomplete, that the production was not in the “native” format of the ESI. Critically,
Defendants do not show that this production failed to comply with their
definitions. The definition of documents and communications did not include the
term “native” and none of the requests specifically asked for metadata. Metadata
of emails are not responsive communications or documents to any particular RPD.
Therefore, so long as the ESI was “reasonably usable,” then Mohr’s production
would be proper. (CCP §2031.280(d).) Defendants do not explain
whether the ESI on the thumb drives were reasonably usable, aside from
purportedly “missing” attachments or metadata.
 
For these same reasons, Defendants fail to show good
cause for requiring Mohr hire an independent
e-discovery vendor. 
 
Forensic Exam 
 
Defendants have not justified their request
for a full, independent forensic examination imaging all of Mohr’s computers,
email clients, or handheld devices based on his failure to provide deleted
emails. This is especially so for any of Mohr’s email clients aside from <execmalibu@earthlink.net>.
There is little evidence to suggest that Mohr has failed to produce any
documents that are actually on his computer or other devices. Instead, Mohr
states that he provided all available documents he controls, but that he had
deleted the cited emails. A forensic examination would have little probative
value, aside from confirming this fact.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED in part.
Mohr must amend his response to no. 39. Otherwise, the motion is DENIED.