 Case Number:  23SMCV04191    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Brugger v. Dikijian
CASE NO.:                23SMCV04191
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Reponses
HEARING DATE:   11/15/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
            In
the absence of contrary court order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is
broad. “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action . . . if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010;
see Davies v. Superior Court
(1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) Section 2017.020(a) vests the Court with authority
to limit the scope of discovery if the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of the
discovery sought “clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  CCP § 2019.030 directs the Court to consider
the needs of the case, amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues
at stake in the litigation, and to consider whether the discovery being sought
is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable by a more
convenient or less expensive or less burdensome way, when deciding whether to
restrict the frequency of extent of use of an authorized discovery method.
 
On receipt of a response to requests for admission
the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if
the propounding party deems that an objection to an RFA is without merit or too
general. (CCP § 2033.290(a)(2).)
 
Analysis
 

Plaintiff Mina Brugger moves to
compel further responses to her requests for admissions, set one, nos. 2-3,
from Defendant Shoghig Dikijian. The subject RFAs and responses are as follows:
 
RFA NO. 2: ADMIT YOU are liable for
the car crash that YOU were involved in with PLAINTIFF on 06/19/2022, at about
Pico Blvd in Santa Monica, CA.
 
SUPP. RESPONSE TO RFA
NO. 2: Pursuant to C.C.P. Section 2033.220(b)(2) and (c), Responding Party
responds that, after making a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in this
particular request, responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge
to admit or deny that responding party is liable and therefore denies
liability.
 
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 3: ADMIT
YOU are solely liable for the car crash that YOU were involved in with
PLAINTIFF on 06/19/2022, at about Pico Blvd in Santa Monica, CA.
 
SUPP. RESPONSE TO
RFA NO. 3: Pursuant to C.C.P. Section 2033.220(b)(2) and (c), Responding Party
responds that, after making a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in this
particular request, responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge
to admit or deny that responding party is solely liable and therefore denies
sole liability.
 
Defendant’s supplemental responses
remain evasive. CCP section 2033.220 requires that each answer in a response to
requests for admission will be “complete and straightforward” as the available
information reasonably permits. A responding party must: (1) Admit so much of
the matter involved in the request as is true, either as expressed in the
request itself or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding party;
(2) Deny so much of the matter involved in the request as is untrue; and/or (3)
Specify so much of the matter involved in the request as to the truth of which
the responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge. Defendant does
not provide a straightforward denial or a specification as required by this
section. Defendant instead denies the admissions on the ground that she lacks sufficient
information to determine whether to admit or deny. This is a contradiction.
If defendant lacks information to admit or deny, then she cannot deny the RFA;
conversely, if defendant denies liability (the sole issue posited by the RFAs),
then she must have sufficient information to deny liability. Thus, the
supplemental response is not a straightforward, code-compliant denial and/or
specification. As such, further responses are required. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
Further responses are due within 10 days. Sanctions are granted in the amount
of $2,125.00 against Defendant Shoghig Dikijian. Sanctions are to be paid
within 30 days.