 Case Number:  21STCV01261    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RICHARD PASTORE,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
AUTOZONE WEST, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV01261
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
  FOR NEW TRIAL; GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO TAX COSTS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 30, 2024



 
On
November 21, 2023, following a jury trial, the Court entered judgment in favor of
Defendants
AutoZoners LLC, AutoZone Inc., and AutoZone West LLC and against Plaintiff Richard
Pastore.
On
November 30, 2023, Defendants filed a memorandum of costs.
On
December 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Intent to Move for New Trial, and
on December 15, 2023, he filed this memorandum of points and authorities.  Plaintiff also filed a motion to tax costs.
MOTION
FOR NEW TRIAL
 In ruling on a motion for a new trial after a court
trial, the Court may change or add to the statement of decision, modify the judgment,
vacate the judgment, grant a new trial on all or part of the issues, or vacate and
set aside the statement of decision and judgment and reopen the case for further
proceedings.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.)  Any judgment entered thereafter is subject to
section 657.  (Ibid.)
A
verdict may be vacated and a new trial ordered due to irregularity in the proceedings
that prevented a party from having a fair trial, accident or surprise, newly discovered
evidence that could not reasonably been discovered and produced at trial, excessive
or inadequate damages, insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict, or
an error in law, among other grounds.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 657.)
A.        Plaintiff Has Not Shown that Exclusion
of a Declaration Was an Irregularity in the Proceedings.
Plaintiff
argues that the exclusion of Tuesdee Costa’s declaration, intended for impeachment,
was an irregularity in the proceedings.  (Motion
at pp. 3-4, 7; Gbewonyo Decl. ¶ 3.)  During
the trial, Defendants’ counsel contended that Plaintiff’s counsel did not produce
the declaration during written discovery. 
(Gbewonyo Decl. ¶ 5.)
Defendants’
Request for Production of Documents No. 29, propounded on October 21, 2021, sought
all written statements Plaintiff obtained from Defendants’ employees (current or
former) concerning any matters referenced in the operative Complaint.  (Opposition at p. 2; Chun Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex.
A.)  In his verified responses, served on
January 20, 2022, Plaintiff represented that he had no such documents in his possession.  (Opposition at pp. 2-3; Chun Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex.
B.)  This was false: Costa’s declaration is
dated July 31, 2019, prior to Defendants’ Request for Production of Documents.  (Motion, Ex. 1.)
Plaintiff’s
motion does not identify what part of Costa’s testimony would be impeached or explain
how its exclusion was an irregularity in proceedings.  (Motion at pp. 3-4, 12.)  The Court 
“need not consider an argument for which no authority is furnished.”  (Dabney v. Dabney (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th
379, 384.)
In
his reply, Plaintiff contends that the inconsistency is about whether Costa’s scheduled
work hours were consistent or reduced.  (Reply
at pp. 3-4.)  However, Plaintiff still does
not explain how this was an irregularity or how it affected the outcome of the trial.  Instead, Plaintiff offers only the conclusory
argument that “[h]ad the Court allowed Pastore and his counsel to impeach Costa’s
testimony with Costa’s signed declaration, then the outcome of the trial may have
been different.”  (Motion at p. 12.)
The
motion is denied on this ground.
B.        Plaintiff Has Not Shown that Exclusion
of Interview Statements Was an Irregularity in the Proceedings.
Plaintiff
argues that he was precluded from introducing “various written statements obtained
by Defendants during Defendants’ investigation of Pastore’s complaints” for impeachment
purposes and to establish pretext.  (Motion
at p. 7; see id. at p. 13.)  Specifically,
Plaintiff cites Hugo Munoz’s interview statement.  (Gbewonyo Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 3.)  In reply, Plaintiff argues that “statements made
pursuant to an investigation for Lorena Casson clearly fall within the exception
to hearsay . . . .”  (Reply at p. 6.)
As
Defendants note, the Court excluded Exhibits 83, 86, and 91 because they contained
multiple levels of hearsay, no foundation was laid for a proper hearsay exception,
and they were cumulative.  (Opposition at
pp. 5-6.)  Even if “this evidence had several
non-hearsay purposes” (Reply at p. 6), Plaintiff did not establish that at trial.
Again,
Plaintiff does not explain how the exclusion of these exhibits was an irregularity
or how it affected the outcome of the trial. 
Plaintiff offers only the conclusory argument that “[t]he preclusion of the
exhibits affected Pastore’s substantial rights, as the outcome of the trial would
have been significantly altered and prevented Pastore from having a fair trial,
entitling Pastore to a new trial.”  (Motion
at p. 13.)
The
motion is denied on this ground.
C.        The Court Has Already Ruled on Counsel’s
Alleged Conflict and Adopts Its Prior Ruling.
Plaintiff
argues that he is entitled to a new trial due to newly discovered evidence about
Defendants’ counsel.  (Motion at pp. 8-11.)  Zalman Robles, former attorney at Plaintiff’s
counsel’s firm, currently works for Defendants’ counsel’s firm.  (Motion at pp. 4, 8; Gbewonyo Decl. ¶ 7.)  Plaintiff contends that when working on Plaintiff’s
case at the first firm, “Robles became privy to confidential information that could
affect the outcome of the proceedings before the court.”  (Id. at p. 10.)
On
November 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to disqualify Defendants’ counsel’s
firm on this same basis.  On December 12,
2023, the Court denied the motion, finding that Defendants rebutted the presumption
that any confidential attorney-client information was used or disclosed in Robles’s
new employment with Defendants’ firm, Plaintiff had not shown that Robles actually
conveyed confidential information, and the newly implemented ethical wall will continue
to protect any of the Plaintiff’s confidential information during post-trial motions
and appeals.
Further
consideration of this argument in this motion is tantamount to a motion for reconsideration.  Additionally, Plaintiff provides no new argument
or evidence here that would change the result. 
The Court therefore incorporates and adopts its reasoning from the December
12, 2023 order denying Plaintiff’s motion to disqualify.
The
motion for new trial is DENIED.
MOTION
TO TAX COSTS
A
prevailing defendant in a FEHA action may be awarded fees and costs only when the
court finds the action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless when brought,
or the plaintiff continued to litigate after it clearly became so.  (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (c)(6).)  This prohibition on recovery also applies to fees
and costs that would otherwise be recoverable under Code of Civil Procedure section
998.  (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (c)(6).)  “By making a cost award discretionary rather than
mandatory, Government Code section 12965(b) [now section 12965, subdivision (c)(6)]
expressly excepts FEHA actions from Code of Civil Procedure section 1032(b)’s mandate
for a cost award to the prevailing party.” 
(Williams v. Chino Valley Independent Fire Dist. (2015) 61 Cal.4th
97, 105.)  In determining whether an action
is frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless, the court must not “engage in post
hoc reasoning by concluding that, because a plaintiff did not ultimately prevail,
his action must have been unreasonable or without foundation. . . . Even when the
law or the facts appear questionable or unfavorable at the outset, a party may have
an entirely reasonable ground for bringing suit.” (Christiansburg Garment Co.
v. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (1978) 434 U.S. 412, 421-422.)
Defendants
do not argue that Plaintiff’s claims were frivolous and unreasonable.  (See Opposition.)  Instead, Defendants argue that they may recover
their costs because six of the ten causes of action were non-FEHA claims: negligent
hiring, retention, and supervision; violation of Labor Code section 1102.5; wrongful
termination in violation of public policy; intentional infliction of emotional distress;
assault; and battery.  (Opposition at pp.
7-8.)
Defendants’
Memorandum of Costs and opposition to the motion to tax costs do not attempt to
distinguish the costs incurred for only the non-FEHA causes of action.  For example, Defendants seek filing fees for their
motion to compel arbitration, joint stipulations to continue dates, opposition to
motions in limine, and many more documents that are equally applicable to all causes
of action.  Plaintiff’s non-FEHA claims are
so intertwined with the FEHA causes of action that it is not possible to distinguish
costs that were incurred on only those causes of action.  When a defendant’s costs were not increased by
the inclusion of additional theories of liability, the express public policy of
the FEHA exception controls, and only costs that were properly allocated to non-FEHA
claims are recoverable.  (Roman v. BRE
Properties, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1040, 1062.)
The
motion to tax costs is GRANTED.  Defendants
shall not recover their costs in this action.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 30th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 