 Case Number:  22STCV28077    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



FERGUSON ENTERPRISES, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GREEN COURT INVESTORS, LP, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV28077
 
[TENTATIVE] GRANTING IN PART AND DENYING
  IN PART MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 30, 2024



 
On July 20, 2023, Infinity Plumbing
Inc. (“Infinity”) filed a first amended cross-complaint against Green Court Investors
LP (“Green Court”) and KLS Financial LLC (“KLS”).
On
July 21, 2023, KLS moved to compel KLS’s further responses to Special Interrogatories,
Set One, Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10 and 11. 
A
party may move to compel a further response to interrogatories if the demanding
party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete, if an exercise of the option
to produce documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or if objection is without merit
or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (a).)  The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
A.        The Interrogatories Do Not Violate the
Limit of 35 and Are Not Duplicative.
Infinity
contends that “the subject discovery was first propounded by the moving party’s
co-cross-defendant Green Court, in excess of the Rule of 35 . . . . To circumvent
that violation, that discovery first propounded by Green Court was again propounded
by KLS, the co-cross-defendant/agent of Green Court and is the subject of this Motion.”  (Opposition at pp. 4-5.)  Infinity also argues that KLS’s discovery is duplicative
of what Green Court sought.  (Opposition at
p. 7.)
In
Professional
Career Colleges, Magna Institute, Inc. v. Superior Court (1989)
207 Cal.App.3d 490, cited by Infinity, the plaintiff propounded interrogatories,
did not move to compel further responses, and later re-propounded an interrogatory
from the first set.  (Id. at p. 492.)  Because the plaintiff did not timely move to compel
further responses to the first set, the court could not compel further responses
to the same interrogatory that was re-propounded in the second set.  (Id. at p. 494.)
That
is not the case here.  KLS and Green Court
are separate parties.  Each party may propound
35 special interrogatories.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.030, subd. (a)(1).)
B.        Infinity Must Provide Further Responses
to Nos. 1-4, 11.
Infinity
argues that Nos. 1-4 and 11 “seek forms of financial information and analysis tantamount
to presenting an accounting and related assessment, all the more improper as there
is no accounting claim in this case presented by the moving party or its co-parties.”  (Opposition at p. 6.)
These
interrogatories ask for percentage of the scope of work completed, the dollar value
of the completed work, the total cost of the work that remained to be completed,
the total dollar value of the work that remained to be completed, and the total
dollar amount of work remaining when Infinity demanded payment.  They do not request privileged financial information,
and they are relevant.  As KLS notes, “One
of the defenses to this claim is that the total amount of work performed by Infinity
had not reached the level of completion to where the amount demanded by Infinity
was due.”  (Reply at p. 4.)
The
motion is GRANTED.  Infinity must provide
further responses, without objections, within 30 days.
C.        Infinity Must Provide Further Responses
to No. 9.
According
to Infinity, “[v]irtually all of the questions” are irrelevant.  (Opposition at p. 7.)  Infinity argues that No. 9, which seeks names
of all employees who performed work at the property, “addresses no issue in this
case.”  (Opposition at p. 7.)
As
explained by KLS, the employees are witnesses to the work performed.  (Reply at p. 5.)  This information is relevant.  To the extent that Infinity “does not presently
have sufficient information and belief to respond to this interrogatory,” that is
not a compliant response.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.220.)
The
motion is GRANTED.  Infinity must provide
further responses, without objections, within 30 days.
D.        No. 10 Is Improperly Compound.
Infinity
argues that No. 10 is improperly compound. 
(Opposition at p. 8.)  “No specially
prepared interrogatory shall contain subparts, or a compound, conjunctive, or disjunctive
question.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.060,
subd. (f).)
No.
10 asks Infinity to “State each date that YOU were requested to make a repair at
the PROPERTY between December 9, 2021 and the date that YOU commenced with the re-piping
work under the CONTRACT.”  This asks for two
distinct responses: the date of a request to repair and a date that re-piping commenced
under the contract.
The
motion is DENIED.
E.        Infinity Must Provide Further Responses
to Nos. 5-6.
Infinity’s
opposition does not discuss Nos. 5-6.  In
its responsive separate statement, Infinity contends that the requests are irrelevant
and duplicative.
The
motion is GRANTED.  Infinity must provide
further responses, without objections, within 30 days.
F.         Conclusion
The
motion is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART as set forth above.
The
request for sanctions is denied.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 30th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 