  Case Number:  24STCV04687    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ESTENFER EMMANUEL VELASQUEZ,  
  
         vs.
 
B BIRD, et al.


 Case No.: 
  24STCV04687
 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  June 5, 2024



 
Moving Defendant
Los
Angeles Unified School District’s unopposed demurrer to Plaintiff Estenfer
Emmanuel Velasquez’s complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend
as to the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd causes of action.
Moving
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s motion to strike is denied as
moot. 
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) (“Moving Defendant”)
demurs unopposed to each of the causes of action in Plaintiff Estenfer Emmanuel Velasquez’s (“Velasquez”)
(“Plaintiffs”) complaint (“Complaint”) on the grounds that the Complaint and
each of the stated causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Moving Defendant and each is uncertain.  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 2;
C.C.P. §§430.10, et seq.)  Moving
Defendant also moves to strike portions of the Complaint.  (Notice of MTS, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§435, 436.)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed his operative Complaint on February 26, 2024,
against Moving Defendant and Non-Moving Defendant B. Bird (“Bird”)
(collectively, “Defendants”), alleging three causes of action.
This action arises out of a motor vehicle accident that allegedly
occurred on or about February 22, 2023, wherein Bird was driving motor vehicle
registered to Moving Defendant near the address of 668 S. Hoover Street in the
City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, State of California.  (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges at that time and place, Bird,
while acting within the course and scope of his employment with and for Moving
Defendant, negligently and carelessly operated the motor vehicle that was owned
by, maintained by, and entrusted to him by Moving Defendant so as to cause the
vehicle he was driving to collide with the vehicle the Plaintiff was in, parked
in front of 668 S. Hoover Street, Los Angeles, California 90005, thereby
causing damage to the plaintiff’s person and property.  (Complaint ¶15.)  
Moving Defendant filed the instant demurrer and accompanying
motion to strike on April 25, 2024.  As
of the date of this hearing no opposition has been filed.
 
A.  
Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
Moving Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s 1st, 2nd, and 3rd causes of
action on the basis each fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action against Moving Defendant and is uncertain.  (Demurrer, pg. 3; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer. 
(C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the
meet and confer process.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(3).)
Moving Defendant’s counsel declares that on April 17, 2024, at
8:05 a.m., he called Plaintiff in an attempt to meet and confer prior to having
to file a Demurrer and Motion to strike, and Plaintiff called him back the same
day.  (Decl. of Simmen ¶¶10-11.)  Moving Defendant’s counsel declares as of the
date of this filing, no informal agreement has been reached regarding the
Demurrer and motion to strike.  (Decl. of
Simmen ¶12.)  Moving Defendant’s
counsel’s declaration meets the requirements of C.C.P. §430.41(a).  Accordingly, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
          Failure to State
a Claim
Government Code §815.2(a) (1st COA) [alleged against Bird]
Government Code §815.2 provides: 
(a)  A public entity
is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of
the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission
would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against
that employee or his personal representative. 
 
(b)  Except as
otherwise provided by statute, a public entity is not liable for an injury
resulting from an act or omission of an employee of the public entity where the
employee is immune from liability.
 
(Gov’t Code §815.2)
Plaintiff alleges at the times, places, and in the manner as
aforesaid, Bird negligently and carelessly drove the motor vehicle entrusted to
him by Moving Defendant, while Defendant Bird was acting within the course and
scope of his employment with Moving Defendant and Bird thereby negligently and
carelessly caused Plaintiff to suffer personal injuries and related damages.  (Complaint ¶17.)
Plaintiff alleges at the times, places in the manner as aforesaid,
Bird was a public employee and is subject to liability to plaintiff herein to
the same extent as a private person, per Government Code §820(a).  (Complaint ¶18.)
Plaintiff alleges as a legal result of the foregoing, Bird
negligently and carelessly caused Plaintiff to suffer past, present, and future
injuries to Plaintiff’s health, strength, and activity, sustaining injury to
Plaintiff's’ nervous systems and persons, all of which injuries have caused,
and continue to cause, said Plaintiff great mental, physical, and nervous pain
and suffering.  (Complaint ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result of such
injuries, Plaintiff have suffered general, non-economic damages in an amount in
excess of the jurisdictional minimum of this Court.  (Complaint ¶19.)
Plaintiff alleges as a further legal result of the foregoing,
Plaintiff incurred and continue to incur economic losses for necessary
hospital, medical and professional care and treatment of the injuries they
suffered, and continue to suffer, all to their damages, which will be demonstrated
according to proof at the time of trial. 
(Complaint ¶20.)  Plaintiff
alleges as a further legal result of the foregoing, Plaintiff incurred, and
will incur in the future, lost wages and diminished earning capacity.  (Complaint ¶21.)  
Plaintiff’s cause of action under Government Code §815.2 fails
because, under Government Code §815, a public entity is not liable for injuries
unless the liability is specifically imposed by statute.  (See Gov’t Code §815(a) [“Except as
otherwise provided by statute: (a) A public entity is not liable for an injury,
whether such an injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or
a public employee or any other person.”].)  The Fourth District Court of Appeal further
instructs that §815(a) “abolishes all common law or judicially declared forms
of liability for public entities, except for such liability as may be required
by the state or federal constitution, e.g., inverse condemnation. In the
absence of a constitutional requirement, public entities may be held liable
only if a statute (not including a charter provision, ordinance or regulation)
is found declaring them to be liable. . . . There is no liability in the
absence of a statute declaring such liability. [Citation.]”  (Corona v. State of California (2009)
178 Cal.App.4th 723, 728.) 
Because all governmental tort liability is statutory, plaintiffs
alleging a breach of a statutory obligation owed by a public entity must
identify the statute alleged to have been breached.  (Becerra v. County of Santa Cruz (1999)
68 Cal.App.4th 1450, 1458.)  Whether the
alleged statute creates a mandatory duty is a question of law.  (Haggis v. City of Los Angeles (2000)
22 Ca1.4th 490, 499.)
Here, Plaintiff cites to Government Code §815.2, which is not an enactment
that provides the requisite mandatory duty that must be pled against a public
entity.  Further, if Plaintiff’s cause of
action is construed as one for negligence, the Tort Claims Act prohibits such
an allegation against a public entity and its employees, unless enumerated in
an applicable statute.  (See Gov’t
Code §815(a).)
Accordingly, Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Government Code §820 (2nd COA) [alleged against Moving Defendant]
Government Code §820(a) states, “Except as otherwise provided by
statute (including §820.2), a public employee is liable for injury caused by
his act or omission to the same extent as a private person.”  (Gov’t Code §820.)
Plaintiff alleges at the times, places and in the manner as
aforesaid, Bird was Moving Defendant’s employee who was acting within the scope
of his employment with and for Moving Defendant.  (Complaint ¶23.)  Plaintiff alleges Bird negligently and
carelessly caused the motor vehicle he was driving, which motor vehicle was
entrusted to him, negligently or otherwise, by Moving Defendant.  (Complaint ¶23.)  Plaintiff alleges as a legal and proximate
result of Bird’s negligence, Plaintiff was caused to suffer personal injuries
and related damages.  (Complaint ¶23.)  
Plaintiff alleges as a legal result of the foregoing, Moving
Defendant is subject to liability under the doctrine of respondent superior and
Government Code §§815.2 and 820 et seq. for the damages Bird caused Plaintiff
herein to suffer.  (Complaint ¶24.)
Plaintiff cites to Government Code §820, which is not an enactment
that provides the requisite mandatory duty that must be pled against a public
entity.  Further, if Plaintiff’s cause of
action is construed as one for negligent entrustment, the Tort Claims Act
prohibits such an allegation against a public entity and its employees, unless
enumerated in an applicable statute.  (See
Gov’t Code §815(a).)
Accordingly, Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 2nd cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Vehicle Code §17001 (3rd COA) [alleged against Moving Defendant]
“A public entity is liable for death or injury to person or
property proximately caused by a negligent or wrongful act or omission in the
operation of any motor vehicle by an employee of the public entity acting
within the scope of his employment.”  (Vehicle
Code §17001.)
Plaintiff alleges at the times, places and in the manner as
aforesaid, Bird operated the motor vehicle entrusted to him by Moving Defendant
in a manner that was negligent or wrongful and while Bird was acting within the
course and scope of his employment with Moving Defendant.  (Complaint ¶26.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result of Bird’s
negligent and/or wrongful acts, as aforesaid, Plaintiff was caused to suffer severe
and serious personal injuries and related damages, as aforesaid.  (Complaint ¶26.)
Plaintiff cites to Vehicle Code §17001, which is not an enactment
that provides the requisite mandatory duty that must be pled against a public
entity.  
Accordingly, Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Uncertainty
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the
complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
If the complaint contains enough facts to apprise defendant of the
issues it is being asked to meet, failure to label each cause of action is not
ground for demurrer: “Although inconvenient, annoying and inconsiderate, the
lack of labels . . . does not substantially impair [defendant’s] ability to
understand the complaint.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 n.2.)
Plaintiff’s causes of action are not so uncertain that Moving
Defendant cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied,
or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury, 14 Cal.App.4th at pg. 616.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendant’s demurrer on the basis of
uncertainty is overruled.          
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendant’s unopposed demurrer to Plaintiffs’
Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 1st, 2nd,
and 3rd causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
B.   
Motion to Strike
In light
of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Moving Defendant’s motion to strike is
denied as moot.
 
 
Dated:  June _____, 2024
                                                                             





  