  Case Number:  22GDCV00048    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  D CONFIDENTIAL, COURT PRIVILEGED DOCUMENTCalendar:    8  Date:           10/25/2024   Case No: 22 GDCV00048  Trial Date: October 25, 2024 Case Name: Harutyunyan, et al. v. Bejanyan  MOTION FOR MISTRIAL  Moving Party:             Plaintiffs Armine Harutyunyan and Vadim Harutyunov      Responding Party: Defendant and Cross-Complainant Alen Bejanyan      RELIEF REQUESTED:   Grant motion for mistrial FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND: Plaintiffs Armine Harutyunyan and Vadim Harutyunov allegethat defendant Alen Bejanyan is the purported owner of property and a residence located on Dublin Drive in Glendale, which plaintiffs have rented from defendant since February of 2019.   Plaintiffs allege that on August 1, 2021, plaintiffs and defendant entered into an agreement for plaintiffs’ purchase of the subject property and pre-paid rents, pursuant to which rent for one year was to be paid in advance in the amount of $5,000 per month, with the first month free if paid in cash, and plaintiffs would receive an option to purchase in exchange for a cash payment of $5,000, with the total sale price of the subject property to be $1,650,000.  The agreement was memorialized in an executed form California Residential Purchase Agreement and in an executed Lease Agreement with Option to Purchase.   Plaintiffs allege that they paid defendant $60,000 in cash, consisting of eleven months’ rent at $5,000 per month and $5,000 cash as consideration for plaintiffs’ option to purchase the subject property, receipt of which was acknowledged by landlord in the Lease.  The Lease specified that the Lease was for the time period August 1, 2021 to July 31, 2025, and that the time period for plaintiffs to exercise the option to purchase ran from August 1, 2021 until July 31, 2022.  The complaint alleges that on August 5, 2021, defendant served a 60-Day Notice to Quit on plaintiffs, which did not specify any cause for termination, including the statutorily required just cause pursuant to Civil Code section 1946.2 or Glendale Municipal Ordinance section 9.30.031.  In December of 2021, defendant filed an unlawful detainer lawsuit against plaintiffs, which did not correctly specify that the tenancy was subject to the subject Glendale Municipal Code and required just cause for termination.   Plaintiffs allege that on January 14, 2022, plaintiffs notified defendant that plaintiffs were exercising their option to purchase the subject property, but defendant has refused to enter escrow and honor the agreement between the parties, and is attempting to sell the subject property to another for a higher price.  The complaint alleges causes of action for breach of contract, promissory fraud, and quiet title.  Defendant Bejanyan has filed a cross-complaint against plaintiffs as cross-defendants, alleging that in February of 2019 cross-defendants rented the subject house in Glendale for the agreed upon sum of $5,000 per month and entered a written agreement to live in the house for 2 ½ years, until August 2021.   The operative cross-complaint, the Second Amended Cross-Complaint (SACC), alleges that beginning in January of 2021 and then in April of 2021, cross-defendants negotiated with cross-complainant for an option to purchase the subject house.  Cross-complainant alleges that he offered the cross-defendants an option to purchase the house for with a purchase price of $1,650,000 and requested a $150,000 earnest money deposit for the property, but that cross-defendants refused to pay the deposit as they did not have the funds available.  The SACC alleges that the parties never reached an agreement regarding the purchase of the house.  In August of 2021, cross-complainant filed an unlawful detainer lawsuit against cross-defendants.   Cross-complainant alleges that while in the proceedings for the unlawful detainer lawsuit, cross-complainant received a falsified Lease to Purchase agreement, and that this was the first time cross-complainant had ever seen this document, and had never signed it.  The SACC alleges that one of the falsified documents was a forged Lease Agreement with Option to Purchase the premises, and that in January of 2022, cross-complainant was informed by Glenoaks Escrow Company that the subject property was officially in escrow.  The SACC alleges that Glenoaks Escrow sent cross-complainant documents such as a California Residential Purchase Agreement, and Joint Escrow Instructions, all of which must have been produced through forgery or falsified means, as cross-complainant had never seen nor agreed to the terms of any of the documents.  The file shows that on January 27, 2022, the court heard an ex parte application filed by plaintiffs for, among other relief, an order to deem matters related.  The application was granted, the court finding that this case is related to the UD action 21PUD01291, deeming this case the lead case, ordering the cases assigned to Department D, and ordering a stay in the UD case pending resolution of the lead case.  The court noted that the “parties may file a stipulation to consolidate cases.”   On May 9, 2022, the court at a case management conference indicated that counsel’s joint motion to consolidate the related cases was heard and granted.  The minute order also states, “Later, after further consideration, the Court vacates the order consolidating cases 21PDUD01291 AND 22GDCV00048.  Cases are ordered unconsolidated.”    On November 18, 2022, the court heard a demurer to the SACC, which was sustained with leave to amend to the first cause of action for fraud and intentional deceit.  The demurrer was sustained with ten days leave to amend.  Cross-complainant did not file or serve a Third Amended Cross-Complaint within the time permitted, and on December 8, 2022, the court signed and filed an Order dismissing the first cause of action in the SACC with prejudice.  The matter proceeded to a court trial in May of 2024, which continued into August of 2024.  The court indicated it would bifurcate the cross-complaint between the quiet title, rent, and fifth and sixth causes of action. On August 14, 2024, the court trial resumed, and the minute order states: “Defense counsel informs the Court that Khachik Grigoryan contacted him to advise him that he wished to recant his testimony of 05/16/2024. Plaintiff's request that the Court refer Mr. Grigoryan to the District Attorney's Office for prosecution is heard and respectfully denied. Khachik Grigoryan is re-sworn to testify on the behalf of the defense. Witness Khachik Grigoryan states that he wishes to recant his testimony of 05/16/2024 and the Declaration he signed on 10/07/2021 (Exhibit 8). The Court finds that Witness Khachik Grigoryan is recanting his testimony of 05/16/2024 and the Declaration signed on 10/07/2021 (Exhibit 8).”[Minute Order 08/14/2024, p. 1 of 3].  The court order also indicates that the witness requested the assistance of an attorney, the court appointed Independent Defense Counsel’s Office to represent witness Grigoryan, and the witness was ordered to return on August 21, 2024 and to bring his passport.   The court trial resumed with testimony from a previously sworn witness.  Before adjourning, the court ordered counsel to submit briefs to address the surrender of passport by the witness Grigoryan, counsel for the witness, and the effects of recantation of witness testimony. Briefs were filed, and on August 21, 2024, the court trial resumed.  Laura Orozco, Independent Defense Counsel Office, was appointed to represent witness Khachik Grigoryan.  Witness Grigoryan failed to appear as ordered by the court, and an attachment for defaulting witness was ordered issued and held for the witness until September 4, 2024, with bail set in the sum of $5,000.00.  The court indicated it had considered the briefs submitted by counsel.  Plaintiff’s counsel withdrew his request to have witness Grigoryan surrender his passport.  Counsel for the witness was ordered to investigate with the District Attorney’s Office the issue of Use and Transactional Immunity. Plaintiff’s oral motion for a mistrial was heard and set for September 4, 2024, with a briefing schedule set. The written motion for mistrial was filed and served on August 26, 2024.On September 4, 2024, the court scheduled a hearing regarding recantation for September 25, 2024, and set the motion for mistrial for October 25, 2024, with briefing schedules.  On September 18, 2024, at the trial, witness Grigoryan failed to appear and the court noted the bench warrant issued for the witness remained outstanding.   The minute order states:“The Court finds that Pursuant to Evidence Code Section 1235 and 1202, 770(b) Artin Boghouzian will be able to testify re: hearsay statements. The Court will evaluate Khacik Grigoryan testimony pursuant to Evidence Code Section 780. The Court will allow Mr. Boghouzian's Deposition to be taken.”[Minute Order 09/18/2024, p. 1 of 1].  On September 25, 2024, counsel Laura Orozco, counsel for witness Grigoryan informed the court that she had made contact with a person she believes was Grigoryan by cell phone, but he passed the phone to another male who shortly hung up, and that Orozco had left a voice mail and sent a detailed text message.  Counsel was ordered to give notice to Grigoryan of the October 25, 2024 court date.  The court set a briefing schedule for supplemental briefs, if any, on the motion for mistrial.  No supplemental briefs have been filed.  ANALYSIS: Plaintiffs Armine Harutyunyan and Vadim Harutyunov seek an order for a mistrial, arguing that a new, untainted trier of fact should decide this matter.  Plaintiffs argue that they have been greatly prejudiced because plaintiffs have rested their case in chief, but Grigoryan, plaintiffs’ key witness, has now recanted his prior testimony before the finder of fact, calling his credibility into question, and prejudicing plaintiffs regardless of what part of his testimony the court deems truthful.    Plaintiffs also argue that the if the court permits the trial to continue, plaintiffs’ counsel may be required to serve as a witness concerning the signing of Grigoryan’s declaration in this matter, requiring counsel to serve as both advocate and witness, robbing the trial of the appearance of fairness.   Plaintiffs also argue that the court had an initial reaction to strike the testimony, so is tainted, to plaintiffs’ prejudice, and has also improperly informed the witness of his right to invoke the fifth amendment, depriving plaintiffs of the opportunity to question the witness regarding his recantation.    Plaintiffs rely on Clemente v. State of California (1985) 40 Cal.3d 202, in which the California Supreme Court noted:"A mistrial may be granted because of 'any misconduct or irregularity that either legally or practically prevents the trial from proceeding or prevents either party from having a fair trial.'" Clemente, at 217; quoting Witkin, Cal. Proc. (2d ed. 1971) Trial, § 130, p. 2954.  As pointed out in the opposition, Clemente involved a jury trial, not a court trial, in an action in which plaintiff had been severely injured when he was struck by a motorcycle while attempting to cross the street.  The motorcyclist was never apprehended, and plaintiff brought suit against the State of California and a Highway Patrol Officer, alleging that they were negligent in failing to find the identity of the motorcyclist.  Clemente, at 209.  Plaintiff proceeded to trial and obtained a judgment of $2,150,000.21.  Id. Defendants appealed, and among the issues raised on appeal was the denial by the trial court of a motion for mistrial.  The Court found that the trial court had not erred in denying the motion.  Clemente, at 217.  The entire discussion of the issue by the Court is as follows:“During argument at the end of the liability phase, plaintiff's counsel made two references to the extent of plaintiff's injuries. Following objections from the defendants the court admonished the jury to ignore counsel's remarks regarding the physical condition, except to the extent that his physical condition was presented in that phase of the trial. After the second remark the defendants moved for a mistrial and now assert that the motion was denied erroneously.Defendants' argument is without merit. A mistrial may be granted because of “any misconduct or irregularity that either legally or practically prevents the trial from proceeding or prevents either party from having a fair trial.”  (4 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (2d ed. 1971) Trial, § 130, p. 2954.) Misconduct by counsel may be a ground for a new trial. Although plaintiff's counsel should not have referred to the injury in closing argument, we cannot say that these two isolated references prevented defendants from having a fair trial. The trial court properly admonished the jury to disregard counsel's remarks, thereby eliminating any prejudice which the remarks may have caused.”Clemente, at 216-217, footnote omitted.  Plaintiffs in their moving papers recognize that, as applied in Clemente, to justify a mistrial, plaintiffs must make an affirmative showing of prejudice which would alter the outcome of the pending litigation.  Gimbel v. Laramie (1960) 181 Cal.App.2d 77, 83, 85-86; See Clemente, at 217.  Plaintiffs also recognize that a motion for mistrial is addressed to the court's discretion. See People v. Ward (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 241, 249 (“A motion for mistrial is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. It may properly be refused where the court is satisfied that no injustice has resulted or will result from the occurrences of which complaint is made.”).   A court’s order denying a mistrial is reviewed for abuse of discretion, using a deferential abuse of discretion standard.  Pope v. Babick (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1248-1249.  An order denying a mistrial is reviewable on the grounds asserted (such as misconduct of attorney or judge) only on appeal from the final judgment.  Warner v. O’Connor (1962, 2nd Dist.) 199 Cal.App.2d 770, 774. An order granting a mistrial is not appealable, but under exceptional circumstances appellate review may be obtained by extraordinary writ.  See Heavy Duty Truck Leasing, Inc. v. Superior Court (1970, 2nd Dist.) 11 Cal.App.3d 116, 119.     Plaintiffs rely heavily on the California Practice Guide, Civil Trials and Evidence (the Rutter Group, 2024 rev.) Wegner, Fairbanks and Epstein, Chapter 12, in which the serious nature of a mistrial order is recognized:“A mistrial terminates the trial midproceedings for error (e.g., misconduct by counsel, by jurors or by the court) that has prejudiced a party's right to a fair trial and that cannot otherwise be remedied. No matter how far the trial has progressed, a mistrial means the case must be retried from the beginning.”Civil Trials and Evidence 12:2, italics in the original;  See also section 12:197 (“A mistrial terminates the trial immediately and prevents adjudication of the issues being tried.”) The Guide also observes:“A motion for mistrial is usually a realistic option only in a jury trial.  Judges in nonjury trials rarely feel that attorney misconduct affects their ability to decide impartially.” Civil Trials and Evidence, 12:3.1 (1). It is also observed that, “There is no statute governing the procedure on a motion for mistrial (although some of the grounds for mistrial are statutory.)”   Civil Trials and Evidence, 12:4, italics in the original.  In addition, “Most grounds for mistrial are discretionary with the trial judge.  But there are also a few grounds upon which a mistrial must be granted.”  Civil Trials and Evidence, 12:4, italics in the original. As argued in the opposition, there are only limited circumstances under which a mistrial is considered mandatory, such as when the trial judge or a juror is a witness in a matter over objection  (Evidence Code sections 703 (b), 704(b); Civil Trials and Evidence 12:6-12:11), or when, without stipulation, there is an insufficient number of jurors, or the judge who heard the evidence becomes unavailable before signing and filing the statement of decision.  Civil Trials and Evidence 12:14-12:15; See also Cal. Judges Benchbook, Civil Proceedings—Trial section 10.5].  Such circumstances are not at issue here, making the requested relief a discretionary mistrial. Discretionary grounds upon which a court may order mistrial include where the jury is unable to reach a verdict, where there is attorney misconduct, where there is judicial misconduct, where there is juror misconduct during the trial, or where there is illness of a juror or material witness.  Civil Trials and Evidence 12:17, 12:19, 12:12:20, 12:20.5, CCP section 616.   “When misconduct is the ground for a motion for mistrial, it must be shown that the misconduct caused irreparable prejudice, i.e., prejudice that could not be cured by timely admonition to the jury.”  Civil Trials and Evidence 12:17, 12:19, italics in original.    The opposition argues that since the current case is a nonjury bench trial, the only two concerns which would give rise to relief would be limited to attorney or judicial misconduct.As set forth in Clemente, above, “[m]isconduct by counsel may be a ground” for a mistrial.  Clemente, at 217.  The moving papers do not clearly argue that there has been any attorney misconduct here, and do not present any factual showing, such as by declaration or submission of transcripts of proceedings, which would suggest that any attorney in this matter has engaged in misconduct.  Moreover, the standard for establishing attorney misconduct is extremely high:“Attorney misconduct during trial means purposeful disregard for the rules of evidence or procedure in an attempt to prejudice the adverse party's case. It implies a “dishonest act or attempt to persuade the jury by using deceptive or reprehensible methods.” [People v. Chojnacky (1973) 8 C3d 759, 766, 106 CR 106, 110 (disapproved on other grounds by People v. Green (1980) 27 C3d 1, 28, 33-34, 164 CR 1, 16, 20-21).”Civil Trials and Evidence 12:23, italics in original.  In addition, as pointed out in the opposition, the California Judges Benchbook notes that although a judge may declare a mistrial based on an attorney’s misconduct:“This rarely occurs in a nonjury trial because a judge is unlikely to conclude that the judge’s ability to decide the case impartially has been affected by an attorney’s misconduct.”Cal. Judges Benchbook Civil Proceedings—Trial §10.13.” Plaintiffs have failed to make any showing of attorney misconduct here.     This leaves the issue of judicial misconduct.    The Practice Guide relied upon by both sides explains, with respect to “[w]hat constitutes ‘judicial misconduct’”: “A trial judge is required to be “patient, dignified, and courteous to litigants, jurors, witnesses, lawyers, and others with whom the judge deals in an official capacity …” [Cal.C. Jud. Ethics, Canon 3B(4); see Haluck v. Ricoh Electronics, Inc. (2007) 151 CA4th 994, 1003, 60 CR3d 542, 548—exchanges between court and counsel were “the antithesis of judicial decorum and courtesy”]Failure to meet these standards is judicial misconduct. If the misconduct is irreparably prejudicial, it is a ground for a mistrial and may be a ground for reversal on appeal. [Pinter-Brown v. Regents of Univ. of Calif. (2020) 48 CA5th 55, 87-88, 261 CR3d 486, 511-513—in gender discrimination action, court's presentation to prospective jurors, prior to start of jury selection, framing case as part of “centuries-long fight against discrimination and inequality” and denying defendant's motion for mistrial following presentation, were errors that collectively prejudiced]….d. [12.46] Application: The following are the most common examples of judicial misconduct:(1) [12:47] Prejudging case: It is misconduct for a trial judge (particularly in a nonjury case) to prejudge the case or express a conviction on the merits before all of the evidence has been received. [Webber v. Webber (1948) 33 C2d 153, 158, 199 P2d 934, 938]For example:• [12:48] Before trial of a paternity case, Judge advised counsel there was “no point” in the husband denying paternity. Soon thereafter, Judge said, “You both know what is going to happen, so let us go through this as quickly as possible”; and that he would rule against plaintiff even if all of defendant's evidence was impeached. [Murr v. Murr (1948) 87 CA2d 511, 517-518, 197 P2d 369, 374]• [12:49] Without having heard the evidence in a divorce case (involving a 37-year marriage), Judge declared his mind set against alimony awards: “Anyone can get a job now …”; and if plaintiff won't waive alimony, “the Court will waive it.” [Webber v. Webber, supra, 33 C2d at 158, 199 P2d at 937]• [12:50] Without hearing the evidence, Judge expressed aversion to Wife's claim for separate maintenance and told her to amend to seek divorce; and that if she did not, Judge might grant divorce to Husband with adverse consequences to her. Judge's statements demonstrated he was predisposed to deny Wife's claim. [McVey v. McVey (1955) 132 CA2d 120, 123, 281 P2d 898, 900](a) [12:51] Compare—hostility to claim not enough by itself: A judge's expressed aversion to a claim does not by itself prove the judge is predisposed to deny it. The question is whether the judge retains an open mind. [Weil v. Weil (1951) 37 C2d 770, 776, 236 P2d 159, 161—judge stated he did not believe in separate maintenance for short marriages but that “his mind had not been made up and would be kept open”]• [12:51.1] Moreover, appellate courts may imply the judge's willingness to keep an open mind despite the judge's statements. For example, Judge stated he was against “granting alimony payments for long periods.” But the appellate court “reasonably interpreted” this to mean only that alimony would not be awarded “except where the needs of the recipient and the circumstances of the parties render it imperative.” [Chalfin v. Chalfin (1953) 121 CA2d 229, 237, 263 P2d 16, 21].”Civil Trials and Evidence 12:44, 12:46- 2:51.1.   Also mentioned is refusal to receive admissible evidence, excluding evidence that is cumulative or involves undue consumption of time, where prejudicial, exhibiting a hostile attitude toward parties, counsel or witnesses in the presence of the jury, conducting out of court investigations, improperly questioning witnesses, particularly in jury trials, improperly calling witnesses sua sponte, improperly commenting on evidence, improper communications with parties, witnesses or jurors, and cumulative behavior that is so egregious and pervasive that a reasonable person would doubt whether the trial was fair and impartial.  Civil Trials and Evidence, 12:52-12:85.12].   It is not clear that any of the alleged conduct of the court here would fall within these standards.   The Judges Benchbook notes that rarely will a judge’s misconduct be incurable:“Only in extreme cases will a judge’s misconduct be incurable, requiring a declaration of mistrial and assignment of the case for retrial, or the granting of a motion for retrial.  Arave v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 525, 536 (“[i]t is extremely difficult to establish judicial misconduct that has risen to the level that requires a new trial.”).Cal. Judges Benchbook section 10.2. Plaintiffs specifically rely on Civil Trials and Evidence, section 12:187, which provides:“In ruling on motions for mistrial, the trial judge normally considers such factors as:• How far the trial has progressed (extent of judicial resources invested in case);• Whether the misconduct was an isolated act or repeated;• Whether the misconduct appears to have been purposeful;• The extent of prejudice likely to have been caused thereby;• Whether appropriate admonitions to the jury and/or reprimand to counsel will remedy the misconduct (or whether it is impossible to “unring the bell”).”Civil Trials and Evidence, section 12:187.   Plaintiffs argue that in considering how far the trial has progressed, and whether the conduct was repeated and purposeful, the situation here is that  witness Grigoryan repeatedly and purposefully recanted his testimony after plaintiff had rested his case in chief after approximately four months of trial.   Plaintiffs argue that they would need to reopen the case and call various other witnesses to dispute Grigoryan’s recantation.  This argument appears to be an argument that the conduct of the witness, not the judge, has resulted in surprise.  However, any surprise can be cured here by allowing the case to be reopened, which the court has indicated it will allow.   The opposition indicates that the recantation occurred after the witness Grigoryan reached out to counsel for defendant to recant, at which point counsel asked Grigoryan if he was represented by plaintiffs’ counsel because a declaration submitted in the matter under Grigoryan’s signature was executed on plaintiffs’ counsel’s letterhead.  Evidently the witness answered that he was not represented by counsel.  Counsel for defendant then informed Grigoryan that should he wish to discuss anything regarding the matter, a third party neutral witness must be present, and that if Grigoryan did not agree to the third party being present, the meeting would not occur.  [Opposition, pp. 5-6].  Defendant’s counsel indicates that he thereafter informed the court and counsel for plaintiffs, although there was no requirement to inform opposing counsel.  [Opposition, p. 6].  The witness Grigoryan has not yet been excused from further testifying, and a bench warrant has been issued to secure his further attendance at trial.  In addition, in the event Grigoryan does not testify or asserts his fifth amendment right, the court has determined, after considering briefing on the issue from both parties, that the third party witness to the meeting between the witness and defendant’s counsel will be able to testify, and can be deposed in advance of giving that testimony:“The Court finds that Pursuant to Evidence Code Section 1235 and 1202, 770(b) Artin Boghouzian will be able to testify re: hearsay statements…. The Court will allow Mr. Boghouzian's Deposition to be taken.”[Minute Order 09/18/2024, p. 1 of 1].   This should address the concerns raised by plaintiffs concerning not only the fact that plaintiffs have rested their case, but that they may be unable to further explore the reasons for the recantation.  To the extent plaintiffs argue that they will be required to call their own counsel to testify, this may be unnecessary given the availability of Boghouzian as a witness.   In addition, since the matter is being heard without a jury, there are procedures which can effectively cure any concerns or surprise, and the court anticipates that plaintiffs will be supported in any efforts to correct any deficiencies.     The opposition points out that in the case of a court trial, concerns with respect to the ability to “unring” the bell, and prejudice, are of less import.  As stated in case authority relied upon by plaintiffs, Gimbel v. Laramine (1960) 181 Cal. App.2d 77, 85-86, cited above, the court of appeal observed:“Furthermore, the mere fact that the judge knew of the criminal trial of the doctor and his two years' suspension of license standing alone is not a ground for a mistrial, a new trial, or a reversal of the judgment. From the very nature of the office he occupies and of the judicial processes a judge is required to divorce from his mind many inadmissible matters which are inevitably brought to light during the course of a trial. Improper incidents occur which cannot be guarded against. The law does not assume prejudice on the part of the trial judge. To justify a mistrial, a new trial or a reversal on appeal, an affirmative showing of prejudice which would alter the outcome of the pending litigation is required.Estate of Clark, 93 Cal.App.2d 110 [208 P.2d 737], concerned a will contest, in which it was brought out by the cross-examination of an attesting witness to a will that he was an attorney who previously had been disbarred for two years. The court held that it was error to permit the witness to be asked, over objection, whether he had been disbarred but that the error was not prejudicial. Applicable here is the reasoning of the court which appears at page 116:“It must be borne in mind that this was not a jury trial, and as was so cogently pointed out in People v. Albertson, 23 Cal.2d 550, 557 [145 P.2d 7] (quoting from Wharton's Criminal Evidence, § 360, p. 567), ' “It does not reflect in any degree upon the intelligence, integrity, or the honesty of purpose of the juror that matters of a prejudicial character find a permanent lodgment in his mind, which will, inadvertently and unconsciously, enter into and affect his verdict. The juror does not possess that trained and disciplined mind which enables him either closely or judicially to discriminate between that which he is permitted to consider and that which he is not. Because of this lack of training, he is unable to draw conclusions entirely uninfluenced by the irrelevant prejudicial matters within his knowledge. ...“ ' On the other hand, there is little, if any, justification for the assumption that the trained mind of the trial judge who presided in the case at bar considered the foregoing testimony for any other than what he conceived to be the limited purpose of cross-examination, or was influenced to the prejudice of appellant Geibel by the testimony to which objection is here made.”Gimbel, at 85-86.  Plaintiffs argue that here there is prejudice from the recantation, as the court is susceptible to drawing impressions about a party from witness testimony, when here the court has been hearing statements from defendant’s counsel that Grigoryan admitted to being bribed or paid for his testimony and then threatened.   However, the court in this matter has been trained to disregard irrelevant prejudicial matters within the court’s knowledge, and can fairly address this matter.  There is no concern that any bell cannot be “unrung” here, as the judge, not a jury, will be making the determinations concerning the testimony of the witness and the recantation.  The court is not persuaded that any of the issues raised by plaintiffs would affect the court’s ability to decide the case impartially.  As set forth above, the court has already determined, after reviewing briefing by both parties, that the witness testimony will not be stricken, but that the court will evaluate the witness testimony “pursuant to Evidence Code Section 780.”  [Minute Order 09/18/2024].    Evidence Code section 780 provides:“Except as otherwise provided by statute, the court or jury may consider in determining the credibility of a witness any matter that has any tendency in reason to prove or disprove the truthfulness of his testimony at the hearing, including but not limited to any of the following:(a) His demeanor while testifying and the manner in which he testifies.(b) The character of his testimony.(c) The extent of his capacity to perceive, to recollect, or to communicate any matter about which he testifies.(d) The extent of his opportunity to perceive any matter about which he testifies.(e) His character for honesty or veracity or their opposites.(f) The existence or nonexistence of a bias, interest, or other motive.(g) A statement previously made by him that is consistent with his testimony at the hearing.(h) A statement made by him that is inconsistent with any part of his testimony at the hearing.(i) The existence or nonexistence of any fact testified to by him.(j) His attitude toward the action in which he testifies or toward the giving of testimony.(k) His admission of untruthfulness.” Plaintiffs appear to argue that the court, in initially responding to the recantation, stated that the court would strike the witness’ trial testimony, so that the court has been “tainted.”  As discussed above, the court has not stricken the testimony, but properly asked for briefing on the issues raised by the parties, and after consideration of the briefing, has determined to proceed under Evidence Code section 780.   Plaintiffs do not argue that this is incorrect.  Under the Evidence Code section, the court will and is qualified to assess the recantation in light of all of the circumstances, admissible evidence, and credibility determinations concerning both the sincerity of the recantation, and the credibility of the testimony if the recantation appears to the court insincere. Plaintiffs briefly argue that the court improperly informed Grigoryan of his right to invoke his Fifth Amendment right, depriving plaintiffs of their constitutional right to confront the witness and conduct a meaningful cross-examination.  Plaintiffs cite to no legal authority under which the court in a nonjury trial cannot manage a case before it as it unfolds with respect to recantation and potential perjury.  It is held that a party is not entitled to decide whether the privilege against self-incrimination can be invoked; the question is for the judge to decide after conducting the proper inquiry.  See Cal. Judges Benchbook, Civ Proc. Trial section 8.38, citing Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1053; People v. Trujeque (2015) 61 Cal.4th 227, 268).  The Judges Benchbook, in fact, advises that with respect to the privilege against self-incrimination “procedural solutions designed to accommodate the parties and the judicial system,” include, “Granting immunity.”  Judge’s Benchbook, section 8:38, see also section 8.40.  This is what the court has pursued here, and the file reflects that the court has appointed counsel for the witness, and, on August 21, 2024 expressly ordered, “Witness counsel is ordered to investigate with the District Attorney’s Office the issue of Use and Transactional Immunity.”  [Minute Order 08/21/2024, p. 2 of 2].  As noted above, in order to establish entitlement to a mistrial, “it must be shown that the misconduct caused irreparable prejudice.”   Civil Trials and Evidence 12:17, 12:19, italics in original.     It is noted that the “irreparable damage requirement is important because it dovetails with why mistrials are presumptively disfavored—they necessarily result in a waste of resources—tax dollars, court time,…and attorney’s fees…”  Judges Benchbook Civil Proceedings—Trial section 10.3.   Plaintiffs argue that prejudice arises here from the tainting of the court by the recantation and other statements being made surrounding that testimony, and the inability to call the witness Grigoryan and cross-examine him due to the gamesmanship of the witness in recanting and then disappearing.  As discussed above, there is no irreparable prejudice here, as plaintiffs will be permitted to completely reopen their case, and to provide further evidence based on this court’s order concerning the third party witness Boghasian.  Any claimed prejudice can therefore be eliminated, as plaintiffs will be given the opportunity to repair what they complain of.  The court also finds there is insufficient evidence to persuade this court that in this nonjury trial this court is not capable of making appropriate determinations despite any possible knowledge of inadmissible matters, or that any act or circumstance has affected the ability of the court to decide the case impartially. RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion for Mistrial is DENIED. Plaintiffs have failed to sufficiently establish any ground for declaring a mistrial in this non-jury trial, and particularly have failed to establish that plaintiffs would suffer any irreparable prejudice, as any surprise or prejudice from the witness recantation and other issues raised can be remedied here.  Plaintiffs will be permitted to reopen their case to address the recantation and the testimony and declaration of the witness Khachik Grigoryan.  The Court has already ordered that the court will evaluate the Khachik Grigoryan testimony pursuant to Evidence Code section 780, that third party witness Artin Boghouzian will be able to testify, that Boghouzian’s deposition will be allowed to be taken, and that counsel for the witness Grigoryan is to pursue immunity.  [Minute Orders 08/21/2024, 09/18/2024].  The Court also finds there is insufficient evidence to persuade this Court that in this nonjury trial this Court is not capable of making appropriate determinations despite any possible knowledge of inadmissible matters, or that any act or circumstance has affected the ability of the Court to decide the case impartially.   DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 