 Case Number:  23GDCV02556    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:    3 Date:         10/25/2024 Case No:     23 GDCV02556 Trial Date: None Set   Case Name: Cadelina v. Maglaya, et al.MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY (2 Motions) Moving Party:  Defendant Kyle Lorenz C. Maglaya Responding Party: Plaintiff Claudia Cadelina  (No Opposition) RELIEF REQUESTED:Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One   CHRONOLOGYDate Discovery served :     January 8, 2024   Extensions to Respond to: April 20, 2024 Date Responses served:  NO RESPONSES SERVED  Date Motion served:   June 25, 2024    Timely OPPOSITION:  No opposition.   ANALYSIS:Procedural This matter was originally heard on August 30, 2024. At that time, the court was concerned that on May 24, 2024, the court had heard a motion to be relieved as counsel, filed by counsel for plaintiff, M Law Attorneys, APC.  The court had granted the motion and ordered that counsel would be relieved “effective upon the efiling of the proof of service of the signed order upon the client.”  At the time the current motion had been filed and served, the file did not include a proof of service showing that a copy of the signed order had been served on the client, so counsel had not yet been relieved as counsel of record, and was still technically representing plaintiff in this matter.   After the motion was filed, counsel for plaintiff filed a Declaration Relating to Failure to Provide Timely Proof of Service to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff, indicating that the signed order had been served on plaintiff’s residence on May 28, 2024, but that counsel’s office had failed to file the proof of service.  Proof of service was filed on August 16, 2024, showing proof of service on the client, but not on the other parties.     The court was concerned that at the time the motions were served on plaintiff for the August 30, 2024 hearing date, plaintiff could have reasonably assumed plaintiff was still represented by counsel, which could have explained why plaintiff had not filed timely opposition.  The court at the hearing accordingly continued the motions to this date:“in light of the order relieving counsel for plaintiff becoming effective only after the motion was filed and served on plaintiff, to ensure plaintiff has notice that the motions are pending and plaintiff is no longer represented by M Law Attorneys. Defendant is ordered to give notice of the continued hearing on all parties entitled to notice.”[Minute Order, 08/30/2024].  The file shows that on August 30, 2024, defendants’ counsel filed and served a Notice of Ruling Re Continued Hearings, attaching a copy of the minute order of that date, and showing service on plaintiff Claudia Cadelina at her current address of record.    The notice issues accordingly having been remedied. The court will consider the motions this date on their merits. SubstantiveUnder CCP § 2030.290, “If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,” that party “waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings...as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product...”  Under subdivision (b), “The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.”  CCP §2031.300 contains similar provisions with respect to requests to produce documents.In this case, interrogatories and document production demands have been directed to plaintiff and plaintiff has failed to serve timely responses.  Propounding party has appropriately moved for orders to compel.  Accordingly, plaintiff has waived the option to produce writings, as well as all objections, and is ordered to respond.  SanctionsWith respect to interrogatories, under CCP § 2030.290(c), “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  A similar provision applies to document demands.  See CCP § 2031.300(c).CCP § 2023.010 provides that misuse of the discovery process includes, “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where there has been such conduct, under CCP § 2023.030(a), “The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct....If a monetary sanction is authorized” by the statute, “ the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that the other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” CCP § 2023.030(a).  Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.  In this case, plaintiff has failed to respond to authorized methods of discovery and defendant has submitted evidence that defendant has incurred expenses as a result of the conduct. Since the motions are unopposed, there is no evidence that the imposition of sanctions would be unjust.  Defendant requests $1,275 as sanctions in each of the notices of the motion, but the declarations submitted make clear that the sum was incurred in connection with both motions, collectively.  [Blunt Decl., para. 7].  The sanctions sought are accordingly $637.50 for each motion, which appear reasonable, and are awarded as requested. RULING:[No opposition]Defendant Kyle Lorenz C. Maglaya’s UNOPPOSED Motion to Compel Responses by Plaintiff Claudia C. Cadelina to Form Interrogatories (Set One) is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Claudia Cadelina is ordered to serve verified responses to Form Interrogatories—General, Set No. One, without objection, within 10 days.Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $637.50 (2.75 hours @ $210 per hour) [2.75 hours sought] plus $60 filing fee [Amount Requested $637.50], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendant Kyle Lorenz C. Maglaya and against plaintiff Claudia Cadelina, payable within 30 days.  CCP sections 2030.290(c), 2023.010(d), 2023.030(a), and CRC Rule 3.1030(a).Counsel for moving party is ordered to prepare an order for sanctions and submit it on eCourt by noon today in accordance with this order. Defendant Kyle Lorenz C. Maglaya’s UNOPPOSED Motion to Compel Responses by Plaintiff Claudia C. Cadelina to Requests for Production of Documents (Set One) is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Claudia C. Cadelina is ordered to serve verified responses to Defendant Kyle Lorenz C. Maglaya’s Request for Production of Documents to Plaintiff Claudia C. Cadelina, without objection, and to permit inspection and copying, within 10 days.Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $637.50 (2.75 hours @ $210 per hour) [2.75 hours sought] plus $60 filing fee [Amount Requested $637.50], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendant Kyle Lorenz C. Maglaya and against plaintiff Claudia Cadelina, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2031.300(c), 2023.010(d), 2023.030(a).Counsel for moving party is ordered to prepare an order for sanctions and submit it on eCourt by noon today in accordance with this order. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 