  Case Number:  19STCV030280    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Kristin Hirai
(individually and as successor-in-interest to Toshio Hirai), Takeo Hirai, Isao
Hirai, and Brigitta Hirai filed this action against Defendants, Skating Edge
Ice Arena, et al. for damages arising out of an automobile v. motorcycle
accident.  The accident killed Decedent,
Toshio Hirai.  The operative First
Amended Complaint includes causes of action for:
·        
Wrongful Death -- Premises Liability (Skating
Edge and Heindl);
·        
Wrongful Death -- Dangerous Condition of Public
Property (City of Los Angeles, State of California);
·        
Wrongful Death -- Negligence (Jessica, Lonnie,
and Tanesha Phillips; Tara and Sergio Fernandez);
·        
Wrongful Death -- Strict Products Liability
(SHARK Helmets North America, LLC);
·        
Wrongful Death -- Negligent Products Liability
(SHARK Helmets North America, LLC);
·        
Wrongful Death -- Products Liability – Breach of
Warranties (SHARK Helmets North America, LLC).
 
2.     Petition
to Approve Compromise of Minor
Plaintiffs agreed to settle their
claims with Defendants, State of Califonria, City of Los Angeles, and Jessica,
Lonnie, and Tanesha Phillips for the total amount of $6,100,000.  The parties have agreed to apportion $1,525,000
of that settlement amount to the minor plaintiff, Takeo Hirai, which amount
represents 25% of the total settlement. 
The majority of the settlement (65%) will go to Decedent’s wife, and the
remainder of the settlement (10%) will go to Decedent’s parents.
 
If the settlement is approved, $600,000
will be allocated to attorneys’ fees and $27,217.04 to costs of suit; the
remainder of the settlement, $897,782.96, will be used to purchase a single
premium deferred annuity.  
 
The Court has reviewed the proposed
settlement, as well as the allocation, and finds it is fair and
reasonable.  The Court is concerned about
the attorneys’ fees allocation, which is in the amount of 39.34% of the minor’s
settlement.  The Court understands that
years of litigation have ensued and that the case has been complicated, but still
has reservations about the size of the fee. 
The Court wishes to hear from Counsel and the GAL at the hearing about
the amount of the appropriate fee.
 
Pursuant to CRC 7.952, Plaintiff
and Petitioner must appear at the hearing unless the Court finds good cause to
excuse their appearance.  Plaintiff is
only seven years old, and was barely two when he lost his father in the
accident that forms the basis of this action. 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s age excuses his appearance.  The Court will, as noted above, question
Petitioner prior to granting this petition. 
Assuming the Court is satisfied with Petitioner’s testimony and/or there
is an agreement concerning attorneys’ fees, the Court will approve the
petition.  
 
The Court asks Petitioner and
Counsel to make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
petition.  
 