 Case Number:  23LBCV00552    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiffs, Marcus Miller and Angie Muhamad filed this action against
Defendants, Brand Scaffold Services, Inc. and The AES Corporation for damages
arising out of injuries sustained in a workplace accident at AES’s power plant
in Puerto Rico.  Miller, who is a
California resident and employee of a California corporation, was injured in
the incident.  
 
2.    
Motion to Quash

Procedural History

Defendant, AES Corporation filed a
motion to quash service of the summons and complaint, contending California
courts lack personal jurisdiction over it, on 7/28/23, setting the hearing for
1/30/24.  The motion seeks alternative
relief dismissing the action pursuant to the doctrine of forum non
conveniens.  On 10/17/23, Defendant,
Brand Energy Infrastructure Services of Puerto Rico filed a joinder to the
motion.  On 10/19/23, Defendant, AES
Puerto Rico, Inc. and AES Puerto Rico, L.P. filed a similar motion, setting it
for hearing on 3/05/24.  
 
On 10/27/24, the Court denied
Plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue the hearing on AES Corporation’s
motion.  On 11/01/23, Plaintiff dismissed
AES Corporation.  
 
On 11/02/23, Brand Energy filed a
joinder to the AES Puerto Rico Defendants’ motion to quash or dismiss.  
 
Plaintiff, in the interim,
commenced conducting jurisdictional discovery as to the AES Puerto Rico
Defendants.  On 1/31/24, they filed a
motion to quash or for a protective order as to the Deposition of Michelle Lopez,
the employee whom Plaintiff believed had knowledge of the facts relating to
Defendants’ contacts with persons and entities in the State of California.  On 3/05/24, the Court heard and denied the
motion for a protective order.  
 
On 2/09/24, the Court heard and
granted Plaintiff’s motion to continue the pending hearing on the motion to
quash or dismiss, noting that jurisdictional discovery was ongoing.  The Court continued the hearing date to
5/02/24.  
 

Parties’ Positions

Defendants contend they are Puerto Rico entities, and they lack
sufficient contacts with California to support imposition of general or
specific jurisdiction over them. 
Alternatively, they contend California is such an inconvenient forum
that the case should be dismissed and the parties should be ordered to litigate
their dispute, if at all, in Puerto Rico.
 
Plaintiff, in opposition, contends Defendants have sufficient contacts
with California, through an ongoing relationship with his employer, to support
imposition of jurisdiction over them.  He
contends Puerto Rico is not a convenient forum because the statute of
limitations on his claimed has passed, and also contends California is the most
convenient forum for the litigation.  
 
Defendants, in reply, contend Plaintiff has not shown sufficient
minimum contacts intended to obtain a benefit from the State of California to
support imposition of jurisdiction over them. 
Alternatively, they contend they are willing to waive the statute of
limitations on any action in Puerto Rico, and there are no other compelling
reasons for hearing the action in California instead of Puerto Rico.  
 

Law Governing Specific Jurisdiction

The Court previously summarized the law regarding specific jurisdiction
in connection with its ruling on the motion for a protective order re: the
Lopez deposition.  The Court, in the
interest of being thorough, will include that summary again at this time.  It is as follows.
 
Even if a nonresident defendant's “contacts” with California are not
sufficient for general jurisdiction, the defendant may still be subject to
jurisdiction on claims related to its activities there under a specific (also
called “case-linked”) jurisdiction analysis. The inquiry focuses on the
relationship between the defendant, the forum and the litigation.  Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 283-284.  For the state to exercise jurisdiction over a
defendant consistent with due process, “the defendant's suit-related conduct
must create a substantial connection with the forum State.”   Id. at 284. 

 
Such “specific” personal jurisdiction requires a showing of:
•           Purposeful
availment: The out-of-state defendant purposefully established contacts with
the forum state;
•           Arising
out of: Plaintiff's cause of action “arises out of” or is “related to”
defendant's contacts with the forum state; and
•           Reasonableness:
The forum's exercise of personal jurisdiction in the particular case comports
with “fair play and substantial justice.” 
Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 477-478.
 
The nonresident defendant must have purposefully directed its
activities at the forum, or purposefully availed itself of the privilege of
conducting activities within the forum state, thus invoking the benefits and
protections of local law.   Dow Chemical
Canada ULC v. Superior Court (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 170, 179.  “Minimum contacts” may be created by a
nonresident's use of mail, telephone or email. 
Hall v. LaRonde (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1344.  
 
For specific jurisdiction, plaintiff's claim must “arise out of” or be
“related to” defendant's forum activities. 
Burger King Corp., supra, at 477-478. 
That a nonresident enters California to execute or perform a contract
with a California resident does not per se establish “minimum contacts.” The
court considers all factors affecting negotiation, execution and performance of
the contract in determining whether defendant purposefully established minimum
contacts with the forum. Id. at 478-479.
 
That a nonresident entered into a contract with a forum resident does
not by itself establish “minimum contacts” between the nonresident and forum
state. Nor is it enough that the forum was the “place of contracting” or “place
of performance” or that breach has “caused an effect” (financial loss) in
California. The place where a contract is executed “is of far less importance
than where the consequences of performing that contract come to be felt.”   Stone v. State of Texas (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
1043, 1048 (holding that hiring a California resident did not subject the nonresident
employer to California jurisdiction where services were rendered outside
California).  
 
Rather, courts must adopt a “highly realistic” approach in determining
whether a nonresident contracting party “purposefully established minimum
contacts within the forum” taking into consideration:
•           — prior negotiations;
•           — contemplated future
consequences;
•           — terms of the
contract; and
•           — the parties' actual
course of dealings.  Burger King Corp.,
supra, at 478.  
 

Facts

The parties focus on different aspects of the facts to suit their
needs, but the facts relating to this jurisdictional challenge are essentially
agreed upon by both parties.  Defendants
produce energy in Puerto Rico, and from time to time they need to hire outside
contractors to complete work that they cannot do internally.  When they need to hire such contractors, they
create an invitation to bid.  They then
send out that invitation to companies, which include Puerto Rican, Latin
American, American, and other companies, by email.  (Deposition of Bolinaga, Exhibit B to reply
papers).  
 
One of the types of work that needs to be done at Defendants’ operation
is refractory work.  Plaintiff’s
employer, JT Thorpe, does refractory work. 
JT Thorpe has consistently provided refractory work to Defendants from
2009 to the present, with the exception of one or two years when the work was
done by another company.  In 2018,
Michelle Lopez, the supply chain team leader for Defendants, uploaded
information concerning necessary refractory work to an outside program, and
then emailed an invitation to JT Thorpe; at the same time, she sent invitations
to several other corporations.  See Lopez
Deposition, Exhibit B to the opposition papers. 

 
JT Thorpe won the bid, sent its employees to do the work, and Plaintiff
was injured.    
 
Notably, the contract between JT Thorpe and Defendants has a choice of
venue clause, and the choice of venue is in New York.  It does not appear this clause governs the
relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants, but Defendants raise it to show
that Defendants did not actively consent to jurisdiction in California by way
of contracting with JT Thorpe.  
 

Waiver

Plaintiff argues Defendants waived their right to challenge
jurisdiction by filing a case management statement and by filing a motion for a
protective order concerning the Lopez Deposition.  
 
The law in this regard, as Defendants correctly note, changed in
2002.  The law is simple and
settled.  As long as the motion is filed
before or concurrently with an act constituting participation in the litigation
on the merits (e.g., propounding discovery demands), there is no waiver of
jurisdictional defects: i.e., “a defendant may move to quash coupled with any
other action without being deemed to have submitted to the court's
jurisdiction.”   Roy v. Superior Court
(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 337, 345; Air Machine Com SRL v. Superior Court  (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 414, 427-428, holding
that serving a CCP §998 offer to compromise after filing motion to quash not
general appearance;  and ViaView, Inc. v.
Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 214, holding that filing an anti-SLAPP
motion after or concurrently with motion to quash does not constitute a general
appearance.
 
Defendants filed their motion prior to filing a case management
statement or a motion for a protective order. 
They have therefore not waived their right to seek to have service
quashed on the basis of lack of jurisdiction. 

 

Analysis 

Neither party cites a case directly on point.  Plaintiff, however, relies on Gordon
Armstrong Co. v. Superior Court (1958) 160 Cal.App.2d 211, 217 to support his
position that imposition of jurisdiction is proper.  In Gordon Armstrong, the Court considered a
situation where the defendant solicited sales in California.  The Court noted that the defendant had a
pattern of regularly soliciting sales in California, which pattern was
extensive, regular, and continuous over a period of many years, and which pattern
established minimum contacts for purposes of jurisdiction.  Defendants do not address the citation in
their reply papers.  
 
The Court finds Gordon Armstrong is the most closely relevant case to
the facts at hand.  Defendants attempt to
make it sound like they had refractory work to be done and cast a broad net
seeking a contractor to fulfill the work. 
In reality, they had worked with Plaintiff’s California-based employer
on numerous occasions over more than a decade. 
They hand-selected Plaintiff’s employer, along with a handful of other
companies, to bid on the project, and they communicated their request for a bid
directly to the company.  The Court finds
this long-standing relationship and direct invitation to bid constitute
sufficient minimum contacts to support imposition of jurisdiction in
California.
 
Defendants argue that they did not require Plaintiff’s employer to hire
California employees, and did not even know Plaintiff was from California.  When one hires a California-based company,
though, one must expect that the company’s employees will also be from
California.  The motion to quash is
therefore denied.

Forum Non Conveniens

i.             
Request
for Relief
Defendants make an alternative motion to dismiss this action and
require Plaintiff to bring suit in Puerto Rico based on the doctrine of forum
non conveniens.  
 
ii.            
Law
Governing Dismissal Under Forum Non Conveniens
“Forum non conveniens is an equitable doctrine invoking the
discretionary power of a court to decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has
over a transitory cause of action when it believes that the action may be more
appropriately and justly tried elsewhere.” 
Stangvik v, Shiley, Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 750.
 
“In determining whether to grant a motion based on forum non
conveniens, a court must first determine whether the alternate forum is a
‘suitable’ place for trial.  If it is,
the next step is to consider the private interests of the litigants and the
interests of the public in retaining the action for trial in California.  The private interest factors are those that
make trial and the enforceability of the ensuing judgment expeditious and
relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of access to sources of proof, the
cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses, and the availability of compulsory
process for attendance of unwilling witnesses. 
The public interest factors include avoidance of overburdening local
courts with congested calendars, protecting the interests of potential jurors
so that they are not called upon to decide cases in which the local community
has little concern, and weighing the competing interests of California and the
alternate jurisdiction in the litigation.” 
Stangevik, supra, at p. 751.  On a
motion for forum non conveniens, the defendant, as the moving party, bears the
burden of proof.  The granting or denial
of such a motion is within the trial court's discretion, and substantial
deference is accorded its determination in this regard.  (Ibid.)
 
The first issue the Court must address is whether there is a suitable
alternative forum.  Is there a statute of
limitations problem?  Are there any other
issues of law which would preclude plaintiff from trying the case in the
alternative forum?  These issues are
threshold issues that would require denial of the motion.
 
The Court must then weigh the private interest factors concerning
jurisdiction in the two proposed courts. 
Among the private interest factors are: (1) the amenability of the
parties to personal jurisdiction in this state and in the alternative forum;
(2) the relative convenience to the parties and trial witnesses of the
competing forums; (3) the selection of a convenient, reasonable and fair place
for trial; (4) the extent to which the cause of action arose out of events
related to this state; (5) the extent to which any party will be substantially
disadvantaged by a trial in either forum; (6) the relative inconvenience to
witnesses and relative expense to parties of proceeding in this state or the
alternative forum; and (7) the extent to which the relationship of the moving
party to the state obligates him or her to participate in judicial proceedings
here.  
 
“Many cases hold that the plaintiff's choice of a forum should rarely
be disturbed unless the balance is strongly in favor of the defendant.”  Stangevik, supra, at p. 752.  As a resident of California, a plaintiff has
a strong interest in trying his case here. 
The defendant’s residence is also a factor to be considered in the
balance of convenience. 
 
Finally, the Court must weigh the public interest factors relating to
the motion.  There are four factors to be
considered in determining whether the public interest favors the granting of
this motion: (1) California's interest in avoiding undue congestion of its
courts due to the trial of foreign causes of action; (2) this state's deterrent
and regulatory interests in products manufactured here; (3) appropriate
deference to the laws and policy decisions of foreign governments; and (4) the
competitive disadvantage to California business if resident corporations were
required to defend lawsuits here based on injuries incurred in other
jurisdictions.  
 
iii.           
Suitable
Alternative Forum
Plaintiff argues Puerto Rico is not a suitable alternative forum
because the statute of limitations on his claims has run.  Defendants, in reply, indicate this is not a
ground for denial of the motion if they are willing to waive the SOL
defense.  
 
Defendants are correct.  Pursuant
to Stangvik, supra, at 752, if the defendant is willing to waive the SOL
defense, then the alternative forum remains suitable.  
 
iv.           
Private
Interest Factors
The Court finds the private interest factors are closely balanced
between the two parties.  All witnesses
and evidence concerning the incident itself are in Puerto Rico.  All witnesses and evidence concerning
Plaintiff’s post-injury treatment are in California.  It would be equally difficult for Plaintiff
to obtain evidence and depose witnesses in Puerto Rico as it would be difficult
for Defendants to obtain evidence and depose witnesses in California.  As noted above, the presumption is in favor
of the Plaintiff’s choice of venue in this regard, and therefore the Court
finds the private interest factors weigh slightly in favor of Plaintiff.  
 
v.         Public Interest Factors
Pursuant to Roulier v. Cannondale (2002) 101 Cal.4th 1180,
1190, “congestion of the courts” is not an issue when there is a single
plaintiff involved.  This is, at its
core, a simply personal injury case, and therefore will not overly burden the
California court system.  The Court is
not concerned with burdening jurors, as they have an interest in deciding a
case where a California resident was injured. 
The other factors are not particularly applicable to this case.  
 
vi.           
Conclusion
While the issue is close, on balance, the Court finds Plaintiff is
entitled to deference in his choice of venue, and will not dismiss the case
based on the doctrine of forum non conveniens. 
The alternative motion to dismiss is therefore also denied.  
 
3.    
Conclusion
Defendants’ motion to quash is
denied.  Defendants’ alternative motion
to dismiss is denied.  Defendants are
ordered to file a responsive pleading within fifteen days.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   