 Case Number:  23LBCV01737    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Carl L. Johnson filed this action against Defendants, Steven
Brereton and Lenay Cobo for breach of fiduciary duty and related claims.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants have locked him
out of the parties’ legal commercial cannabis business.  Plaintiff filed the complaint on
9/18/23.  Defendants filed answers to the
complaint on 12/06/23 and 12/27/23.
 
2.    
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
a.    
Standard on Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings  
CCP §438 states, in relevant part:
“(b)(1) A party may move for judgment on the pleadings. . . . (c)(1) The motion
provided for in this section may only be made on one of the following
grounds:  (A) If the moving party is a
plaintiff, that the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or
causes of action against the defendant and the answer does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint.  (B) If the moving party is a defendant, that
either of the following conditions exist: . . . . (ii) The complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that
defendant.”  
 
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings “has the purpose and effect of a general demurrer.”  (Smiley v. Citibank (S.D.), N.A. (1995) 11
Cal. 4th 138, 146 (citation omitted)). 
“[T]he trial court generally confines itself to the complaint and
accepts as true all material facts alleged therein.  As appropriate, however, it may extend its
consideration to matters that are subject to judicial notice.  In this, it performs essentially the same
task that it would undertake in ruling on a general demurrer.” (Id. (citations
omitted)).
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
CCP §439 requires a party moving
for judgment on the pleadings to meet and confer prior to filing the
motion.  Defense Counsel declares the
parties went back and forth with emails attempting to schedule a meet and
confer session, but the session never actually took place because Plaintiff
ultimately failed to respond to communication. 
  
 
c.     Plaintiff’s
Request for a Continuance
On 4/19/24,
Plaintiff filed a request for a continuance of the motion, indicating he has
suffered from personal challenges and persistent technical issues.  
 
The Court is
inclined to grant a brief continuance, but admonishes Plaintiff that, despite
his pro per status, he must fully participate in this litigation.  
 
The Court orders
Plaintiff to meaningfully participate in meet and confer communications within
the next week.  Plaintiff must provide
Defense Counsel with at least four dates and times when he is available for
meet and confer prior to the close of business on 5/02/24.  Plaintiff must make himself available and
answer the call when Defense Counsel reaches out.  If the parties are able to agree to a
resolution of the motion, Defendants must take the motion off calendar.  
 
If the parties are
unable to resolve their issues, the hearing on the motion will be continued to
Tuesday, 6/04/24.  Plaintiff must file
substantive opposition within the statutory time, and Defendants must file their
reply within the statutory time.  The
Court will need grant an additional continuance of the hearing on the motion
absent a specific and compelling showing of good cause to do so.  
 
Defendants are
ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 