 Case Number:  23LBCV00333    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 This Court was originally scheduled
to hear this motion on 3/21/24.  Prior to
the hearing, the Court continued the motion to require the parties to meet and
confer further in an attempt to resolve the dispute.  The Court ordered the parties, in the event
they were unable to do so, to file a joint statement of items in dispute.    
 
On 4/29/24, Plaintiff filed a
statement of discovery dispute.  The
statement indicates the parties resolved the majority of the issues presented
by way of the original motion, but have failed to resolve issues relating to
RPDs concerning documents and information re: the Infotainment Defects of the
subject vehicle.  
 
Plaintiff, at page 2, lines 10-12,
indicates he is providing a “detailed summary of a (sic) good faith meet and
confer efforts made by both parties.” 
The Court does not see any declaration or other document providing a
detailed summary of the parties’ meet and confer efforts, despite the Court’s
3/21/24 order requiring the parties to so provide.  Additionally, the Court does not have
anything filed by Defendant, whether joint or otherwise, setting forth its
position re: the remaining discovery in dispute, despite the Court’s 3/21/24
order requiring the statement to set forth both parties’ positions concerning
any items remaining in dispute.  
 
The Court is ruling on this motion
without the benefit of Defendant’s position. 
The Court notes, however, that it has rendered numerous prior rulings on
the issue presented, all of which have been in Plaintiff’s favor.  The rulings have all provided some variation
on the following analysis:
Defendant’s primary argument is
that documents relating to other customers’ complaints about the subject
vehicle are not relevant to Plaintiff’s claims because Plaintiff’s claims are
limited to her own car.  The Court
disagrees.  One element of a Song-Beverly
complaint is that the defendant’s failure to buy back was not reasonable.  Clearly, a manufacturer’s knowledge that the
plaintiff’s complaint is prevalent in the car manufactured is evidence of
whether the failure to buy back was reasonable or not.  While Donlen v. Ford Motor Company (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 138, 143-144 was decided in a different context and not
as a discovery motion, the ultimate holding was that evidence of problems with
other vehicles is relevant and admissible in a Song-Beverly case.  The relevance objection is therefore
overruled.
 

The motion to compel is therefore
granted as to the remaining RPDs in dispute. 
Defendant must serve further responses, without objections, within ten
days.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.