 Case Number:  23LBCV01880    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiffs, David Cain and Red Ball Fun Zone, Inc. filed this action
against Defendants, City of Long Beach, State of California, and Department of
Public Health for damages arising out of Covid-19 closure of Plaintiffs’
business.  Plaintiffs allege Defendants
misclassified their business as a family entertainment center instead of a
fitness center, which resulted in the business remaining closed long after it
should have been reopened.
 
Plaintiffs filed their complaint on 10/03/23.  Plaintiffs filed proof of service of the
summons and complaint on the City on 12/18/23. 
Plaintiffs dismissed the State and the Department of Public Health on
2/05/24.  
 
2.    
Demurrer
The City demurs to the complaint,
contending it is barred by Plaintiffs’ failure to file a timely government tort
claim.  
 
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the
demurrer, primarily contend the demurrer was not filed and served with the
requisite statutory notice per CCP §1005(b). 
Plaintiffs ask that the Court overrule the demurrer in light of this
deficiency.
 
It appears the demurrer was filed
without statutory notice due to confusion on the part of Defendant.  Defendant used the online reservation system
to schedule the first available demurrer hearing date, which was 9/26/24.  The parties appeared at a Case Management
Conference on 3/01/24.  At that time, the
Court continued the CMC to 5/02/24, and also advanced the hearing date on the
demurrer to 5/02/24.  
 
Thereafter, the City filed its
demurrer papers on 4/18/24 and served them by mail and email the same day.  Notably, the City served the papers on
Plaintiffs, in pro per, but Plaintiffs had already substituted Michael L. Allan
in as their attorney of record on 2/29/24.
 
4/18/24 was only ten court days
prior to 5/02/24, which means Plaintiffs were not given sufficient notice of
the hearing per §1005(b).  The Court did
not intend its 3/01/24 order to permit Defendant to file and/or serve its
demurrer papers on shortened time, and nothing in the order so indicates.  Notably, Plaintiffs’ opposition was due the
following day, and was filed the following day. 

 
The Court agrees with Plaintiffs
and finds the demurrer was not timely filed or served.  The Court does not, however, wish to overrule
the demurrer solely on this ground.  The
demurrer presents a potentially dispositive legal issue for determination, and
there is no reason to table that issue until Defendant can file a different
potentially dispositive motion, such as a motion for judgment on the pleadings
or for summary judgment.
 
To permit Plaintiffs to respond
substantively to the demurrer, the Court is continuing the hearing on the
demurrer for one month, to Tuesday, 6/04/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department
S27.  Substantive opposition and reply are
due per Code.  
 
Defendant is
ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 