 Case Number:  23LBCV01749    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Geraldine Johnson filed
this action against Defendant, Lee’s Nails and Spa for damages arising out of a
slip and fall on water on Defendant’s floor. 

 
The complaint is a judicial council
form complaint for premises liability, and includes counts for negligence and
willful failure to warn under Civil Code §846. 
  
 
2.     Motion
to Strike
Defendant moves to strike the
second count for willful failure to warn, contending §846 is not applicable to
this case.  Civil Code §846 is entitled
“Duty of care or warning to persons entering property for recreation; Effect of
permission to enter.”  It specifies the
duty of care that is owed in situations involving use of property for
recreational purposes, and goes on to define recreational purposes.  
 
Defendant correctly notes that the
complaint does not allege the subject premises were being used for recreational
purposes, as defined by §846, and it does not appear the complaint could be
amended to so allege.  The motion to
strike is therefore granted.  
 
Any opposition to the motion was
due on or before 4/19/24.  The time to
file opposition has lapsed, and the Court has not received opposition to the
motion.  Notably, Defense Counsel made
multiple attempts to meet and confer prior to filing the motion, and Plaintiff
failed to respond to any of them.  Leave
to amend is therefore denied.  The Court
orders Plaintiff’s attorney to participate in meet and confer discussions in
the future in connection with this and other actions, and to promptly dismiss
any claim or count subject to an unopposed pleading challenge; doing so will
avoid unnecessary expenditure of both attorney and judicial resources.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 