 Case Number:  22NWCV01581    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  C JULIO ZAYAS v. CITY OF LOS ANGELES
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01581
HEARING:   4/3/24
@ 9:30 A.M.
 
 
#2
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff counsel, Ryan J. Daneshrad and Shantel Yaghoobian’s motion to
be relieved as counsel for Julio Zayas is DENIED.  
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
The motion is unopposed as of April 3, 2024. 
 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel, Ryan J. Daneshrad and
Shantel Yaghoobian, move to be relieved as counsel for Julio Zayas.
 
Good
cause exists to grant the motion based on any of the grounds under Rules of Professional
Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may withdraw
based on any of the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon presenting a
claim or defense that is not warranted under existing law and cannot be
supported by good faith argument for an extension, modification, or reversal of
existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct, or (c)
insists that the member pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or that is
prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other conduct
renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out the employment
effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal, that
the member engage in conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice of the
member but not prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f)
breaches an agreement or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees. (2)
The continued employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or
of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates
that the best interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; or
(4) The member's mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The client knowingly and
freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in
good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will
find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal.
 
The
attorney declaration demonstrates good cause for withdrawal based on a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. 
The client was served by mail at his last known address, which was
confirmed to be current within the past 30 days. However, the proof of service
does not indicate that the proposed order was served. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.162(d).) 
 
Thus,
the motion is DENIED. 
 
 
 
 
 
 