 Case Number:  24GDCV00378    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  E  
Hearing Date: December
24, 2024
Case No: 24GDCV00378                                                                   
Trial Date: None Set   
Case Name: Hryar Brian der Vartanian v. Jaydon
Douglas Paull, et al.
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON DEMURRER]
 
Moving
Party: Defendant Jaydon Douglas Paull
Responding
Party: Plaintiff Hryar Brian der Vartanian
 
Proof of service timely
filed (CRC 3.1300(c)): ok 
Correct Address (CCP §§
1013, 1013(a)): ok
16/+5 day lapse (CCP
§1005): ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
Defendant Jaydon Douglas Paull (Defendant) moves the Court
for an order sustaining his demurrer to Plaintiff Hryar Brian der Vartanian’s
(Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
Defendant demurs generally to each cause of action on the
following grounds:

Each of cause of action
     fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because
     the Complaint fails to allege exhaustion of required contractual remedies
     prior to filing suit.

 
In addition to the above, Defendant demurs generally or
specially to the first cause of action for “Breach of Contract” on the
following grounds:

The first cause of action
     for breach of contract fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
     cause of action. The findings of fact and conclusions of law in prior
     cases involving Plaintiff and Defendant that are judicially noticed
     demonstrate that Plaintiff failed to maintain the subject premises in code
     compliant conditions. Thus, these judicially noticed facts contradict
     Plaintiff’s assertion that he performed all duties under the lease.
The first cause of action
     for breach of contract is vague, uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible.

 
Defendant also demurs to the second cause of action for
“Ejectment” on the following grounds:

The second cause of action
     for ejectment fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
     action for possession. Plaintiff failed to allege a demand for payment
     sufficient to give Defendant notice of the amount alleged to be in
     arrears. Further, Plaintiff’s claim is barred as against public policy and
     void because numerous laws require such notice and demand to Plaintiff,
     and Plaintiff has been informed of such fact repeatedly in numerous
     written opinions, which are judicially noticed.
The second cause of action
     for ejectment is vague, uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible.

 
Defendant also demurs to the third cause of action for
“Fraud in the Inducement” on the following grounds:

The third cause of action
     for fraudulent inducement fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
     cause of action because (1) Plaintiff has failed to allege fraud with the
     requisite specificity and/or appropriate and sufficient facts giving rise
     to a claim of fraud, and (2) the claim is barred by the applicable statute
     of limitations on its face based on the allegations of the FAC and matters
     which may be judicially noticed.
The third cause of action
     for fraudulent inducement is vague, uncertain, ambiguous, and
     unintelligible.

 
BACKGROUND:
On 02/29/2024, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant
and Does 1 through 20, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of
contract, (2) negligence, and (3) waste.
 
On 08/01/2024, Plaintiff filed a Substitution of Attorney,
indicating that he was substituting his then-counsel of record, Gary P.
Simonian, for his new counsel, Lisa F. Rosenthal.
 
On 08/05/2024, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint
(FAC), alleging new causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) ejectment,
and (3) fraud in inducement.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first cause of action
for breach of contract is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action
for ejectment is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of action
for fraudulent inducement is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
ANALYSIS:
Request for Judicial Notice
Pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code section 452(d)(1), Defendant
requests judicial notice of nineteen (19) different court records from five (5)
prior cases involving Plaintiff and Defendant, including four different UD
actions and one prior unlimited civil action, with the following case numbers:
20PDUD00997, 20PDUD01310, 22GDCV00082, 22PDUD01479, and 23PDUD02994. 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice
Nos. 1-19.
 
Meet and Confer
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person
or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties shall meet and confer at
least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties
are not able to meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the
responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic
30-day extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing
and serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a
declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet
and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet
and confer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  
 
Here, the Defendant’s counsel’s declaration provides
sufficient facts to demonstrate satisfaction of the meet and confer
requirement. As indicated in Bowen’s declaration, Bowen spoke with opposing
counsel as to the apparent defects in the FAC, but the parties came to an
impasse. 
 
Legal Standard
Demurrer – Sufficiency
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) The court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law ….” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)   
 
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts.  (Doe
v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required
of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that his complaint set forth the
essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with sufficient
particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and extent of
his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26
Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)   
 
On demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to
“determine whether or not the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a
cause of action under any legal theory.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.) Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “Generally it is an abuse of discretion to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.” (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) 
 
Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f),
is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that
defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what¿counts¿or claims are directed
against him/her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.¿(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.)¿ Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
 
Discussion
All Causes of Action – Failure to Exhaust Contractual
Remedies Prior to Filing Suit
Defendant demurs generally to each of Plaintiff’s causes of
action on the basis that Plaintiff failed to exhaust mandatory contractual
remedies that are a condition precedent to filing the instant lawsuit.
Plaintiff contends that, based on California law, failure to exhaust
administrative and contractual remedies is proper basis to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend because there is no reasonable probability that a
Plaintiff who has not exhausted such remedies can be shown to have done so to
cure such jurisdictional defects. (See Edgren v. Regents of Univ of Cal.
(1984) 158 Cal.App.3d 515, 523; Carman v. Alvord (1982) 31 Cal.3d 318,
324.)
 
The basis for Defendant’s argument is Paragraph 35(A) of the
Lease Agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant, which is attached to the FAC
as Exhibit A, at page 8. This paragraph states, in full:
 
Consistent with paragraphs B and C
below, Landlord and Tenant agree to mediate any dispute or claim arising
between them out of this Agreement, or any resulting transaction, before
resorting to court action. Mediation fees, if any, shall be divided equally
among the parties involved. If, for any dispute or claim to which this
paragraph applies, any party commences an action without first attempting to
resolve the matter through mediation, or refuses to mediate after a request has
been made, then that party shall not be entitled to recover attorney fees, even
if they would otherwise be available to that party in any such action.
(Ibid.)
 
Defendant claims that the plain meaning of this contractual
provision obligated Plaintiff to mediate all claims prior to initiating this
lawsuit, and, thus, mediation is a condition precedent prior to filing an
unlimited civil action per the terms of the Lease. On the other hand, Plaintiff
claims that the clear and unambiguous language of this contractual provision
does not prevent Plaintiff from filing this lawsuit, but merely prevents him
from being able to collect attorney’s fees in the action.
 
Here, the Court finds that the clear and unambiguous
language of this contractual provision does not create a condition precedent
that prohibits Plaintiff from filing this lawsuit prior to seeking mediation.
In general, conditions precedent are disfavored. Courts “shall not construe a
term of a contract so as to establish a condition precedent absent plain and
unambiguous contract language to that effect.” (Frankel v. Board of Dental
Examiners (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 535, 550.) The plain meaning of this paragraph,
read in its entirety, does require mediation, but only offers forfeiture of
attorney’s fees as a remedy for violation of this requirement. Defendant’s
interpretation of the contractual language simply ignores the final sentence of
the paragraph.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC is OVERRULED on
this basis.
 
First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract
Defendant demurs generally and specially to Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for breach of contract.
 
To state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff
must allege “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51
Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
In his initial moving papers, Defendant does not provide any
arguments against this cause of action other than its general assertion that
Plaintiff’s lawsuit is barred by failure to exhaust contractual remedies, as
discussed above. However, in Reply, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff cannot
credibly allege performance or excuse for nonperformance because the judicially
noticeable findings of fact in the most recent prior action, 23PDUD02994 show
that Plaintiff breached the warranty of habitability by failing to maintain the
subject property in code compliant conditions. (See Green v. Superior Court
(1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 619, citing Hinson v. Delis (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d
62 (“[A] warranty of habitability is implied by law in residential leases in
California.”)) However, Defendant improperly failed to raise this argument in
its original moving papers, particularly given that Defendant knew of the
circumstances giving rise to this argument prior to filing the Demurrer. (See
Maleti v. Wickers (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 181, 227-228 (general prohibition
against new evidence in reply also applies to presenting new arguments in reply
when the factual circumstances giving rise to the argument were known to the
attorney prior to filing the motion) (internal citations omitted).) 
 
In his opposition, Plaintiff merely states that the
essential elements for breach of contract are properly alleged in the
complaint. The factual allegations, taken as true, indicate that, on February
23, 2020, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a lease agreement regarding the
residential property located at 631 Caleb Street, Glendale CA 91202. (FAC, ¶¶
1-3, 9, 18; Exh. A.) Further, in satisfaction of Plaintiff’s required
performance, Defendant took possession of the property in March of 2020 and has
been residing at the unit since, and Plaintiff has made repairs to the unit
demanded by Defendant as required by the contract. (Id., ¶¶ 12, 14, 21,
23, 26.) However, Defendant breached the terms of the Lease by failing to pay
the required security deposit of $5,000 and failing to pay any of the required
rent, despite maintaining possession of the unit. (Id., ¶¶ 13-14, 22-23,
27.) Accordingly, Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s breach has caused rental
damages in the total sum of $215,000, which may possibly be decreased by
COVID-19 Rental Assistance to a total of $60,400. (Id., ¶¶ 15-16, 24-25,
27.) These allegations are sufficient to establish a valid cause of action for breach
of contract.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first cause
of action for breach of contract is OVERRULED.
 
Second Cause of Action – Ejectment
Defendant demurs generally and specially to Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for ejectment.
 
“The essential elements of an ejectment action are (1) the
plaintiff’s valid interest in the property and (2) the defendant’s wrongful
possession and withholding thereof. (Payne & Dewey v. Treadwell
(1860) 16 Cal. 221, 243; Baugh v. Consumers Associates, Ltd. (1966) [241
Cal.App.2d 672, 675], superseded by statute on other grounds as noted in WDT-Winchester
v. Nilsson (1994) [27 Cal.App.4th 516, 526].)” (2710 Sutter Ventures,
LLC v. Millis (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 842, 866.) Thus, an ejectment action
“is the proper remedy of the true owner for recovery of possession and the
value of the use and occupation of the land during unlawful holding.” (Paap
v. Von Helmholt (1960) 185 Cal.App.2d 823, 829.)
 
An ejectment action thus requires the plaintiff to prove an
ouster by defendant, or defendant’s unlawful holding despite plaintiff’s
present right to possession. To prove the defendant’s unlawful holding or
wrongful possession based on failure to pay rent, case law and statutory law
require a plaintiff landlord to provide notice to such defendant tenant of the
demanded rent in arrears. (See Cal. Civ. Code § 1946.2
(“[n]otwithstanding any other law, after a tenant has continuously and lawfully
occupied a residential property for 12 months, the owner of the residential
property shall not terminate the tenancy without just cause, which shall be
stated in the written notice to terminate tenancy”); Sauer v. Meyer
(1890) 87 Cal. 34, 37; 2710 Sutter Ventures, LLC, supra, 82 Cal.App.5th
at p. 866 (“plaintiffs do not explain how they could maintain an action
ejectment when the defendants are not in ‘wrongful possession’ of plaintiffs’
property due to plaintiffs’ failure to satisfy the notice requirement of
section 37.9, subdivision (e)(4) [of the San Francisco Administrative Code
(Rent Ordinance)]”).)
 
Here, Defendant cites to the record of judicially noticed
cases demonstrating, in the prior UD between Plaintiff and Defendant regarding
the subject property, Plaintiff has repeatedly been found to be out of
compliance with the written notice requirement. (RJN, Exhs. I, J, K, Q.) In
reviewing these judicially noticeable facts, the Court notes that it may only
take judicial notice of matters that are indisputably true, such as the prior
court’s orders and judgments. (Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont Gen. Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113; Cf. Richtek USA, Inc. v. uPI Semiconductor Corp
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 651, 659-660 (trial court properly took judicial notice
of Taiwanese complaints but should not have used them to resolve factual
dispute regarding whether the action was time-barred).)
 
Defendant further requests that the demurrer should be
sustained with leave to amend given that Plaintiff’s claim is expressly barred
as a matter of public policy and void on its face based on numerous laws that
require the notice and demand to Plaintiff, and the fact that Plaintiff refuses
to provide a just cause termination notice despite the fact that numerous
written opinions by the Court have found that the subject property is subject
to the Tenant Protection Act of 2019, and therefore, a justice cause
termination notice is required. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1946.2(a);
Glendale Mun. Code §§ 9.30.30, 9.30.31; RJN ¶ 10, Exh. I ; RJN ¶ 8, Exh.
G; RJN ¶ 11, Exh. J; RJN ¶ 12, Exh. K.)
 
Plaintiff incorrectly asserts that he need not prove
compliance with the written notice requirement as the only thing required by
the Tenant Protection Act of 2019 (Cal. Civ. Code § 1946.2)—to the contrary, as
discussed above, the Tenant Protection Act requires “just cause, which
shall be stated in the written notice to terminate tenancy.” (Id.
at § 1946.2(a).)
 
Plaintiff also incorrectly that Defendant’s demurrer
attempts to reclassify Plaintiff’s action as an Unlawful Detainer action. This
is incorrect, rather, Defendant’s action merely correctly points out that these
laws treat any actions for possession similarly, whether or not it is an
unlawful detainer action or an ejectment action for forfeiture. (See
Glendale Mun. Code § 9.30.20; CCP § 1946.2(a).)
 
Accordingly, based on Plaintiff’s failure to establish
wrongful possession, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action
for ejectment is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of Action – Fraud in the Inducement
“The elements of fraud,” including a cause of action for
fraudulent inducement, “are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”
(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) Said
differently, a fraudulent inducement claim must allege a fraudulent
representation that is made to induce a contract, and which is not an intended
part of the contract. (See A. A. Baxter Corp v. Colt Industries, Inc.
(1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 144, 153-154.)
 
The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged
factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of
“liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645; see also Scott v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 766 (“[A]llegations of the
second amended complaint are insufficient to state a claim for fraud in the
inducement. Fraud must be pleaded with specificity …. [Plaintiff] has pleaded
in generalities, without identifying the specific persons who made the
misrepresentations, the precise statements made, or the dates on which they
were made.”))
 
Defendant demurs generally to
Plaintiff’s third cause of action for fraudulent inducement on the grounds that
facts alleged on the face of the complaint, and facts that are judicially
noticeable, demonstrate that the claim is barred by the statute of limitations.
Because a general demurrer lies where the complaint, or facts judicially
noticeable, are insufficient to state a cause of action, a general demurrer may
lie where the dates alleged show the cause of action is barred by the statute
of limitations. (See Saliter v. Pierce Bros. Mortuaries (1978) 81
Cal.App.3d 292, 300; Iverson, Yoakum, Papiano & Hatch v. Berwald
(1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 990, 995; Vaca v. Wachovia Mortg. Corp. (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 737, 746.)
 
California’s
statute of limitations for fraud claims based on fraud is three years. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 338 (d).) “The cause of action in that case is not deemed to have
accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting
the fraud or mistake.” (Ibid.) Under the discovery rule, the time that a
cause of action accrues is postponed “until the plaintiff discovers, or has
reason to discover, the cause of action. [Citations.]” (Norgart v. Upjohn
Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 397 (internal citations omitted).) Further, a
plaintiff “has reason to discover the cause of action when he has reason at
least to suspect a factual basis for its elements. [Citation.] He has reason to
suspect when he has notice or information of circumstances on inquiry
[citation][.]” (Ibid (internal citations omitted) (cleaned up).)
 
Here, the
facts judicially noticeable from the exhibits presented by Defendant
demonstrate that Plaintiff’s fraudulent inducement cause of action is
time-barred. Plaintiff filed an unlawful detainer action against Defendant on
June 10, 2020. (RJN, Exh. A.) This case, where Plaintiff attempted to file an
eviction based on Defendant’s purported failure to perform his lease
obligations, put Plaintiff on notice for the factual basis of this fraudulent
inducement claim. Accordingly, the deadline to file a fraudulent inducement
claim on these facts would have been June 10, 2023.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for fraudulent
inducement is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON MOTION TO STRIKE]
 
Moving
Party: Defendant Jaydon Douglas Paull
Responding
Party: Plaintiff Hryar Brian der Vartanian
 
Proof of service timely
filed (CRC 3.1300(c)): ok 
Correct Address (CCP §§
1013, 1013(a)): ok
16/+5 day lapse (CCP
§1005): ok (NO REPLY FILED)
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
Defendant Jaydon Douglas Paull (Defendant) moves the Court
for an order sustaining his motion to strike portions of Plaintiff Hryar Brian
der Vartanian’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
This motion is made on the ground that the FAC contains
matter that is irrelevant, false, improper, and/or not drown in conformity with
the laws of California. Specifically, Defendants move to strike the following
portions of the FAC:

FAC page 5, lines 13 to
     15: within paragraph 23, the sentence, “It appears that Defendant entered
     into this lease and took possession of the unit with no intent of ever
     paying any rent.”
FAC page 6: paragraph 28,
     in its entirety.
FAC page 7: paragraph 35,
     in its entirety.
FAC page 7: paragraph 36,
     in its entirety.
FAC page 7: paragraph 38,
     in its entirety.
FAC page 8: paragraph 40,
     in its entirety.
FAC page 8, lines 11 to
     12: within paragraph 42, the portion that states, “Defendant’s promises
     contained in the Lease Agreement were made with the intent to defraud and
     induce Plaintiff to rely upon those promises.”
FAC page 8: paragraph 44,
     in its entirety.
FAC page 8: paragraph 46,
     in its entirety.
FAC page 8: paragraph 47,
     in its entirety.
Item 3 in Plaintiff’s
     prayer for relief.
Item 5 in Plaintiff’s
     prayer for relief.

 
BACKGROUND:
On 02/29/2024, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant
and Does 1 through 20, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of
contract, (2) negligence, and (3) waste.
 
On 08/01/2024, Plaintiff filed a Substitution of Attorney,
indicating that he was substituting his then-counsel of record, Gary P.
Simonian, for his new counsel, Lisa F. Rosenthal.
 
On 08/05/2024, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint
(FAC), alleging new causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) ejectment,
and (3) fraud in inducement.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:
Defendant’s motion to strike portions of the FAC regarding
fraud in the inducement (FAC ¶¶ 38, 40, 42, 44, 46, 47) are DENIED as moot.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike portions of the FAC regarding
punitive damages (FAC ¶¶ 23, 28; Prayer for Relief, Item 5) is GRANTED.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike portion of the FAC regarding
ejectment (FAC ¶¶ 35; 36; Prayer for Relief, Item 3) is DENIED.
 
ANALYSIS:
Request for Judicial Notice
Pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code section 452(d)(1), Defendant
requests judicial notice of nineteen (19) different court records from five (5)
prior cases involving Plaintiff and Defendant, including four different UD
actions and one prior unlimited civil action, with the following case numbers:
20PDUD00997, 20PDUD01310, 22GDCV00082, 22PDUD01479, and 23PDUD02994. 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice
Nos. 1-19.
 
Meet and Confer
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person
or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties shall meet and confer at
least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties
are not able to meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the
responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic
30-day extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing
and serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a
declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet
and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet
and confer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  
 
Here, the Defendant’s counsel’s declaration provides
sufficient facts to demonstrate satisfaction of the meet and confer
requirement. As indicated in Bowen’s declaration, Bowen spoke with opposing
counsel as to the apparent defects in the FAC, but the parties came to an
impasse. 
 
Legal Standard
The court
may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) A motion to
strike cannot be based upon the grounds that a complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, but instead is properly based on
grounds of superfluous or abusive allegations, or improprieties in form or
procedure.¿(Ferraro v.¿Camarlinghi¿(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528-29.)
 
The grounds
for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of
judicial notice.¿(Code. Civ. Proc. § 437;¿Turman v. Turning Point of Central
California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read allegations of
a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their
context, and assume their truth”].)¿¿¿ 
 
Further, CCP
§431.10(a)-(c) states as follows: 
(a)¿A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense. 
(b)¿An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the
following: 
(1)¿An allegation that is not
essential to the statement of a claim or defense. 
(2)¿An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense. 
(3)¿A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported
by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint. 
(c)¿An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter”
as that term is used in Section 436. 
(Ibid.)
 
Discussion
Motion
to Strike Portions of the FAC Regarding the Third Cause of Action – Fraud in
the Inducement
Defendant’s motion
includes several requests to strike portions of the FAC that specifically allege
the third cause of action for fraud in the inducement. Defendant’s requests
include paragraphs 38, 40, 44, 46, and 47 in their entirety, and the
portion of paragraph 42 that states, “Defendant’s promises contained in the
Lease Agreement were made with the intent to defraud and induce Plaintiff to
rely upon those promises.” This request is moot, however, given that the Court
has sustained Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action without leave to
amend.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to strike portions of the FAC alleging the third cause of action – fraud
in the inducement is DENIED as moot.
 
Motion
to Strike Portions of the FAC Regarding Punitive Damages
Defendant’s
motion also includes several requests to strike portions of the FAC that
specifically allege Plaintiff’s entitlement for punitive damages. Defendant’s
requests include paragraph 28 and item 5 of the Prayer for Relief in their
entirety, and the portion of paragraph 23 that states, “[i]t appears that
Defendants entered into this lease and took possession of the unit with no
intent of ever paying any rent.” 
 
Given that
the Court has sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the fraud cause of action
without leave to amend, the only cause of action Plaintiff has pled that would
entitle him to recover punitive damages, Defendant’s alleging Plaintiff’s
entitlement to recover punitive damages is GRANTED.
 
Motion
to Strike Portions of the FAC Regarding the Second Cause of Action – Ejectment
Defendant’s
motion also includes several requests to strike portions of the FAC that
specifically allege the second cause of action for ejectment and Plaintiff’s
entitlement to seek Defendant’s forfeiture of the subject property. These
requests include paragraphs 35 and 36 in their entirety, and item 3 of the
prayer for relief. This request is moot, however, given that the Court
has sustained Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action without leave to
amend.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
strike portions of the FAC alleging the second cause of action – ejectment is
DENIED as moot.
 
 
 
  
Hearing Date: December
20, 2024
Case No: 24GDCV00378                                                                                           
Trial Date: None set.
Case Name: Hryar Brian der Vartanian v. Jaydon
Douglas Paull.
 
[WRIT OF ATTACHMENT]
 
Moving
Party: Plaintiff Hryar Brian der Vartanian      
Responding
Party: Defendant Jaydon Douglas Paull
 
Proof of service timely
filed (CRC 3.1300(c)): ok 
Correct Address (CCP §§
1013, 1013(a)): ok 
16/+5 day lapse (CCP
§1005): ok (opposition timely filed per CCP § 484.060)
 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
Plaintiff Hryar Brian der Vartanian (Plaintiff) moves the
court for an order granting his application for writ of attachment against
Defendant.
 
Plaintiff seeks attachment of a $30,450.00 judgment ordered
against Plaintiff in favor of Defendant in a prior unlawful detainer case involving
both parties with case number 23PDUD02944 on the following grounds:
 

Plaintiff and Defendant
     entered into a Lease Agreement on February 23, 2020, whereby Defendant
     would take possession of the residential property located at 631 Caleb
     Street, Glendale CA 91202 (Subject Property) for an initial term of one
     year, with an optional addendum of two years. In return for taking
     possession, Defendant would pay a rental amount of $5,000.00/month for the
     first year, which would increase to $5,350.00/month for the first year of
     the lease addendum, and $5,700.00/month for the final year of the lease
     addendum. However, Plaintiff contends that since Defendant took possession
     the Subject Property in March 2020, he has not paid any rent and refused
     to pay the security deposit.

 
BACKGROUND:
On 02/29/2024, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant
and Does 1 through 20, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of
contract, (2) negligence, and (3) waste.
 
On 08/01/2024, Plaintiff filed a Substitution of Attorney,
indicating that he was substituting his then-counsel of record, Gary P.
Simonian, for his new counsel, Lisa F. Rosenthal.
 
On 08/05/2024, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint
(FAC), alleging new causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) ejectment,
and (3) fraud in inducement.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:
Plaintiff’s motion for an order granting his application for
a writ of attachment is DENIED.
 
ANALYSIS:
Legal Standard
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter,
the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for a right to attach order
and a writ of attachment by filing an application for the order and writ with
the court in which the action is brought.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 484.010.)
 
The application shall be executed under oath and must
include: 

a
     statement showing that the attachment is sought to secure the recovery on
     a claim upon which an attachment may be issued; 


a
     statement of the amount to be secured by the attachment; 


a
     statement that the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the
     recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based; 


a
     statement that the applicant has no information or belief that the claim
     is discharged or that the prosecution of the action is stayed in a
     proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. section 101 et seq.);
     and  


a
     description of the property to be attached under the writ of attachment
     and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and believes that such
     property is subject to attachment. 

(Code Civ. Proc. § 484.020.)
 
“The application [for a writ of attachment] shall be supported
by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be
entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is based.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 484.030.) Statutory attachment procedures are purely creations of the
legislature and as such “are subject to ‘strict construction.’” (Hobbs v.
Weiss (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 76, 79 [citing Vershbow v. Reiner (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 879, 882]; see also Nakasone v. Randall (1982) 129
Cal.App.3d 757, 761.) A judge does not have authority to order any attachment
that is not provided for by the attachment statutes. (Jordan-Lyon
Productions, Ltd. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459,
1466.) 
 
“The declarations in the moving papers must contain
evidentiary facts, stated ‘with particularity,’ and based on actual personal
knowledge with all documentary evidence properly identified and authenticated.”
(Hobbs, supra, 73 Cal.App.4th at 79–80 [citing CCP § 482.040].)
“In contested applications, the court must consider the relative merits of the
positions of the respective parties and make a determination of¿the probable
outcome of the litigation.”  (Id. at 80 [ellipses and quotation
marks omitted].) “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than
not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that
claim.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 481.190.)
 
The Court shall issue a right to attach order if the Court
finds all of the following: 

The
     claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment
     may be issued. 


The
     plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon which
     the attachment is based. 


The
     attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the
     claim upon which the attachment is based. 


The
     amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero. 

(CCP § 484.090(a).)   
 
A claim of exemption must describe the property to be
exempted and specify the statute section supporting the claim. (CCP §
484.070(c).) The plaintiff has the burden of opposing the defendant’s claim of
exemption, and if the plaintiff fails to oppose a claim of exemption, “no right
to attach order or writ of attachment shall be issued as to the property
claimed to be exempted.” (CCP § 484.070(f).) 
 
Discussion
Timeliness of Defendant’s Opposition
Defendant’s opposition was filed on December 12, 2024. 
 
Earlier on December 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of
Non-Opposition to Motion for Writ of Attachment indicating that Defendant’s
opposition was due on or before December 6, 2024. And on December 16, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Notice – Plaintiff’s Request to Strike Late Opposition to
Motion for Prejudgment Writ of Attachment (Request to Strike). Plaintiff’s
request contended that Defendant’s opposition was untimely solely on the
following grounds: 
 
CCP § 1005 states that all
oppositions to motions be [sic] filed within 9 court days before
the hearing of the motion. CCP § 1005(b). Pursuant to this code section,
Defendant’s opposition to this motion should have been filed on or before
December 6, 2024. The opposition was filed on December 12, 2024, 6 days late.
Therefore, the opposition is untimely and should be stricken and not considered
by this Court.
 
(Request to Strike, p. 4:23-5:2.)
 
However, as Defendant correctly notes in his response to
Plaintiff’s Request to Strike, the filing deadline imposed by CCP § 1005(b)
does not apply for oppositions to applications for writs of attachment. Instead,
CCP § 484.060(a) applies, which provides that a defendant who desires to oppose
an application for a writ of attachment “shall file and serve upon the
plaintiff no later than five court days prior to the date set for
the hearing a notice of opposition.” (Id. (emphasis added).) Language
precisely to this effect is contained in the Notice of Application and Hearing
for Right to Attach Order, which was signed by Plaintiff’s counsel, Lisa
Rosenthal, and filed with this court on October 23, 2024. In fact, there was a
box contained in the notice directly beside this language that was apparently
checked by Plaintiff’s counsel. (Notice of Application, p. 1, ¶ 6(b).)
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant’s opposition to
Plaintiff’s application for an order granting its writ of attachment is timely,
and denies Plaintiff’s request to strike.
 
Probable Validity of Plaintiff’s Claims
Plaintiff applies for writ of attachment against Defendant
based on a breach of contract in the form of a rental Lease Agreement.
 
The standard elements for a breach of contract claim are “(1)
the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,
821.)
 
Plaintiff has not filed any declarations or affidavits in
support of its application for a writ of attachment attesting to the facts
alleged. However, based on the facts alleged in the FAC, the supporting
documentary evidence attached to Plaintiff’s application, and the contentions
contained in Plaintiff’s moving papers, the facts supposedly giving rise to
Plaintiff’s right to attach the subject property are as follows:
 

February 23, 2020,
     Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a lease agreement regarding the
     residential property located at 631 Caleb Street, Glendale CA 91202. (FAC,
     ¶¶ 1-3, 9, 18; Exh. A.) The lease agreement provided Defendant would take
     possession of the residential property located at 631 Caleb Street,
     Glendale CA 91202 (Subject Property) for an initial term of one year, with
     an optional addendum of two years, starting on March 15, 2020. (Id.
     ¶¶ 9-10, 18-19; Exh. A.) In return for taking possession, Defendant would
     pay a rental amount of $5,000.00/month for the first year, which would
     increase to $5,350.00/month for the first year of the lease addendum, and
     $5,700.00/month for the final year of the lease addendum. (Id. ¶¶
     11, 20; Exh. A.) Defendant was also required to pay a security deposit of
     $5,000.00. (Id. ¶¶ 13, 22; Exh. A.)
Defendant took possession
     of the property in March of 2020 and has been residing at the unit since.
     (FAC, ¶¶ 12, 21.) Plaintiff also alleges that he has made all repairs to
     the unit demanded by Defendant as required by the contract. (FAC ¶ 26.) 
Defendant breached the
     terms of the Lease by failing to pay the required security deposit of
     $5,000 and failing to pay any of the required rent, despite maintaining
     possession of the unit. (Id., ¶¶ 13-14, 22-23, 27.) 
Accordingly, Plaintiff
     alleges Defendant’s breach has caused rental damages in the total sum of
     $215,000, which may possibly be decreased by COVID-19 Rental Assistance to
     a total of $60,400. (Id., ¶¶ 15-16, 24-25, 27.)

 
Based on these allegations, Plaintiff contends that he is
entitled to seek attachment of a judgment, entered in Defendant’s favor, for
$30,450.00 in an unlawful detainer case with case number 23PDUD02944. (Exh. B.)
Plaintiff contends that Defendant apparently concedes that he owes Plaintiff
rental damages and, because he applied for and received a waiver of court fees,
would not have the financial resources to pay a monetary award to Plaintiff.
Therefore, Plaintiff contends that he may properly seek to attach this judgment
as security for rental damages owed based on the breach of contract claim.
 
In opposition, Defendant notes that Plaintiff’s breach-of-contract
claim does not have a valid breach-of-contract claim because the facts in this
case demonstrate that Plaintiff did not perform, and did not have a valid
excuse for nonperformance, under the express terms of the lease agreement.
Defendant’s declaration and the documentary evidence supplied demonstrate that
the Subject property has been in a severely dilapidated and hazardous condition
since he moved in on March 15, 2020. 
 
Further, Defendant placed Plaintiff on notice of such dangerous
conditions through detailed communications with Plaintiff and the real estate
broker who helped close the deal. (Paull Decl., ¶¶ 8-74, Exhs. A-G.) Defendant also
states that Plaintiff has been notified of and cited for such dangerous
conditions numerous times by various government agencies, including in the time
when Plaintiff owned the subject property prior to Defendant moving in. (Id.,
¶¶ 62, 70-71, 73-74.)  Rather than
address these dangerous living conditions, Plaintiff filed six different
lawsuits attempting to evict Defendant, including the very case Plaintiff seeks
to attach the money judgment from. This money judgment was entered as sanctions
against Plaintiff for filing a frivolous lawsuit where the Judge found the only
conceivable purpose could be to harass Defendant.
 
Additionally, Defendant states that, even if Plaintiff was
found to have performed, Defendant still managed to secure rental assistance
totaling $155,000, which was actually received and cashed by Plaintiff, which
would cover nearly all of Defendant’s rent obligation under the Lease. (Paull
Decl., ¶¶ 84-93, Exhs. G-I.) Further, Defendant contends that this rental
assistance may have, in fact, overcompensated Plaintiff because of the
substandard conditions of the Subject Property. (See Green v. Superior Court
(1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 635-637 (tenant’s obligation to pay rent is mutually dependent
on landlord’s warranty of habitability; breach of warranty of habitability may
justify defendant’s nonpayment in rent or justify a reduction in rental damages
owed); Cazares v. Ortiz 109 Cal.App.3d Supp. 23, 29.)
 
The facts shown in Defendant’s declaration make it more
likely than not that Plaintiff’s breach-of-contract claim would not be
successful. The facts demonstrate a lack of performance by Plaintiff and calls
into question the veracity of Plaintiff’s claim for rental damages. Further, as
addressed above, Plaintiff failed to provide an affidavit stating the facts
upon which its application is based, in the first instance, which would allow
Plaintiff to contest Defendant’s declaration of the facts.
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not
presented sufficient facts to establish the probable validity of its breach of
contract claim.
 
Basis of Attachment
The Court shall only issue a right to attach order if the
claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be
issued. (Code Civ. Proc. § 484.090.) “[A]n attachment may be issued only
in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a
contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is
a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars
($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
483.010(a).) “If the action is against a defendant who is a natural person, an
attachment may be issued only on a claim which arises out of the conduct by the
defendant of a trade, business, or profession.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
483.010(c).) 
 
Here, the breach-of-contract claim upon which Plaintiff’s
application for a writ of attachment is based is not one upon which an
attachment may be issued. (Code Civ. Proc. § 484.090.) Defendant is a natural
person; however the breach-of-contract claim relates to a residential lease
agreement (FAC, ¶ 1 (“the parties entered into a residential lease agreement”);
Exh. A), not “the conduct by the defendant of a trade, business,
or profession.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 483.010(c).)
 
In its reply papers, Plaintiff contends that “[t]he claim in
this case is a clear claim based upon a business. Plaintiff is in the business
of leasing his home to Defendant.” (Reply, p. 5:7-9.) Plaintiff cites no legal
authority for his assertion. Even if there was any authority for his position,
however, his argument entirely misses the mark given that CCP § 483.010(c) is
concerned with Defendant’s conduct, not Plaintiff’s. 
 
In fact, it seems that Plaintiff was aware of this
distinction but proceeded with the motion in any event. In Plaintiff’s
Application for – Right to Attach Order, Temporary Protective Order
(Application), Plaintiff’s counsel did not check either box in paragraph 6
indicating the basis for Plaintiff’s application. If Plaintiff’s had
appropriately read this section, she would have seen the language “The claim or
claims are not based on the sale or lease of property … where …
the foregoing was used by the defendant primarily for personal, family, or
household purposes.” (Application, ¶ 6(a).)
 
Accordingly, the court finds that Plaintiff’s claim is not
one upon which an attachment may be issued.
 
Purpose for Seeking Attachment
Based on the findings above, including Plaintiff’s meritless
attempt to strike Defendant’s timely opposition, as well as Plaintiff’s
application for a writ of attachment based on a claim for which attachment is
expressly prohibited, it is apparent that Plaintiff is not seeking
attachment for solely for recovery on his breach-of-contract claim. Rather, it
seems that Plaintiff is seeking attachment for the purpose of harassing
Defendant by filing unmeritorious claims.
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff is seeking attachment
for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is
based.
 
In all, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for an order
granting his application for a writ of attachment.
 