 Case Number:  21STCV06600    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel the Deposition of Person Most
Knowledgeable at Erin McKenna’s Bakery filed by Defendants Conair Corporation
and Conair LLC.
 
Tentative
 
The motion to compel is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Background
Plaintiff
Mariam Arutyunyan (“Plaintiff”) alleges that, on or about March 9, 2019, she
suffered injuries when she was using an electric mixer, blender, hand mixer, or
other similar device that was negligently sold, marketed, distributed,
designed, manufactured, assembled, installed, repaired, and/or inspected by
Defendants Conair Corporation, Waring Commercial, and Does 1 to 20.
 
On
February 18, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Conair
Corporation,
Waring
Commercial, and Does 1 to 20 for (1) general negligence, and (2) product
liability –
strict
liability, negligence, breach of warranty.
 
On
August 31, 2023, Norguard Insurance Company filed a Complaint-In-Intervention
against
Conair
Corporation, Waring Commerical, and Does 1-20 for general negligence and
product liability, seeking damages for reimbursement of workers’ compensation
benefits paid to Plaintiff arising out of injuries sustained in the subject
accident. 

On
November 4, 2021, Conair Corporation filed its Answer to the Complaint.
 
On January
20, 2022, Plaintiff amended the Complaint to name Conair LLC and Conair LLC of
CA as Does 1 and 2.
 
On March
9, 2022, Conair LLC filed its Answer to the Complaint.
 
On
December 20, 2022, Conair Corporation filed its Answer to the
Complaint-In-Intervention.
 
On
January 2, 2024, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff, dismissed all claims in
the Complaint against Waring Commercial, Conair Corporation, and Conair LLC of
CA.
 
In the
interim, Defendant Conair LLC noticed a deposition
of non-party Eric McKenna’s Bakery (“EMB”) and served EMB with a deposition
subpoena.  EMB did not appear.  
 
On November
13, 2023, Defendants Conair Corporation and Conair LLC (“Defendants”) filed this
Motion to Compel Deposition of the Person Most Knowledge at EMB.
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil
Procedure § 2025.450(a) provides: 
“If, after
service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director,
managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” 
 The motion shall “(1) set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice” and “(2) be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2).) 
“Any party
served with a deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing
with Section 2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party
promptly serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity at
least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is
scheduled, on the party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney
or party on whom the deposition notice was served.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.410(a).)
“A meet and
confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
A court shall
impose monetary sanctions in favor of the moving party if the motion to compel
is granted, unless “the one subject to sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(g)(1).)
Discussion
On
August 4, 2023, Defendants served EMB with Notice of Deposition and non-party
subpoena for September 14, 2023. (Barbara Decl., ¶4.) On September 14, 2023, no
one from EMB showed for the deposition and a non-appearance was taken. (Id.,
¶ 14.) 
 
There
has been no opposition filed to this motion.
 
It appears
that EMB was properly served Notice of the Deposition and has failed to proceed
with the deposition.  
 
There is
no evidence in the record, however, that EMB was personally served (or
consented to a different form of service) with this motion to compel.  Personal service of both the deposition subpoena
and the motion to compel is required.  (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel is DENIED without prejudice for lack of sufficient
service.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
DENIES Defendants’ motion to compel without prejudice.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.
 
 