 Case Number:  22STCV35531    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Quash or Modify Subpoena filed by Plaintiff Hengameh
Hakaeian.
 
Tentative
The motion to quash is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND 
 
On November 9,
2022, Plaintiff Hengameh Hakaeian (“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint against
Defendants ACCO Engineered Systems, Inc, Jon Eric Sohegian (collectively,
“Defendants”), and Does 1 through 20 for the causes of action of Motor Vehicle
Negligence and General Negligence.
 
On November 20,
2023, Plaintiff filed the motion to quash the subpoena issued by Defendants and
directed to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (three departments), William M. Chow,
M.D., Kamran Hakimian, M.D., and Anthem Blue Cross. 
 
No opposition has
been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure § 1987.1(a) states:  
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.  
 
“The state
Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of privacy. (Cal. Const.,
art. I, § 1.) Protecstion of informational privacy is the provision's central
concern. [Citation omitted.] In Hill, [the California Supreme Court]
established a framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. [Citation omitted.]
The party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and
important countervailing interests disclosure
serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives
that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the
loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.
[citation omitted].” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
533 (citing Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th
1, 35.)  
 
“[Prior] cases
correctly recognize that when a discovery request seeks information implicating
the constitutional right of privacy, to order discovery simply upon a showing
that the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test for relevance has been
met is an abuse of discretion. [Citation omitted.] But they also stand for the
proposition that whenever discovery of facially private information is sought,
the party seeking discovery must demonstrate a “‘compelling state
interest’” [citation omitted] or “compelling need” [citation omitted]. Although
in this they are not alone [citation omitted], they nevertheless are
incorrect.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556.) “To the extent prior
cases require a party seeking discovery of private information to always
establish a compelling interest or compelling need, without regard to the other
considerations articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.,
[citation omitted], they are disapproved.” (Id. at 557.) 
 
“Only obvious
invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a
compelling interest.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556.) When lesser
interests are at stake, “the strength of the countervailing interest sufficient
to warrant disclosure of private information var[is] according to
the strength of the privacy interest itself, the seriousness of the invasion,
and the availability of alternatives and protective measures.” (Id.)
“The trial courts in exercising their discretion should keep in mind that the
Legislature has suggested that, where possible, the court should impose partial
limitations rather than outright denial of discovery.” (Id. at 559 [quotation
omitted].) 
 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas seek
documents that are overbroad seeking “any and all” medical and health insurance
records of Plaintiff and violate Plaintiff’s right to privacy. (Motion, 8:16-19.)
Plaintiff contends that Defendants “may have a right to some of the records
they wish produced, but Defendants’ subpoenas, as drafted, essentially seek[]
to obtain Plaintiff’s entire medical and insurance records” and lack
specificity as to the particular information Defendants need. (Id., 9:4-7.)
No opposition from Defendants have
been filed.
 
Here, in reviewing the subpoenas,
attached as Exhibits A through F, the Court finds the language overly broad as
to the scope of the information being requested.  Plaintiff has made a sufficient showing that
the requested production would invade Plaintiff’s protected privacy, and
Defendants have not shown a countervailing interests sufficient to support the
requested compelled production
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash the Subpoenas. 

 
This ruling is without prejudice as
to the issuance and/or enforcement of more narrowly drawn subpoenas.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
 
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash the Subpoenas.
 
The Court QUASHES the Subpoenas
issued in this matter on October 25, 2023, to Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center (Medical Records Department, Billing Department, and Radiology
Department), William M. Chow, M.D., Kamran Hakimian, M.D., and Anthem Blue
Cross.
 
Moving party to
give notice.
 
 