 Case Number:  20STCV43674    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Plaintiffs’ Responses to Form
Interrogatories (Set One) and Specially Prepared Interrogatories (Set One) filed
by Defendant Mrs. Gooch’s Natural Food Markets, Inc., dba Whole Foods Market.
 
Tentative
 
Defendant’s motion to compel is GRANTED.
 
Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Background
On November
13, 2020, Tricia Pride (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint relating to a slip and
fall incident from August 11, 2019, involving Defendant Whole Foods Market
California Inc., and DOES 1-50, for Negligence and Premise Liability.
 
On July 18, 2023,
Defendant Mrs. Gooch’s Natural Food Markets, Inc.,
dba Whole Foods Market (“Defendant”) propounded
Demand for Production (Set Three) on Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff did not respond to the discovery.
 
On October
9, 2023, Defendants filed the Motions to Compel Plaintiff’s
Responses to Demand for Production (Set Three).
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
A party
must respond to requests for production of documents within 30 days after
service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests
for production of documents are directed does not provide timely responses, the
requesting party may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial
responses, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., §
2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement
be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who fails to provide a
timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
When a party moves to compel initial
responses to requests for production, “the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the motion], unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(c).)
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery
Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines
“[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery
process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.020, subd. (a).)
“[P]roviding
untimely responses does not divest the trial court of its authority [to hear a
motion to compel responses].”  (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 407.)  Even if the untimely response “does not
contain objections [and] substantially resolve[s] the issues raised by a motion
to compel responses … the trial court retains the authority to hear the
motion.”  (Id. at pp. 408-409.)  This rule gives “an important
incentive for parties to respond to discovery in a timely fashion.”  (Id.
at p. 408.)  If “the propounding party [does not] take the motion off
calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions,” the trial court may
“deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in whole or in
part, and just impose sanctions.”  (Id. at p. 409.) “The court may
award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion
to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1348(a).)  
Discussion
On July 18, 2023,
Defendant propounded Demand for Production (Set Three) on Plaintiff.
(Bennett
Decl., ¶ 7.)  At the time of filing this
motion, Defendant had not received any response. (Id., ¶ 6.)
 
Defendant
need not show anything more.  Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Demand for Production (Set Three) is
GRANTED.
 
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.  Defendant’s notice of motion and motion do
not adequately identify the amount of sanctions sought or against whom (Plaintiff, counsel, or both) the
sanctions are sought.
 
Conclusion
 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Demand for Production
(Set Three).
The Court
ORDERS Plaintiff to serve code-compliant, verified, written responses to
Defendant’s Demand for Production (Set Three) within 21 days of notice of this
ruling
The Court DENIES Defendant’s request for sanctions.
Moving party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 