  Case Number:  22SMCV01167    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:               Gabriel Robles v. Alboorz,
LLC, et al.



Case No.:                    22SMCV01167


Complaint Filed:                   07-20-22




Hearing Date:            6-27-24


Discovery C/O:                     05-03-24




Calendar No.:            17


Discover Motion C/O:          05-18-24




POS:                           OK


Trial Date:                             None Set



SUBJECT:                  MOTION FOR TERMINATING
SANCTIONS AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS OR, ALTERNATIVELY, FOR LESSER SANCTIONS 
MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiff Gabriel Robles  
RESP.
PARTY:         Defendants Alboorz, LLC
(“Alboorz”), Mohammadreza Yazdi (“Yazdi”), and Tahereh Taheryazdy Yazdi 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Plaintiff
Gabriel Robles’ Motion for Terminating Sanctions and Monetary Sanctions or,
alternatively, for Lesser Sanctions is GRANTED IN PART. The Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s request for terminating sanctions. The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
request for issue sanctions establishing as to each
defendant that Alboorz LLC is the alter ego of Mohammadreza Yazdi for any
judgment entered in this action against either defendant. The Court GRANTS
IN PART Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions, and order Defendants to pay
$2,750.00 (5 hrs. @ $550/hr.) within 60 days of service of the signed
order.  P
 
REASONING
 
“A trial court may impose
sanctions, including terminating sanctions, for a party’s misuse of the
discovery process, which includes disobedience of a court order.” (Sole
Energy Co. v. Hodges (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207.) A misuse of the
discovery process includes “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).) A misuse of the
discovery process also includes disobeying a court order to provide discovery.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (g).) 
 
A terminating sanction may be
imposed by the court by one of the following orders: (1) an order striking out
the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of
the discovery process; (2) an order staying further proceedings by that party
until an order for discovery is obeyed; (3) an order dismissing the action, or
any part of the action, of that party; or (4) an order rending judgment by
default against that party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d)(1)-(4).) 
 
“The discovery statutes evince an
incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions
and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)
“Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not
exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to
but denied discovery.” (Ibid.)
“[C]ontinuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher
sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” Ibid. Where discovery violations are “willful, preceded by a history
of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce
compliance with discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the
ultimate sanction.” (Ibid.) A trial court has broad discretion
to impose discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to
the imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp.
(2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) Where discovery sanctions are requested
against a party, there must be a failure to comply with a court order and the
failure must be willful. (Ibid.)  
 
“A decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly.” (Creed-21
v. City of Wildomar (2017) 18
Cal.App.5th 690, 702.) A trial court’s order to impose terminating
sanctions will be reversed only if it “was arbitrary, capricious, or
whimsical.” (Ibid.)  “[W]here a violation is willful, preceded by
a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in
imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Ibid.)
Trial courts have properly imposed terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery
orders. (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390.) Terminating sanctions are
warranted when a party’s lack of compliance with the discovery process has
caused the opposing party prejudice. (Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 967,
989.)
 
As an alternative to terminating
sanctions, “[t]he court may impose an issue sanction ordering that designated
facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance with the claim
of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process. The
court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing
designated claims or defenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).) “The
court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting an party engaging
in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated matters in
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c).) 
 
California Code of Civil
Procedure, Section 2023.030 provides that “[t]he court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.” A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary
sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc.
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)
 
I.               
Terminating Sanctions
 
The 10-30-23 stipulation agreed to
at the IDC and entered into the minutes is a court order. Defendants’ counsel
orally stipulated to serve supplemental responses on behalf of each defendant
to set one of Plaintiff’s inspection demand by December 15, 2023, and the
depositions of Defendant Yazdi individually and as a PMK for Defendant Alboorz
was to commence on 1-15-24. (10/30/23 Minute Order and 11/02/23 Minute Order.)
Such stipulation is binding on the parties as it was made by Defendants’
counsel. (See Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
262, 279 [“A stipulation in proper form is binding upon the parties if it is
within the authority of the attorneys.”).] Thus, by stipulating at the IDC,
Defendants are bound by such stipulations. 
 
The deposition of Defendant Taheri was
ordered to take place on 3-25-24 (2-1-24 Minute Order), the deposition did not
take place, and the Court found that Defendants failed to comply with discovery
orders issued by this Court and that such failure was willful. (See 4-30-24
Minute Order). The Court ordered Defendant Alboorz, LLC deposition to take
place on 5-20-24, Defendant Mohammadreza Yazdi deposition to take on 5-22-24,
and Defendant Tahereh Taheri Yazdi aka Tahereh Taheryazdy on 5-23-24. (Ibid.)
The Court finds that all Defendants failed to comply with the discovery orders
issues by the Court in the 4-30-24 minute order, and that such failure was willful.
 
 
The Court, however, does not find
that terminating sanctions are appropriate. Although Defendants have each
failed to comply with discovery order issued by this court, the Court must take
an incremental approach to discovery sanctions under Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992. The declarations of counsel
in support of the moving papers conclusively state Plaintiff has been
prejudiced by not allowing Plaintiff’s “to establish liability and plaintiff’s
damages claims.” (Kovalsky Decl., ¶ 2.) However, this is not enough to bypass
the incremental approach to awarding sanctions. 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s request for terminating sanctions. 
 
II.            
Issue and Evidentiary Sanctions
 
A motion for issue or evidentiary
sanctions must include a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345(a)(7). A separate statement is not required where: (1) no response has
been provided to the request for discovery; or (2) when a court has allowed the
moving party to submit—in place of a separate statement—a concise outline of
the discovery request and each response in dispute. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345(b)(1)-(2).) “A separate statement is a separate document filed and
served with the discovery motion that provides all the information necessary to
understand each discovery request and all the responses to it that are at
issue.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(c).) “The separate statement must be
full and complete so that no person is required to review any other document.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(c).) 
 
Plaintiff filed three separate
statements in compliance with Cal. Rules of Ct Rules 3.1345(a)(7) and (c), one
for each Defendant, which included the request for terminating sanctions along
with the alternative issue sanctions “establishing liability of defendant, Mohammadreza Yazdi as well that defendant, Alboorz,
LLC is the alter ego of Mohammadreza Yazdi.” (See Separate Statements (x3, one
for each individual defendant),  pp. 1,
7, 8.) Plaintiff filed an amended notice of motion which included the specific
issue sanctions sought. (See Sole Energy Co. v. Hodges, supra,
128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207 [a notice of motion must “specify the type of
sanctions sought.”) Defendants acknowledge this issue sanction is a lesser
sanction than a terminating sanction (See Oppo, p. 3 [“at most, in a worst-case
scenario, the Court should order only such issue/ evidence sanctions, short of
terminating the case.”].)  
 
Based on the evidence presented Court
finds Mohammadreza Yazdi’s violations of the Court’s orders (1) was willful,
indicating a deliberate or intentional non-compliance with the court's
orders (2) was preceded by a history of abuse and repeated violations,
suggesting that prior monetary sanctions have been ineffective at securing
compliance.  Mileikowsky v. Tenet
Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279.  The Court finds no lesser sanction will produce
compliance with the Court’s discovery orders. In addition, the Court finds the violations
have severely prejudiced the Plaintiff’s ability to prepare for trial, is if
allowed to persist will impact Plaintiff’s their right to a fair trial.  Having considered all relevant circumstances,
the Court finds the requested issue sanction is justified.  Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
request for issue sanctions as a discovery issue sanction, and orders Alboorz
LLC is the alter ego of Mohammadreza Yazdi for any judgment entered in this
action on the the causes of action alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
. 
 
III.          
Monetary
Sanctions
 
In the amended notice of motion,
Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions against Defendants Yazdi and Alboorz and
their counsel, Paul Marks and the law firm of Neufled Marks, a professional
corporation in the amount of $7,560.00, jointly and severally. (Kovalsky Dec in
Amended Motion (“Kovalsky Decl.”), ¶ 16.)  Counsel states that he spent 13 hours
preparing the motion and accompanying papers, including the reply and hearing
appearance. (Ibid.)
 
The Court finds that the motion is
straightforward in nature and is not complex. The Court exercises its
discretion and GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the
reasonable amount of $2,750.00 (5 hrs. @ $550/hr.). The Court reduces the
amount of monetary sanctions given the straightforward nature of the motion.
Monetary sanctions are to be paid by Defendants Yazdi, Taheri, Alboorz and
their counsel of record, Paul S. Marks of Neufeld Marks, jointly and severally,
to Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. 
 
