 Case Number:  23SMCV00672    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Canseven v. Ecolab Inc, et al



Case No.:


23SMCV00672


Complaint Filed:


2-14-23           




Hearing Date:


6-27-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


14


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Ecolab Inc.,
Ecosure, and Monica Burris
RESP.
PARTY:         No Responsive Party as
of 6-17-24
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants Ecolab Inc., Ecosure, and
Monica Burris’ Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. Defendants proved the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement. Plaintiff did not meet their burden
to prove a defense to enforcement of the arbitration agreement. The action is stayed pending resolution of arbitration
pursuant to CCP §1281.4.
  
REASONING
Under both the Title 9 section 2 of
the United States Code (known as the Federal Arbitration Act, hereinafter
“FAA”) and the Title 9 of Part III of the California Code of Civil Procedure
commencing at section 1281 (known as the California Arbitration Act,
hereinafter “CAA”), arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract.  (Winter v. Window Fashions
Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by
a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. In these
summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final determination.”
(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276,
1284.)   “The party opposing arbitration
has the burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be
interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.” (Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223, citing Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v.
Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686-87.)   “On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner…” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
“A party opposing the petition
bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence any fact necessary
to its defense.” (Olvera v. El Pollo Loco, Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th
447, 453.) CCP §1281.2 only allows the Court to deny enforcement of an
applicable arbitration agreement where the party resisting arbitration
demonstrates (1) waiver; (2) grounds for rescission of the agreement; or (3)
subsection (c) grounds involving third parties to the arbitration agreement and
potential for inconsistent rulings of fact or law. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2.)
 
If the court
determines that a party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a
pending court action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth
under subdivision (c), the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration
agreement and may order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single
action or special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all
or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have
agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding
pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
 
I.     
Ecolab Demonstrates Valid Arbitration Agreement
and Plaintiff does not Oppose
 
Defendant Ecolab Inc., Ecosure, and
Monica Burris (“Ecolab Defendants”) move to compel arbitration based on the Arbitration
Agreement electronically signed by Plaintiff Venus Canseven (“Canseven”) on
10-18-14. (See Putman Decl., ¶ 22, Ex. D.) The operative sections of the Arbitration
Agreement states as follows:
 
IF YOU
UNDERSTAND, ACCEPT AND AGREE TO THE POLICIES, TERMS AND CONDITIONS SET OUT
ABOVE, THEN CLICK ON THE “AGREE” BUTTON TO PROCEED TO THE NEXT SECTION OF THE
MEDIATION AND ARBITRATION AGREEMENT PROCESS. BY CLICKING ON THE “AGREE” BUTTON,
YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THIS ACTION WILL BE RECORDED AS YOUR ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE
AND WILL BE RELIED UPON BY THE COMPANY TO THE SAME EXTENT AS IF YOU HAD SIGNED
THIS CONSENT IN INK. IF YOU DO NOT UNDERSTAND OR ACCEPT OR AGREE TO THE
POLICIES, TERMS AND CONDITIONS SET OUT ABOVE, THEN YOU MAY CLOSE OUT OF THIS
MODULE AND EXIT THIS PROCESS.
 
. . . .
 
“Dispute”
means any and all claims or controversies alleging violations of federal,
state, local or common law between an Associate and the Company (and vice
versa) arising out of or in any way related to the application for employment,
employment or cessation of employment with the Company, including all
previously unasserted claims prior to the date of this Agreement. The term
“Dispute” includes, without limitation, claims, demands or actions under Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Acts of 1866 and 1991,
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the Fair
Labor Standards Act of 1938, the Equal Pay Act of 1963 and all amendments
thereto and any other federal, state or local statute, regulation or common law
doctrine regarding employment, employment discrimination, the terms and
conditions of employment, termination of employment, compensation, overtime,
breach of contract, retaliation, whistleblowing, defamation or
employment-related tort. “Dispute” does not include claims related to: (i)
workers' compensation benefits; (ii) unemployment compensation benefits; (iv)
controversies over awards of benefits or incentives under the Company's stock
option plans, employee benefits plans or welfare plans that contain an appeal
procedure or other procedure for the resolution of such controversies; (v) an
alleged violation of the National Labor Relations Act (“NLRA"); (vi)
disputes that may not be subject to a predispute arbitration agreement as
provided by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; and
(vii) claims asserted by an Associate in any lawsuit or administrative
proceeding pending against the Company prior to the date the Associate signs
this Agreement where (a) you are a party to the lawsuit or administrative
proceeding; or (b) if the pending lawsuit or administrative proceeding asserts
a class or collective action, you are a party, member or putative member of the
class or collective action against the Company and have not elected, before or
after this Agreement is signed, to include yourself in the pending collective
action or exclude yourself from the pending class action. This Agreement does
not apply to disputes regarding the enforceability, revocability or validity of
the Agreement or any portion of the Agreement. Such disputes can only be
resolved by a court of competent jurisdiction. Additionally, nothing in this
Agreement shall prevent either party from seeking relief from a court of
competent jurisdiction for a temporary or preliminary restraining order or
other like injunctive relief to prevent or enjoin the disclosure or use of a
trade secret, patent, intellectual property or proprietary information, where
such relief is required to permit the dispute to proceed to arbitration without
one party incurring irreparable harm. Additionally, nothing in this Agreement
precludes an Associate from filing a Charge or complaint with the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission, NLRB, or any other state or federal agency.
 
            . . . . 
 
I READ, UNDERSTAND,
AND ACCEPT THE TERMS OF THE MEDIATION AND ARBITRATION AGREEMENT.
 
            (See Putman Decl., ¶ 22, Ex. D, pp.
31, 35 at ¶ 2(E), 40.)
 
            The Ecolab Defendants declare that employees,
including Canseven, were asked to enter into the “Consent to Proceed
Electronically” prior to electronically agreeing to the Arbitration Agreement,
and if employees did not agree to proceed electronically an HR representative
would assist in the signing of a hard copy agreement. (Putnam Decl., ¶¶ 14, 15.)
The Ecolab Defendants declare “In October of 2014, Ecolab implemented a
mandatory Ecolab Associate Resolution Resource (“EARR”) program, which
addressed dispute resolution and contained a Mediation and Arbitration
Agreement (the “Arbitration Agreement”).” (Putnam Decl., ¶ 5.)  The Ecolab Defendants declare that an email
was sent Canseven when she electronically entered into the Arbitration
Agreement, and the “email would not have been sent to Venus Canseven unless she
has electronically signed the Arbitration Agreement.” (Putman Decl., ¶ 22, Ex.
D.)
 
            The Court finds that the Ecolab Defendants have proven
the existence of a valid arbitration agreement, electronically agreed upon by Canseven,
as part of the EARR program. 
 
            Canseven
has not opposed the motion and thus has not met her burden to prove by a “preponderance
of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Giuliano, supra,
149 Cal.App.4th at p.1284.)
 
            The Ecolab Defendants Motion to Compel Arbitration is
GRANTED. 
 
 
II.            
Stay pending
resolution of arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.4 
            “If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this
State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue
involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
The action is stayed pending resolution of arbitration
pursuant to CCP §1281.4.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 