  Case Number:  19STCV43571    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 
 




NARGIS RASHID,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
BURGERIM GROUP USA, INC., et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


19STCV43571




Hearing Date:


October 25, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING RE: 
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 




            
Background 
On
December 4, 2019, Plaintiff Nargis Rashid (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Burgerim Group USA, Inc., Saffron Mediterranean Kitchen
(“Saffron”), and Oren Loni. 
On
May 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”),
alleging causes of action or (1) discrimination, (2) harassment, (3)
retaliation, (4) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation, (5) sexual harassment, (6) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, (7) declaratory judgment, (8) wrongful termination in violation of
public policy, and (9) failure to permit inspection of personnel and payroll
records.  
Plaintiff now moves “for retroactive leave to amend her complaint, and
for an order deeming Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint to have been filed
and served on August 11, 2023. Alternatively, Plaintiff will move the Court for
leave to amend Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint for Damages.”  No opposition to the motion was filed.   
Discussion 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed
at any time before or after commencement of trial. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 576.) “[T]he
court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of
the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare
case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 [internal
citations omitted].) “If
the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….” (Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit
v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68
Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
A motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) The motion must also state what
allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page, paragraph, and line
number. (Ibid.) Finally,
a “separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify: (1) The
effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324, subd.
(b).)  
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration in support of the instant motion
indicates that “[o]n August 11, 2023, Plaintiff served her Second Amended
Complaint (‘SAC’) on all Defendants other than Defendant Saffron, who Plaintiff
intends to dismiss from the current action.” (Haddad Decl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff’s
counsel states that “[t]he caption of Plaintiff’s SAC was revised as instructed
by the Court and the Department to include the names of all Defendants, include
those Defendants who were substituted in for Doe Defendants.” (Haddad Decl., ¶
12.) 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Request for Entry of Default.[1] Plaintiff’s
Request for Entry of Default seeks default on the “SAC 8/11/23.” (See
Item 1(a) of Plaintiff’s September 25, 2023 Request.) On September 27, 2023,
the Court issued a “Notice of Rejection Default/Clerk’s Judgment.” The
September 27, 2023 Notice of Rejection states, inter alia, “[n]o order
granting leave to file a Second Amended Complaint.” Plaintiff’s counsel indicates
in his supporting declaration that “[i]t is both mine and Plaintiff’s desire to
timely resolve the matter at hand, but procedural technicalities have made it
difficult. Given the Department’s recent rejection of default, Plaintiff is now
forced to, and intends to, file a motion for leave to file an Amended Complaint
in order to cure the defects with Plaintiff’s Request for Entry of Default.” (Haddad
Decl., ¶ 15.) 
As an initial matter, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has complied
with all of the procedural requirements of ¿California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.  
Plaintiff
indicates in the motion that “[a]ttached to the declaration of
Melad N. Haddad as Exhibit 11, are the proposed amendments.” (Mot. at p. 8:22.) Plaintiff states that
she is “requesting that the Court retroactively grant Plaintiff
leave to amend her complaint and consider her Second Amended Complaint filed
and served as of August 11, 2023, or alternatively, grant leave to amend her
first amended complaint to revise the caption to include the names of all
Defendants—specifically, those who were substituted in for Doe Defendants.”
(Mot. at p. 8:16-19.) However,
“[a] motion to
amend a pleading before trial must…[s]tate what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located,” and “[s]tate what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a)(2)-(3).)
Plaintiff does not indicate what allegations are proposed to be deleted from
the operative FAC and/or added to the FAC and where, by page, paragraph, and line number. Thus, the exact
proposed amendments to the FAC are not clear. 

In addition, Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration in support of the motion does not clearly indicate “[t]he effect of the amendment,”
“[w]hy the amendment is necessary and proper,” “[w]hen the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered,” and “[t]he reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324,
subd. (b).) As set forth above, the requirements
of ¿California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b)¿ are
mandatory. 
Lastly,
as set forth above, Plaintiff moves “for retroactive leave to
amend her complaint,” and for an order “deeming Plaintiff’s Second Amended
Complaint to have been filed and served on August 11, 2023.” (Notice of Motion
at p. 1:28-2:2.) However, Plaintiff does not cite any legal authority
supporting such request and appears to acknowledge that no such authority
exists. (See Motion at p. 7:21-23, asserting that “[a]lthough there is
no statutory authority allowing the Court to grant retroactive leave and to
consider a premature amended complaint to be deemed filed and served prior to
obtaining leave, there is also no statute expressly prohibiting the conduct.”)
In addition, Plaintiff cites a non-binding federal case in support of her
request for retroactive leave to amend the FAC. In light of the foregoing, the
Court denies Plaintiff’s request “for retroactive leave to
amend her complaint.” 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is denied
without prejudice.    
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  October 25, 2023                            ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


