 Case Number:  23STCV20863    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
BESTOCEAN WORLDWIDE
  LOGISTICS,
INC.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCV20863




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




SOFTTRANS
  LOGISTICS, INC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July
17, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Motion to Set
Aside/Vacate Default 
Moving Party: Plaintiff BestOcean
Worldwide Logistics, Inc.
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT
JUDGMENT IS DENIED PURSUANT TO CCP § 473(b).
HOWEVER, THE COURT ON ITS OWN MOTION, SETS ASIDE THE DEFAULT AGAINST DEFENDANT SOFTTRANS LOGISTICS, INC DUE TO IMPROPER SERVICE. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
            The Court considers the moving papers.

 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff BestOcean Worldwide Logistics, Inc. sued Defendant
Softtrans Logistics, Inc., alleging breach of contract. 
 
On March 15, 2024, default was entered against Defendant Softtrans
Logistics, Inc. The default was entered two months after BestOcean’s counsel
believed Softtrans had been served through the California Secretary of State
pursuant to an order issued under Corporations Code section 1702(a), which
permits service on the Secretary of State when a corporation is no longer at
its registered address. Unbeknownst to Plaintiff’s Counsel, service was not
completed as on March 25, 2024, when the Secretary’s office sent a letter
advising that it did not accept service.
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP § 473(b) provides, in pertinent part, “[t]he court may, upon any
terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or
other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall
not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken… 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (CCP § 473(b).)
 
Plaintiff BestOcean
Worldwide Logistics, Inc. moves the Court for an order relieving Defendant
Softtrans Logistics, Inc. from the default entered on March 15, 2024, because
of improper service due to attorney error.
 
Counsel was out of the
country from March 25, 2024, through April 17, 2024. Upon his return, he
noticed he had received a document from the Secretary of State. The letter stated
that because the attempted service did not include a certified copy of the
Court’s order service was rejected. 
 
CCP § 473(b)’s purpose is to “relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” The default was taken against Defendant Softtrans
Logistics, Inc., not Plaintiff. Relief under CCP § 473(b) is not appropriate.
 
But relief may be granted under CCP § 473(d). CCP § 473(d) states “[t]he
court may, upon motion of the
injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or
orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may,
on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void
judgment or order.” (CCP § 473(d).) Since default was void because of improper
service, the Court on its own motion sets aside the default against Defendant Softtrans
Logistics, Inc.


 