 Case Number:  23STCV18441    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Timothy Ryan, M.D,
  ex rel,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCV18441 




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




The County of Los
  Angeles, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July
17, 2024 
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Demurrer to Second
Amended Complaint 
Moving Party: Defendant The
County of Los Angeles 
Responding Party: Plaintiff Timothy
Ryan, M.D.
 
T/R:     Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint is OVERRULED.  Defendant to
answer in 20 days. 
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
            The Court considers the moving
papers, opposition and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
 On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the operative Second Amended Complaint alleging a single claim for Civil
Penalties under the California Private Attorney General Act (PAGA), Labor Code §
2698, et seq.  The Court previously
sustained a demurrer to the First Amended Complaint on statute of limitations
grounds, with leave to amend.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it. (CCP § 430.50(a).) A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. (Picton
v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.) The
court must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. (Id. at 732-33.)
The complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of
action has been stated. (Id. at 733.)
 
A demurrer lies where
the dates alleged in the complaint show “clearly and affirmatively” that the
action is barred by a statute of limitations. It is not enough that the
complaint shows that the action may be barred. (Geneva Towers Ltd.
Partnership v. City of San Francisco (2003) 29 Cal.4th 769, 781.)

A.  
 PAGA Statute of
Limitations and Standing 
 
A PAGA action is
subject to a one-year statute of limitations that runs from the last alleged
Labor Code violation suffered by the plaintiff. 
(Labor Code §2699(a)(2)(A), (d); Code of Civ. Proc. §340(a); Arce v.
The Ensign Group (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 630, 631.)  “But because a would-be PAGA plaintiff can
only bring her claim to court 65 days after submitting a prefiling notice to
the LWDA, the statute of limitations is tolled for 65 days from the time the
notice is submitted.”  (Arce, supra,
96 Cal.App.5th at 631.)  
 
On January 26, 2024,
the Court sustained demurrer to the First Amended Complaint on statute of
limitations grounds.  Defendant demurs
again to the SAC on statute of limitations grounds.  
 
            The Court’s prior ruling did not
fully address Johnson v. Maxim Healthcare Servs., Inc. (2021) 66
Cal.App.5th 924, 928-929.  In Johnson,
a plaintiff, who was still employed by the defendant, alleged PAGA violations
based on the defendant’s requirement that employees execute illegal non-compete
agreements as a condition of employment. 
(Johnson, supra, 66 Cal.App.5th at 927.)  Plaintiff’s individual claim was time barred,
because she executed the allegedly illegal agreement more than three years
before she filed suit.  (Id.)  The trial court sustained a demurrer without
leave to amend on grounds that the individual plaintiff’s claims were
time-barred.  (Id.)
 
            The Court of Appeals reversed,
finding that so long as the plaintiff, “at least at one time, was an
aggrieved employee under PAGA,” she had standing as an “aggrieved employee” to
bring a representative PAGA action.  (Johnson,
supra, 66 Cal.App.5th at 929.)  “[T]he main issue posed by the parties on
appeal is whether an employee, whose individual claim is time-barred, may still
pursue a representative claim under PAGA. Under [Kim v. Reins International
California, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 73], we conclude the answer is yes.”  (Id.) 
“The rule from Kim is an ‘aggrieved employee’ has standing to
pursue a PAGA claim, irrespective of whether that employee maintains a separate
Labor Code claim.”  (Id. at
930.)  
 
            “For PAGA standing, a plaintiff need
only have been employed by the violator and affected by “one or more” of the
alleged violations of the Labor Code. Lab C § 2699(a), (c) (“aggrieved
employee” defined)…This requirement strikes a reasonable balance, requiring a
plaintiff to have a connection to the employer's unlawful practices, while also
advancing the state's interest in vigorous enforcement…A representative action
under PAGA is not a class action but is a law enforcement action in which the
plaintiff acts on behalf of the state, not on behalf of other employees. The
plaintiff is not even the real party in interest in the action—the government
is.”  (Cal. Judges Benchbook: Civ.
Proc. Before Trial, §10.27 (quoting Huff v. Securitas Security Services
USA, Inc. (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 745, 757).)  “[T]he fact that individual claims may be
time-barred does not nullify alleged Labor Code violations nor strip a
plaintiff of standing to pursue PAGA remedies.” 
(Chin, et al., California Practice Guide:  Employment Litigation (Rutter Group
2024), ¶17:776 (discussing definition of “aggrieved employee” and Johnson v.
Maxim Healthcare Services, Inc. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 924, 930).)  
 
            Defendant argues that Johnson
is distinguishable because the plaintiff in that case was still employed by the
defendant.  However, the Court in Johnson
cited plaintiff’s continued employment by the defendant as grounds to
distinguish Robinson v. Southern Counties Oil Company (2020) 53
Cal.App.5th 476.  In Robinson,
the Court of Appeals found the plaintiff lacked standing because his
representative action covered a time during which he “was no longer employed by
Southern Couties and thus was not affected by any of the violations.”  (Robinson, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th
at 484.)  The plaintiff in Robinson
alleged unlawful denial of meal and rest breaks.  (Id. at 479.)  Those violations could only affect the
plaintiff if he was still employed. By contrast, the alleged violation in Johnson
(unlawful covenant not to compete) continued to affect the plaintiff.  (Johnson, supra, 66 Cal.App.5th
at 932.)  
 
            Like the plaintiff in Johnson,
Plaintiff alleges a Labor Code violation based on Defendant’s requirement that
employees execute illegal waivers and releases as a condition of
employment.  (SAC, ¶¶10-19.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant continues to
require execution of such waivers and releases as a condition of employment.
(SAC, ¶¶20, 30.)  Plaintiff alleges he
and other employees continue to be affected by this Labor Code violation, because
he continues to be subject to the terms of the waiver and release.  (SAC, ¶41.) 

 
            Based on Johnson, the fact
that Plaintiff’s individual claims may be time barred does not preclude him
from filing a representative action.  And
even though Plaintiff may no longer be employed by Defendant he is still
subject to the obligations imposed on him by the waiver and release.  
 
            Defendant argues an “aggrieved
employee” as defined under Labor Code §2699(c) must have suffered the alleged
Labor Code violations within the one-year statute of limitations to have
standing to bring a representative PAGA action. 
Defendant’s argument is not supported by the definition of “aggrieved
employee” set forth in the version of Labor Code § 2699(c) effective at the
time of this action was filed.  
 
Prior to July 1,
2024, “aggrieved employee” was defined as “any person who was employed by the
alleged violator against whom one or more of the alleged violations was
committed.”  (Labor Code, §2699(c),
version from June 27, 2016 to June 30, 2024.) 
There was no requirement under the pre-July 1, 2024 version of Labor
Code §2699(c) that the aggrieved employee have suffered the alleged violations
within the one-year limitations period. 
In accordance with that definition, Johnson did not impose any
such requirement and recited this version of subsection (c), merely requiring
that an aggrieved employee had suffered a Labor Code violation “at least
at one time.”  (Johnson, supra, 66
Cal.App.5th at 929.)  Defendant
mischaracterizes the holding of Johnson as requiring an “aggrieved
employee” to have been “aggrieved” by the violation during the one-year
limitations period.  
 
As of July 1, 2024,
Labor Code § 2699(c) was amended to include a requirement that the “aggrieved
employee” have suffered the alleged Labor Code violations within the one-year
statute of limitations period, “For purposes of this part, ‘aggrieved employee’
means any person who was employed by the alleged violator and personally
suffered each of the violations alleged during the period prescribed under
Section 340 of the Code of Civil Procedure…”  (Labor Code, §2699(c)(1), version as of July
1, 2024.
 
Defendant provides no
authority holding that the standing requirements imposed as of July 1, 2024 on
PAGA plaintiffs would apply to Plaintiff, who filed this complaint in August
2023.  The Court makes no findings as to
that issue.  
 
Defendant fails to
establish, based on the face of the complaint, that Plaintiff’s representative
PAGA action is time barred.  Defendant
also fails to establish that Plaintiff lacks standing to sue as an “aggrieved
employee,” as that term was defined when he alleged suffered the violations and
when he filed this action.  
 
B.  
Laches
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s claims are barred by laches. 
“The affirmative defense of laches may be applied to bar relief to a
plaintiff who has delayed unduly in seeking equitable relief.  The existence of laches is generally a
factual question, and the trial court is given great discretion in determining
whether to apply laches to bar relief. 
The key question is whether defendants have demonstrated prejudice,
making it unjust to grant relief to plaintiffs. 
On undisputed facts, the applicability of laches may be decided as a
matter of law.”  (Committee to Save
Beverly Highlands Homes Ass'n v. Beverly Highlands Homes Ass'n (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 1247, 1266.)  “It
unquestionably is true that under proper circumstances where laches appear on
the face of the complaint the defense may be raised and determined by a general
demurrer for failing to state a cause of action.”  (Isakoolian v. Issacoulian (1966) 246
Cal.App.2d 225, 229.)  
 
The defense of laches
does not appear on the face of Plaintiff’s SAC. 
The complaint allegations do not establish prejudice due to unreasonable
delay as an issue of law, nor is Plaintiff alleging equitable relief.  
 
C.  
Defendant fails to establish that the Government Tort Claims
Act’s claims presentation requirement applies to Plaintiff’s PAGA claims
 
Finally, Defendant also
demurs on grounds that Plaintiff failed to satisfy the claims presentation
requirement under the Government Tort Claims Act prior to suing Defendant, a
public entity.  Defendant fails to cite
any authority holding that the Government Tort Claims Act applies to PAGA
claims specifically.  Such authority is
especially necessary in light of Government Code § 905(i), which excludes from
the claims requirement “claims by the state or by a state department or agency
or by another local public entity or by a judicial branch entity.”  (Gov. Code, § 905, subd. (i).)  In a PAGA action, “[t]he plaintiff is not
even the real party in interest in the action—the government is.”  (Huff v. Securitas Security Services USA,
Inc. (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 745, 757.)  
 
 
 
 