 Case Number:  23CHCV02662    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43 Date: 10-7-24 Case #23CHCV02662,  Golden Hammer Ops, LLC vs. JETNET, LLC, et al. Trial Date: N/A   MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs  Golden Hammer Ops, LLC and Gregory Rowlee RESPONDING  PARTY: Defendant ADSBexchange.com, LLC   RELIEF  REQUESTED Plaintiffs  request that the Court compel Defendant ADSB to provide responsive documents to  Plaintiffs’ requests for production, as well as sanctions.   RULING: Motion  to compel compliance is granted.   SUMMARY OF ACTION This action  involves the misappropriation of trade secrets pertaining to software.  Plaintiffs Golden Hammer Ops, LLC, (Golden Hammer) and Gregory Rowlee  (collectively Plaintiffs) have alleged Defendant ADSBexchange.com (ADSB) took  Plaintiffs’ confidential software and sold it to Defendant JETNET.   On May 3, 2024,  ADSB responded to Plaintiffs’ Second Set of Requests for Productions and agreed  to produce documents in response to nine of the RFPs. On June 24, 2024, ADSB  informed Plaintiffs that it had no intention producing any documents, despite  previously stating, under penalty of perjury, that it would do so. ADSB took  the position that Plaintiffs were required to identify the relevant trade  secrets before it propounded any discovery related to the alleged trade secrets  and asserted an objection to the RFPs based on CCP § 2019.210.   The nine RFPs  at issue all involve communications between various parties, invoices paid by  ADSB for services related to Golden Hammer, and financial statements of ADSB  related to its valuation. None of them appear to directly relate to any trade  secrets.   Plaintiffs  argue in their motion that the Court should order ADSB to honor its statements  of compliance. Next, Plaintiffs argue that ADSB’s reliance on CCP § 2019.210 is  misplaced and that it waived its ability to object on trade secret  identification grounds. Plaintiffs also argue that nothing in that section  alters the standard discovery procedures. Finally, Plaintiffs argue that the  nine RFPs are not related to trade secrets. They have also requested sanctions  against ADSB in the amount of $2,500.   ADSB argues in  its opposition that Plaintiffs have not met their statutory obligation under  CCP § 2019.210. They also argue that Plaintiff must identify trade secrets prior  to commencing discovery. ADSB requests sanctions against Plaintiffs in the  amount of $6,100.   Plaintiffs  argue in their reply that CCP § 2019.210 does not excuse ADSB’s refusal to  produce discovery. They also argue that the Section is not applicable to the  nine RFPs because the discovery sought is not related to trade secrets. Next,  Plaintiffs argue that ADSB does not have good cause to obtain a protective  order. Finally, Plaintiffs argue that only ADSB has engaged in sanctionable  conduct.   ANALYSIS “If a party  filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling […]  thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in  accordance with that party’s statement of compliance, the demand party may move  for an order compelling compliance.” (CCP § 2031.320.) A party makes a  statement of compliance when it agrees to “comply with the particular demand”  set forth in a request for production. (CCP § 2031.220; Standon Co. v.  Superior Court (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 898, 903.)   Plaintiffs  received a statement of compliance from ADSB when ADSB responded to the Second  Set of RFPs on May 3, 2024. Since then, ADSB has failed to comply with its own  statement of compliance and has asserted an objection to the nine RFPs based on  CCP § 2019.210.    Plaintiffs  argue that ADSB waived any objections to the nine RFPs by not asserting them in  its response to the RFPs. A failure to specifically object results in a waiver  of that objection. (Scottsdale Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59  Cal.App.4th 263, 274.) ADSB argues in its opposition that it was justified in  asserting this objection when it did because it began its responses by stating  that it objects to any requests that are not in accordance with the  requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure, and it argues that the requests  were not consistent with the requirements of CCP § 2019.210. (Opposition at p.  11.)   Assuming for a  moment that ADSB’s late-asserted objection based on that Section was proper,  though as will be discussed below, it was not proper, CCP § 2019.210 states  that “In any action alleging the misappropriation of a trade secret under the  Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Title 5 (commencing with Section 3426) of Part 1 of  Division 4 of the Civil Code), before commencing discovery relating to the  trade secret, the party alleging the misappropriation shall identify the trade  secret with reasonable particularity subject to any orders that may be  appropriate under Section 3426.5 of the Civil Code.”   The RFPs at  issue read as follows: -Communications between JETNET and ADSB-X  prior to commencement of this litigation (RFP No. 2);  -Communications between Silversmith  Capital Partners and ADSB-X prior to commencement of this lawsuit (RFP No. 3);  -Invoices paid by ASDB-X for services  related to Golden Hammer (RFP No. 4);  -Communications by Daniel Streufert,  ADSB-X’s sole owner, regarding Golden Hammer (RFP No. 5);  -Communications by Mr. Streufert regarding  Gregory Rowlee and Matthias Wirth, two of Golden Hammer’s engineers (RFPs No. 6  and 7);  -Communications by Mr. Streufert regarding  the sale of the ADSB-X business to JETNET (RFP No. 8);  -Financial statements of ADSB-X including  those related to its valuation (RFP No. 14); -Communications between Mr. Streufert and  Justin Hill prior to January 19, 2023 (RFP No. 15)   Courts have held  that CCP § 2019.210 applies to any causes of action that hinge on trade secret  misappropriation. (Advanced Modular Sputtering, Inc. v. Superior Court  (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 826.) While Plaintiffs argue that these RFPs do not have  to do with trade secrets and the Court previously found for purposes of CUTSA  that some causes of action are not dependent on trade secret misappropriation,  it would be difficult to parse out which requests have to do with trade secrets  and which ones do not. It is possible that some responsive documents to the  RFPs may involve trade secrets.   Accordingly,  the Court finds that the strongest basis upon which to grant Plaintiffs’ motion  is ADSB’s failure to timely object based on CCP § 2019.210. The vague objection  to requests that violate the CCP at the beginning of ADSB’s responses to the  RFPs is not sufficient to count as an objection based on CCP § 2019.210. ADSB’s  failure to object on this basis in its responses constitutes a waiver. Accordingly,  Plaintiffs’ motion to compel compliance is granted.   As for ADSB’s  argument that the motion is procedurally improper because Plaintiffs did not  give it proper notice of the motion, it appears that regardless of whether  Plaintiffs gave proper notice, ADSB was able to oppose the motion in a timely  and substantive manner. (See Alliance Bank v. Murray (1984) 161  Cal.App.3d 1, 7 [holding “[i]t is well settled that the appearance of a party  at hearing of a motion and his or her opposition to the motion on its merits is  a waiver of any defects or irregularities in the notice of the motion”].)  Assuming ADSB appears at the hearing on this motion, that, coupled with ADSB’s opposition,  will be a waiver of any defects in the notice of the motion.   Plaintiffs have  requested sanctions pursuant to CCP § 2031.300. Due to the complicated nature  of this case and the difficulty in determining when trade secrets may be at  issue, ADSB acted with substantial justification in opposing this motion. No  sanctions will be awarded at this time. However, should ADSB fail to comply  with this order, sanctions may be appropriate.    Accordingly,  Plaintiffs’ motion compel compliance is granted.   Moving party to  give notice.