 Case Number:  20STCV28343    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
Hearing Date: 6/6/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV28343 SIMON MAJDIPOUR vs
MARC I. ZUSSMAN
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendants
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION IS
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART
 
Background 
 
On July 29, 2020, Plaintiff filed the present
dog bite case against Defendants Marc Zussman and Tami Zussman, asserting
causes of action for (1) general negligence and (2) strict liability pursuant
to California Civil Code Section 3342 (“the Dog Bite Statute”). Plaintiff,
owner of a carpet store, alleges that when he went to Defendants’ house to pick
up carpets for cleaning, he was attacked by Defendants’ two dogs. Plaintiff now
moves the Court for summary adjudication on the following affirmative defenses:
1st affirmative defense for Plaintiff’s comparative negligence; 4th affirmative
defense for Plaintiff’s failure to mitigate; 5th affirmative defense that
Defendants possessed no knowledge of the dogs' vicious propensity as to the
strict liability cause of action; and 6th affirmative defense that Plaintiff
trespassed, asserting that Plaintiff was not authorized to be on Defendants’
property at the time of the incident.
Evidentiary Rulings
        Plaintiff’s objections to the Declaration of Hilary Patton are
overruled.
        Defendant’s objections
to the exhibits attached to the Vafa Declaration exhibits are overruled.  Defendant’s objection no. 13 is
sustained.  
The Court did not otherwise rely on evidence to which an objection was
made, and thus the Court does not rule on those objections.
Legal Standard
 
Summary Judgment
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts
must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has
met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the
party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot
be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry its
burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be denied. (See Id.;
see also Consumer
Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.)
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess
needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed
evidence.”¿(Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is
insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The
defendant “must also produce evidence that the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits,
declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters
of which judicial notice may be taken.¿(Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
The court
must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.  While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues. [Citation.] Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.  If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true. [Citation.] Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People
ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)
The Dog Bite Statute
Civil Code §3342(a) provides that, “The owner
of any dog is liable for the damages suffered by any person who is bitten by
the dog while in a public place or lawfully in a private place, including the
property of the owners of the dog, regardless of the former viciousness of the
dog or the owner’s knowledge of such viciousness…” Civil Code §3342(a), known
as the “dog bite” statute, allows one to recover without having to show fault.
“Subdivision (a) of section 3342 has been recognized as imposing a duty of care
on every dog owner to prevent his or her dog from biting persons in a public
place or lawfully in a private place. (Davis v. Gaschler (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1392, 1399.) Simply put, the statute is designed “to prevent dogs
from becoming a hazard to the community” (Ibid.) by holding dog owners
to such a standard of care, and assigning strict liability for its breach.” (Priebe
v. Nelson (2006) 39 Cal.4th 1112, 1120.)
To prevail under the dog bite statute in the
present case, Plaintiff needs to prove that Defendants owned the dog, Plaintiff
was harmed, Defendants’ dog was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s
harm and the dog bit Plaintiff while he was lawfully on private property.
Plaintiff is considered lawfully on private property of the owner if he was on
the property at the invitation, express or implied, of the owner. (CACI No.
463.)
 
Affirmative Defenses
 
Comparative Negligence
 
Plaintiff’s total damages are not recoverable
to the extent his or her own negligence contributed to the injuries. Rather,
awardable damages must be proportionately reduced to reflect the percentage of
plaintiff’s “fault.” (Li v. Yellow Cab Co. (1975) 13 Cal.3d 804,
828–829.) The trier of fact determines what percentage of the fault that caused
the injuries was attributable to plaintiff and then reduces gross damages by
that percentage. Thus, some amount of damages is recoverable even if plaintiff's
negligence is equal to or greater than defendant’s. (See also Zavala v.
Regents of Univ. of Calif. (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 646; CACI 405, 3960; BAJI
14.90, 14.91.)  Comparative negligence “does not lend itself
to the exact measurements of a micrometer-caliper.” The trier of fact has broad
discretion in allocating fault and may consider all relevant evidence on the
question in order to arrive at an “equitable apportionment or allocation of
loss.” (Brandon G. v. Gray (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 29, 40-41.) Appellate
courts will not disturb the jury's apportionment of negligence so long as its
decision is supported by substantial evidence. (Id.) Plaintiff's
negligence or other culpable conduct need not be a “proximate” (“legal”) cause
of the injury. Rather, comparative fault principles are properly invoked
whenever plaintiff's conduct contributes to the overall harm emanating from the
injury. (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965,
1011.) 
 
Contrary to
Plaintiff’s past practice of ringing the bell and waiting for Defendants to
open the door, evidence presented by Plaintiff shows that on this occasion,
Plaintiff entered Defendant's property unannounced by opening both the gate and
the door. Furthermore, upon entering, Plaintiff was seen swatting at the dogs
and shortly thereafter, Plaintiff displayed to Tami Zussman an inch-long open
bloody wound on his forearm. (Tami Zussman Depo. 116:12-21.) Despite the
injury, Plaintiff remained at Defendants' residence for an additional 45
minutes to measure carpets, then traveled back to his store with Tami Zussman
and subsequently returned to the house with the selected carpets. (Tami Depo.
123:1-14.)
 
Based solely
on the evidence presented by Plaintiff, reasonable minds could differ whether
Plaintiff's actions of entering the house without ringing the bell and swatting
at the dogs contributed to the incident. Plaintiff's sudden and unexpected
entry could have startled the dogs, who may have perceived Plaintiff as an
intruder. Plaintiff's further action of swatting at the dogs may have further
aggravated the dogs, leading to their attack. Furthermore, it is unclear how
long Plaintiff delayed seeking medical attention. Evidence shows that Plaintiff
waited at least 45 minutes after the incident to make measurements, then made
trips to his store and back to the house before pursuing medical help. This
delay in seeking medical attention could have potentially worsened his injuries
consisting of an inch-long open bloody wound. (Tami Zussman Depo. 116:12-21;
123:1-14.) These decisions and actions by Plaintiff could be contributing
factors to the incident and the overall harm emanating from the injury. Thus, Plaintiff failed to
meet his burden and summary adjudication as to Defendants’ first affirmative
defense of comparative negligence is DENIED.
 
Mitigation
 
As to the affirmative defense of mitigation,
a plaintiff who suffers damage as a result a tort has a duty to take reasonable
steps to mitigate those damages and will not be able to recover for any losses
that could have been thus avoided. (Shaffer v. Debbas (1993) 17
Cal.App.4th 33, 41.) This rule of mitigation of damages comes into play when
the event producing injury or damage has already occurred and it then has
become the obligation of the injured or damaged party to avoid continuing or
enhanced damages through reasonable efforts. (Valle de Oro Bank v. Gamboa (1994)
26 Cal.App.4th 1686, 1691.)  
 
Plaintiff’s
only argument against Defendant’s affirmative defense of mitigation is that
“[Plaintiff] had the right to treat outside his plan.” (Motion at p. 10.)
Plaintiff misses the glaring issue that he was bitten by two dogs, resulting in
an inch-long bloody open wound, but he did not seek medical attention promptly.
Evidence introduced by Plaintiff showed that he spent at least 45 minutes
taking measurements at Defendants’ house, then went to his store, and then
returned to Defendants' house with two carpets before seeking medical help.
Reasonable minds can differ on whether, by not promptly seeking medical
attention, Plaintiff failed to avoid continuing or enhanced damages through
reasonable efforts. Thus, Plaintiff failed to meet his initial burden and
summary adjudication as to Defendants’ fourth affirmative defense of mitigation
is DENIED.
 
Knowledge of Dogs’ Vicious Propensity
 
As a matter of law, an owner's knowledge of
the dog’s viciousness is not required under Civil Code § 3342(a). The Dog Bite
Statute imposes strict liability on dog owners for damages suffered by any
person bitten by their dog while lawfully on private property, regardless of
the dog's former viciousness or the owner's knowledge of such viciousness. This
statute allows one to recover without having to show fault. Because Plaintiff argues that the dog's “prior
violent propensities are irrelevant to prevail on the strict liability cause of
action” (Motion at p. 10) and is seeking summary adjudication solely on the
strict liability claim, Defendants’ argument regarding the owner's knowledge
being relevant to the negligence cause of action is immaterial. Therefore,
Plaintiff's motion for summary adjudication on Defendants’ fifth affirmative
defense against Plaintiff’s strict liability cause of action only is GRANTED.
Trespass 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff was not
lawfully upon their private property at the time of the dog bite, thereby
negating an element Plaintiff must prove for strict liability.  Whether Plaintiff was lawfully upon Defendants’
property depends on the scope of Defendants’ invitation. 
 
Plaintiff presented evidence that Tami
Zuckerman expected him on the date of the incident to pick up carpets for
cleaning. Her husband informed her that Plaintiff would be arriving sometime in
the morning (Plf’s Ex. 4, Tami Zussman Deposition 112:21-113:2; Plf’s Ex. 5,
Marc Zussman Deposition 20:7-15). The evidence thus shows that Defendants had
invited Plaintiff to their property.
 
Plaintiff’s evidence also shows that on
previous occasions when he visited Defendants’ property for carpet-related
business, he would ring the bell, Defendants would open the door, and he would
enter (Plf’s Ex. 3, Plf’s Depo. 51:5-9). However, on the date of the incident,
Plaintiff did not ring the bell and wait for Defendants to open the door. Tami
Zussman stated that she did not give permission for Plaintiff to just walk in
the house without ringing the bell or knocking on the door. Specifically, she
noted, "normal person would ring the doorbell. He bypassed twice. He had
twice opportunity to ring the bell and let someone let him come in. He did not
do that. He just opened the door and he just walked right in the gate and then
he opened ... the front door voluntarily and just walked in." (Plf’s Ex.
4, Tami Zussman Depo. 160:17-23). Furthermore, Marc Zussman’s testimony
introduced by Plaintiff indicated that Tami complained to Plaintiff, "Why
did you come into my house on your own?" (Plf’s Ex. 5, Marc Zussman Depo.
62:23-63:3) “Plaintiff walked into our house on his own. No one let him in.” (Id.)
 
Fullerton v.
Conan
(1948) 87 Cal.App.2d 354, 357-358 addresses the scope of an invitation. The court held that “It should
be noted at the outset that gates and doors have been the generally accepted
means of indicating privacy for centuries; their use for such a purpose is
traditional and is still sanctioned by universal custom. A gate is a barrier
just as a door to a home; both in effect are notifications that what is beyond
them is private. And it must be assumed that when gates and doors are a part of
the property involved they represent such a purpose. Nor is an invitation
without limitation. It would be presumptuous indeed to assume that a social¿invitation
includes authorization or permission to ignore the customary formalities and
establish by judicial decision that such an invitation includes the right, as a
matter of law, to enter without observing the customary formalities.” Fullerton v. Conan (1948) 87
Cal.App.2d 354, 357-358. 
 
Based on the evidence presented by Plaintiff,
in prior instances he would ring the bell and Defendants would open the door to
let him in. However, on the date of the incident, Plaintiff did not ring the
bell or wait for Defendants to open the door; instead, he opened the gate, then
the door, and walked straight into the house. This conduct is contrary to
Plaintiff’s past interactions with Defendants and the universal customs of
knocking or ringing the bell before entering someone’s house.  Therefore, Plaintiff failed to meet his
initial burden to establish that no triable issue exists as to Defendants’
sixth affirmative defense of trespass. 
Accordingly, summary adjudication as to Defendants’ sixth affirmative
defense of trespass is DENIED.
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court grants
summary adjudication on the fifth affirmative defense as to the dog bite cause
of action and otherwise denies the motion for summary adjudication.
 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 
 