  Case Number:  23AHCV01938    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



RAMI ETTLINGER, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS, LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01938
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   21, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On August 23, 2023, plaintiff Rami
Ettlinger (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant General Motors, LLC
(“Defendant”) alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
(“SBA”). On October 21, 2024, the parties filed a joint status report informing
the Court that they have entered into a settlement agreement, exclusive of attorney
fees and costs, after Plaintiff accepted Defendant’s offer for a full
repurchase of Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
This motion for fees and costs was
filed on October 24, 2024. Plaintiff requests $17,087.57 for the time spent in
this litigation. There is no request for a lodestar multiplier.  
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARDS
Pursuant to Civil Code section 1794(d),
“[i]f the buyer prevails in an action under this section, the buyer shall be
allowed by the court to recover as part of the judgment a sum equal to the
aggregate amount of costs and expenses, including attorney's fees based on
actual time expended, determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred
by the buyer in connection with the commencement and prosecution of such
action.” “The statute requires the trial court to make an initial determination
of the actual time expended; and then to ascertain whether under all the
circumstances of the case the amount of actual time expended and the monetary
charge being made for the time expended are reasonable.” (Goglin v. BMW of
North America, LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 462.) Some of these circumstances
include, but are not limited to, the complexity of the case and procedural
demands, the skill exhibited and the results achieved. (Ibid.) “A
prevailing buyer has the burden of ‘showing that the fees incurred were ‘allowable,’
were ‘reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation,’ and were ‘reasonable
in amount.’” (Ibid [quoting Nightingale v. Hyundai Motor America
(1994) 31 Cal.App.4th 99, 103].) “The lodestar method is applicable to
calculating attorney fees under section 1794, subdivision (d).” (Doppes v.
Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 997.) The Court cannot tie
the attorney fee award to the amount of plaintiff’s recovery. (Warren v. Kia
Motors America, Inc. (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 24, 37 [“it is inappropriate and
an abuse of a trial court's discretion to tie an attorney fee award to the
amount of the prevailing buyer/plaintiff's damages or recovery in a
Song-Beverly Act action.”].) 
“The basis for the trial court's
calculation must be the actual hours counsel has devoted to the case, less
those that result from inefficient or duplicative use of time.” (Horsford v.
Board of Trustees of California State University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
359, 395.) “[A]n award of attorney fees may be based on counsel's declarations,
without production of detailed time records. (Raining Data Corp. v.
Barrenechea (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1363, 1375.) “In challenging attorney
fees as excessive because too many hours of work are claimed, it is the burden
of the challenging party to point to the specific items challenged, with a
sufficient argument and citations to the evidence. General arguments that fees
claimed are excessive, duplicative, or unrelated do not suffice.” (Premier
Medical Management Systems, Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2008)
163 Cal.App.4th 550, 564.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Attorney Fees
Plaintiff attaches billing records and
invoices to support his request for $15,952.50 in fee and $1,135.07 in costs. Plaintiff’s
counsel, Justin N. Ibrahim, states that from January 2023 through January 1,
2024, his hourly billing rate was $375, then increased to $450 on January 1,
2024. (Motion, Ibrahim Decl., ¶ 3.) He has been practicing law for 7 years and
since July 2019, has handled approximately 450 lemon law actions, in addition
to other civil and criminal actions in both state and federal court. (Ibrahim
Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) In total, he has spent 37.4 hours on this matter, which
includes drafting the summons and complaint and other filings, corresponding
with opposing counsel, preparing discovery requests and reviewing discovery
responses, preparing a nonparty deposition subpoena directed to the sole
dealership that repaired Plaintiff’s vehicle and a motion to compel its
deposition.  
Defendant opposes the request for fees
and argues that Plaintiff should only be reimbursed for 17.6 hours in fees
because at least 19.8 of them were not actually and reasonably incurred. Defendant
also contends that Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate of $450 for 2024 is
unreasonable and should be reduced to $400, without offering any rationale,
other than to discount a recent Orange County Superior Court’s order approving
a $450 hourly rate. Defendant does not challenge any of Plaintiff’s counsel’s
credentials or offer to compare rates charged by other lemon law attorneys in
the community. Therefore, the request to reduce Plaintiff’s counsel’s billing
rate for hours worked in 2024 is rejected. 
Next, Defendant identifies several
categories of billing entries which it claims were padded: 
-            
First,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s counsel should not have billed 6 hours to
conduct research and communicate with his client before the Complaint was
drafted. Defendant provides no legal authority to support the claim that work
performed in connection with a matter before a Complaint has been filed is not
compensable. Therefore, the request to strike these 6 hours is rejected. 
-            
Second,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s 4 sets of written discovery requests should
not have taken 4.5 hour to draft because Plaintiff relies on templates.
Defendant argues that a more appropriate amount of time to spend on preparing
template requests would be 0.5 hours because Plaintiff would only need to
change the caption and the vehicle information in the case. Plaintiff’s
counsel’s billing entry states (and Defendant does not dispute) that 82
interrogatories, 74 requests for admission, and 49 requests for production were
propounded. Even if templates were used, an average of a little more than 1
hour per set of discovery is not unreasonable because counsel still must
discern which discovery requests in the template are applicable or must be
modified. 
-            
Third,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s counsel should not have billed 5.2 hours to
review Defendant’s discovery responses and draft a meet and confer letter.
Defendant contends it should have taken only 1 hour to review its discovery
responses because defense counsel uses template responses and 0.5 hours to
draft the meet and confer letter. Even if Defendant chooses to use template
responses, that does not eliminate Plaintiff’s counsel’s professional
obligations to review each one, and it is not unreasonable to spend 5.2 hours
to review approximately 131 pages of responses and draft a meet and confer
letter. (Valencia Decl., Ex. C.) 
-            
Fourth,
Defendant argues that the 5.6 hours of work related to Plaintiff’s deposition
subpoena to Santa Monica Buick, a nonparty dealership, was unnecessary and that
only 2 hours of work should be awarded. The Court disagrees that Santa Monica
Buick was an unnecessary witness because it was the sole dealership which diagnosed,
serviced, and repaired Plaintiff’s vehicle. The Court also notes that Defendant
served multiple objections to this deposition, undercutting Defendant’s claim
that no motion to compel was necessary. (Reply, Exs. K – Q.) 
-            
Last,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s fee motion would not have taken more than 4
hours to draft and should be reduced to 2 hours. The amount of work required
for Plaintiff to prepare a reply and respond to the multiple arguments
contained in Defendant’s opposition brief (which also included a 395-page
declaration), Plaintiff’s request for 4 hours of work is reasonable. 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
request for fees in full. 
Costs
          Plaintiff
requests $1,135.07 in costs consisting of filing fees, service fees, and fees
associated with the subpoena directed to Santa Monica Buick and corresponding
motion to compel deposition of Santa Monica Buick’s PMK. Defendant argues that
any costs incurred for the subpoena and motion to compel were unnecessary. The
Court disagrees because, as stated above, Santa Monica Buick was the only
dealership which serviced Plaintiff’s vehicle and the subpoena and motion to
compel was drafted in April 2024. Before Defendant extended a settlement offer
in September 2024 there was no guarantee that Defendant would settle the matter
and Plaintiff still had duty to prosecute this case. Therefore, the Court
grants Plaintiff’s requests for costs in full. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED in its
entirety. The Court awards Plaintiff $17,087.57 in attorney fees and costs. 
Dated
this 21st
day of November, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 