 Case Number:  24NNCV01175    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SANDRA ANTEZANA, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
LOS
   ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV01175
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   21, 2024



 
On April 24, 2024Plaintiffs Sandra
Antezana and Irma Antezana Morgan (“Morgan”) filed this action arising out of a
collision between a school bus and an automobile against defendants Los Angeles
Unified School District and Gabriel Rodriguez Nunez (collectively,
“Defendants”). On August 20, 2024, Morgan filed this motion for trial
preference pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36(a). Trial has not yet
been scheduled. 
A party who is over 70 years old may
petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court
makes both of the following findings: (1) the party has a substantial interest
in the action as a whole; and (2) the health of the party is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the
litigation. (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).) An affidavit submitted in
support of a motion for preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be
signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information
and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36.5.) “Upon the granting of such a motion for preference, the court
shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date and there
shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting of the motion for
preference except for physical disability of a party or a party’s attorney, or
upon a showing of good cause stated in the record. Any continuance shall be for
no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical disability
may be granted to any party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (f).)
Here, it is undisputed that Morgan is
81 years old and, as a party, has a substantial interest in the litigation.
Morgan states that preference is necessary because she suffers from physical
and cognitive conditions. (Motion, p. 4.) Morgan’s counsel declares that Morgan
“has been suffering from persistent neck pain radiating to her right shoulder
and low back.” (Bayona Decl., ¶ 10.)  She
also “experiences stiffness, tightness, tension and muscle spasms with limited
motion when turning, extending or flexing her neck.” (Ibid.) Additionally,
Morgan experiences “intermittent headaches that have caused difficult
concentrating, and focusing, memory impairment, slower thought processing and
difficulty interacting in conversations.” (Ibid.) Further, Morgan’s
neurologist, Jonathan Eskenazi, M.D., states that as a result of Morgan’s
advanced age and the progressive nature of her symptoms, there is a significant
risk that her condition may further deteriorate before a trial. (Motion, Ex.
A.) 
In opposition, Defendants argue that Morgan
has not established that her health is such that preference is necessary to
prevent prejudicing her interest in this litigation. Defendants point out that
Dr. Eskenazi’s declaration is based on an examination that was conducted on
January 8, 2024, which is more than 11 months ago. Defendants argue that the
claim that Morgan’s symptoms are worsening over time is belied by the fact that
her medical provider’s most recent examination was conducted six months before
his declaration was signed. Defendants contend that Dr. Eskanazi’s declaration
is of limited value because it does not describe Morgan’s current condition,
nor does it describe how her condition deteriorated from her initial visit in
October 2023. Dr. Eskanazi also does not describe any of the symptoms included
in Morgan’s counsel’s declaration. 
The Court agrees with Defendants that
Morgan has not shown that her health necessitates preference. Furthermore, on
July 30, 2024, defense counsel offered to stipulate to liability. (Stein Decl.,
Ex. 1.) Plaintiffs’ counsel responded nearly a month later on August 20, 2024,
and rejected the offer to stipulate, stating that it was “too early” in the
litigation to do so and proposing to revisit the stipulation after the first
round of discovery. (Id., Ex. 2.) The refusal to reduce the number of
issues in this action and insistence on proceeding with extensive discovery (8
sets of written discovery and two depositions) cast doubt on Morgan’s purported
need for preference. Notably, Morgan did not file a reply brief responding to
Defendants’ arguments. 
Accordingly, the motion for trial
preference is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 21st day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


      William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 