  Case Number:  22STCV29233    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 25, 2024                         TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Seed Textile, Inc. v. J & Dong Fashion, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV29233
 





















 
MOTION
TO QUASH SUBPOENA



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Hee Yeon Dong
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Seed
Textile, Inc.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
On September 8, 2022, Plaintiff, Seed Textile, Inc., filed
this action against Defendants, J & Dong Fashion, Inc. dba Day G
(“J&D”), and John Huh aka Hoon Huh (“Huh”), for breach of contract, common
counts, account stated, open book account, and quantum valebant. Plaintiff
originally sought to recover $131,534.10 for alleged fabric shipments made to
J&D.
 
On August 29, 2022, Huh’s wife, Hee Yeon Dong (“Dong”),
filed for divorce from Huh.  The divorce
became final on April 26, 2023.  
 
On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (FAC) which added causes of action fraudulent conveyance and
conspiracy.  The FAC also added Dong as a
defendant.  In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges
that Huh and Dong are the alter egos of J&D.  The FAC further alleges that J&D
transferred more than $250,000 to defendants Huh and Dong with the intent to
hinder, delay, or defraud J&D’s then and future creditors, including
Plaintiff, in the collection of their claims.  Plaintiff contends that Huh and Dong used the
transferred money for personal purposes.
 
On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff served the custodian of
records for nonparty Bank of America with a subpoena for production of business
(the “Subpoena”).  The Subpoena sought
account statements, and cancelled checks of J&D from November 2022 to the
present.  
 
On March 8, 2024, Dong filed this Motion to Quash the
Subpoena.  Alternatively, Dong requests a
protective order.  Dong does not seek
sanctions.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Dong and
her counsel of record. 
 
Dong filed a reply.[1]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            If a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands such as unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)¿¿ 
Monetary Sanctions¿ 
¿           In making an order pursuant to motion made
under¿subdivision (c) of Section 1987¿or under¿Section 1987.1, the court may in
its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making
or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court
finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1987.2.)¿ 
If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against
whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion
be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a
declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿¿ 
Sanctions against counsel:¿ The court in Kwan
Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings)
noted that discovery sanctions against an attorney are governed by a different
standard than sanctions against a party:¿¿¿ 
¿By the terms of the statute, a trial court under section
2023.030(a) may not impose monetary sanctions against a party’s attorney unless
the court finds that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct
resulting in sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions
against a party, which are based on the party’s misuse of the discovery
process, monetary sanctions against the party’s attorney require a finding the
‘attorney advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.) “It is not enough that the
attorney’s actions were in some way improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986)
181 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).) Because an
attorney’s advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her] knowledge,”
the attorney has the burden of showing that he or she did not counsel discovery
abuse. (Ibid.) Accordingly, when a party seeking sanctions against an
attorney offers sufficient evidence of a misuse of the discovery process, the
burden shifts to the attorney to demonstrate that he or she did not recommend
that conduct. (Id. at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni,
at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿
III.       DISCUSSION 
 
Dong seeks an order quashing the Subpoena for two reasons:
the Subpoena is burdensome and infringes upon her right to financial
privacy.  The arguments lack merit.  First, Dong fails to explain how a Subpoena
directed at a nonparty for the production of records is burdensome on
Dong.  The Subpoena does not require Dong
to produce any documents.  Second, the
Subpoena does not infringe upon Dong’s right to financial privacy.  The Subpoena seeks the following records:
 
1. The account statements for all bank accounts of J &
Dong Fashion, In. including, but not limited to, account number XXXXXXXX from
November 1, 2022 to the date of production. 
 
2. Copies, both front and back, of all checks written from
all accounts of J & Dong Fashion, Inc. including, but not limited to,
account number XXXXXXXX from November 1, 2022 to the date of production.
 
(Axtell Decl., Ex. 1.)
 
            On its
face, the Subpoena seeks J&D’s records, not Dong’s records.  Further, the Subpoena is relevant to Plaintiff’s
alter ego allegations and causes of action for fraudulent conveyance and
conspiracy.  The Subpoena is directly relevant
to those claims.  
 
            Alternatively,
Dong argues that she is entitled to a protective order.  However, the parties stipulated to a
protective order.  (See Stipulation and
Protective Order Confidential and Highly confidential Designations,
3/28/24.)  Dong does not sufficiently
explain how that protective order is insufficient to protect Dong’s legitimate
privacy interests.  Dong further argues
that the court must first make a finding that plaintiff will prevail on its
punitive damages claim before allowing financial discovery.  For this proposition, Dong cites Jabro v.
Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 754, 755.  Jabro does not help Dong.  Jabro concerned the issue of pretrial
discovery of a defendant’s financial condition unless the court finds there is
a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on its claim for
punitive damages.  As discussed above, however,
Plaintiff seeks discovery of J&D’s records, not Dong’s records, and
the information is relevant to arguments concerning alter ego, not punitives.  Dong cannot prevent discovery into J&D’s
financial affairs. 
 
            Monetary
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Dong and her counsel of
record.  Given that the court has denied
the motion, the court finds sanctions are warranted.  Pursuant to Hennings, supra, sanctions
against counsel is proper unless counsel shows that he or she did not counsel
the discovery abuse.¿ (Hennings, 58 Cal.App.5th at p. 81.)¿ Defense
Counsel does not meet his burden.  Accordingly, sanctions are imposed
against Dong and her counsel of record in the sum of $450, representing one
hour at Plaintiff’s Counsel’s hourly rate. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
            The
Motion to Quash is DENIED.
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
is GRANTED.  Sanctions are imposed
against Defendant Hee Yeon Dong and her counsel of record, jointly and
severally, in the sum of $450, to be paid to Plaintiff, by and through its
counsel within 30 days of this order.¿  
            Plaintiff
to give notice.  


Dated:   June 25, 2024                                    




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 
 


