 Case Number:  24STCP00397    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June
25, 2024                         TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Edgar Macias v. Does 1 through 20, Inclusive
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCP00397
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LIMITED-EXPEDITED DISCOVERY



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Edgar Macias
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            Plaintiff,
Edgar Macias, initiated this action for civil harassment on February 7, 2024,
against doe defendants.  Plaintiff
alleges that he has received unsolicited messages with sexual content from
anonymous phone numbers.  Plaintiff
further alleges that Defendants have threatened Plaintiff in the anonymous
messages that they will share Plaintiff’s personal secrets with the public and
have accessed Plaintiff’s email accounts, social media accounts, and online
storage accounts without consent.
 
            On
February 14, 2024, Plaintiff served Non-party Deponents Charter Communications,
Inc., and Comcast, Inc. (collectively “Non-party Deponents”) with deposition
subpoenas for the production of business records.  Plaintiff sought to obtain basic subscriber
information for certain users, accounts, or profiles that are connected to the
anonymous messages.  Non-party Deponents
each refused to comply with the subpoenas without a court order.  
 
            On
April 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion for Limited-Expedited
Discovery.  Plaintiff seeks an order to
compel Non-party Deponents’ compliance with the subpoenas.  Plaintiff does not seek sanctions.
 
            The
motion is unopposed.[1]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
A party is entitled to obtain discovery regarding any
non-privileged matter that is relevant to the subject matter of the
action.  (Code of Civil Procedure § 2017.010.)  A party seeking discovery from a person
who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition,
written deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.) ¿If a subpoena requires the attendance of
a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.  In addition, the court may make
any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable
or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of
privacy of the person.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.1, subd. (a).)¿“A deposition subpoena that commands only the production
of business records for copying shall designate the business records to be
produced either by specifically describing each individual item or by
reasonably particularizing each category of item . . . .”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.410, subd. (a).)¿
¿ 
If the nonparty deponent is a natural person, any person
may serve the subpoena by personal delivery of a copy of it to that person.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (b)(1).)¿ Personal service of any
deposition subpoena is effective to require the personal attendance and
testimony of the nonparty deponent, if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c)(1).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“A written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion
to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a
document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served
on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service
by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address
specified on the deposition record.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
 
III.       DISCUSSION
            
            Plaintiff properly served Non-party Deponents with
subpoenas and notice of this motion.  Non-party
Deponents each refused to comply with the subpoenas without a court order.  
(See Atrizadeh Decl., Exs. C,
D.)  Given that the subpoenas seek relevant
information, and that this motion is unopposed, Plaintiff is entitled to an
order compelling Non-party Deponents’ compliance with the subpoenas.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The
unopposed motion is GRANTED.  Nonparties Charter
Communications, Inc. and Comcast, Inc. are ordered to provide documents
responsive to the subpoena within 30 days of this order.  
 
            Moving
party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   June 25, 2024                                                




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
 


