 Case Number:  23CHCV03594    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F-49¿ 




Date:
  4/25/24




Case
  Name:  Elliot Minge Brown and
  Deborah Ali Kelson v. General Motors LLC; Keyes Chevrolet; and Does 1-10




Case
  # 23CHCV03594



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F-49
 

APRIL 25, 2024
 

DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case # 23CHCV03594

 
Motion
filed: 4/3/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant General Motors LLC (“GM” or
the “Moving Defendant”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Elliot Minge Brown and
Deborah Ali Kelson (“Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: OK¿¿¿ 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order to grant GM’s demurrer to the Fourth and Fifth Cause of Action in
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint, and to strike the prayer for exemplary or
punitive damages.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The demurrer
is OVERRULED. The motion to strike is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs filed this
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act lawsuit over alleged defects in their 2022
Chevrolet Bolt (the Vehicle), which was manufactured by Defendant GM.
Plaintiffs purchased the Vehicle in new condition on July 18, 2021, from Stewart
Chevrolet, an authorized dealership of GM. (FAC., ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
On November 27, 2023, Plaintiffs initiated this action.
Subsequently, on March 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) in response to a demurrer filed by GM on December 27, 2023, resulting
in GM’s withdrawal of the December 27, 2023, demurrer.
 
On April 3, 2024, GM filed the instant Demurrer (the
“Demurrer”) with Motion to Strike (the “Motion”). Subsequently, on April 16,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition. On April 17, 2024, GM replied.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal 3d 311,
318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered.
 
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th
740, 747 (Hahn).)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144
Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)  
 
“A demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
A.   
Request for Judicial
Notice
 
GM requests the Court to take judicial notice that the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (“EPA”) estimated that 2020-2022 model-year Chevrolet Bolts
have a total range of 259 miles, as reported on the government website www.fueleconomy.gov. Defendant cites authority
under Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (b) and (h).
 
Pursuant
to Evidence Code section 452, “Judicial notice may be taken of the following
matters ... [:] (b) Regulations and legislative enactments issued by or under
the authority of the United States or any public entity in the United
States.... (h) acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute
and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy.” 
 
Given
that the source of the publication is deemed reliable, and the information is
capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to EPA’s publication.
The Court GRANTS the request, pursuant to Evidence Code section 452,
subdivision (h). 
 
B.    
Meet and
Confer Requirement
 
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., section 430.41(a).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute
grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections
430.41 (a)(4).)
 
            Here, GM’s counsel attests that he
met and conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel via videoconference on March 1,
2024, discussing the issues raised in the Demurrer and the Motion. However, the
parties were unable to reach an agreement. (Park Decl., ¶ 1.)
 
            Accordingly, the Court concludes
that the meet and confer requirement has been satisfied.
 
C.   
Fourth Cause
of Action - Fraud
 
The FAC alleges fraud claims under both affirmative
misrepresentation and fraudulent concealment legal theories. (FAC., at p.
15-16.)
 
1.      Affirmative
Misrepresentation
 
A claim for fraud must plead all of
the following elements: (1) misrepresentation; (2)¿knowledge of falsity; (3)
intent to induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting
damage.  (Odorizzi v. Bloomfield School Dist. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d
123, 128; Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986)
186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1332.)  
 
Fraud actions are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading.  (Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.) 
Particularity requires facts that show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.  (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12¿Cal.4th 631, 645.) 
            GM contends that Plaintiff’s
Fraud claims do not meet the specificity standards by failing to allege: (i)
the identity of the GM employee that made the representations to, or concealed
the facts from, Plaintiff; (ii) the employee’s authority to speak and act on
behalf of GM; (iii) GM’s
knowledge about alleged defects
in the Bolt at the time of Plaintiff’s purchase, (iv) what specific
GM representations reviewed and
relied upon in purchasing the Subject Vehicle; (v) how long prior to purchasing
the Vehicle the representations were reviewed, if even reviewed pre-purchase,
and which representation therein was relied upon; and (vi) whether those
materials were prepared by GM or someone else (such as an independent
dealership).” (Dem., at p.9.)
 
The Court finds these arguments unpersuasive.
Plaintiffs allege GM’s affirmative misrepresentation presents, through venues
including vehicle brochures, websites, print and television advertisement, that
“a vehicle that was functional and safe ... the battery could be charged to 100
percent and could be charged safely indoors.” (FAC, ¶¶ 32, 39, 49.) Moreover,
the FAC alleges that “GENERAL MOTORS knew this was false because of the
reported fires and the previous advisory NHTSA in 2017 warning about charging batteries
to 100 percent. In fact, once the recall was issued, Plaintiffs was not able to
charge her vehicle’s battery to full capacity.” (Id., ¶ 32.)
Furthermore, it is stated that “Plaintiffs would not have bought the vehicle if
they had known it was neither safe nor functioned as advertised, based on
Defendant’s standards for normal use.” (Id., ¶ 49.) 
 
The Court finds that these
allegations provide Defendant with sufficient notice to prepare its case. (See Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56
Cal.4th 203, 240.) The specifics of where, when and from whom Plaintiff
received Defendant’s commercial brochure containing the alleged
misrepresentation does not seem to add much utility. And the production of the
alleged misrepresentation by verbatim can be adduced during discovery.
 
GM also argues that the FAC
alleges that Defendant advertised a competitive 259 miles electric range (FAC,
¶ 38), which, as a matter of law, does not constitute a misrepresentation as
there is nothing false or misleading when a car manufacturer’s advertising that
identifies the EPA fuel economy estimates for the car, citing Gray v. Toyota
Motor Sales, U.S.A. Inc. (9th Cir. 2014) 554 Fed. Appx. 608, 609 (Gary).
However, this narrow interpretation of the pleading does not align with the
standards of reviewing a demurrer. In such rulings, the allegations of the
complaint must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties. (Glennen v. Allergan, Inc. (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th
1, 6.) While a demurrer admits all facts properly pleaded, it does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of law or fact. (George v. Automobile
Club of Southern California (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1120, 135.)
 
Applying the liberal construction principle, the Court
finds that the FAC alleges GM’s affirmative misrepresentation encompasses more
than EPA estimates but also safety associated with the use and charging of the
battery, which falls outside the ruling in the Gary case.
 
            Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the
Demurrer on this basis.
 
2.      Fraudulent
Concealment
 
“[T]he elements of an action for
fraud and deceit based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5)
as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must
have sustained damage.”  (Boschma v. Home Loan Ctr., Inc. (2011)
198 Cal. App. 4th 230, 248, [internal citations omitted].)  
 
                               
i.           
Economic Loss Rule
 
Defendant argues that the “economic loss rule” limits
damages to those sounding in contract alone because the damages arise out of a
warranty. However, the Court also finds that the
Economic Loss Rule does not bar the claim.
 
As held by the court in Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v.
Dana Corp., the economic loss rule “requires a purchaser to recover in
contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless he
can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.” (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (Robinson).)
However, the doctrine does not apply “where the contract was fraudulently
induced.” (Id. at p. 989–90.) 
 
Although Robinson considers intentional
misrepresentation claims, it held that any fraud cause of action that involves
“dispositive fraudulent conduct related to the performance of [a] contract” is
sufficient to act as an exception to the economic loss rule. (Robinson, supra,
34 Cal.4th at p. 991.) Further, under California law, conduct amounting to a
breach of contract becomes tortious when it also violates a duty independent of
the contract arising from principles of tort law. (Erlich v. Menezes
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551.) An omission to perform a contract obligation is
never a tort, unless that omission is also an omission of a legal duty. (Id.,
at p. 551.), This is applicable in situations like the current case, where the
contract was fraudulently induced. (Id., at p. 553.) 
 
Consequently, the Court finds that a fraudulent concealment cause
of action is also a tort independent of a breach of a warranty contract. As
noted above, Plaintiffs allege that “Had Plaintiffs known of these safety
issues and use limitations a month prior, he would not have purchased the
vehicle.” (FAC, ¶ 108.) Therefore, the Court concludes that the economic loss
doctrine does not apply here because Plaintiffs sufficiently allege that the
contract was fraudulently induced.
 
                             
ii.           
Duty to Disclose Material Facts
 
Next, GM contends that Plaintiffs have not
sufficiently alleged any duty owed by GM to disclose any material facts about
the Vehicle. (Dem., at p. 13-14.)
 
“[T]o establish fraud through
nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant
‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’” 
(OCM Principal Opportunities Fund
v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 845.)  “‘There are four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.’”  (Hoffman v. 162 N. Wolfe LLC (2014) 228
Cal. App. 4th 1178, 1186.)  “A
relationship between the parties is present if there is ‘some sort of
transaction between the parties.’”  (Ibid.) (Underlines added.) 
 
A duty to disclose that is based
upon a “transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the
plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg,
Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 312.) 
Even where the defendant has volunteered information, it does not have a
further obligation to correct half-truths where no sufficient relationship or
transaction exists.  (Id. at p.312.)  Simply speaking does not give rise to a duty
to disclose.  (Ibid.)  In Bigler-Engler, the court noted that the
manufacturer in that case was not involved “in any way” with the patient, and
that there was no evidence that the manufacturer “directly advertised its
products to consumers such as” the patient. 
(Id. at p.314.)
 
Here, the Court finds
that Plaintiffs have adequately alleged a duty to disclose based on Defendant’s
superior knowledge. To plead that a defendant had a duty to disclose a material
fact, a plaintiff must allege that “the defendant has exclusive knowledge of
material facts not known or reasonably accessible to the plaintiff.” (See Collins
v. eMachines, Inc. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 249, 255.) Plaintiffs allege that
“knowledge and information regarding the vehicle’s defects were in the
exclusive and superior possession of Defendant and their dealers, and were not
provided to Plaintiffs, who could not reasonably discover the defect through
due diligence.” (FAC, ¶ 99.) Moreover, the FAC presents, “Defendant had
exclusive knowledge of the material, suppressed facts ... Defendant made
partial representations about the mileage range, battery safety, and
performance of the vehicle that were misleading without disclosure o[f] the
fact that the vehicle contained unsafe batteries[.]” (Id., ¶ 101.) 
 
GM contends that “the
mere fact that fires occurred in a miniscule number of Bolts, GM issues a
recall notice, NHTSA opened an investigation, and GM sent a letter indicating
that it would replace the vehicle’s battery is not enough to plausibly allege
that GM knew of and intentionally misrepresented or concealed any material
facts from Plaintiff at the time Plaintiff purchased the vehicle,” and argue
that “the NHTSA investigation case doubt” on GM’s exclusive knowledge of
material facts “when such information seems to have been publicly available.”
(Dem., at p. 11.)
 
The Court finds this
argument essentially
disputes Plaintiff’s factual allegation. However, as the Court has explained
previously, at the stage of demurrer, it is required to presume all the
material factual allegations in the complaint as true (Aubry v. TriCity
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal 4th 962, 966-967), without weighting or
determining the credibility of conflicting evidence.
 
Consequently, the
Court concludes the FAC sufficiently alleges the existence of GM’s duty to
disclose.
 
Accordingly, the
Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the Fourth Cause of Action.
 
D.   
Fifth Cause
of Action – Violation of Business & Professions Code Section 17200 (Unfair
Competition Law)
 
California Business and Professions Code section 17200
prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark v. Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th
605, 610.) “An unlawful business practice or act is an act or practice,
committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by
law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.)¿
 
GM acknowledges that “while an act that breaches a contract
could also breach the UCL, the underlying act must be unfair, unlawful or
fraudulent for some additional reason, referencing Boland, Inc. v. Rolf C.
Hagen (USA) (E.D.Cal.2010) 685 F. Supp.2d 1094, 1110.
 
As the Court has previously
concluded that the FAC presents sufficient pleading to state the cause of
action for fraud, it further finds that the “fraudulent prong” sufficiently
pleaded for the UCL claim.  Notably, a
demurrer should not be sustained if the plaintiff has stated a
cause of action under any possible legal theory. (Barquis v. Merchants
Collection Assn. (1972) 7 Cal.3d 94, 103.)
 
Therefore, the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the
Fifth Cause of Action.
 
E.    
Motion to
Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not
been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
In its Motion to Strike, GM seeks to
strike the following portions from the Prayer for Relief in the FAC:
 
            Paragraph
f (portion): “... and exemplary or punitive damages ...”
 
            GM moves to strike Plaintiffs’
prayer for exemplary or punitive damages from the FAC on the grounds that no
causes of action support the recovery of punitive damages. 
 
The complete paragraph
f clearly states that the prayer for the exemplary or punitive damages sought
is only based on the Fourth Cause of Action for fraud. (FAC, at p. 23.)
Consequently, the Court deems GM’s contentions irrelevant as to punitive
damages cannot sustained by the breach of warranty causes of action.
Furthermore, as analyzed above, the Fourth Cause of Action in the FAC
sufficiently state claims based on fraud. As such, it can give rise to a
recovery of punitive damages. 
 
Thus, GM’s Motion to
Strike is therefore DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s
Demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant’s Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
Defendant
is ordered to file and serve its Answer to the First Amended Complaint within
20 days. 
 
Moving
party to give notice.