 Case Number:  23AHCV02007    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  X PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO
COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH RFP NO. 9
 
Plaintiffs’
motion to compel is DENIED. 
 
Relevant Facts
 
This action
is brought by Plaintiffs against Defendant for certain wage and hour practices
utilized by Defendants, which Plaintiffs allege resulted in underpayment of
wages due to them and the aggrieved employees. 
Plaintiffs move
for an order requiring Defendant to comply and produce documents in response to
Request for Production of Documents (Set One), No. 9, specifically time records
which include rounded time.  Although
there is no statutory basis stated in the notice of motion, Plaintiffs assert
that rounded time records were not included in Defendants’ original production.  (Notice of Motion, filed 8/28/24, 2:9-13.)
 
The subject
discovery was served in January 2024. 
(Carney Decl., filed 8/28/24, Exh. 1.) 
Responses were ultimately provided on April 8, 2024.  (Carney Decl., Exh. 2.)   Request No. 9 states: “Produce
all of PLAINTIFF’s clock in and clock out records, in Excel format or other
native format.”  (Separate Statement, filed
8/28/24, 2:9-10.)  Defendant’s response
stated: 
 
Defendant
objects to this request on the following grounds: it is overbroad, unduly
burdensome, oppressive, and harassing; it seeks information that is not
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action, and is not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; it is
vague and ambiguous in its entirety; and it fails to describe the requested
documents with reasonable particularity. 
 
Subject
to and without waiving the foregoing objections, Defendant responds: Defendant
will produce Plaintiff’s time records.”
 
(Separate Statement, 2:11-18.)  Records were produced by Defendant; however,
according to Plaintiffs, the
production was not complete as it did not include records of rounded time.  (Memo, filed 8/28/24, 2:22-25.)
 
Legal Analysis
 
Where responses have
been made but they are not satisfactory to the demanding party, a motion to
compel further responses is the appropriate motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)  However, if a responding party fails to
permit inspection in accordance with its agreement to comply with an inspection
demand, Section 2031.320 authorizes a motion to compel compliance.  (Id., § 2031.320.)  Section 2031.310 explicitly requires that a
motion to compel a further response be brought within 45 days after service of
a verified response.  (Id., at subd. (c).)  No such deadline is provided for in the
language of Section 2031.320.  
 
The evidence demonstrates that
Plaintiffs’ is a motion to compel further responses rather than one to compel
compliance.  While rounded time records
may be relevant and discoverable, Plaintiffs’ is not the case where Defendant promised
to produce rounded time records but made no production.  Rather, Defendant produced Defendant’s time
records, which production Plaintiffs found inadequate.  Plaintiffs’ remedy was to meet and confer and
then file a motion to compel further responses if no agreement could be reached
between the parties.  The latter was not
done until August 28, 2024, over four months after responses were
provided.  Accordingly, Plaintiffs motion
is denied as untimely having been filed more than 45 days after verified responses
were served.  
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiffs’
motion to compel compliance is DENIED. 