  Case Number:  20VECV00691    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  W SPOTLIGHT TICKET MANAGEMENT, INC. v. EBAY
INC., et al.
 
APPLICATION FOR pro hac vice
 
Date of Hearing:        February
2, 2024                               Trial Date:       April
29, 2024 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        20VECV00691 
 
Moving Party:            Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Stubhub, Inc. 
Responding Party:     None.

 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Spotlight Ticket Management, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that it had an agreement to serve as a member of the StubHub Affiliate
Program (the “Affiliate Program”) for Defendants eBay, Inc. (“eBay”) and
StubHub, Inc. (“StubHub”) (collectively “Defendants”). Plaintiff’s role was to
direct consumers to Defendants’ ticket platform in exchange for commissions on
orders. Plaintiff alleges that it was not being paid commissions according to
the terms and conditions of the Affiliate Program because StubHub was
underreporting and misrepresenting commissionable transactions owed to
Plaintiff. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants interfered with Plaintiff’s
contract, contractual interests, and business interests with non-party American
Express (“Amex”), which hired Plaintiff to manage its own ticketing platform as
part of a concierge service for Amex’s cardholders. More specifically,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants instructed Amex not to share data detailing
ticket purchases facilitated through StubHub, and this data helped Plaintiff to
discover the underpayment of money owed to them from Defendants. 
 
On August 28, 2020, Plaintiff filed its original complaint
against Defendants asserting causes of action for breach of contract; breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; unjust enrichment; quantum
meruit; promissory estoppel; tortious interference; and unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business practices. Plaintiff’s operative Third Amended Complaint
was filed January 23, 2023.
 
On March 30, 2023, Stubhub, Inc. filed a cross-complaint
against Spotlight Ticket Management, Inc., Anthony Knopp, Kenneth Hanscom,
Joseph Greiner, Jen-Ban Ho, and Matthew Huff for fraud, trade libel, breach of
contract, and unjust enrichment. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling: GRANT 
 
Jeffrey L. Poston, Esq. submits an
application for admission pro hac vice as counsel for Defendant and
Cross-Complainant StubHub, Inc alongside Crowell & Moring LLP. 
 
Mr. Poston is a member of the Pennsylvania
State Bar as well as the District of Columbia Bar. Pursuant to California Rules
of Court 9.40, an application for appearance pro hac vice must be served on all parties who have appeared in the
case and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco Office.
Additionally, the application must state:
 
(1)  
The applicant's residence and office
address;
(2)  
The courts to which the applicant has
been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)  
That the applicant is a member in good
standing in those courts;
(4)  
That the applicant is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court;
(5)  
The title of court and cause in which
the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and
(6)  
The name, address, and telephone number
of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
 
Mr. Poston has fulfilled these
requirements. (See Poston Decl. ¶¶1-9.) Mr. Poston also testifies he has sent
the $50.00 fee to the State Bar and provides proof of payment. (Poston Decl.
¶11.)   
 
The application for pro hac vice is
GRANTED. 
 
 