  Case Number:  22PSCV01829    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Sophia
Soli v. Polaris Industries, Inc., et al. 
Polaris
Industries Inc.’s Motion for Protective Order 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Polaris Industries, Inc.’s motion for protective
order as to Request for Production Numbers 2 and 4, and hereby limits the scope
of those requests to the same model as the subject vehicle, i.e., the 2016 RZR XP 4 Turbo EPS. 
The Court DENIES Polaris Industries, Inc.’s motion for protective
order as to Category Numbers 2, 6, and 7. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. 
The deposition of the person most qualified for Polaris
Industries, Inc. shall occur within 30 days of the Court’s order. 
              Polaris Industries, Inc. is ordered
to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a products liability action. On November 15, 2022, plaintiff
Sophia Soli (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Polaris
Industries, Inc., Seidner Enterprises, LLC (Seidner), and Does 1 to 50,
alleging causes of action for strict products liability and negligence. 
On March 7, 2023, Seidner filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1
to 25 for declaratory relief, equitable indemnity, contribution, and implied
indemnity. 
On March, 2024, Polaris moved for a protective order against
Plaintiff in connection with a deposition notice. On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff
opposed the motion. On May 7, 2024, Polaris replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
(a) Before,
during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected
natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
(b) The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more
of the following directions: 
…
(9) That
certain matters not be inquired into.
(10) That the
scope of the examination be limited to certain matters.
(11) That all
or certain of the writings or tangible things designated in the deposition
notice not be produced, inspected, copied, tested, or sampled, or that conditions be set
for the production of electronically stored information designated in the
deposition notice…. 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subds. (a), (b)(9)-(b)(11).) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision (a),
requires the parties meet and confer before bringing a motion for protective
order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).) Counsel for Polaris indicates
having met and conferred with counsel for Plaintiff before bringing this motion.
(Kim Decl., ¶¶ 4-5 .) The Court finds this sufficient. 
Summary of Arguments 
Polaris seeks a protective order in connection with Plaintiff’s
Second Amended Notice of Deposition served on February 29, 2024, namely in
connection with Category Numbers 2, 6, 7, and Request for Production Numbers 2
and 4. Polaris contends good cause exists to enter a protective order narrowing
the categories of examination and requests for production. Polaris contends
Category Number 7 and Request for Production Number 2, which involve other
rollover incidents in other RZR vehicles, are not relevant, are overbroad, and
are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Polaris then contends Category Number 6 and Request for Production Number 4,
which involve alternative designs, are also not relevant, are overbroad, and
are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Polaris further contends Category Number 2 seeks impermissible legal
conclusions relating to the issue of reasonable foreseeability. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends the deposition notice obligated
Polaris to produce witnesses and that Polaris’ motion is procedurally defective
for failure to file a separate statement. Plaintiff contends Polaris has the
burden to prove improper intent and that Polaris cannot prove improper intent. Plaintiff
contends the foreseeable use of the RZR, alternative designs, and risk
mitigation efforts, are discoverable. Plaintiff also contends producing
alternative design documents and similar incident documents is not burdensome,
and that documents relating to similar injuries are discoverable. Plaintiff
then requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $16,000.00 for having to
oppose this motion. 
Category No. 7 & Request for Production No. 2 
The Court finds Request for Production Number 2 to be
overly broad. Plaintiff does not dispute Polaris’ point that it has over 850
different RZR models and options from over a period of 15 years, which the
Court construes as a tacit admission that that statement is correct. (Motion,
15:3-7; see Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition,
Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶¿9:105.10.) While evidence of similar incidents
involving other models of vehicles may be relevant and admissible at trial,
(see Elsworth v. Beech Aircraft Corp. (1984) 37 Cal.3d 540, 639-640),
that does not address Polaris’ reasonable concern regarding the over 850
different models potentially implicated by this request and the extent of
document production that would be required to comply with it. 
“In
considering whether the discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive, the court
takes into account ‘the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.’ [Citation.]” (People ex rel. Harris v. Sarpas (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th
1539, 1552.) It is not apparent to this Court at this time that Plaintiff’s
right to discovery justifies requiring Polaris to produce documents relating to
over 850 different RZR models and options when there is only one model at issue
in this action. (See Id.; Kim Decl., Ex. A [notice of deposition
defining subject vehicle as “2016 RZR XP 4 Turbo EPS involved in [Plaintiff’s]
June 27, 2021 injury”].) If information is discovered evidencing similar
problems with other models of RZR vehicles, Plaintiff may conduct further discovery
as to those other models. 
With respect to Category Number 7, the Court does not
find it to be irrelevant, overly broad, or unlikely to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. As noted above, evidence regarding similar incidents
involving other models can be relevant and admissible at trial. (See Elsworth,
supra, 37 Cal.3d at pp. 639-640.) Plaintiff should also be able to ask
questions about similar incidents involving different models. (See Id.)
The Court does not necessarily find the burden of answering questions in a
deposition equivalent to the burden of producing documents. (See People ex rel. Harris, supra, 225 Cal.App.4th at p. 1552.) If the person most qualified
does not know the answer, they may simply indicate that they do not know. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Polaris’ motion
with respect to Request for Production Number 2, but DENIES it as to Category
Number 7. 
Category No. 6 & Request for Production No. 4 
The Court finds Request for Production Number 4 to be overly
broad. While alternative designs are relevant and discoverable, (see Ford v.
Polaris Industries, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 755, 767), the Court finds
this request has the same issue as Request for Production Number 2. It would be
unduly burdensome for Polaris to produce documents relating to alternative
designs for the hundreds of RZR models potentially implicated by this request
when only one model is truly at issue. (See People ex rel. Harris, supra, 225 Cal.App.4th at p. 1552; Kim Decl., Ex. A.) If
information is discovered evidencing similar problems with other models of RZR
vehicles, Plaintiff may conduct further discovery as to those other models. 
With respect to Category Number
6, the Court does not find it to be irrelevant, overly broad, or unlikely to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. As noted above, evidence
regarding alternative designs is discoverable and admissible. (See Ford, supra, 139
Cal.App.4th at p. 767.) Plaintiff
should also be able to ask questions about alternative designs involving
different models. (See Id.) The Court does not necessarily find the
burden of answering questions in a deposition equivalent to the burden of
producing documents. (See People ex rel. Harris, supra, 225 Cal.App.4th at p. 1552.) If the person most qualified
does not know the answer, they may simply indicate that they do not know. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
GRANTS the motion as to Request for Production Number 4, and DENIES the motion
as to Category Number 6. 
Category No. 2 
The Court does not find Category Number 2 to be improper. Category
Number 2 simply sets forth the parameters of the information Plaintiff seeks to
depose from Polaris’ person most qualified regarding the intended and
foreseeable use of the subject vehicle. (Kim Decl., Ex. A.) The category is not
itself a deposition question. Plaintiff may ask the person most qualified about
the basis for or information regarding a factual conclusion or assertion, but
not a legal conclusion. (Rifkind v. Superior Court (1994) 22 Cal.App.5th
1255, 1259.) If Plaintiff asks the person most qualified a question requiring a
legal conclusion, Polaris may object. (Id.) 
The Court DENIES the motion as to Category Number 2. 
Request for Monetary Sanctions 
Given the Court granted some of Polaris’ motion, the Court finds Polaris
acted with substantial justification in bringing the motion. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.420, subd. (h).) The Court therefore DENIES Plaintiff’s request for
monetary sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Polaris Industries, Inc.’s motion for protective
order as to Request for Production Numbers 2 and 4, and hereby limits the scope
of those requests to the same model as the subject vehicle, i.e., the 2016 RZR XP 4 Turbo EPS. 
The Court DENIES Polaris Industries, Inc.’s motion for protective
order as to Category Numbers 2, 6, and 7. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. 
The deposition of the person most qualified for Polaris
Industries, Inc. shall occur within 30 days of the Court’s order. 
              Polaris Industries, Inc. is ordered
to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.