 Case Number:  24STCV06346    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  82 First
Technology Federal Credit Union v. Matthew Christopher Thomas, et al.
Case No. 24STCV06346
[Tentative] Order Granting Application for
Writ of Possession 
 
 
INTRODUCTION
 
Plaintiff First Technology Federal Credit Union (“Plaintiff”) moves for a
writ of possession against Defendant Matthew Christopher Thomas (“Defendant”) over
the following property: 2022 Tesla Model X, Vehicle Identification Number
7SAXCBE69NF333811 (the “Vehicle”).  Plaintiff
has satisfied all requirements, including demonstrating probable cause to believe
that the Vehicle is located at 3988 East Hardy Street, Apartment 132,
Inglewood, California 90303.  Accordingly,
the application is granted.    
 
LEGAL STANDARD  
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the
plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing
a written application for the writ with the court in which the action is
brought.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
512.010(a).)
            
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b), the application
must be submitted under oath and include:
 
(1) A showing of the
basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession
of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written
instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
 
(2) A showing that the
property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the
defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.
 
(3) A particular
description of the property and a statement of its value.
 
(4) A statement,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is
within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a
showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located
there.
 
(5) A statement that the
property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a
statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff;
or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
Before the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the Defendant must be
served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of
Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in
support thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
512.030.)  “The writ
will be issued if the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid
and the other requirements for issuing the writ are established.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.040(b).)  “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is
more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the
defendant on that claim.”  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 511.090.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Probable Validity of
Plaintiff’s Claim
 
Plaintiff seeks a writ of possession based on its claims for breach of
contract and money lent.  On or about
November 29, 2022, Defendant entered into Loan and Security Agreements (the
“Contract”) with Plaintiff to finance the purchase of the Vehicle.  In consideration for an auto loan in the
amount of $154,310.78, Defendant granted Plaintiff a security interest in the
Vehicle and agreed to pay interest of 12.0300% per year.  (Dexheimer Decl. ¶¶ 5-6, Exh. 1 and 2.)  Defendant defaulted on the Contract by failing
to make payments when due, and there is presently a balance due of $153,981.28,
plus interest.  (Id. ¶ 8, Exh. 3.)  Therefore, Plaintiff has satisfied this
requirement.  
 
B.        Wrongful Detention
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b)(2), the
application must include “a showing that the property is wrongfully detained by
the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the
property, and, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.” 
Under the Contract, Plaintiff has the right to repossess the Vehicle in
the event of default.  (Dexheimer Decl.
Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff has demanded that
Defendant surrender the Vehicle, and Defendant has refused to do so.  (Id. ¶ 11.) 
Therefore, Plaintiff has satisfied this requirement.    
 
C.        Description and Value of
Property
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b)(3), the
application must include a particular description of the property and a
statement of its value.  Plaintiff has
provided a particular description of the property, by make, and VIN
number.  Plaintiff has also given a
statement as to value.  Therefore,
Plaintiff has satisfied this requirement. 

 
D.        Probable Location of the
Vehicle  
 
The prior application stated that the vehicle was located at 4216 West
59th Place, Los Angeles, California 90043, but Plaintiff’s counsel reported
that Defendant no longer lives at that address. 
The court permitted Plaintiff’s counsel to amend the application orally
to seek a writ of possession for Defendant’s current address: 3988 East Hardy
Street, Apartment 132, Inglewood, California 90303.  This is reflected in the minute order, which
was served on Defendant in advance of this hearing, so he received proper
notice of the amendment.  The
supplemental declaration of Shaun Dexheimer establishes probable cause to
believe the vehicle is located at that address. 

 


 
E.         Statutory Statements 
 
Plaintiff has provided a statement that the property has not been taken
for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to statute and has not been seized
under an execution against the Plaintiff’s property.  This satisfies the requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure section 512.010(b)(4) & (5).
 
F.         Turnover Order
 
Plaintiff requests a turnover order. 
(See Memorandum 4:6-14.)  Section 512.070
states: “If a writ of possession is issued, the court may also issue an order
directing the defendant to transfer possession of the property to the
plaintiff. Such order shall contain a notice to the defendant that failure to
turn over possession of such property to plaintiff may subject the defendant to
being held in contempt of court.”  “Thus
a ‘turnover’ order, issued pursuant to section 512.070, is not a
separate remedy but rather an alternative means of enforcing a writ of
possession.”  (Edwards v. Sup.Ct. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 173, 178.)  Because the court is granting the application
for a writ of possession, the court issues a turnover order.  
 
G,        Undertaking
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 515.010 requires an undertaking to be
filed before the writ issues in the amount of “not less than twice the value of
the defendant’s interest in the property.” 
Based upon the foregoing, the court finds that Defendant has no interest
in the property.  Therefore, an
undertaking is not required.  (See Code
Civ. Proc. § 515.010(b).)  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The court grants the application and
issues the writ of possession.
 
            2.         The court issues a turnover order and
orders Defendant Matthew Christopher Thomas to turnover the
vehicle to First Technology Federal Credit Union or its designee.
 
            3.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall lodge a
proposed order for the court’s signature. 
 
            4.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 