 Case Number:  23STCP03504    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  82 Cesar Magdaleno Jr.             
                                   Case No. 23STCP03504
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
August 14, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
Department of Motor Vehicles,                          Judge: Stephen I. Goorvitch
                        
                                     
 
[Tentative] Order Granting Motion for
Attorney’s Fees
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Petitioner
Cesar Magdaleno Jr. (“Petitioner”) filed a petition for writ of mandate
directing Respondent Department of Motor Vehicles (“Respondent” or “DMV”) to
set aside its decision suspending Petitioner’s driving privilege for one
year.  Petitioner argued that the DMV did
not afford him due process, as required by California DUI Lawyers
Association v. California Department of Motor Vehicles (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 517 (“DUI Lawyers”).  This
court granted the petition, finding that the DMV did not comply with “the clear
holding” of DUI Lawyers.  (See
Court Order, dated April 24, 2024.) 
Petitioner now moves for an award of attorney’s fees pursuant to
Government Code section 800 against Respondent in the amount of $4,700 plus costs.  (See Hammond Decl. ¶ 4.)[1]
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“In
any civil action to appeal or review the award, finding, or other determination
of any administrative proceeding under this code or under any other provision
of state law, except actions resulting from actions of the Department of
General Services, if it is shown that the award, finding, or other
determination of the proceeding was the result of arbitrary or capricious
action or conduct by a public entity or an officer thereof in his or her
official capacity, the complainant if he or she prevails in the civil action
may collect from the public entity reasonable attorney’s fees, computed at one
hundred dollars ($100) per hour, but not to exceed seven thousand five hundred
dollars ($7,500), if he or she is personally obligated to pay the fees in
addition to any other relief granted or other costs awarded.”  (Gov. Code § 800.)
 
“The award of
attorney's fees under Government Code section 800 is allowed only
if the actions of a public entity or official were wholly arbitrary or
capricious. The phrase arbitrary or capricious encompasses conduct not
supported by a fair or substantial reason, a stubborn insistence on following
unauthorized conduct, or a bad faith legal dispute.  Attorney’s fees may not be awarded simply
because the administrative entity or official's action was erroneous, even if
it was clearly erroneous.”  (American President Lines, Ltd. v. Zolin (1995)
38 Cal.App.4th 910, 934, citations and internal quotations omitted.)  A determination of whether an agency’s action
was arbitrary and capricious “is essentially one of fact.”  (Abshear
v. Teachers’ Retirement Board (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1629, 1638.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            The administrative
hearing was held in August and October 2023, about 16 months after DUI
Lawyers was decided.  At the start of
the administrative hearing, Petitioner’s counsel objected to the DMV’s use of a
“single Hearing Officer format” and cited DUI Lawyers.  Thereafter, the DMV Hearing Officer
committed two clear violations of DUI Lawyers.  First, “the Hearing Officer acted as an
advocate for the DMV when he proposed and granted a continuance that was
necessary to cure DMV’s failure to provide adequate notice, without first
hearing argument from Petitioner’s counsel and considering whether there was
good cause.”  (See Court Order, dated April 24, 2024.)  Second, “[t]he Hearing Officer also acted as
an advocate for DMV when he cross-examined Petitioner, invaded the
attorney-client privilege, overruled Petitioner’s counsel’s (valid) objection,
and relied on privileged information in adjudicating the case against
Petitioner.”  (Ibid.)
 
These errors, collectively, prove that the Hearing Officer
engaged in arbitrary and capricious conduct. 
The Hearing Officer stubbornly refused, over Petitioner’s counsel’s
objection, to comply with DUI Lawyers when he granted the continuance.  More troubling, the Hearing Officer’s
decision to invade the attorney-client privilege of Petitioner, overrule
Petitioner’s objection, and then use privileged information in adjudicating the
case against Petitioner showed a complete disregard of DUI Lawyers and
the due process rights of Petitioner.  
 
Respondent’s arguments to the contrary are not persuasive.  This is not a case in which the agency simply
“made a mistake.”  That the Hearing
Officer said “I
will be acting as a neutral factfinder,” and then proceeded to advocate for
DMV, is additional proof that the Hearing Officer decided the case in an
arbitrary and capricious manner.  (See
Oppo. 3:7-19.)
 
Finally, contrary
to Respondent’s assertion, Petitioner’s counsel has adequately supported the
request for $4,700 in fees. 
Specifically, in a declaration, counsel declares that Petitioner has
“agreed” to pay for the legal fees, and that fees in the amount of $4,700 were
actually incurred.  (See Hammond Decl. ¶¶
2-4; see Plumbing, Heating and Piping Employers Council of North California
v. Quillin (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 215, 222.)
 
///
///

CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The motion for attorney’s fees is
granted in the amount of $4,700.
 
            2.         Petitioner may include costs of $1,506.93 in the
judgment because Respondent does not intend to oppose those costs.
 
            3.         Petitioner
shall lodge a proposed judgment for the court’s signature if necessary.
 
            4.         Petitioner’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court. 
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
 
Dated: August 14,
2024                      
                                                                                    ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge


