  Case Number:  23STCP00869    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  82 Keep Bel-Air Beautiful                                             Case No. 23STCP00869
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
August 14, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                    
         Los Angeles County                                                             Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
Metropolitan
Transportation 
Authority
                                          
                                     
 
[Tentative] Order Continuing
Hearing on Petition for Writ of Mandate
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Keep
Bel-Air Beautiful (“Petitioner”) petitions for a writ of mandate directing the Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Respondent” or “Metro”) to
comply with Petitioner’s requests for public records under the California
Public Records Act (“CPRA”).  Petitioner seeks
“materials necessary to understand Metro’s analysis” of the Sepulveda Transit
Corridor Project (the “project”), including “its proposal to tunnel below
Bel-Air, as well as to determine what, if any, public outreach was
conducted.”  (Opening Brief (“OB”)
6:7-9.)  
 
Metro admittedly withheld and redacted public records that
are responsive to Petitioner’s CPRA request. 
Of particular relevance, Metro has asserted that certain records are
exempt pursuant to the deliberative process privilege and the catchall
exemption of the CPRA.  To justify such
claims of exemption, Metro must prove that “the public
interest in nondisclosure clearly outweighs the public interest in disclosure.”
 (Citizens
for Open Government v. City of Lodi (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 296, 305.)  Specifically: 
 
[The] declarations
supporting the agency’s claims of exemption must be specific enough to give the
requester a meaningful opportunity to contest the withholding of the documents
and the court to determine whether the exemption applies.  The agency must describe each document or
portion thereof withheld, and for each withholding it must discuss the
consequences of disclosing the sought-after information.
 
(Golden Door Properties, LLC v. Sup. Ct. (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th
733, 790, citations and internal quotations and alterations omitted.) 
Metro has not provided sufficient information
for the court to evaluate its claims of exemption and privilege with respect to
any specific public record.  Metro does
not identify specific documents and does not analyze the exemptions with
respect to those specific documents.  Therefore,
the court (reluctantly) continues this hearing to afford Metro “an opportunity
to file supplemental declaration(s) in the superior court containing
information from which the court may make an informed decision on privilege and
exemption claims.”  (Id. at 792.)   
 


 
BACKGROUND 
 
A.        The Project 
 
According to a Fact Sheet published by Metro, “Metro is
conducting an environmental review for the Sepulveda Transit Corridor Project,
which will create a high-quality, reliable rail transit service alternative
connecting the San Fernando Valley and the Westside.”  (Helpern Decl. ¶ 35, Exh. LL.)  “Funding for planning and construction of the
Sepulveda Transit Corridor is provided partially by Measure M with the project
scheduled to open between the San Fernando Valley and the Westside in 2033–2035
($5.7 billion) and a future extension to LAX opening in 2057–2059 ($3.8
billion).”  (Ibid.)  “This project is currently in the planning
phase. An environmental review is underway analyzing six alternatives with
varying potential routes and modes. Metro is working with two private sector
proposers, LA SkyRail Express (monorail) and Sepulveda Transit Corridor
Partners (heavy rail), under a first-of-its-kind pre-development agreement to
potentially accelerate delivery of this project.”  (Ibid.; see also Coppolo Decl. ¶¶ 2-8
[discussing pre-development agreements and deliverables]; and Carter Decl. ¶¶ 3-27 [discussing
project feasibility study and environmental review process].)
 
Pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act
(“CEQA”), Metro released a Notice of Preparation of a Draft Environmental
Impact Report (“NOP”) for the Project on November 30, 2021.  (Carter Decl. ¶ 12.)  Metro contracted with HTA Partners (“HTA”) to
prepare a draft environmental impact report (“DEIR”).  (Id. ¶¶ 11, 22.)  HTA is required to complete multiple “tasks”
and “subtasks,” including preparation of technical analyses on potential
environmental impacts of the Project.  (Id.
¶ 22.)  This environmental review
process under CEQA is ongoing and has not been completed.  (Id. ¶ 26.)  
 
B.        The CPRA Request 
 
On November 22, 2022, Petitioner submitted a CPRA request to
Metro seeking approximately 40 categories of records for the period of January
1, 2012, to November 22, 2022 (“Request”). 
(Petition for Writ of Mandate (“Pet.”) ¶ 15, Exh. A; and Answer (“Ans.”)
¶ 15.)  The Request seeks production of
records related to Metro’s public communications regarding the Project, such as
“all records containing any draft responses to written questions from the
public regarding the [Project].”  (Pet.
Exh. A.)
 
The Request also seeks production of numerous categories of
records related to technical and financial attributes of the Project, as well
as other Metro projects.  Examples of the
specific categories of requests include the following: 
 
2. Records
relating to the proposed routes: 
 
a. Produce
all records relating to the decision(s) to consider tunneling under the
Sepulveda pass. 
….[¶]
c. Produce
all feasibility studies relating to the [Project]. 
….[¶¶]
h. Produce
all records relating to Pre-Development Agreements and/or contracts for Public
Private Partnerships with respect to the [Project].
 
3. Records
relating to safety concerns: 
 
a. Produce
all records showing any analysis of safety issues relating to the [Project.]
b. Produce
all records relating to the safety issues that caused the shut-down of the
Purple (D) Line Extension project.
                        ….[¶¶]
f. Produce
all records showing any analysis of the potential for criminal activity on all
existing or planned LACTMA trains, including [the Project].
                        ….[¶¶]
 
4. Records
relating to cost, budget and scheduling overruns: 
 
a. Produce
all records containing any budget forecasts or actual budgets for the
[Project]. 
b. Produce
the current budget for the [Project].
c. Produce
all records showing that the [Project] is, or has been, over budget.
….[¶]
 
            (Pet. Exh.
A.)
 
C.        Metro’s Responses to the
CPRA Request 
 
On December 2, 2022, Metro informed Petitioner that it
needed an additional 14 days to respond to the CPRA Request.  On December 16, 2022, Metro informed
Petitioner that it was still searching for records and that “[d]ue to the
number of records requested and the upcoming holidays, we anticipate this will
require another 30 days to complete.” 
(Helpern Decl. Exh. C, D.)
 
In a declaration, David Lor, Metro’s Senior Manager for
Information Governance, explains, in very general terms, the process by which
Metro searched for records responsive to the CPRA Request.  Metro “determined that the following
departments had potentially responsive records: Metro Countywide Planning &
Development, Project Management, Community Relations, the Board Clerk, System
Security and Law Enforcement, and Community Relations, and Office of Strategic
Innovation staff.”  (Lor Decl. ¶ 6.)  Heads of each of these departments
participated in searching for the public records responsive to the CPRA
Request.  (Id. ¶¶ 7-10.)
 
On January 13, 2023, Metro produced its first set of
responsive documents to Petitioner.  (Id.
¶ 6.)  Metro also advised Petitioner
on that date that it would need additional time to search for responsive
records and complete production.  (Ibid.;
see Helpern Decl. Exh. F.)  On March 20,
2023, while Metro’s production was ongoing, Petitioner filed this writ
petition.  
 
At times, Metro has made requests to Petitioner for
clarifications of certain parts of the Request. 
(Hamouie Decl. ¶ 21, Exh. B, E, H, I.) 
On July 27, 2023, Petitioner responded to one such request for
clarification by “explaining that when it stated that it seeks ‘all records
relating to contracts related to the [Project]’ it really meant that it was
seeking all deliverables provided to Metro pursuant to Metro Contract PS
4044200, Metro Contract AE 67085000, Metro PreDevelopment Agreement Contract
PS66773HRT, and Metro Pre-Development Agreement Contract PS66773MRT, ‘as well
as any preliminary drafts thereof and any related documentation—including
internal written correspondence and written correspondence with contractors and
subcontractors.’”  (Id. ¶ 22, Exh.
N.)  Metro interpreted Petitioner’s July
27, 2023, letter as a new CPRA request and provided an estimated production
date of December 29, 2023.  (Id. ¶
23.)
 
In total, Metro made about 15 productions of records between
January 13, 2023, and December 15, 2023, in response to the  Request. 
Metro has produced more than 25,000 pages of records in response to the
Request.  (Hamouie Decl. ¶¶ 13-20.)  Metro has also asserted that responsive
records (or parts thereof) are exempt from production on various grounds.  
 
Counsel for Petitioner and Metro have met and conferred, at
some length, regarding these exemptions. 
(See Id. ¶ 28 and Helpern Decl. Exh. Z-DD.)  During the meet and confer, Petitioner’s
counsel asserted that for records withheld or redacted based on privilege,
Petitioner “needs
more information about why the privilege supposedly applies.”  (Helpern Decl. Exh. BB.)   In response,
Metro asserted that it “is not required to prepare a privilege log under the
Public Records Act. (See Haynie v. Superior Court (2001) 26 Cal.4th
1061, 1075.)”  (Helpern Decl. Exh. CC.) 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Pursuant to the CPRA, Government Code sections 7921.000, et seq.,
individual citizens have a right to access government records. [1]  In enacting the CPRA, the California
Legislature declared that “access to information concerning the conduct of the
people’s business is a fundamental and necessary right of every person in this
state.”  (Gov. Code, § 7921.000; see also
County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 57, 63.) 
 
Article 1, Section
3(b) of the Constitution affirms that “[t]he people have the right of access to
information concerning the conduct of the people’s business.”  The Constitution mandates that the CPRA be
“broadly construed,” while any statute “that limits the right of access” must
be “narrowly construed.”  (See Nat’l
Lawyers Guild v. City of Hayward (2020) 9 Cal.5th 488, 507.)  The CPRA
“does not allow limitations on access to a public record based upon the purpose
for which the record is being requested, if the record is otherwise subject to
disclosure.” (Gov. Code § 7921.300.)  “Any
reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be available for inspection by
any person requesting the record after deletion of the portions that are
exempted by law.”  (Gov. Code §
7922.525(b).)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Metro Has the Burden to
Prove a CPRA Exemption 
 
Metro contends: “Bel-Air has failed to overcome the
presumption that Metro complied with the Act and fails to to [sic] identify
records improperly withheld.  Metro has
produced records responsive to all categories Bel-Air asserts are missing from
the production.  Records Bel-Air asserted
were missing during meet and confer discussions Metro has already explained
have either: (1) already been produced; (2) were not in Metro’s possession; or
(3) are exempt from disclosure pursuant to the Act’s multiple express and the
‘catch-all’ exemption.  No further action
is required.”  (Oppo. 7:16-21.)[2]
 
Metro misperceives its burden of proof in this CPRA action.  “To
establish an agency has a duty to disclose under [the CPRA], the petitioner
must show that: (1) the record ‘qualif[ies] as [a] ‘public record[ ]’ …; and
(2) the record is ‘in the possession of the agency.’”  (Anderson-Barker v Sup.Ct. (2019) 31
Cal.App.5th 528, 538.)  However, the
petitioner establishes this initial burden, the agency has the burden to prove
that public records have been properly redacted or withheld from
disclosure.  (Sacramento County Employees’ Retirement System v. Superior Court
(2013) 195 Cal.App.4th 440, 453.)  “[B]ecause
the party opposing disclosure under any CPRA exemption always bears the burden
of proving the exemption applies … on the facts, doubtful cases must always be
resolved in favor of disclosure.”  (Essick
v. County of Sonoma (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 941, 950.)  While government agencies are generally
“entitled to a presumption that they have reasonably and in good faith complied
with the obligation to disclose responsive information … that presumption
cannot be permitted to obstruct the prodisclosure [sic] purposes of the
[C]PRA.”  (ACLU of Northern Cal. v.
Sup.Ct. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 55, 83.)  
 
To carry its burden, the
[agency] must describe the justification for nondisclosure with reasonably
specific detail and demonstrate that the information withheld is within the
claimed privilege or exemption. This process cannot require an agency to disclose
the very information it seeks to protect. Having both the burden of proof and
all the evidence, the agency has the difficult task of justifying its
withholding the documents without compromising that very act by revealing
too much information.  However, declarations
supporting the agency’s claims of exemption must be specific enough to give the
requester a meaningful opportunity to contest the withholding of the documents
and the court to determine whether the exemption applies. The agency must
describe each document or portion thereof withheld, and for each withholding it
must discuss the consequences of disclosing the sought-after information.  Conclusory or boilerplate assertions that
merely recite the statutory standards are not sufficient.  A statement is 


 
conclusory ... where no
factual support is provided for an essential element of the claimed basis for
withholding information. 
 
(Golden Door Properties, LLC v. Sup. Ct. (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th
733, 790.)  
 
Here, it is clear that Metro withheld and/or redacted public records
that are responsive to the Request. 
Indeed, Metro has admitted as much in its correspondence with Petitioner
and in its opposition brief.  (See, e.g.,
Helpern Decl. Exh. Y, AA; see Oppo. 7:22-23, 11:10-13, and 14-19.)  Accordingly, Petitioner has met its initial
burden of proof in this writ action as to those withheld and redacted records.  The burden shifts to Metro to provide
sufficiently detailed declarations or other evidence to justify nondisclosure
of the withheld records and redacted information.  For the reasons discussed below, Metro has
not provided sufficient information from which the court can make an informed
decision on Metro’s privilege and exemption claims.    
 
            B.        Predevelopment Agreement Information 
 
            Metro entered into predevelopment
agreements (“PDAs”) as part of a procurement process that “engages the private
sector during the early planning and predevelopment stages of a project working
with an owner to determine whether a project is feasible, viable, and whether
the owner should move forward with development of a project.”  (Scott Decl. ¶ 5.)  Metro takes the position that the
“deliverables” from the contractors must be treated as confidential to protect
“their unique ideas and work products as part of a competitive process.”  (Id. ¶ 8.)  Metro seeks to withhold these documents
pursuant to: (1) The catchall exemption under Government Code section 7922.000,
and (2) The deliberative process privilege. 

 
The catchall exemption in Government Code section
7922.000 “allows a government agency to withhold records if it can demonstrate
that, on the facts of a particular case, the public interest served by
withholding the records clearly outweighs the public interest served by
disclosure.”  (City of San Jose v. Superior Court (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1008,
1017.)  “The burden of proof is on the
proponent of nondisclosure, who must demonstrate a ‘clear overbalance’ on the
side of confidentiality.”  (Id. at
1018, citations omitted.)  
 
“Under the deliberative process privilege, senior officials of all three
branches of government enjoy a qualified, limited privilege not to disclose or
to be examined concerning not only the mental processes by which a given
decision was reached, but the substance of conversations, discussions, debates,
deliberations and like materials reflecting advice, opinions, and
recommendations by which government policy is processed and formulated.” (Citizens for Open Government v. City of Lodi
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 296, 305.)  In
a CPRA action, the government agency claiming the deliberative process
exemption must show that on the facts of a particular case “the public interest
in nondisclosure clearly outweighs the public interest in disclosure.”  (See Citizens
for Open Government, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at 306; see also Times Mirror Co., supra, 53 Cal.3d at
1344.)  “To carry its burden, [Metro] must describe the justification
for nondisclosure with reasonably specific detail and demonstrate that the
information withheld is within the claimed privilege or exemption.”  (Golden Door,
supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at 790.)  “Conclusory or
boilerplate assertions that merely recite the statutory standards are not
sufficient.”  (Ibid.)  
            Petitioner does not
dispute that either or both of these exemptions may apply to some of the PDA
deliverables.  Petitioner states: “While
it may be true that some documents prepared as part of this process could
properly be shielded from disclosure, there is no hard and fast rule that every
record pertaining to a current negotiation or bidding process is exempt from
disclosure.”  (Petitioner’s Reply Brief,
8:14-16, emphasis in original.)  The
court agrees with Petitioner.  Metro argues that the public
interest “clearly” weighs in favor of nondisclosure of certain records.  (Oppo. 14-18.)  However, Metro does not adequately describe
the PDA deliverables at issue, and the court shares Petitioner’s concern that
Metro is taking a “blanket approach” to all documents in the PDA process.  Simply, the court does not have sufficient
information to evaluate the issue.    
 
            According
to the declaration of Peter Carter, Metro’s Senior Director in Countywide
Planning & Development, the PDA deliverables include “unvetted draft
technical material addressing the cost and environmental and community impacts
of the alternatives identified in the NOP.” 
(Carter Decl. ¶ 29; see also Id. ¶ 22 [“HTA’s scope of
work includes 12 tasks and multiple subtasks.”].) 
Carter opines:
 
A
premature release of pre-“camera-ready” HTA deliverables would interfere with
Metro’s ability to effectively engage with and reach consensus with the
[Federal Transit Administration] regarding the content of the EIS that is
required to be adopted by the FTA prior to granting federal funding or other
approvals for the Project” and “would also interfere with Metro’s ability to
finalize both the DEIR and the DEIS by generating public and public agency
inquiries regarding the technical and legal adequacy of preliminary analyses
which have not been verified by Metro and its public agency partners. 
 
(Carter Decl. ¶¶ 30-31; see also
Coppolo Decl. ¶ 8 [asserting that confidentiality of the PDAs “is
imperative”].)  This declaration does not
specify what documents are included in the determination.    
 
Two of Metro’s declarations, those
of Carolina Coppolo and Peter Carter, provide general information about the
PDAs, PDA deliverables, and the DEIR process. 
However, the court cannot balance the interests for and against
disclosure in the abstract and without more specific information concerning
each of the withheld records.  Further,
even if Metro were to prove that the privilege applies to some or all of the
withheld records, Metro must also show that no information in the withheld
public records is “segregable.”  (See Gov. Code § 7922.525(b) [“Any reasonably segregable portion of a
record shall be available for inspection … after deletion of the portions that
are exempted by law.”])  Metro’s
opposition does not make that showing.  
 
Metro’s remaining
declarations do not provide sufficient information.  David Lor, Metro’s Senior Manager for Information Governance, explains only in
general terms the process by which Metro searched for records responsive to the
CPRA Request.  (Lor Decl. ¶¶ 6-9.)  Sid Scott provides generalized information
about PDAs.  While he opines that
confidential work products would “typically” include certain types of
documents, he does not discuss any specific records at issue in this case.  (Scott Decl. ¶ 8; see also Id. ¶¶
9-11)  Scott’s discussion of “specific examples
of deliverables under the Sepulveda Corridor PDA” lacks reference to any actual
records that were withheld or redacted by Metro.  (Id. ¶ 10.)   Further, Scott, an outside consultant, does
not show that he has personal knowledge of Metro’s search for responsive
records and of the records that were actually withheld or redacted by
Metro.  (Id. ¶¶ 2-4.)  
 
Similarly,
declarations from litigation counsel did not provide sufficient
information.  In her declaration, Maya
Hamouie reproduces parts of Metro’s letter dated February 2, 2024, to
Petitioner’s counsel, in which Metro argued that certain records
were properly withheld pursuant to the catchall exemption and deliberative
process privilege.  (Hamouie Decl. ¶ 28;
see also Helpern Decl. Exh. AA [February 2, 2024, letter].)  Metro’s February 2, 2024, letter is not
verified under penalty of perjury, and Hamouie did not show personal knowledge
of the contents of each of the records identified in that letter or the reasons
for non-disclosure.  More important, this
letter does not appear to provide a comprehensive list of the withheld records
and the letter lacks sufficient information about each withheld or redacted document
to support a determination that the specified records were properly withheld or
redacted.  As examples, the February 2,
2024, letter describes the first two withheld records as follows: 
 



 


Record


Metro’s Response




1.


Capital Costs
  Report (Task 4.2 from Metro Sepulveda Mobility Partners contract PS 40442000)


Metro withheld
  this record because it contains information that is subject to the
  deliberative process privilege (California First Amendment Coalition v.
  Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 1325, 1338); and the catchall exemption (Gov.
  Code, § 7922.000; see also Michaelis, Montanari & Johnson v. Superior
  Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1065, 1073-74].)




7.


Draft and Final
  Cost Methodology Reports (Task 7.13.1 from Metro HTA Partners contract AE
  67085000)


Metro withheld
  this record because it contains information that is subject to the
  deliberative process privilege (California First Amendment Coalition v.
  Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 1325, 1338); and the catchall exemption (Gov.
  Code, § 7922.000; see also Michaelis, Montanari & Johnson v. Superior
  Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1065, 1073-74].)



 
From this
information—the title of the record and the contract “task” to which it relates—the
court cannot make an informed decision about whether there is a “clear
overbalance” on the side of confidentiality for any specific record.  Nor can the court make an informed decision
about whether any information in the records is “segregable.”  
 
Notably, “the deliberative
process privilege itself applies only if the public interest in
nondisclosure clearly outweighs the public
interest in disclosure.”  (State v.
Sup.Ct. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 214, 237.)  “Thus, even without [Petitioner] stating a
specific reason for its PRA request, there already is weight on the scale in
favor of disclosure that [Metro] must overcome to assert the deliberative
process privilege.”  (Ibid.)  That there is “weight of the scale in favor
of disclosure” is an additional reason that Metro must provide sufficiently
detailed declarations to justify withholding public records under the catchall
exemption.  
 
Metro argues that
it was not required “to provide detailed affidavits supporting the public
interest in nondisclosure before Bel-Air filed this
litigation.”  (Oppo. 17:7-8 [bold italics
in original].)  Metro is correct that it
did not have an obligation to produce a privilege log or “detailed affidavits”
in response to the Request and before Petitioner filed this litigation.  (See Haynie v. Superior Court (2001)
26 Cal.4th 1061, 1075.)  However, now, the
issue is whether Metro has provided sufficient information to support a
determination, by this court, with respect to claims of exemption asserted by
Metro.  The California Supreme Court and
Court of Appeal have held that a court may order the agency to prepare a privilege log or provide more detail
declarations if such evidence is necessary to resolve a pending lawsuit
concerning the agency’s duty of disclosure under the CPRA.  (Id. at 1072-1073; see also Golden Door, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at 790.)  If Metro hopes to prevail in this proceeding,
it must provide sufficient information for the court to evaluate the claims of
exemption.  
 
            In sum, the court agrees with Metro
that some of the PDA deliverables are likely exempt, and the court agrees with
Petitioner that Metro appears to be applying a blanket approach to the
documents.  Metro does not provide
sufficient information for the court to evaluate its claims of exemption, e.g.,
identification of specific documents that were withheld, the reasons why
disclosure would the public interest would be served by non-disclosure,
etc.  The closest Metro comes is in the
declaration of Sid Scott, but it is not even clear this is the list of
documents that was withheld.  This is not
sufficient.  (See United States v.
Dunkel, 927 F.2d 955, 956 (7th Cir. 1991), recognizing that “[j]udges are
not like pigs, hunting for truffles buried in the briefs [or the
record].”)  
 
            C.        Cost
Estimates and Feasibility Reports 
 
            First, Metro
argues that “preliminary cost estimates and feasibility reports” are exempt
from production under Government Code section 7928.705.  This section provides an exemption from
disclosure for “the contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made for or by a state or local agency
relative to the acquisition of property, or to prospective public supply and
construction contracts, until all of the property has been acquired or
all of the contract agreement obtained.”  (Gov. Code § 7928.705, emphasis added.)  Section 7927.500 provides an exemption from
disclosure for “any preliminary drafts, notes, or interagency or intraagency
memoranda that are not retained by a public agency in the ordinary course of
business, if the public interest in withholding those records clearly
outweighs the public interest in disclosure.”  (Gov. Code § 7927.500, emphasis added.)  
 
            A determination of
whether sections 7928.705 and 7927.500 justify withholding or redacting of a
public record depends on both the specific contents of the records at issue and
the surrounding factual circumstances (i.e., has the property been
acquired or the contract agreement obtained; or does the public interest in
non-disclosure clearly outweigh the public interest in disclosure).  In its opposition brief, Metro has not given
any explanation of how this court may determine, based on the declarations
provided, that any specific record falls within the scope of sections 7928.705
and 7927.500.  Again, it appears that
Metro is taking a blanket approach to documents, and the court does not have
sufficient information to determine whether the withheld documents fall within
the scope of the exemption.  
 
            D.        Self-Critical Analysis Privilege 
 
In a letter dated December 15, 2023, Metro informed Petitioner
that it withheld and/or redacted responsive record based on the “self-critical
analysis privilege.”  (Helpern Decl. Exh.
Y, AA.)  On June 15, 2022, Metro informed
Petitioner that it was claiming the self-critical analysis privilege with
respect to certain redactions in an email exchange dated June 15, 2022.  (Id. Exh. AA.)  On February 14, 2024, Petitioner then
asserted that the self-critical analysis privilege has not been recognized in
California.  (Id. Exh. B, citing Cloud
v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1552, 1559.)  On April 15, 2024, shortly before
Petitioner’s opening writ brief was due, Metro waived the self-critical
analysis privilege with respect to email exchange of June 15, 2022.  (See Hamouie Decl. ¶ 26, Exh. AB; Helpern
Decl. Exh. DD.)
 
Petitioner contends that Metro’s “last-minute disclosure” of
the unredacted version of the email exchange shows, as a general matter, that
“Metro is withholding materials from the public that are both highly-relevant
and not subject to any exemption from production.”  (Opening Brief (“OB”) 17-18.)  The court declines to make such finding based
solely on Metro’s waiver of privilege for this one email.  At all times, a public agency has the
discretion to waive certain exemptions recognized by the Act, including
exemption in Government Code section 7927.705 upon which Metro relied to assert
the self-critical analysis privilege. (See Gov. Code 
§ 7921.505(b) and § 7920.505(a)(23).)  Metro’s counsel explains that Metro decided
to waive the privilege as to the email exchange of June 15, 2022, “in order to
limit the issues in the litigation.” 
(Hamouie Decl. ¶ 26.)  Based on
the court’s review of the redacted and unredacted record at issue, the court
finds that explanation credible.  (See
Helpern Decl. ¶¶ 32-33, Exh. EE and FF.)
 
Metro contends that Petitioner’s “self-critical analysis
privilege argument is moot” because “Metro waived the self-critical analysis
privilege with respect to a limited set of records relating to
the June 15, 2022 email communication.” 
(Oppo. 19 [bold italics added].) 
Metro does not prove that the issue is moot.  In its opposition brief and in its April 15,
2024, letter, Metro only stated that it “has elected to waive the deliberative
process privilege, the self-critical analysis privilege, and the catch-all
exemption with respect to a limited set of records.”  (Helpern Decl. Exh. DD [bold italics added].)  Again, Metro has not provided any privilege
log or declaration from a custodian of records attesting that Metro claimed the
self-critical analysis privilege only as to the email exchange of June 15,
2022.  Metro has previously claimed this
privilege broadly as to an unspecified number of withheld records.  (Helpern Decl. Exh. Y.)  Accordingly, the court infers that Metro may
have additional responsive records that were withheld based on the
self-critical analysis privilege.  
 
Moreover, the parties dispute whether the self-critical
analysis privilege is a proper exemption under the CPRA.  (See Oppo. 19, fn. 9; Reply 10-11.)  The CPRA “does not require disclosure of
records, the disclosure of which is exempted or prohibited pursuant to federal
or state law, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Evidence Code
relating to privilege.”  (Gov. Code §
7927.705.)  The Cloud decision,
upon which Petitioner relies, did not address Government Code section 7927.705
or whether the self-critical analysis privilege is recognized under federal law
and the CPRA.  Regardless, to the extent
the exemption is proper, the court cannot determine whether it applies to a
specific record without more information about the record or records at
issue.  
 
E.         Other
Exemptions Claimed by Metro 
 
In its
correspondence with Petitioner, Metro also claimed that it withheld responsive
records pursuant to the following exemptions and privileges: “attorney-client
communications and attorney work product doctrine (Gov. Code §§ 7927.200,
7927.705; Evid. Code, §§ 952, 1040, 1129; Bus. & Prof. Code, §§ 6149, 6068
subd. (e); County of Los Angeles Bd. of Supervisors v. Superior Court (2017)
12 Cal.App.5th 1264, 1275); proprietary or trade secret information [privilege]
(Civ. Code, § 3426.1, subd. (d); Gov. Code, § 7927.605); official information
and catchall exemption (Gov. Code, § 7922.000, Evid. Code., § 1040); see also Michaelis,
Montanari & Johnson v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1065, 1073-74];
[and the] sensitive security information [privilege] (Gov. Code, § 7927.705; 49
C.F.R. § 1520).”  (Helpern Decl. Exh.
Y.)  In addition, Metro acknowledged that
it redacted certain information pursuant to the right to personal privacy, the
attorney-client privilege, and attorney work product doctrine.  (Ibid.)  For the reasons discussed above, the court
does not have sufficient information to evaluate these claims of
exemption.   
 
F.         Metro’s Production of
Records for Certain “Categories” Is Not Dispositive 
 
Petitioner’s consultant, Bob Anderson, describes multiple
“categories of documents that [he] did not see in [a] review of Metro’s
production.”  (Anderson Decl. ¶¶
5-6.)  In its opposition papers, Metro
has not responded directly to Anderson’s contention that these categories of
records are responsive to the Request. 
(See Oppo. 13:21-14:4.)  Instead,
Metro simply argues: “In fact, Metro produced records in response to each of
these categories. (Hamouie Decl. ¶ 30.) Metro has not omitted records.”  (Oppo. 14.) 
In two footnotes, Metro also states: “Examples of records that Bel-Air
claims Metro omitted are attached to the declaration of Maya Hamouie. (See Id.
at ¶ 30, Exhs. U-Y.)  Importantly,
Bel-Air never met and conferred with Metro regarding these purported ‘missing’
categories of records prior to filing the Petition. (Hamouie Decl. 
¶ 31.)”  (Oppo. 14,
fn. 4 & 5.)  
 
In fact, Petitioner met and conferred with Metro, at some
length, regarding Metro’s responses to the Request.  Metro cites no authority that further meet
and confer was required for a CPRA petition. 
(See Helpern Decl. Exh. C-DD.)  
 
In her declaration, attorney Hamouie includes a table in
which she lists “examples of records produced by Metro” in response to certain
categories discussed in Anderson’s declaration and Petitioner’s opening
brief.  (Hamouie Decl. ¶ 30.)  As a preliminary matter, Metro and Hamouie do
not adequately explain how the referenced exhibits are responsive to the
“missing categories” outlined in Andersons’ declaration.  For instance, as argued in reply, Exhibit W
is a
five-page table of contents for a Metro document titled “Measure M Five-Year
Comprehensive Assessment and Equity Report.” 
Metro and Hamouie do not explain how this table of contents proves that
Metro produced all responsive records relating to whether other transit
projects funded pursuant to Measure M are, or have been, over budget.  (Reply 11:15-28.)  
Furthermore, as
discussed, Hamouie does not purport to provide a comprehensive statement of the
records that have been produced for each category in the Request.  That Metro has produced some responsive
records is not disputed.  The issue here
is that Metro has admittedly withheld and redacted responsive public records
within its possession.  Metro, not
Petitioner, has the burden to provide sufficient information to this court
describing the withheld or redacted records so that the court can rule on the
claims of exemption and privilege.  
 
G.        Metro’s Complaints about Petitioner
 
Counsel for Metro attacks this petition as
being motivated by “distaste for the potential of a public transit facility in
Bel-Air’s backyard—home to some of the wealthiest Americans.”  (Oppo. at 7:4-5.)  Counsel for Metro also complains about “abusive
conduct,” viz., emails sent by someone named Fredric Rosen, who is not
Petitioner’s counsel.  Counsel for Metro
cites no authority that these issues support a denial of the petition for writ
of mandate.  Nevertheless, the court will
limit the meet-and-confer sessions to counsel and order that clients may not
attend or participate directly.    
 
H.        The Remedy
 
The court does not have sufficient information to resolve Metro’s claims
of exemption.  If the agency’s
declarations are not sufficiently detailed to support a determination of
exemption under the CPRA, the agency “should be afforded an opportunity to file
supplemental declaration(s) in the superior court containing information from
which the court may make an informed decision on privilege and exemption
claims.”  (Golden Door, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th at 792.)  Therefore, the court will continue the hearing to a new hearing date so
that Metro may have an opportunity to submit a
privilege log and supplemental declarations. 
(Golden Door, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at 792.)  Metro must provide sufficient information
about each of the withheld or redacted records “to give the requester ‘a meaningful opportunity to contest’ the withholding of the documents
and the court to determine whether the exemption applies.’ [Citation.]  ‘[T]he agency must describe ‘each document or
portion thereof withheld, and for each withholding it must discuss the
consequences of disclosing the sought-after information.’”  (Golden Door, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at
790.)  If Metro contends that there are
too many records to be listed individually in a privilege log (though it has
not submitted evidence of this), then Metro may group related documents
together in a privilege log.  However,
the privilege log and supplemental declarations must provide sufficiently
detailed information about each of the withheld or redacted records such that
the court can rule on Metro’s claims of exemption as to each responsive
record.  The court will also grant
Petitioner an opportunity to file a response to Metro’s privilege log and
supplemental declarations.  
 
In camera review of the unredacted records is permitted under the CPRA, but it is
not required.  (See e.g. Gov. Code §
7923.105(a); see American Civil Liberties
Union of Northern Cal. V. Sup. Ct. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 55, 74 [“Because the agency
opposing disclosure bears the burden of proving that an exemption applies,” it
has the burden to submit evidence, including for in camera review]; see also Id.
at 87 [“a trial court's prerogative to inspect documents in camera ‘is not a
substitute for the government's burden of proof, and should not be resorted to
lightly’”].)  Neither party has argued,
or shown, that in camera review is necessary for the court to decide the
petition at this time.  The court, in its
discretion, will grant Metro an opportunity to submit a privilege log and more
detailed declarations, as outlined above. 
However, should that additional process be insufficient for the court to
adjudicate Metro’s claims of exemption and privilege, the court will then
consider in camera review of the withheld and/or redacted records.
 
I.          Remaining Issues 
 
Metro’s privilege log and supplemental declarations may have relevance
to other issues raised in the briefs, including: (1) the adequacy of Metro’s
search for records and the timing of Metro’s compliance with the CPRA; (2)
Metro’s allegations concerning allegedly improper conduct of Petitioner’s
members; and (3) Petitioner’s cause of action for declaratory relief.   Accordingly, the court defers a ruling on
those issues until after it reviews Metro’s privilege log and supplemental
declarations.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The court orders counsel for the
parties to meet-and-confer concerning the dispositive issues.  For example, it appears to the court that
some of the PDA deliverables likely are exempt from disclosure but that Metro
is taking a “blanket approach” with respect to every document in the PDA
process.  The meet-and-confer shall occur
via telephone, video-conference, or live (i.e., not via email).  
 
            2.         The court orders the parties to file a
status report concerning the results of their meet-and-confer, i.e., whether
they were able to resolve any issues and, if so, what issues remain for the
court to decide.  This status report
shall be filed on or before ________, 2024.
 
            3.         The court shall hold a status
conference on ________, 2024, at ____, to discuss the issues and set a further
hearing/briefing schedule if necessary.
 
            4.         Petitioner’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court. 
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
 
Dated: August 14,
2024                      
                                                                                    ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


