 Case Number:  22STCV05553    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  B BACKGROUNDOn March 28, 2024, Plaintiff Glendis Beker (“Plaintiff”) initially noticed the deposition of Defendant Hertz Corporation (“Hertz”)’s employee, Darren Bibbins (“Bibbins”), for April 11, 2024. (Movsesian Decl. ¶ 6; Exh. C [notice of deposition].) On April 8, 2024, Hertz served an objection, which Plaintiff claims was untimely (Ibid. at ¶ 7; Exh. D [Hertz response].) On April 11, 2024, neither Hertz nor Bibbins appeared for the noticed deposition. (Ibid. at ¶ 8; Exh. E [notice of non-appearance].)On April 12, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent Hertz a meet and confer correspondence regarding Bibbins’s non-appearance. (Movsesian Decl. ¶ 9; Exh. F [correspondence].) Hertz’s counsel responded that their objection to the deposition was timely and that Bibbins was an inappropriate witness. (Ibid.; Exh. G [Hertz response].)On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff sent Hertz another meet and confer correspondence, explaining why their objection was untimely and why Bibbins was an appropriate witness. (Movsesian Decl. ¶ 10; Exh. H [correspondence].) On multiple occasions thereafter, counsels for Plaintiff and Hertz meet and conferred as to the legal basis for Bibbins’s deposition. To date, Hertz refuses to submit Bibbins to a deposition. (Ibid. at ¶ 15.)LEGAL STANDARDAny party may obtain any discovery of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence. (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)CCP § 2025.450 provides in pertinent part the following:“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040 or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.CCP § 1987.1(a) further states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.” (CCP § 1987.1(a).) “[U]pon motion reasonably made by the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling compliance with, subpoenas.” (Lee v. Swansboro Country Property Owners Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575, 582-583.)DISCUSSIONPlaintiff’s ArgumentPlaintiff argues that good cause exists to depose Bibbins because Hertz’s responses to Plaintiff’s first set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Requests for Production, and Requests for Admissions were verified by Bibbins. (Movsesian Decl. ¶¶ 3 and 4; Exh. A [Plaintiff’s discovery requests]; Exh. B [Hertz’s responses].) This verification included Bibbins’s declaration that the “matters stated in the foregoing document are true of [his] own knowledge except as to those matters which are stated on information and belief . . .” (Ibid. at ¶ 4.)Most responses were not made upon information and belief. Therefore, Plaintiff argues, Bibbins has information that is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence pursuant to CCP § 2017.010, et seq, making Bibbins’s deposition both appropriate and necessary. (Movsesian Decl. ¶ 5.)Hertz’s ArgumentIn its November 14, 2024, opposition, Hertz argues that Plaintiff’s motion should be denied because Bibbins is not a party to the action, nor is he an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party. (Opposition p. 2:3-4.) Therefore, Hertz argues, Plaintiff has no authority to depose Bibbins pursuant to CCP § 2025.450.Hertz notes that Plaintiff erroneously identified Bibbins as an employee of Defendant, when he is employed as a claims representative by ESIS TPA, an insurance adjuster. (Tafarella Decl. ¶ 4.) Therefore, Hertz argues, Bibbins can only be properly deposed through a notice of deposition of Hertz’s Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) or Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”). (Opposition pp. 3:26-27 and 4:1-2.)Additionally, Hertz argues that their opposition to Plaintiff’s March 28, 2024, deposition notice was timely. Hertz electronically served their objection three calendar days prior to the noticed deposition date. (Opposition p. 5:2-4.)TimelinessCCP § 2025.410 states that objections to noticed depositions must be served at least three calendar days prior to the noticed deposition date. (CCP § 2025.410.) Pursuant to CCP § 1010.6, electronic service of a document is “deemed complete at the time of the electronic transmission of the document or at the time that the electronic notification of service of the document is sent.” (CCP § 1010.6.) Hertz electronically served their objection on April 8, 2024,three days prior to the deposition date of April 11, 2024. (Opposition p. 5:2-4.) Therefore, Hertz timely served their objection pursuant to CCP § 2025.410.Good CauseThe Court now addresses whether Plaintiff has good cause to depose Bibbins pursuant to CCP § 2025.450.Bibbins is not a party to the action nor an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under CCP § 2025.230. (CCP § 2025.450.) Plaintiff is certainly entitled to seek the deposition of the person most knowledgeable as to Hertz’s discovery responses, or, in the alternative can serve a deposition subpoena on Bibbins but cannot compel his deposition pursuant to CCP 2025.450.CCP § 2025.230 states, in pertinent part:“If the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”CONCLUSIONHertz timely served an objection to Plaintiff’s notice of deposition for Mr. Bibbins. Additionally, Plaintiff improperly noticed that deposition pursuant to CCP § 2025.450.For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.