 Case Number:  23STCV03742    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



INTERCOMMUNITY ANESTHESIOLOGY SERVICES,
  INC.,
et al. 
 
        
  vs.
 
PIH HEALTH
  WHITTIER HOSPITAL
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV03742  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: April 22, 2024



 
 
IAS’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
On 2/21/2023, Plaintiff Intercommunity Anesthesiology
Services, Inc. (IAS) and Aidan O’Brien M.D. filed suit against PIH Health
Whittier Hospital (Defendant or PIH), alleging: (1) quantum meruit; (2)
defamation per se; (3) defamation; (4) intentional interference with
contractual relations; (5) intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage; and (6) inducing breach of contract. 
 
            On 4/28/2023, PIH filed a
cross-complaint (XC) against IAS. On 1/26/2024, PIH filed a second amended
cross-complaint (SXC) alleging: (1) civil theft; (2) unjust enrichment; (3)
mistaken receipt; and (4) violation of section 17200. 
 
            On 2/27/2024, IAS demurrer to PIH’s
SXC. 
 
Discussion

            
 
IAS argues that PIH’s SXC fails to state a claim. 
 
            After review, the Court agrees.
 
            As for the first cause of action,
the Court did not grant leave to amend to add a new cause of action. As such,
this new claim for civil theft is not properly pled.
 
            As for the second and third causes
of action, the Court previously sustained two rounds of demurrers to these
claims on the grounds that PIH had not alleged facts which could show that any
benefit was retained unjustly, or there was any fraud or mistake in payment.
This was because the pleadings alleged that the money was knowingly paid for
services actually rendered. 
 
            In particular, the Court wrote:
 
Here, just as
in original XC, PIH’s claim is based on payments made to IAS for services.
While PIH now alleges that IAS induced PIH into believing there was an
implied-in-fact contract by demanding payment for services and accepting
payment at the same rate, PIH acknowledges that the contract expired, it was
not renewed in March 2018, and it was aware of both of these facts. Moreover,
as noted by IAS, “PIH has not alleged that it was required or bound to use
IAS’s services or that it only used the services under a mistaken belief that
it had no other choice. As is clear from the FAXC, as soon as PIH decided it
did not want to use IAS’s services, it ‘quickly’ found a replacement group to
contract with at the same rate it paid to IAS.” (Demurrer, 13: 3-6.) Taken
together, PIH’s own allegations indicate that it knew the express contract had
expired, and that it continued, for several years, to pay IAS in exchange for
actually received services. PIH alleges that it was misled “into believing the
parties had an agreement that required PIH to pay IAS for anesthesiology
services to its patients,” but PIH does not allege any facts which could
support this. PIH must allege facts which could how it was led to believe there
was an agreement, when by its own admission the agreement had knowingly
expired. Moreover, given that PIH does not allege fraud, PIH’s unjust
enrichment claim still suffers from the fact that the money provided under the
assumed contract was for actually provided services. As such, it is still
unclear from PIH’s allegations that any benefit was retained unjustly. 
 
                        … 
 
Here, as
stated above, PIH does not allege fraud, nor has it alleged facts to show that
the money was mistakenly paid.  Rather,
PIH alleges that the money was knowingly and willingly paid to IAS for services
actually rendered. There is also the issue that IAS changed its position to its
detriment based on receipt of the money. (See Thresher v. Lopez (1921)
52 Cal.App. 219, 220.) As noted by IAS: 
 
If PIH had
not requested services from IAS, services for which PIH would pay IAS directly,
IAS would not have performed any services at all, let alone 24/7 anesthesia
coverage for PIH’s entire hospital. Moreover, had IAS’s individual doctors
performed services at the hospital on their own as some of them did prior to
2013, they would have taken the steps necessary to bill insurance companies
directly. But they cannot do that now, because PIH (or its agent, PacMed) has
accepted the assignment of the right to bill and has already billed the
patients. Thus, if PIH were to get its wish and owe IAS nothing, after the
fact, none of the doctors could actually bill for their services. This is
plainly a detriment to IAS, as well as a change in position in reliance on
PIH’s request for services. If IAS were to be required to return any of the
funds paid to it by PIH, it would never be able to recover the actual market
value of the services it provided.
(Demurrer,
14:25-15:9.) 
 
            (1/12/2024 Minute Order)
 
            Now,
in the SXC, PIH alleges that IAS knowingly induced PIH into believing there was
an implied agreement requiring the hospital to continue paying IAS because IAS
continued to send monthly invoices that demanded payment for services IAS had
rendered to its own patients. Moreover, PIH alleges that the benefit retained
was unjust because IAS’s patients, as opposed to PIH, were receiving
IAS’s services, and if there was no agreement PIH would have paid IAS nothing. 
 
            However,
these facts remain insufficient to state a claim for several reasons. 
 
First, PIH
acknowledges that the contract expired, it was not renewed in March 2018, and
it was aware of both of these facts. As such, PIH has already alleged that it
knew there was no active agreement. There is no dispute that IAS continued to
perform services at IAS. PIH has not alleged facts which could show that the
receipt of invoices, for services actually render, fraudulently induced PIH
into believing it was legally bound to continue contracting with IAS. Given
that IAS continued to provide services, it seems clear that IAS would continue
to send invoices for services rendered. PIH does not allege facts which could
show how IAS’s issuance of invoices for services rendered fraudulently induced
PIH into believing it was bound by an implied agreement when it has already
admitted it knew that the actual agreement had expired and had not been
renewed.  
 
Second, while
PIH creates a distinction between it as a hospital and the patients receiving
care at PIH, this ignores the fact that PIH was still able to bill the patients
directly and collect from them. As PIH notes in opposition, the benefit of the
agreement between PIH and IAS—wherein PIH paid IAS, and PIH then assumed the cost
and risks of collecting payment from IAS’s patients—had been that it
“streamlined the delivery of patient care, minimized the administrative burden
on the anesthesiologists, and eliminated surprise bills.” (Opp., 5: 11-12.) PIH
argues that IAS was unjustly enriched and mistakenly received money because
“[w]ithout an agreement, PIH did not have to pay IAS anything. IAS would need
to bill its own patients directly and collect what it could from them.” (Opp.,
5: 14-15.) However, again, there is no dispute that services were actually
rendered by IAS to the patients, and that when PIH provided payment to IAS,
they remained entitled to then collect payment from IAS’s patients. As such,
PIH has not alleged facts that it was not able to collect payment from IAS’s
patients, such that IAS was enriched by PIH’s payment but PIH was not able to
recover payment.  In other words, while
PIH’s allegations show an extra administrative hurdle in recovering payments,
PIH’s allegations do not allege that IAS received payment from PIH but PIH did
not receive payment. 
 
Given that
PIH does not allege that it was not able to recoup those payments, PIH is
arguing that IAS was unjustly enriched because it was paid directly by PIH
instead of having to receive that payment directly from the patients. However,
PIH has not set forth any legal authority that could show that an unjust
enrichment claim can be supported by an allegation that one party did not have
to go through certain administrative hurdles that it otherwise would have been
able to go through. 
 
Moreover,
PIH, as a hospital, did need to provide anesthesia coverage for its hospital.
As such, the Court is somewhat confused by PIH’s suggestion that these services
were purely for IAS’s benefit, and that it would not have paid for
anesthesiology coverage but for its belief that it was bound by an implied
agreement to do so. 
 
In sum, PIH
has still not alleged facts which could show that IAS was unjustly enriched or
that it received mistaken receipt of funds. PIH does not allege that it would
not have procured anesthesiology services for the hospital but for the belief
in the implied agreement. PIH also alleges that it knew the agreement expired
and did not renew, and does not allege facts which could show how IAS’s
continued issuances of invoices—when they were still providing services at the
hospital—induced PIH into believing they were bound by an implied contract
which they would otherwise not have complied with. 
 
PIH has been
afforded multiple opportunities to address this defect. Given that PIH’s
allegations remain deficient to state a claim, the Court is persuaded that
further leave to amend would be futile.
 
Based on the
foregoing, IAS’s demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 