  Case Number:  21STCV45736    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WINDI PALMER 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
REMET
  CORPORATION, et al.  
 


 Case
  No.:  21STCV45736` 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 22, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to modify the umbrella protective order is DENIED. 
 
            On
12/15/2024, Plaintiff Windi Palmer (Plaintiff) filed suit against Remet
Corporation and Remet Alcohols, Inc., alleging: (1) breach of written contract;
(2) breach of implied-in-fact contract; (3) failure to pay wages when due in
violation of California Labor Code section 204; (4) failure to furnish accurate
wage statements; (5) failure to pay all wages due on separation; (6)
constructive discharge; (7) violation of Business and Professions Code section
17200; and (8) accounting. 
 
            On
2/13/2024, Plaintiff moved to modify the discovery protective order.
 
Discussion   
 
            Plaintiff
seeks an order modifying the umbrella discovery protective order entered on 6/7/2023,
pursuant to stipulation of the parties. In particular, Plaintiff seeks a
modification of the order to include her husband, Michael Palmer, among the
individuals to whom Defendants’ “Confidential Materials” may be disclosed under
the terms of the protective order.
 
            After
review, the Court finds good cause does not exist to grant the requested
relief. 
 
            First,
Plaintiff voluntarily agreed to the terms of the Protective Order, which
knowingly precluded Michael Palmer from being able to review Confidential
Documents. As noted by Remet in opposition, “[s]ince early 2023, Remet has
steadfastly refused to allow Michael Palmer to be covered under the Protective
Order or to review Confidential Documents. Remet has never deviated from its
position especially since Plaintiff has testified that Michael Palmer was
complicit in assisting her in stealing Remet’s trade secrets. More
significantly, Remet's position has been consistent even before the preparation
of the Protective Order as Remet has never given Michael Palmer permission to
review any of its Confidential Documents, which include financial records, and
has never authorized Plaintiff to show Michael Palmer any of Remet's
Confidential Documents.”  (Opp., 1:
19-24.) Accordingly, the terms of the Protective Order as they concern Michael
Palmer were drafted with an understanding that they included a bar on Michael
Palmer reviewing confidential materials, and Plaintiff voluntarily agreed to
that term.
 
            Second,
Plaintiff’s arguments as to why the protective order must be modified are
insufficiently supported. Plaintiff argues that the order should be modified
because of Michael Palmer's "familiarity with the issues,” because he has
already seen many of the financial documents he is now excluded from seeing,
and because he is the only individual who can properly analyze the financial
statements. (See Motion, 1-9.) However, as noted by Remet, Plaintiff
“fails to explain how or why Michael Palmer—Plaintiff's spouse, a non-party,
and someone who has never worked for Remet—is somehow in a unique and superior
position such that Plaintiff's expert would need the assistance of Michael
Palmer.” (Opp., 5: 21-22.) Indeed, Plaintiff has not persuasively shown that it
would be “virtually impossible” for the expert forensic accounting firm to
understand and explain Defendants’ audited financial statements or Plaintiff’s
monthly reports, and that only Mr. Palmer, a non-expert witness who does not
have a financial background, is uniquely able to “break down the discrepancies,
explain them and guide us through his analysis.” (Memo. 9: 7-8.)
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to modify the umbrella protective order is
denied. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 