 Case Number:  23TRCV03319    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka    Thursday, September 19, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 15   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Kintetsu
Enterprises Company of America v. Rexford Industrial Acquisitions, LLC, et al.    
23TRCV03319
1.      City of Torrance’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
TENTATIVE RULING

City of Torrance’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on October 9, 2023. Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint was filed on April 19, 2024. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. The action stems from Defendant Rexford Industrial’s
(“Rexford”) development of a warehouse project in the City of Torrance.
Plaintiff owns the Miyako Hybrid Hotel which is adjacent to the project site. Plaintiff
alleges damages as a result of the project including noise, vibrations, dirt,
and trespass resulting in cancellation and lost business. Plaintiff alleges the
following causes of action: 1. Negligence and Negligence Per Se; 2. Public
Nuisance; 3. Private Nuisance; 4. Trespass; 5. Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage; 6. Unfair Competition; 7. Fraud; 8. Breach of
Mandatory Duty; 9. Declaratory Relief. 
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendant set forth a meet and
confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41. (Decl., Alan B.
Fenstermacher, ¶¶ 3-7.) 
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant’s and Plaintiff’s requests
for judicial notice are granted.
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law.
(Schmidt v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are
the essential facts of the case "with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature,
source, and extent of his cause of action.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  "Whether
the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling
upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a
demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s factual
allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a defendant of
the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
Defendant demurs to
the eighth and ninth causes of action for failure to state sufficient facts to
state a cause of action. CCP § 430.10(e). 
 
Eighth Cause of
Action for Breach of Mandatory Duty
 
Defendant’s demurrer
to the second cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
Gov. Code, § 815.6
states: “Where a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an
enactment that is designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of
injury, the public entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately
caused by its failure to discharge the duty unless the public entity
establishes that it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.” As
can be gleaned from the plain language of the statute, there must be a
mandatory duty that is enacted for liability under Section 815.6 to apply. 
“Thus, Government Code section
815.6 contains a three-pronged test for determining whether liability may be
imposed on a public entity: (1) an enactment must impose a mandatory, not
discretionary, duty; (2) the enactment must intend to protect against the kind
of risk of injury suffered by the party asserting section 815.6 as a basis for
liability; and (3) breach of the mandatory duty must be a proximate cause of
the injury suffered.” Thompson v. City of Lake Elsinore (1993) 18
Cal.App.4th 49, 54 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
Here, Plaintiff has
failed to identify an enactment that imposes a mandatory duty. The only
enactment identified in the FAC is Torrance Municipal Code (“TMC”) 46.3.1(a).
Plaintiff also makes a stray reference to Rexford’s conditional use permit,
but, of course, obviously, this is not an enactment. 
 
TMC 46.3.1(a) states:
“It shall be unlawful
for any person within the City of Torrance to operate power construction tools,
equipment, or engage in the performance of any outside construction or repair
work on buildings, structures, or projects in or adjacent to a residential area
involving the creation of noise beyond 50 decibels (db) as measured at property
lines, except between the hours of 7:30 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. Monday through Friday
and 9:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. on Saturdays. Construction shall be prohibited on
Sundays and Holidays observed by City Hall. An exception exists between the
hours of 10:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. for homeowners that reside at the property.”
 
Nothing in this
portion of the Torrance Municipal Code imposes a mandatory duty upon Defendant
City of Torrance. There is nothing in this section that requires any action on
the part of the city. Section 46.3.1(a) simply sets forth examples of what
would be considered unlawful activity during the course of construction within
the city. 
 
Curiously, Plaintiff
omitted any reference to the section which immediately follows which states: “The
Community Development Director may allow expanded hours and days of
construction if unusual circumstances and conditions exist. Such requests must
be made in writing and must receive approval by the Director prior to any
expansion of the hour and day restrictions listed above.” TMC 46.3.1(b). This
section clearly shows that the City can act within its discretion regarding
noise in construction sites.
 
Finally, even
assuming arguendo that TMC 46.31.1(a) created a mandatory duty, which it does
not, the section only references projects adjacent to a residential area and
not a commercial building such as Plaintiff’s hotel.
 
There is absolutely
no mandatory duty identified by Plaintiff. The demurrer to the eighth cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Ninth Cause of
Action for Declaratory Relief
 
The demurrer to the ninth
cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to
state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
Code Civ. Proc., §
1060 states, in relevant part:
“Any person
interested under a written instrument, excluding a will or a trust, or under a
contract, or who desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties with
respect to another, or in respect to, in, over or upon property, [. . .]may, in
cases of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the
respective parties, bring an original action or cross-complaint in the superior
court for a declaration of his or her rights and duties in the premises,
including a determination of any question of construction or validity arising
under the instrument or contract. He or she may ask for a declaration of rights
or duties, either alone or with other relief; and the court may make a binding
declaration of these rights or duties, whether or not further relief is or
could be claimed at the time. The declaration may be either affirmative or
negative in form and effect, and the declaration shall have the force of a
final judgment. The declaration may be had before there has been any breach of
the obligation in respect to which said declaration is sought.”
 
“To qualify for
declaratory relief, [Plaintiff] would have to demonstrate its action presented
two essential elements: “(1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an
actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to [Plaintiff’s] rights
or obligations.... But even assuming that [Plaintiff’s] action satisfies the
first requirement, it must still present an ‘actual controversy.’ The ‘actual
controversy’ language in Code of Civil Procedure section 1060 encompasses a
probable future controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the
parties. It does not embrace controversies that are conjectural, anticipated to
occur in the future, or an attempt to obtain an advisory opinion from the
court. Thus, while a party may seek declaratory judgment before an actual
invasion of rights has occurred, it must still demonstrate that the controversy
is justiciable. And to be justiciable, the controversy must be ripe.” Wilson
& Wilson v. City Council of Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559,
1582 (internal citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original). “The
court may refuse to exercise the power granted by this chapter in any case
where its declaration or determination is not necessary or proper at the time
under all the circumstances.” Code Civ. Proc., § 1061.
 
First, the cause of
action is essentially duplicative of the underlying eighth cause of action and
fails in connection with that cause of action. Second, Plaintiff has failed to
identify a proper subject for declaratory relief. There is no contract between
the parties that is identified that requires a declaration of the parties’
rights and obligations. In addition, while arguably “property” is involved in
the underlying dispute, any declaration regarding the rights and obligations
with respect to property would be involving the property of Plaintiff and
Defendant Rexford, and not Defendant City of Torrance.
 
The demurrer to the
ninth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Defendant is ordered
to give notice of this ruling. 