 Case Number:  22NWCV01107    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  C Ching Wen Yeh v.
Oxy-Health, LLC, et al. 
CASE
NO.: 22NWCV01107
HEARING: 
10/31/23 
 
#7 - TENTATIVE
ORDER 
 
The Motion for
Attorney’s Fee is STAYED pending disposition of the appeal.  Moving party to give notice. 
 
Background

Plaintiff Yeh moves for attorney’s
fees and costs pursuant to CCP §§ 425.16(c)(1) and 128.5.
Plaintiff Ching Wen Yeh’s
Complaint alleges that “defendant OXY, and its President, PATEL, fired
Plaintiff for submitting testimony and otherwise assisting in a court
proceeding based on the same defendants alleged violations of California
Government Code, Section 12940. Plaintiff’s testimony concerned his
observations of PATEL's improper and unlawful conduct towards female
employees.” (Complaint, ¶ 26.) “Plaintiff testified that Patel would slap the
backsides of female employees in the office, would call female employees
sexually charged names and refer to their body parts on the public intercom
‘... get your big ass in my office.’ Plaintiff testified that Patel would make
comments out loud about female employees’ breasts and buttocks and when he
drank, he was even more inappropriate and offensive to female employees.” (Id.,
¶ 27.) “Plaintiff’s employment was terminated on or around January 23, 2018.
Plaintiff’s testimony and assistance was provided on or around August 28, 2017.
On March 19, 2019, Patel called Plaintiff and admitted that he fired Plaintiff
‘... [b]ecause you hurt me by signing that affidavit. ...’ Patel also admitted
that he is coming for Plaintiff, he is going to ruin Plaintiff financially and
that he also intended to harass Plaintiff’s wife because he had the money and
lawyers to do it.” (Id., ¶ 28.) “Plaintiff was terminated because he provided
testimony and assistance in the matter of Josefina Ortiz v. Oxy-Health, LLC,
Samir Patel, et al., LASC Case No. BC641771.” (Id., ¶ 29.) Based thereon, the
Complaint asserts causes of action for: 
1. Wrongful Termination in
violation of public policy (Gov. Code § 12940(h)) 
2. Retaliation in violation of
Lab. Code § 1102.5 
On May 9, 2023, this court
denied Defendants Oxy-Health and Samir Patel’s motion to strike the purported
SLAPP complaint.
According to defense counsel,
“On May 23, 2023… Mr. Norton and I both agreed that the instant matter was
stayed pending Defendants’ appeal of the Anti-SLAPP ruling.” (Rodrigez Decl.,
¶¶ 2-3.) According to the Notice of Stay, Defendant contends that the matter is
stayed based on “the Court’s apparent acceptance of such stipulation.” Although
the May 23, 2023, minute order does not indicate that any such stay is in
effect, Plaintiff did not object to Defendant’s version of events or the Notice
of Stay. 
Additionally, on July 26,
2023, the court received Defendant’s Notice of Death of Defendant Samir Patel.
On August 8, 2023, the Court
ordered a Status Conference re: Notice of Stay and Notice of Death of Defendant
will be held on August 29, 2023, at 10:30 a.m. Prior to the Status Conference,
the parties were to meet and confer regarding how to proceed based on the
purported stay (if any) and Samir Patel’s death. 
The parties advise that they
met and conferred as instructed by the court on August 8, 2023, but they had
difficulty filing their joint statement reflecting their discussions. (See
8-29-23 Status Conference.) 
The parties disagree on the
scope and extent of the stay as it pertains to the pending appeal. Plaintiff
contends that the Court has jurisdiction to exercise its discretion to hear the
Motion for Attorney's Fees filed by Plaintiff in conjunction with denial of
defendants' Anti-SLAPP Motion. Defendants maintain that the attorney fee motion
should also be stayed pending disposition of the appeal. (See 8-24-23 Joint
Status Report.) 
However, the parties have
agreed that all other litigation of the merits of the case, for example, law
and motion attacking the pleadings, dispositive motions, discovery (oral,
written, expert, percipient, etc.), setting a trial date and trial, is stayed
due to the death of Samir Patel. (Id.)
Given that the proceedings are
stayed and that the pending appeal is based on the ruling on the Anti-Slapp
motion for which these attorney fees are sought, the Court stays this motion, pending
disposition of the appeal.  
 
Conclusion 
          The Motion
for Attorney’s Fee is STAYED pending disposition of the appeal. Moving party to
give notice. 
 