 Case Number:  23NWCV00979    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  C Julie Custudio v.
National Polytechnic College, Inc., et al. 
CASE
NO.: 23NWCV00979
HEARING: 
10/31/23 
 
#8
TENTATIVE
ORDER 
 
Defendant’s Motion to
Strike is GRANTED. The Court finds that there is a reasonable possibly
that an amendment may cure the defect in the pleadings. Thus, the Motion to
Strike is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Background

From March 2022 to October
2022, Plaintiff alleges that while attending classes at Defendant National
Polytechnic College, Inc. (“NP”) she was sexually harassed by Defendant Caesar
Garzon (“Garzon”). 
In a Complaint filed on March
29, 2023, Plaintiff alleged seven causes of actions on Defendants NP and Garzon
(collectively “Defendants”) for: 
1. Sex-Based Discrimination in
Violation of The Unruh Civil Rights Act [Cal. Civil. Code § 51]; 
2. Sexual Harassment in
Violation of The Unruh Civil Rights Act [Cal. Civil. Code § 51.9]; 
3. Violation of Cal. Education
Code §§ 200, 201, 220;
4. Violation of Cal. Govt.
Code § 11135;
5. Violation of Cal. Education
Code § 66250 et seq;
6. Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress); and 
7. Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress
On June 8, 2023, Defendant NP filed the instant motion to
strike. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.¿(Code Civ. Proc.,
section 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).)¿The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court.¿(Code Civ. Proc. section 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)¿ 
 
Furthermore, § CCP
435.5 requires that “[b]efore filing a motion to strike pursuant to this
chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with
the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that resolves
the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
435.5(a).) “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive
damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled
by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.) A request for punitive damages may be made pursuant to Civil Code §
3294(a) which provides that “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant.”
 
Under the statute,
malice is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others” and oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person
to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(c)(1), (c)(2).) Although not defined by the statute,
despicable conduct refers to circumstances that are base, vile, or
contemptible. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 725.) Also, “[u]nder the statute, malice does not require actual intent to
harm…Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences…. [Citation.]” (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) Furthermore,
parties cannot recover attorney’s fees unless expressly authorized by a statute
or contract. (Hom v. Petrou (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 459, 464.)
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant moves to
strike portions of the Complaint seeking punitive damages against NP.  (MTS p. 2.)
 
1.    Page
6, lines 1-8: “When Defendants engaged in the acts alleged in this complaint,
they acted with malice, oppression, and fraud. The acts taken toward Plaintiff
were carried out in a deliberate, cold, callous, and intentional manner in
order to injure and damage Plaintiff. Their actions were reprehensible and a
blatant violation of the law. Defendants' conduct rose to the level of extreme
indifference to Plaintiff's rights and rose to such a level that decent
citizens should not have to tolerate. Defendants intended to oppress Plaintiff.
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff requests the assessment of punitive damages
against Defendants in an amount appropriate to punish and make an example of
Defendants.”  
2.    Page.
7, lines 11-18: “When Defendants engaged in the acts alleged in this complaint,
they acted with malice, oppression, and fraud. The acts taken toward Plaintiff
were carried out in a deliberate, cold, callous, and intentional manner in
order to injure and damage Plaintiff. Their actions were reprehensible and a
blatant violation of the law. Defendants' conduct rose to the level of extreme
indifference to Plaintiff's rights and rose to such a level that decent
citizens should not have to tolerate. Defendants intended to oppress Plaintiff.
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff requests the assessment of punitive damages
against Defendants in an amount appropriate to punish and make an example of
Defendants.” 
3.    Page
12, lines 9-16: “When Defendants engaged in the acts alleged in this complaint,
they acted with malice, oppression, and fraud. The acts taken toward Plaintiff
were carried out in a deliberate, cold, callous, and intentional manner in
order to injure and damage Plaintiff. Their actions were reprehensible and a
blatant violation of the law. Defendants' conduct rose to the level of extreme
indifference to Plaintiff's rights and rose to such a level that decent
citizens should not have to tolerate. Defendants intended to oppress Plaintiff.
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff requests the assessment of punitive damages
against Defendants in an amount appropriate to punish and make an example of
Defendants.” 
4.    Page
14, lines 6-7: “For an award of punitive damages, as allowed by law, and
according to proof at trial.”
Defendant argues
Plaintiff failed to assert any specific factual contentions by which punitive
damages may be awarded against NP. (Mot, p. 5.) Defendant NP argues that
Plaintiff’s Complaint does not allege that NP had advance knowledge of
Defendant Garzon’s alleged unfitness or that NP employed Garzon “with a
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others” or that there are
allegations as to which officer, director, or managing agent of National
Polytechnic was responsible.
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiff argues they have pleaded specific facts about actions by NP show
repeated, intentional, malicious behavior. (Complaint, ¶¶ 9-12.) Moreover,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant Garzon is still employed as an instructor and
thus places Plaintiff and other female students at continued risk of being further
sexually harassed. (Complaint, ¶ 13.)
 
In its’ Reply, NP
argues that Plaintiff makes no allegations as to the name of any “officer,
director or managing agent” and that the requirement of specificity – who,
what, where and when is disregarded in her Complaint and Opposition. NP also
contends that “Plaintiff’s argument that she has alleged specific facts by
stating ‘Defendant allowed Garzon to remain as an instructor,’ falls flat.”
(Reply, p. 2.) Defendant NP argues that Plaintiff’s allegations do not amount
to factual assertions of advanced knowledge and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. NP notes that Plaintiff alleges in her Complaint
that once Defendant NP was informed, NP conducted an investigation into Garzon
and then placed him on administrative leave soon thereafter. 
 
Pursuant to Sec. 3294(b), to
prove a claim for punitive damages against an employer, Plaintiff must prove
the employer “had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others
or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” Furthermore,
Sec. 3294(b) provides that with respect to a corporate employer such as
National Polytechnic, “the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” 
Plaintiff points to language
in the Complaint that alleges Defendant allowed Garzon to remain as an
instructor despite having knowledge of his misconduct, and that Defendant thus
ratified his misconduct and put other female students, including Plaintiff, at
risk of being sexually harassed by Garzon. (Complaint, ¶¶ 8-12.)  However, an award of punitive damages must be
predicated on actual injury
or damages. (Kizer v. County of San Mateo (1991) 53 Cal.3d 139, 147;
Fullington v. Equilon Enterprises, LLC (2012) 210
Cal.App.4th 667, 685.) Although Plaintiff alleges that Plaintiff or other
students may be at risk, Plaintiff does not sufficiently allege any actions
that occurred after the administrative leave. 
Instead, Plaintiff relies on actions occurring prior to the October 2022
meeting with administrators. 
Moreover, Plaintiff contends that
Garzon is believed to have a history of engaging in sexually inappropriate
behavior. (Complaint, ¶¶ 8-12.) However, Plaintiff does not allege which
corporate employee of NP had advance knowledge of this believed
history.  Further, Plaintiff does not
allege that any corporate employee acted with conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Code of
Civ. Proc. § 3294(b).)
Conclusion 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED. The Court finds that there is a
reasonable possibly that an amendment may cure the defect in the pleadings.
Thus, the Motion to Strike is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 