  Case Number:  20LBCV00117    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Ascentium Capital, LLC
filed this action against Defendants, Bonita Express, Inc. and Hugo Santana for
breach of contract and common counts, alleging Bonita defaulted on an equipment
finance agreement secured by the purchase of a commercial vehicle, and Santana
breached the attendant guaranty.  On
8/31/20, Plaintiff filed its operative First Amended Complaint, which adds Vale
Motors, Inc. as a defendant, and which alleges Bonita desired to purchase a
truck from Vale and secured financing from Plaintiff; despite payment to Vale,
Vale never delivered the subject truck to Bonita, and instead sold the vehicle
to Feliciana Navarrete.  On 9/01/20,
Plaintiff dismissed Bonita and Santana from the complaint, leaving claims
against Vale only.
 
On 12/17/20, Vale filed a
cross-complaint against Bonita Express, Inc., Hugo Santana, Fortia Enterprises,
Inc., Sayda M. Ayala Pinto (“Ayala”), Jaime Serrano Lopez, Rodrigo Castaneda,
Eloina Navarrete Compton, Meydi Ayala, and Feliciano Navarrete.   The
cross-complaint contains various contract- and tort-based claims.  It alleges Ayala primarily controls the two
entity cross-defendants (Bonita and Fortia), but the other individual
defendants also control the corporate entities, such that all the individual defendants
are liable for the wrongs of the entity defendants.  Vale alleges Ayala led the Nunezes (owners of
Vale, and mis-named as the “Nunez’s” in the cross-complaint) to believe she was
purchasing the vehicle that forms the basis of the complaint for Vale, but she
was actually purchasing it for Fortia. 
Ayala falsified documents to make it appear the freightliner was titled
to Vale, but it was actually titled to Fortia. 

 
2.     Prior
Motion for Stay of Proceedings
On 9/23/21, the Court heard Ayala’s
motion for stay of proceedings.  Ayala
sought a blanket stay of all proceedings against her.  The Court denied the motion, finding (a)
there were no pending criminal charges, (b) the timeline for any potential
charges was unclear, and (c) Ayala could respond to at least some discovery
propounded against her, such that a blanket stay was not appropriate, and
objections should be asserted on a question-by-question basis.
 
3.     Current
Motion for Stay of Proceedings
On 8/23/24, Ayala filed the instant
motion for stay of proceedings.  Notably,
the motion was not filed as a “renewed” motion, which was required per CCP
§1008.  The Court will rule on the motion
despite the defect, but admonishes Counsel to comply with §1008 whenever a
renewed motion for relief is made.
 
Ayala presents evidence that, on
12/05/23, the City of El Monte issued a warrant for Ayala’s arrest.  On 5/07/24, the City executed on the
warrant.  She is currently out on bail,
with an early disposition hearing schedule for 10/03/24 and a preliminary
hearing scheduled for 10/04/24.  
 
a.    
Law
Governing Stay of Civil Actions when Parallel Criminal Actions are Pending
Any party or witness in a discovery
proceeding may claim the 5th Amendment privilege against disclosure of
information that might tend to incriminate him or her under either federal or
state law. Zonver v. Sup.Ct. (1969) 270 CA2d 613, 620-621.  No “punishment” can be imposed against a
party or witness for claiming the privilege against self-incrimination. But, at
the same time, a party is not permitted to take advantage of his or her
adversary by invoking the 5th Amendment; i.e., the party “may be required either
to waive the privilege or accept the civil consequences of silence if he or she
does exercise it.”  Blackburn v. Sup.Ct.
(1993) 21 CA4th 414, 425-426.  In any
case, a blanket claim of “self-incrimination” is insufficient. The court must
have the opportunity to determine whether specific questions pose a threat of
self-incrimination. Fuller v. Sup.Ct. (2001) 87 CA4th 299, 305.  The party or witness must assert the
privilege as to particular questions asked or other evidence sought. A blanket
refusal to appear or testify is not sufficient. Warford v. Medeiros (1984) 160
CA3d 1035, 1045.
 
A defendant claiming the privilege
against self-incrimination to avoid discovery risks the court excluding his or
her testimony as to such matters at time of trial. See Marriage of Hoffmeister
(1984) 161 CA3d 1163, 1169.  Alternatively,
a plaintiff may seek a protective order prior to trial to bar the defendant
from testifying to such matters when the case comes to trial. Pacers, Inc. v.
Sup.Ct. (1984) 162 CA3d 686, 688-689.  
 
The court may stay discovery until
disposition of any pending criminal proceedings or until the statute of
limitations has run on criminal prosecution, so that defendant can no longer
claim a 5th Amendment privilege. Pacers, supra, at 689.  Such a stay is discretionary; defendant has
no right to a blanket stay on 5th Amendment grounds. Klein v. Sup.Ct. (1988)
198 CA3d 894, 905.  In Avant! Corp. v.
Sup.Ct. (2000) 79 CA4th 876, 885, the court enumerated the factors to be
considered in determining whether or not to stay the action.   Additionally, a stay is not favored where
the statute of limitations on criminal prosecution has years to run.  Fuller, supra, at 309.  
 
In Avant!, supra, the court
delineated the factors to be considered in determining whether to grant a
blanket stay as follows:
In addition, the decisionmaker
should generally consider the following factors: (1) the interest of the
plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or any particular
aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the
burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on defendants;
(3) the convenience of the court in the management of its cases, and the
efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties
to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending
civil and criminal litigation.
 
b.    
Analysis
The Court wishes to hear from
Ayala, at the time of the hearing, concerning the outcome of the 10/03 and
10/04/24 hearings.  The Court is inclined
to stay proceedings against Ayala entirely pending the outcome of the criminal
case, because the criminal case concerns the identical fact pattern to this
case, such that no meaningful discovery could be conducted without implicating
Ayala’s Fifth Amendment rights.
 
The Court notes that Ayala seeks an
order staying the case against the other cross-defendants as well.  The other cross-defendants are not, however,
moving parties.  It does not seek that
Ayala has standing to seek relief on their behalf.  She presents no authority permitting the
Court to grant relief on their behalf based on her request.  The Court is therefore inclined to deny the
request to stay proceedings as to the other cross-defendants.  
 
4.     Status
Conference
The Court notes that there is also
a status conference re: status of Sayda Ayala Pinto’s criminal matter on
calendar today concurrently with the hearing on the above motion.  The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the conference and hearing on the
motion.    