 Case Number:  21STCV06960    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 Defendants seek an order
consolidating 21STCV06960, 22STCV17087, and 24LBCV00072.  They also seek an order imposing sanctions on
Plaintiffs for failure to meet and confer in compliance with the Court’s order
to do so.
 
The motion to consolidate is denied
without prejudice.  Local Rule 3.3(g)(1)
requires cases to be pending in the same department before being
consolidated.  22STCV17087is pending in
Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
Absent an order relating the cases, the cases cannot be consolidated. 
 
Additionally, CRC 3.350(a) requires
the moving party to file the notice of motion in each case to be
consolidated.  Defendants failed to do
so.  The motion is therefore denied without
prejudice.
 
To the extent the motion seeks
imposition of sanctions, it is granted. 
CCP §177.5 permits the Court to impose sanctions, up to $1500, for a
violation of any court order.  Notably
,the sanctions must be payable “to the court.” 
On 8/07/24, the Court ordered Plaintiffs to meet and confer concerning
consolidation of the three cases. 
Thereafter, Defendants sought to have Plaintiffs amend their complaint
to include all claims for all actions in one case.  Plaintiffs did not respond to the meet and
confer attempts.  Plaintiffs’ attorney is
ordered to pay sanctions to the court in the amount of $1500 within twenty
days.  
 
Moving Defendants are ordered to
give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 