 Case Number:  23LBCV02479    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff, Mike Korkidas filed this
action against Defendants, Benjamin Martin Gutierrez and Beach Garden Group,
LLC for unlawful detainer.  On 3/19/24,
the parties entered into a stipulated judgment. 
The stipulated judgment contains two provisions relevant to today’s
motion.  First, at ¶2, the parties agreed
that Defendants would return possession of the property, including all
equipment and fixtures, to Plaintiff by 3/25/24.  Second, at ¶14, they agreed that the Court
would retain jurisdiction to enforce the stipulation per CCP §664.6.
 
Defendants returned the property to
Plaintiff, but it was seriously damaged and the equipment and fixtures were not
returned.  Plaintiff seeks an order, per
CCP §664.6, awarding $45,300 (the cost to put the property back into its
original condition), as well as an award of attorneys’ fees.  
 
The motion is denied.  CCP §664.6(a) permits the Court to “enter
judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.”  In this case, the parties did not enter into
a stipulation for entry of judgment upon default, nor did they enter into a
settlement agreement.  They entered into
a stipulated judgment.  There is,
therefore, already a judgment.  The Court
cannot enforce the parties’ judgment by entering another judgment.  Plaintiff cites no authority permitting the
Court to do so, and the Court knows of none.  
 
Additionally, there is no provision
in the parties’ stipulated judgment permitting an award of monetary
damages.  Plaintiff cites no authority
permitting the Court to add monetary damages to the stipulated judgment, and
again, the Court knows of none.
 
The Court notes that, on 3/25/24,
Beach Garden Group, LLC filed a substitution of attorney, pursuant to which it
purports to represent itself.  The Court
strikes the document because an LLC cannot substitute into an action in pro
per.  Beach Garden Group, LLC therefore
remains represented by former attorney, Alberto Munoz, at this time.  If Munoz wishes to cease representing BGG, he
must file a motion to be relieved as counsel. 

 
The ruling is without prejudice to
Plaintiff’s ability to seek relief for Defendants’ acts via another course of
action.  The Court will not give
Plaintiff legal advice, but wants to make clear that it is holding only that
CCP §664.6 is not the proper recourse, and is not holding that Plaintiff lacks
recourse.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 