  Case Number:  23PSCV02742    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Angelica  Moreno, et al. v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.  Defendant  Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.’s Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Defendant Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.’s  motion to compel binding arbitration.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a lemon law case. On September 7, 2023, plaintiffs  Angelica Moreno, Rolando Martinez, and Ramon Moreno (collectively, Plaintiffs)  filed this action against defendant Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. (Defendant)  and Does 1 through 10, alleging one cause of action for Violation of the  Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty.  On April 11, 2024, Defendant moved to compel arbitration. On July  1, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On July 8, 2024, Defendant replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD  Parties may be compelled to arbitrate  a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to  arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or  controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118  Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel arbitration has the burden of  establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party  opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the  evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.  Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.) A party seeking to  compel arbitration meets their initial burden of establishing the existence of  a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy to the motion or petition to  compel arbitration. (Espejo v. Southern California  Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060.)  “California  has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th  677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that  arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an  arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the  asserted dispute.” (Ibid., internal quotation marks omitted.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE              The Court GRANTS  Defendant’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) However, the Court takes judicial notice of the  foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of  public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice  of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION  FAA v. CAA “’[T]he FAA's procedural provisions (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) do  not apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause expressly  incorporating them.’ [Citation]. ‘[T]he question is not whether the parties  adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state's procedural statutes (§§  1281.2, 1290.2) apply by default because Congress intended the comparable FAA  sections (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) to apply in federal court. The question,  therefore, is whether the parties expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural  provisions into their agreements.’” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8  LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345, quoting Valencia v. Smyth (2010)  185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177, italics in original.) The arbitration provision in the Agreement (defined below) only  provides that the arbitration itself is governed by the FAA; it contains  no language indicating the FAA governs the enforcement of the Agreement.  (Ameripour Decl., Ex. 2, p. 5, ¶ 7, italics added.) Accordingly, the CAA  applies by default and governs this motion to compel arbitration. (Victrola  89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC, supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 345.) Existence of a Valid Arbitration Agreement  Defendant seeks to compel arbitration per the Retail Installment  Sale Contract (Agreement) between Plaintiffs Rolando Martinez and Angelica  Moreno on the one hand and Longo Toyota on the other. The arbitration clause  provides, in part: Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or  otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration  Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us  or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates  to your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this  contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such  relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or  our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court  action. (Ameripour  Decl., Ex. 2, p. 7.) The moving party on a motion to compel arbitration may meet its  initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion or  attaching the agreement to the motion. (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic  (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.) Defendant has therefore met its initial  burden. The burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to challenge the validity of the  Agreement. (See Id.)             Plaintiffs did not challenge the  validity of the Agreement in their opposition. (See generally, Opp.) Defendant  has therefore established the existence of a valid arbitration agreement. However,  Defendant concedes it is not a party to the Agreement, but instead argues it  has standing to sue either as a third-party beneficiary or under the doctrine  of equitable estoppel.  Equitable Estoppel Defendant argues it is entitled to enforce the arbitration provision  of the Agreement under the doctrine of equitable estoppel. Defendant relies on Felisilda  v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486 (Felisilda), and non-binding  federal authority, arguing that Plaintiff’s claims arise out of and are  intertwined with the underlying contract obligations of the Agreement. (Id.,  at p. 495; Boucher v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal. App. 4th  262, 271, [“[U]nder both federal and California decisional authority, a  nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory  plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory  are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.”];  Goldman v. KPMG LLP (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 217-218.) In Felisilda, the First District of the Court of Appeal  found that purchasers of a vehicle were estopped from refusing to arbitrate  Song-Beverly Act claims against the vehicle manufacturer, based on an agreement  between the purchaser and the vehicle dealer. (See Felisilda, supra, 53  Cal.App.5th at pp. 496-499.) The relevant portions of the arbitration agreement  in Felisilda are identical to those in the Agreement: ARBITRATION PROVISION [¶] ... [¶] 1. EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US  DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. . . . Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or  otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration  Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us  or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates  to ... condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting  transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with third  parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved  by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action. . . (Felisilda,  supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 490, italics in original.) The Court of Appeal in Felisilda found that because the  plaintiffs “expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition  of the vehicle – even against third party nonsignatories to the sales contract  – they are estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim against [the manufacturer].”  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 497.) As such, the Court of  Appeal found the plaintiffs’ claims in that action arose out of the condition  of the vehicle and were covered by the arbitration provision in that contract.  The Court of Appeal found that the plaintiffs’ claims were “founded on or  intimately connected” with the contract in that action because they arose out  of the condition of the vehicle. (Id., at p. 496.) However, the Second District of the Court of Appeal in Ochoa rejected  application of Felisilda in a similar motion to compel arbitration by a  car manufacturer in a lemon law case. (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at pp.  1335-1336.) Additionally, on June 26, 2023, the Second District of the Court of  Appeal decided the case Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92  Cal.App.5th 958 (Montemayor), in which the Court of Appeal also rejected  the holding in Felisilda that equitable estoppel applies to enable a  non-signatory manufacturer to enforce an arbitration provision in a sales  contract like the contract at issue in this case. The Court of Appeal further  rejected Felisilda and followed Ochoa in other recently issued  opinions, such as Kielar v. Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614 (Kielar)  and Jaclyn Yeh v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2023) 95  Cal.App.5th 264 (Yeh). The Second District in Ochoa found that the arbitration language  was insufficient to support the manufacturer’s equitable estoppel argument. In  relevant part, Ochoa expressly diverged from Felisilda's analysis  that "the sales contract was the source" of the warranties at issue.  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 496.) Instead, Ochoa  concluded that “manufacturer vehicle warranties that accompany the sale of  motor vehicles without regard to the terms of the sale contract between the  purchaser and the dealer are independent of the sale contract.” (Ochoa, supra,  at p. 1334.) Thus, the Court found equitable estoppel to be inapplicable  because the plaintiffs' claims "in no way rel[ied] on the sale  contracts." (Id., at p. 1336.) The Court of Appeal held that this  language in the arbitration clause referring to arbitration of claims “against  third party nonsignatories” cannot mandate arbitration of the warranty claims.  Rather, such language agreed to arbitrate claims against third parties whose  service, etc., are financed under the sales contract. (Id.) The Second District also found that the warranty claims were not  founded in the sales contracts. The warranty claims arose out of statutory  obligations to reimburse consumers or replace their vehicles when unable to  repair in accordance with the warranty or related claims. They did not arise  out of any express contractual language in the sales contracts, which  themselves do not include any warranties, or assurance regarding the vehicle’s  performance, or any promise of repairs or remedies if contracts arise. “To the  contrary, the sale contracts disclaim any warranty on the part of the dealers,  while acknowledging no effect on ‘any warranties covering the vehicle that the  vehicle manufacturer may provide.’” (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th  at p. 1335.) In short, “the substantive terms of the sale contracts relate to  sale and financing and nothing more.” (Ibid.) Thus, there is a split of authority on this point of law.  "[W]here there is more than one appellate court decision, and such  appellate decisions are in conflict . . . the court exercising inferior  jurisdiction can and must make a choice between the conflicting  decisions." (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Ct. of Santa Clara  Cnty. (1962) 57 Cal. 2d 450, 456.) The Court notes that Ochoa is  currently pending review before the California Supreme Court, but the Court is  permitted to rely on Ochoa while it is pending review. (Cal. Rules of  Court, rules 8.1115, subd. (e)(3); Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 532  P.3d 270.)[1] The Court finds Ochoa and the cases following it to be the  better reasoned cases which more precisely examine the contract terms and  long-standing warranty law distinguishing between manufacturer warranties and  retailer sale contracts. (See Ochoa, supra, at 621-622.) Indeed, the Court  finds the same rationale and reasoning in Ochoa applies here. The  substantive terms of the Agreement relate to the sale and financing of the  subject vehicle, do not set forth the terms of the warranties between Defendant  and Plaintiffs, and directly disclaims any warranties by the dealer. (See  Ameripour Decl., Ex. 2, ¶ 4.) Defendant’s obligations in this context arise  under operation of law, not contract. (See Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th  at p. 1334). Thus, the warranties were not inextricably intertwined with or  founded in the Agreement for purposes of equitable estoppel. Based on the foregoing, the Court rejects Defendant’s equitable  estoppel theory and declines to compel arbitration on that basis. Third-Party Beneficiary Civil Code section 1559 provides: “A contract, made expressly for  the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him at any time before the  parties thereto rescind it.” The California Supreme Court in Goonewardene v.  ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830 stated that the following elements must  be present for a third-party to move forward with a claim: “(1) whether the  third party would in fact benefit from the contract, but also (2) whether a  motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the  third party, and (3) whether permitting a third party to bring its own breach  of contract action against a contracting party is consistent with the  objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations of the contracting  parties.” However, “ ‘the “mere fact that a contract results in benefits to  a third party does not render that party a ‘third party beneficiary.’ ” ’  [Citation.] Nor does knowledge that the third party may benefit from the  contract suffice.” (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1336.)  Defendant argues that it is a third-party beneficiary because the  arbitration provision of the Agreement contemplates types of disputes such as  the one that gives rise to the current case. Even if true, Defendant’s argument  fails to address the other requirements to enforce the arbitration provision as  a third-party beneficiary.  Moreover, the Court of Appeal in Ochoa rejected the auto  manufacturer’s third-party beneficiary argument, which is similar to  Defendant’s here. Analyzing the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeal's recent decision  in Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC (2022) 23 F.4th 942, the Second  District agreed that the sales contracts reflect no intention to benefit a  vehicle manufacturer per Goonewardene – nothing in the sales contracts  or their arbitration provision offers any direct “benefit” to the manufacturer,  there was no indication that a benefit to the manufacturer was a motivating  purpose of the contract, and allowing the manufacturer to enforce the arbitration  would be inconsistent with the reasonable expectations of the contracting  parties. (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1337-1338.) Applying the same reasoning here, there is insufficient evidence  to show a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a  benefit to Defendant. Civil Code section 1559 requires that a contract  benefiting a third party must be made expressly for the benefit of a third  person before that third party can enforce it. (Civ. Code § 1559.) The Court  finds no language in the arbitration provision of the Agreement indicating an  express intent to benefit Defendant, nor does the Court find that allowing  Defendant to compel arbitration would be consistent with the reasonable  expectations of the contracting parties. Here, the arbitration provision expressly states that only two  parties—Plaintiffs Rolando Martinez and Angelica Moreno on the one hand and the  seller Longo Toyota —may compel arbitration. The Agreement defines  "you" as Plaintiff and "we" as the seller Longo Toyota.  (Ameripour Decl., Ex. 2, pp. 1, 7.) The provision specifies that "[e]ither  you or we may choose to have any dispute between us decided by arbitration and  not in court or by jury trial." (Id., Ex. 2, p. 7, italics added).  The clause also states that "[a]ny claim or dispute . . . between you and  us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or  relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this  contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such  relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your  or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court  action." (Id., p. 7, italics added.) Though the language allows for  arbitration of certain claims concerning third parties, it still gives only  Plaintiffs Rolando Martinez and Angelica Moreno on the one hand and Longo  Toyota on the other the power to compel arbitration. Nothing in the clause or,  for that matter, in the Agreement reflects any intention to benefit Defendant  by allowing it to take advantage of the arbitration provision. Based on the foregoing, the Court rejects Defendant’s third-party  beneficiary argument, and declines to compel arbitration on that basis. CONCLUSION The Court DENIES Defendant Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.’s  motion to compel binding arbitration.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     