  Case Number:  21STCV36914    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Defendants’ MIL Nos. 1-9
            No
motions were filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 10
Defendant Pneumo Abex LLC
seeks to exclude evidence from the Saranac experiments.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion
is deemed made and granted.  Plaintiffs
did not show good cause to depart from that order.
            The
motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 11
Defendant Honeywell moves
to exclude all references to foreign bans on the importation of chrysotile
asbestos.  Plaintiffs did not show any
defendant was aware of a foreign ban on chrysotile asbestos or the reasons why
the foreign governments banned it. 
Allowing that evidence will consume an undue amount of trial time
exploring the bases for and legislative history of the foreign bans.  The evidence would have little probative
value because foreign bans did not apply to workplaces in the United States and
would be confusing to the jury.
            The
motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 12
Defendant Honeywell moves
to exclude reference to a 1989 proposed EPA ban that never went into effect
because it was invalidated by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals as not
supported by sufficient evidence.  This
evidence may go to notice or knowledge. 
Defendant can cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed
ban was never effective and was invalidated by the court for lack of evidence.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 13
Honeywell moves to
exclude an article by Laura S. Welch. 
Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion is deemed made and granted
as to Welch’s amicus brief but not her article. 
Defendant did not show good cause to depart from that order.  Therefore, the motion is denied as to the
article without prejudice to a contemporaneous objection at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 14
Honeywell moves to
exclude evidence relating to the Friction Materials Standard Institute as
unauthenticated, irrelevant, and hearsay. 
The motion does not identify the specific documents or even state
whether the documents appear on the parties’ joint witness list.  This motion is too vague.  The court cannot predict whether Plaintiffs
will be able to authenticate and establish the admissibility of unidentified
documents at trial.  Defendant should
object if and when Plaintiffs seek to use specific FMSI documents at
trial.  For example, an expert might rely
on a FMSI document, and such a document might be admissible if the expert
establishes that it is the type of document relied upon as accurate by experts
in the field.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial. 
Defendants’ MIL No. 15
Honeywell moves to
exclude a letter and a memo from E.A. Martin because they cannot be
authenticated, are hearsay, are not relevant, and are more prejudicial than
probative.  Defendant states the
documents are unsigned and there is no evidence about who wrote or received
them.  The court cannot determine at this
point that no witness will be able to authenticate the documents.  If Plaintiffs seek to introduce
unauthenticated documents at trial, Defendant should object then.
The documents could be
relevant to notice or knowledge of the dangers of asbestos.  If Plaintiffs seek to use the documents to
show notice, the documents may not be hearsay if they are not offered for the
truth of the matter asserted (assuming they can be authenticated). 
The last paragraph of the
letter is more prejudicial than probative. 
If Plaintiffs authenticate the letter and establish its relevance and
non-hearsay use at trial, the last paragraph of the letter is to be redacted
before the letter is admitted. 
Plaintiffs did not establish the author of the letter was a managing
agent or authorized to speak for the company. 

The motion is granted in
part and denied in part without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 16
Honeywell moves to
exclude evidence of working conditions at its facilities as irrelevant and
unduly prejudicial because Ronald Bronson was never employed by Honeywell.  This motion is too vague.  If “working conditions” refers to something
like wage and hour violations, that would be irrelevant.  However, if it refers to something like
workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be relevant.  For example, the evidence of asbestos
exposure at Defendant’s facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 17
Defendant Honeywell seeks
to preclude a 1986 EPA document entitled “Guidance for Preventing Asbestos
Disease Among Auto Mechanics” as irrelevant, hearsay, unscientific, and unduly
prejudicial.  If Defendant contends it
did not know about the hazards of asbestos by 1986, the document could be
relevant to Defendant’s notice of the dangers of asbestos, a non-hearsay
use.  Also, the contents of the document
may be admissible at trial via an expert if the expert establishes it is
general background information of the type relied upon by experts in the
field.  That the document was based on
unscientific sources can be the subject of cross-examination and goes to the
weight to be given the document and whether an expert can establish it is the
type of information relied upon by experts. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 18
Honeywell seeks to
exclude testimony and videos about William Longo and Richard Hatfield’s work
simulations because the simulations are not similar to Bronson’s exposure.  Defendant argues the simulations took place
in small sealed chambers, used improper testing methods such as TEM analysis
not recognized by OSHA, and will be confusing to the jury because the
conditions are so different.  Whether TEM
is an appropriate method “goes to the weight and not the admissibility of the
opinions.”  (Strobel v. Johnson &
Johnson (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 796, 811-812.)  At trial, Defendants can cross-examine the
experts about the similarities and differences of Bronson’s exposure to a
small, sealed chamber and argue the jury should give the videos no weight
because of the different conditions.  The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 19
Honeywell seeks to
exclude evidence of the publication “Doubt is Their Product.”  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion
is deemed made and granted unless and until proper foundation is established
with the trial court.  Plaintiffs did not
show good cause to depart from this order. 
Therefore, the motion is granted unless and until proper foundation is
established with the trial court.
Defendants’ MIL No. 20
Honeywell moves to
exclude evidence of workers’ compensation actions.  If notice of the dangers of asbestos or
asbestos in the products at issue is contested, some evidence of these claims
may be relevant and for a non-hearsay purpose. 
However, the details of the claims would be unduly prejudicial,
time-consuming, and confusing to the jury. 
It is for the trial judge to determine how much is too much.  To the extent a party seeks to introduce the
amounts of any settlement, judgment, verdict, or award in another litigation,
the motion is deemed granted and made pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.  The motion is granted in part and denied in
part subject to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 21
            Honeywell
moves to exclude evidence of Bendix’s conduct and knowledge after the last
exposure as not relevant.  This motion is
too vague, and such conduct could be relevant. 
For example, pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, a motion to exclude
evidence of a post-sale duty to warn and failure to conduct a recall or
post-sale warning campaign is deemed made and denied so long as there is an
operative negligence cause of action. 
Defendants did not show good cause to depart from this order.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 22
Honeywell seeks to
exclude evidence of statements of and proceedings of OSHA, the EPA, and any
other governmental agency, as well as violations of regulations.  This is too vague.  It would exclude all evidence of OSHA
regulations, which could be relevant to notice. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 23
Honeywell moves to
exclude arguments that any exposure is a “substantial factor.”  Defendant does not identify the specific
expert opinion to be excluded. 
Therefore, the motion is too vague. 
Also, under the July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude expert opinion
about the term “substantial factor” are deemed made and denied without
prejudice to objections at trial. 
Defendant did not show good cause to depart from this order.
The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 24
Defendant Morse Tec moves
to exclude evidence of a proposed 1971 Illinois ban that never went into effect
as hearsay and irrelevant.  The evidence
may go to notice or knowledge.  Defendant
can then cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed ban was
never effective.  The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at
trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 25
Defendant Morse Tec moves
to exclude reference to a 1989 proposed EPA ban that never went into effect
because it was invalidated by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals as not
supported by sufficient evidence.  This
evidence may go to notice or knowledge. 
Defendant can cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed
ban was never effective and was invalidated by the court for lack of evidence.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
            Moving
party is to give notice.