 Case Number:  23STCV08297    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WARING PLAZA PROPERTIES, L.P. 
  
        
  vs.
 
MANATT, PHELPS & PHILLIPS, LLP, et
  al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08297  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 15, 2024




 
            Defendants’
motion for a judgment on the pleadings as to Plaintiff’s Complaint is
SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
On 4/14/2023,
Plaintiff Waring Plaza Properties, L.P. (Waring) filed suit against Manatt,
Phelps & Phillips, LLP and Benjamin G. Shatz, alleging: (1) professional
negligence; (2) breach of implied contract; and (3) common counts. 
 
            On
7/5/2023, Cross-Complainant Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP filed a
cross-complaint (XC) against Waring Plaza Properties, L.P., alleging: (1)
breach of written contract; (2) open book account; and (3) quantum meruit; and
(4) breach of implied-in-fact contract. 
 
            Now,
Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP and Benjamin G. Shatz (collectively, Defendants)
move for a judgment on the pleadings as to Waring’s Complaint.
 
Factual Background 
 
Waring
engaged Manatt as its appellate counsel in an appeal by Ross for Less (Ross) of
a trial court judgment in favor of Waring. Part of Ross’s argument was that the
trial court had erred by not considering its estoppel argument. The Court of
Appeal agreed and determined that Waring’s claim was barred by the estoppel
doctrine. 
 
Now, Waring
brings this claim for breach of contract and legal malpractice against Waring
as its appellate counsel. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that Waring’s Complaint fails to state a claim because: (1) the
professional negligence claim fails Waring can neither (i) relitigate whether
the estoppel defense barred its underlying contract claim, nor (ii) establish
it would have obtained any different outcome if not for Manatt’s failure to
request a remand; (2) the implied contract claim is barred as a matter of law; and
(3) the common counts claim is derivative of the second claim. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees. 
 
            As
to the first claim, Plaintiff’s claim is based on allegations that: 
 
18. On
appeal, Ross argued the trial court erred by refusing to decide on Ross’s
estoppel arguments.
 
19.
Defendants should have addressed Ross’s contention by raising the following
argument to the appellate court. Because the trial court’s tentative decision
after phase one of trial and the later statement of decision failed to
explicitly address the estoppel arguments, the appellate court should remand
the case to the trial court for further findings. Defendants did not make this
argument and instead, fell below the standard of care by arguing the trial
court considered and rejected Ross’s argument. 
 
20. Ross
contended the estoppel argument presented a legal issue for de novo appellate
review.
 
21. Because
of Defendants’ negligence, the appellate court ruled on the estoppel issue as a
matter of law (in Ross’s favor), reversed the judgment in Plaintiff’s favor,
and vacated the award of over $4 million to Plaintiff
 
            (Complaint
¶¶ 18-21.) 
 
            Thus,
while Waring argues that it has set forth multiple grounds for Defendants’
conduct falling below the standard of care, Waring is bound by the four corners
of the Complaint. As set forth in the Complaint, Waring alleges that Defendants
failed to argue that: (1) the appellate court should remand the case to the
trial court for further findings or (2) that the argument should not present a
legal issue for de novo appellate review.
 
            However,
as noted by Defendants, the Court of Appeal found the facts establishing
estoppel were undisputed, and thus decided that the estoppel defense barred
Waring’s underlying contract claim as a matter of law. 
 
More
specifically, in considering whether to remand to the trial court, the Court of
Appeal recognized “the determination of either waiver or estoppel is a question
of fact, and the trier of fact’s finding is binding on the appellate court.”
(Opn. at 36 (quoting Platt Pacific, Inc. v. Andelson (1993) 6 Cal.4th
307, 319.) However, the Court of Appeal explained remand was not necessary in
cases where “the facts are undisputed and only one inference may reasonably be
drawn, the issue is one of law and the reviewing court is not bound by the
trial court’s ruling.” (Ibid.) After reviewing the trial court record,
the Court of Appeal held the facts establishing estoppel in this case were
undisputed, the question on estoppel was legal, and estoppel applied:
 
Waring Plaza
continued to accept the Substitute Rent, twice agreed to the extension of the
Lease by Ross despite what would constitute a default under the Lease, and then
decided after 10 years that it wanted the full Minimum Rent paid by Ross. It
did so because it did not want to lose Ross as a tenant and owed on its
mortgage. Ross presented evidence that it extended the Lease on the
understanding it would only have to pay Substitute Rent. By failing to take any
legal action against Ross, Waring Plaza induced Ross to continue the Lease to
its detriment. The facts are undisputed. We conclude that estoppel applies,
which bars Waring Plaza from seeking Minimum Rent for the period awarded by the
trial court.
 
            (Id.
at p. 41.) 
 
            As
such, regardless of whether or not Defendants either sought a remand or sought
to apply a different standard of review, Waring has not alleged any facts which
could show the result would be different. This is because the Court of Appeal’s
decision was based on a determination that the facts were undisputed and that
only one inference could be reasonably drawn by the evidence. As such, there
were no issues of fact which could have been determined differently on remand
or under a different standard of review. 
 
            As
noted by Defendants, “Waring does not allege Manatt negligently advanced an
argument (or failed to advance an argument) that caused the Court of Appeal to
erroneously conclude the undisputed facts in the trial court established
estoppel. Instead, Waring merely seeks to relitigate the issue under the guise
of professional negligence by speculating a different judge may have reached a
different conclusion were the case remanded to the trial court. That is not
sufficient to overcome the issue preclusion bar.” (MJOP, 17: 7-12.) 
 
            As
for the second cause of action, Waring itself previously demurred to
Defendants’ implied-in-fact contract, arguing that such contracts are not
permitted under California law: 
 
Business and
Professions Code section 6148(a) states that “the contract for services in the
case shall be in writing.” (Emphasis added.) Manatt ignores this requirement
and suggests the parties entered a contract for services that was not in
writing. (XComp, pars. 31-32) The only instance in which a contract governed by
Business and Professions Code section 6148 may be implied-in-fact is where “the
attorney’s services are of the same general kind as previously rendered to and
paid for by the client.” Business and Professions Code section 6148(d)(2). Manatt
did not, and cannot, allege any facts suggesting it ever represented Waring
previously for the same kind of services. Therefore, this exception does not
apply. Because Manatt cannot allege the existence of a valid implied agreement,
Manatt failed to state claim for breach of an implied-in-fact contract and
cannot cure this defect by amendment.
 
            (Memorandum
of Points and Authorities of Waring’s Demurrer to Manatt’s XC at p. 8.)
 
            The
Court agreed with Waring’s argument. 
 
Now, in
opposition, Waring defends its implied-in-fact contract claiming by arguing
that while Business and Professions Code section 6148 prohibits attorneys
from claiming an implied-in-fact contract identical to the void written
contract, it does not prohibit clients from claiming the existence of an
implied-in-fact contract like the one Waring alleges. However, Waring cites no
legal authority to support the proposition that it may deny the existence of
the implied-in-fact contract for purposes of Manat’s Cross-Complaint, while availing
itself of the existence of the very same implied-in-fact contract for its own
claim. Put another way, while the Court likely agrees that Waring, but not
Defendants, may claim the existence of an implied-in-fact contract even if
Business and Professions Code section 6148 has not been complied with, the
existence of that contract can be not confirmed selectively, and an
acknowledgement of the contract by the client would necessarily then entitle attorneys
to pursue claims based on the same implied-in-fact contract. Given that
Defendants implied-in-fact contracts were dismissed on demurrer based on
Waring’s own denouncement of the existence of any contract, Waring is not
entitled to benefit from that dismissal and then pursue those claims here. 
 
Finally, as
to the third cause of action, the breach of an implied-in-fact contract claim
and common count for money had and received are based on the same facts and
seek the same recovery. Given the Court’s conclusion that the substantive claim
for breach of an implied-in-fact contract fails as a matter of law, the Court
reaches the same conclusion as to this cause of action. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ motion for a judgment on the pleadings as to Waring’s
Complaint is sustained, without leave to amend. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 