  Case Number:  23STCP02715    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT  17   TENTATIVE RULING      NICOLE RIO                   vs.   MYTH DIVISION,    LLC, et al.        Case    No.:  23STCP02715         Hearing Date:  April 15, 2024                    After  review, the Court has identified the following deficiencies with Plaintiff’s  default judgment packet:   -           The agreement submitted to prove that the parties  formed a media company is unsigned. As such, Plaintiff has not submitted  evidence to show that the parties ever finalized the Company’s Operating  Agreement.    Indeed, Plaintiff later states  that the Operating Agreement was never executed. As such, it is entirely  unclear on what basis Plaintiff contends she is entitled to recover here.  Plaintiff must submit a summary of the case which sets out an entire factual  history, comprehensive evidentiary support, and legal support.     -           Plaintiff has not submitted any evidence to show that  she was entitled to a 10% ownership stake in LLC and NFT assets.    -           Plaintiff has not submitted any evidence to show that  the Company actually owned the Ape NFTs submitted. (See Exh. F.) An  unauthenticated document list of assets with nothing more is insufficient to  establish that these assets were owned by the Company (which, as mentioned,  Plaintiff has not adequately established that she had any stake in to begin  with)   -           Plaintiff claims that Mr. Costello altered the  Management agreement but does not submit evidence to corroborate her claim that  the parties agreed to her version of the document. Indeed, Plaintiff admits  that the Operating Agreement wasn’t executed. Again, Plaintiff must clear up  this uncertainty.    -           Plaintiff has not explained why she is entitled to  recover these assets at their market high of April 2022, as opposed to their  current value, or their value at the time of the alleged wrongdoing.    -           Plaintiff must submit paystubs and redacted bank  records to corroborate her claims about what she was paid.    -           Plaintiff’s claim that “Mr. Govea valued MD to  investors at least $5,000,000.00. Accordingly, my 10% share in MD is at least  $500,000.00” is completed unsupported and without foundation. 