 Case Number:  23TRCP00474    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesSouthwest DistrictTorrance Dept. BSTANISLAV ARBIT,  Plaintiff, Case No.: 23TRCP00474vs. [Tentative] RULINGMARK ELLIOT ZUCKERBERG, Defendant.  Hearing Date:  August 1, 2024Moving Parties:  Defendant Mark Elliot ZuckerbergResponding Party:  NoneDemurrer to Complaint The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.RULING The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first and second causes of action in the complaint.BACKGROUND On December 18, 2023, plaintiff Stanislav Arbit (self-represented) filed a complaint against Mark Elliot Zuckerberg for (1) stalking conspiracy and (2) defamation conspiracy. On February 21, 2024, the Court denied plaintiff’s ex parte application for a TRO.LEGAL AUTHORITYWhen considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.DISCUSSIONDefendant Mark Elliot Zuckerberg demurs to the first and second causes of action in the complaint on the grounds that they fail to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.The complaint alleges that defendant is “a principal in a fifth-column network that conspires to target Americans, who do not have utility to them, and to remove them from society by any available means, including murder.”  Complaint, ¶5.  Plaintiff is a former contingent worker at Facebook, Inc.  Facebook, Inc. is operated by defendant.  Plaintiff believes he was targeted because of this relationship.  Id., ¶6.  Defendant’s program can be described as Full Cycle Human Resource Management, which is analogous to a washing machine cycle.  The cycle is approximately one year.  And much like a washing machine, most of the time is spent in the agitation phase.  During that phase, defendant has tried to agitate, frighten, and mobilize plaintiff.  Id., ¶7.  Around the one-year mark, they force the victim, or in this case, they forced plaintiff out of housing and employment.  Id., ¶8.  The goal and eventual result is to have the victim’s savings drained, all credit exhausted, and for the victim’s resume to have a long gap in employment.  Id., ¶9.  Defendant maliciously defamed plaintiff with the goal of precluding him from gaining employment in any field or industry.  Id., ¶15.  Defendant has made credible threats and plaintiff believes defendant has and will continue to conspire to cause plaintiff great bodily harm and death.  Id., ¶17.  First cause of action for stalkingTo state a claim under California’s civil stalking statute, a plaintiff must allege facts showing (1) that the defendant “engaged in a pattern of conduct the intent of which was to follow, alarm, place under surveillance, or harass the plaintiff”; (2) that “[a]s a result of [the defendant’s] pattern of conduct,” the plaintiff (i) reasonably feared for his safety, or that of an immediate family member, or (ii) “suffered substantial emotional distress, and the pattern of conduct would cause a reasonable person to suffer substantial emotional distress”; and (3) that the defendant made a credible threat with either (i) the intention of “plac[ing] the plaintiff in reasonable fear for his [] safety, or the safety of an immediate family member, or (ii) reckless disregard for the safety of the plaintiff or that of an immediate family member.”  Civil Code §1708.7(a)(1)-(3).The complaint alleges that the stalking was planned and executed with defendant’s vast network.  Defendant is vicariously liable for all the actions in the conspiracy because he was an active participant who was involved in the stalking and agreed with his network to commit acts of stalking.  Complaint, ¶20.  Defendant engaged in a pattern of conduct the intent of which was to follow, alarm, place under surveillance, and harass plaintiff.  Id., ¶21.  Plaintiff feared for his safety.  Id., ¶22.  Plaintiff suffered substantial emotional distress.  Id., ¶23.  Defendant made a credible threat with the intent to place plaintiff in reasonable fear for his safety.  Id., ¶24.  Defendant argues that that the complaint falls short of sufficiently alleging any of the elements and is conclusory.  Defendant points out that there are no facts showing a single instance that falls under “follow, alarm, place under surveillance, and harass” plaintiff.  Defendant asserts that the allegations merely parrot the language of the statute.  Defendant also contends that the complaint fails to allege what purported conduct caused plaintiff to reasonably fear for his safety or caused him substantial emotional distress or that defendant made a “credible threat” or that he acted with “reckless disregard for the safety of the plaintiff.” There is no opposition.The Court finds that the allegations are insufficient to meet the elements.  They are conclusory.  Plaintiff has not shown how he can amend.The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. Second cause of action for defamation“The elements of a defamation claim are ‘(1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or causes special damage.’” John Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal. App. 5th 1300, 1312 (citation omitted).  The defamatory statement “must specifically refer to, or be ‘of and concerning,’ the plaintiff in some way.”  Blatty v. New York Times Co. (1986) 42 Cal. 3d 1033, 1042 (citation omitted).The complaint alleges that defendant is a principal in a conspiracy to defame plaintiff.  Complaint, ¶28.  The defamation was planned and executed with defendant’s vast network.  Defendant is vicariously liable for all of the actions of the conspiracy because he was an active participant who was involved in the planning of the defamation and agreed with his network to commit acts of defamation and intended that defamation be committed.  Id., ¶29.Defendant argues that the complaint is conclusory and “fails at the outset” because it fails to allege any purportedly defamatory statement made by defendant.  See Glassdoor, Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal. App. 5th 623, 635 (“In defamation cases . . . ‘the words constituting an alleged libel must be specifically identified, if not pleaded verbatim, in the complaint.’”) (citations omitted).  Defendant also asserts that the complaint fails to allege that defendant published an allegedly false statement about plaintiff.  Further, defendant contends, plaintiff does not allege any facts that any statement by defendant “had a natural tendency to injure or cause special damage.”There is no opposition.The Court finds that the allegations are conclusory and insufficient to meet the elements.  Plaintiff has not shown how he can amend.The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.ORDER  The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first and second causes of action in the complaint.  Moving defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling and prepare a form of judgment.