 Case Number:  22TRCV00096    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
THE
  ROOSK GROUP INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00096




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JAMIE
  MCDANIEL, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         August 1, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff The Roosk Group
Responding Party:                  None
Application of Michael
J. Smikun to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.
RULING
The application is GRANTED.  The Court ORDERS that Michael J. Smikun appear
as counsel pro hac vice for plaintiff The Roosk Group.
BACKGROUND
            On February 9, 2022, plaintiffs
TelcoLynx, LLC and The Roosk Group Inc. filed a complaint against Jamie
McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc, Diane Zane, and Zane Consulting, Inc. for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3)
breach of fiduciary duties, (4) fraud, (5) rescission of contract, and (6)
unjust enrichment. 
            On June 28, 2022, plaintiffs filed a
FAC. 
            On August 12, 2022, the court
granted defendant Friendly Llama’s motion to disqualify counsel, Callagy Law,
P.C. as counsel for plaintiff TelcoLynx. 
            On January 12, 2023, the court
granted plaintiff Roosk Group, Inc.’s motion for leave to file a SAC. 
 
On January 17, 2023, The Roosk
Group, Inc. and nominal party Telcolynx, LLC filed a SAC against Jamie
McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc., Diane Zane and Zane Consulting, Inc. for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3)
breach of fiduciary duties, (4) fraud, (5) rescission of contract, and (6)
unjust enrichment. 
            On May 24, 2023, the court denied
defendant Friendly Llama’s request to strike “nominal plaintiff” Telcolynx, LLC
from the SAC.
            On September 29, 2023, after taking
the matter under submission, the court denied defendants’ motion to strike
plaintiff The Roosk Group’s derivative claims against defendants.  The motion to strike was granted with leave
to amend to striking Telcolynx as a “nominal plaintiff” and allowing plaintiff
to amend to name Telcolynx as a “nominal defendant.”
            On October 19, 2023, The Roosk Group
Inc. filed a TAC against Jamie McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc., Diane Zane, Zane
Consulting, Inc., and Telcolynx, LLC for (1) breach of oral contract (against
Friendly Llama), (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing (against
Friendly Llama), (3) breach of fiduciary duties (against Friendly Llama), (4)
breach of fiduciary duties (against McDaniel), (5) fraud (against Friendly
Llama and McDaniel), (6) rescission of contract (against Zane Consulting), (7)
breach of contract (against Zane and Zane Consulting), and (8) unjust
enrichment (against Zane and Zane Consulting).
            On November 16, 2023, Zane
Consulting filed a motion for summary judgment.
            On February 1, 2024, the court
continued the hearing on Zane Consulting’s motion for summary judgment based on
plaintiffs’ request for a continuance to complete discovery.
            On March 1, 2024, the court granted
defendant Jamie McDaniel’s motions to compel The Roosk Group to respond to
defendant’s written discovery.
            On June 24, 2024, the court granted
Zane Consulting’s motion for summary judgment.
DISCUSSION
Attorney Michael J. Smikun requests
leave to appear as counsel pro hac vice for plaintiff The Roosk Group.  
CRC Rule 9.40 provides that an
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California.  
The application must state:  (1) the applicant’s residence and office
address; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local
action.  CRC Rule 9.40(d).
            The Court finds that the attorney’s
application complies with the requirements of Rule 9.40.  The applicant has paid the required $50.00
fee to the State Bar of California.  CRC
Rule 9.40(e).
The application is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The application is GRANTED.
The Court ORDERS that Michael J.
Smikun appear as counsel pro hac vice for plaintiff The Roosk Group.
Moving party is to give notice of
this ruling.