  Case Number:  21TRCV00424    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JOANA
  FLORES, ind. and on behalf of other members of general public similarly
  situated and on behalf of other aggrieved employes pursuant to PAGA,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21TRCV00424




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ALLIANCE
  GROUND INTERNATIONAL LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         August 1,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff Joana Flores
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion for
Preliminary Approval of Class Action and PAGA Settlement
 
            The Court considered the moving papers
and plaintiff’s counsel’s supplemental declaration.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED. 
BACKGROUND
            On June 10, 2021, plaintiff Joana
Flores, individually and on behalf of other aggrieved employees pursuant to
PAGA filed a complaint against Alliance Ground International LLC. 
            On September 6, 2023, plaintiff
filed a joint status report and notice of settlement.
            On May 15, 2024, a stipulation and
order were entered granting plaintiff leave to file a First Amended Complaint.
            On May 30, 2024, plaintiff filed a
FAC.
            On June 13, 2024, the Court
continued the hearing on plaintiff’s motion for preliminary approval of
settlement to correct deficiencies.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.769:
“(a) Court approval after hearing -
A settlement or compromise of an entire class action, or of a cause of action
in a class action, or as to a party, requires the approval of the court after
hearing.
(b) Attorney's fees - Any
agreement, express or implied, that has been entered into with respect to the
payment of attorney's fees or the submission of an application for the approval
of attorney's fees must be set forth in full in any application for approval of
the dismissal or settlement of an action that has been certified as a class
action.
            (c) Preliminary approval of
settlement - Any party to a settlement agreement may serve and file a written
notice of motion for preliminary approval of the settlement. The settlement
agreement and proposed notice to class members must be filed with the motion,
and the proposed order must be lodged with the motion.
(d) Order certifying provisional
settlement class - The court may make an order approving or denying
certification of a provisional settlement class after the preliminary
settlement hearing.
(e) Order for final approval
hearing - If the court grants preliminary approval, its order must include the
time, date, and place of the final approval hearing; the notice to be given to
the class; and any other matters deemed necessary for the proper conduct of a
settlement hearing.
(f) Notice to class of final
approval hearing - If the court has certified the action as a class action,
notice of the final approval hearing must be given to the class members in the
manner specified by the court. The notice must contain an explanation of the
proposed settlement and procedures for class members to follow in filing
written objections to it and in arranging to appear at the settlement hearing
and state any objections to the proposed settlement.
(g) Conduct of final approval
hearing - Before final approval, the court must conduct an inquiry into the
fairness of the proposed settlement.
(h) Judgment and retention of
jurisdiction to enforce - If the court approves the settlement agreement after
the final approval hearing, the court must make and enter judgment. The
judgment must include a provision for the retention of the court's jurisdiction
over the parties to enforce the terms of the judgment. The court may not enter
an order dismissing the action at the same time as, or after, entry of
judgment.”
DISCUSSION
Under CRC Rule 3.769, plaintiff
Joana Flores, on behalf of herself and all “aggrieved employees” pursuant to
Labor Code §2698 requests an order as follows:
(1)   Preliminarily approving the
proposed class action settlement;
(2)   Conditionally certifying the
settlement class;
(3)   Preliminarily appointing Joana
Flores as the Class Representative;
(4)   Preliminarily appointing Edwin
Aiwazian, Arby Aiwazian, Joanna Ghosh, and Vartan Madoyan of Lawyers for
Justice, PC as Class Counsel;
(5)   Approving Simpluris, Inc., as the
Settlement Administrator;  
(6)   Approving the proposed Notice of
Class Action Settlement; and 
(7)   Directing the mailing of the Class
Notice to the Class Members;
(8)   Approving the proposed deadlines
for the notice and settlement administration process; and 
(9)   Scheduling a hearing for a final
fairness and approval hearing. 
 
As an initial matter, in connection
with the settlement, the parties stipulated and the Court ordered that
plaintiff file a First Amended Complaint to add direct class action claims for
all Labor Code violations encompassed by the settlement agreement.  The FAC was filed on May 30, 2024.
As background, defendant is a cargo
ground handling company operating in the United States, including in
California.  Plaintiff has worked as a
non-exempt, hourly employee of defendant.
 
A.    Settlement Class Definition
            Settlement Class:  “All current and former hourly-paid or
non-exempt employees who worked for Defendant in the State of California at any
time during the Settlement Class Period.”
            According to the Settlement
Agreement, defendant estimates that there are 1619 Class Members.
            Class Period:  January 27, 2019 through and including the
date of Preliminary Approval.  The PAGA
Period is April 5, 2020 through and including the date of Preliminary Approval.
            
B.          Terms
of Settlement Agreement
            The essential terms are as follows:
-       
Gross
Settlement Amount (“GSA”):  a
non-reversionary GSA of $1.8 million.
-       
Net
Settlement Amount (“NSA”):  $917,442.  The Net Settlement Amount is defined as the GSA
less the amounts approved and awarded by the Court as follows:
(1)   Class Representative Service
Payment of $10,000 to plaintiff.
(2)   Class Counsel Fees payment,
consisting of attorney’s fees in the amount of 35% (estimated to be $630,000)
and Class Counsel Litigation Expenses payment not to exceed $25,000.
(3)   Administration Expense payment not
to exceed $17,558.
(4)   Penalties under PAGA in the amount
of $200,000, of which 75% ($150,000) will be distributed to the Labor and
Workforce Development Agency and 25% ($50,000) will be distributed to Aggrieved
Employees on a pro rata basis based on Aggrieved Employees’ PAGA Pay Periods
during the PAGA Period.
-       
Amount
and manner of distribution of the compensation to each class member, including
the amount, or an estimate, of what each class member will receive
            The entire NSA will be fully paid
out to the Participating Class Members. 
The amount of each share will be calculated by dividing the NSA by the
total number of Workweeks worked by all Participating Class Members during the
Class Period and multiplying the results by each Participating Class Members
Workweeks.  Further, the amount of each
PAGA payment will be calculated by dividing the amount of the Aggrieved
Employee’s 25% share of the PAGA Penalties by the total number of PAGA Pay
Periods worked by all Aggrieved Employees during the PAGA Period and by
multiplying the result by each Aggrieved Employee’s PAGA Pay Periods.  
            According to the Settlement
Agreement, defendant estimates that there are 1,619 Class Members who
collectively worked a total of 159,281 Workweeks and 1,305 Aggrieved Employees
who worked a total of 56,892 PAGA Pay Periods. 

            Plaintiff does not provide an
estimate of what each Class Member will receive.
            Tax allocation. 
25% of each Individual Class
Payment will be allocated to settlement of wage claims.  75% of each Individual Class Payment will be
allocated to settlement of claims for interest and penalties.  See Settlement Agreement, at 3.2.4.1.   
 
C.        Analysis
of Settlement Agreement
1.     Does a presumption of fairness
exist?
a.      Was the settlement reached through
arm’s-length bargaining?  Yes. 
            On September 22, 2022, the parties
participated in a forma mediation conducted by Eve Wagner, Esq., “a well
regarded mediator experienced in mediating complex labor and employment
matters.”  See Vartan Madoyan decl., ¶10.
            In sum, the Settlement was the
product of protracted, contentious, and arm’s length negotiations before an
experienced and neutral third-party mediator.
b.     Were investigation and discovery
sufficient to allow counsel and the court to act intelligently?  
Yes.  According to counsel’s declaration, Class
Counsel has litigated the matter for over two years and was actively preparing
the matter for trial.  Prior to engaging
in mediation, Class Counsel conducted significant investigation, propounded
formal discovery, and exchanged significant informal discovery regarding the
facts of the case, including the exchange, review, and analysis of a large
volume of documents and data produced by defendant.  Class Counsel reviewed and analyzed
employment records, earning statements, payroll reports, company policy
acknowledgments, multiple versions of defendant’s Employee Handbook and
relevant wage and hour policies, and timekeeping and payroll records for class
members and aggrieved employees.  Class
Counsel interviewed plaintiff and investigated her claims.  See Madoyan decl., ¶¶10-11.
 
c.      Is counsel experienced in similar
litigation?
Yes.  Class Counsel is experienced in class action
litigation, including wage and hour class actions.  See Madoyan decl., ¶2.
d.     What percentage of the class has
objected?
This cannot be determined until the
fairness hearing.  See Weil & Brown,
Cal. Practice Guide:  Civil Procedure
Before Trial, 14:149.18 (“Should the court receive objections to the
proposed settlement, it will consider and either sustain or overrule them at
the fairness hearing.”).
The Court concludes that the
settlement is entitled to a presumption of fairness.
 
2.     Is the settlement fair, adequate,
and reasonable?
a.      Reasonable estimate of the nature
and amount of recovery that each class member could have obtained if Plaintiff
prevailed.  “The most important factor is the strength of
the case for plaintiffs on the merits, balanced against the amount offered in
settlement.”  Kullar v. Foot Locker
Retail, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal. App. 4th 116, 130. 
Class Counsel did not provide a Kullar
analysis but the Court expects it to do so with respect to the final approval. 
b.     Risk, expense, complexity, and
likely duration of further litigation.  
Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that
the benefits of settlement are that Class Members recover over a reasonably
short period of time as opposed to waiting additional years for the same or
possible worse result; a guaranteed result that compares favorably with other
complex wage and hour class action settlements of similar type given the
strengths and weaknesses of the case; and significant savings in fees and/or
costs that would have only increased significantly had the cases progressed
through certification, trial, and/or appeals. 
See Madoyan decl.,¶ 9. 
c.      Risk of maintaining class action
status through trial.  
Even if a class is certified, there
is always a risk of decertification.  See
Weinstat v. Dentsply Intern, Inc. (2010) 180 Cal. App. 4th
1213, 1216 (“Our Supreme Court has recognized that trial courts should retain
some flexibility in conducing class actions, which means, under suitable
circumstances, entertaining successive motions on certification if the court
subsequently discovers that the propriety of a class action is not
appropriate.”).
d.     Amount offered in settlement. 

Plaintiff’s counsel obtained a $1.8
million non-reversionary settlement.  
The settlement amount is within the
“ballpark of reasonableness.”
 
e.      Extent of discovery completed and
stage of the proceedings.  
As stated above, at the time of
settlement, Class Counsel had conducted sufficient discovery.
f.      Experience and views of counsel.
The settlement was negotiated and
endorsed by Class Counsel who, as indicated above, is experienced in class
action litigation, including wage and hour class actions.
g.     Presence of a governmental
participant.  This factor is not applicable here.
h.     Reaction of the class members to
the proposed settlement.
The class members’ reactions will
not be known until they receive notice and are afforded an opportunity to
object and/or opt-out.  This factor
becomes relevant during the final fairness hearing.  
In consideration of the above, the Court
preliminarily deems the settlement “fair, adequate, and reasonable.”
 
D.    Scope of the Release (Israel-Curley v. California
Fair Plan (2005) 126 Cal. App. 4th 123, 129; Salehi v. Surfside III
Condominium Owners' Assn. (2011) 200 Cal. App. 4th 1146, 1159-1161.)
The necessity of including a §1542
release as to the putative class members. 
In wage and hour class action lawsuits, the Court will not approve a Civil
Code §1542 waiver as to putative class members, even as to released
claims.  
Here, the General Release only
applies to plaintiff, which is proper.
Plaintiff and all Class Members who
do not timely opt-out of the settlement will be deemed to have fully released
and discharged defendant from any and all “Released Claims” which arose during
the Class Period.  “Released Claims” are
any and all claims that could have been asserted in the actions based on the
facts alleged, which is proper.
Counsel is to check and confirm
that the release in the notice is verbatim of release in settlement agreement.
 
E.  Is the Notice Proper?
1.     Content of class notice. 

The proposed notice is attached to
the Settlement Agreement.  Its content
appears to be acceptable to the extent it includes information such as a
summary of the litigation; the nature of the settlement; the terms of the
settlement agreement; the proposed deductions from the gross settlement amount;
the procedures and deadlines for participating in, opting out of, or objecting
to the settlement; the consequences of participating in, opting out of, or
objecting to, the settlement; and the date, time, and place of the final
approval hearing.
The Court had requested that Class
Counsel make several edits to the Notice, which it did.  See Vartan Madoyan suppl. decl. and red-lined
copy showing changes.
 
2.     Method of class notice.
As stated
in the Settlement Agreement:
Defendant shall deliver to the
Claims Administrator the Class Data not later than twenty days after the Court
grants preliminary approval.  Settlement,
at 4.2. 
Within fourteen days after
receiving the Class Data, the Administrator will send to all Class Members
identified in the Class Data the Class Notice with Spanish translation.  Id., at 7.4.2. 
Prior to mailing the Class Notices,
the Administrator shall update Class Member addresses using the National Change
of Address database.  Id., 7.4.2.
Exclusion/Objection Deadline Date: 
Class Members will have 60 days from the mailing of the Class Notice to
request exclusion from the Settlement. 
Id., 7.5.1.
Procedure for Undeliverable Notice
Packets.  Any Class Notice returned to the Claims
Administrator as undelivered, the Administrator shall remail the Class Notice
using any forwarding address provided by the USPS, not later than three
business days.  If the USPS does not
provide a forwarding address, the Administrator shall conduct a Class Member
Address Search and remail the Class Notice. 
Id., 7.4.3.
 
Procedure for Objection to or
Requesting Exclusion from the Class Action Settlement. 
The Class Members shall submit objections to the Settlement and Requests
for Exclusion from the Settlement, using the following procedures: 
a.      Procedure for Objecting.  The Class Notice shall provide that those
Class Members who wish to object to the Settlement must mail a written
statement of objection to the Administrator no later than 60 days after the
Administrator’s mailing of the Class Notice. 
Id., 7.7.2.
b.     Procedure for Requesting
Exclusion.  The Class Notice shall
provide that those Class Members who wish to be excluded from the Settlement
must mail a written signed statement expressing his or her desire to be
excluded from the Settlement.  Any Class
Member who wishes to be excluded from the Settlement must submit a Request for
Exclusion to the Claims Administrator postmarked no later than 60 days after
the Administrator’s mailing of the Class Notice.  Id., 7.5.1.
 
3.     Cost of class notice.
As stated above, claims
administration costs are estimated to be $17,558.  Prior to the time of the final fairness
hearing, the Settlement Administrator must submit a declaration attesting to
the total costs incurred and anticipated to be incurred to finalize the
settlement for approval by the Court.
4.     Submission of
Claims/Exclusions/Objections
1.     Why is the submission of a claim
form necessary?  Not applicable.
2.     Explain why the claims process is
not so burdensome that relief would be inaccessible to class members.
According to the Settlement
Agreement, each Class Member will be fully advised of the settlement agreement,
the ability to object to the agreement, and the ability to submit a Request for
Exclusion Form.  Each Class Notice will
contain personalized information setting forth the total number of weeks each
Class Member worked and their estimated Individual Payment Amount. 
All Class Members who do not submit
a Request for Exclusion form will be eligible to receive an Individual Payment
Amount.
 
F.     Attorney Fees and Costs.
California Rule of Court, Rule
3.769(b) states:  “Any agreement, express
or implied, that has been entered into with respect to the payment of attorney
fees or the submission of an application for the approval of attorney fees must
be set forth in full in any application for approval of the dismissal or
settlement of an action that has been certified as a class action.”  
Ultimately, the award of attorney
fees is made by the court at the fairness hearing, using the loadstar method
with a multiplier, if appropriate.  PLCM
Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal. 4th 1084, 1095-96; Ramos
v. Countrywide Home Loan, Inc. (2000) 82 Cal. App. 4th 615,
625-626; Ketchum III v. Moses (2000) 24 Cal. 4th 1122,
1132-36.  Despite any agreement by the
parties to the contrary, “the court ha[s] an independent right and
responsibility to review the attorney fee provision of the settlement agreement
and award only so much as it determined reasonable.”  Garabedian v. Los Angeles Cellular
Telephone Company (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th 123, 128.  
The question whether Class Counsel
is entitled to $630,000 (35%) in attorney fees and up to $25,000 in litigation
expenses will be addressed at the final fairness hearing when Class Counsel
brings a noticed motion for attorney fees. 
Class Counsel must provide the Court with billing information so that it
can properly apply the lodestar method and must indicate what multiplier (if
appliable) is being sought as to each counsel.
Class Counsel should also be
prepared to justify the costs sought by detailing how they were incurred.
 
G.    Explanation as to why the class
representative enhancement is reasonable (Munoz v. BCI Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Los
Angeles (2010) 186 Cal. App. 4th 399, 412)
In connection with the final
fairness hearing, the named plaintiff must submit a declaration attesting to
why she should be entitled to an enhancement award in the proposed amount.  The named plaintiff must explain why she “should
be compensated for the expense or risk [s]he has incurred in conferring a
benefit on other members of the class.”  Clark
v. American Residential Services LLC (2009) 175 Cal. App. 4th 785,
806.  Trial courts should not sanction
enhancement awards of thousands of dollars with “nothing more than pro forma
claims as to ‘countless’ hours expended, ‘potential stigma’ and ‘potential
risk.’  Significantly more specificity,
in the form of quantification of time and effort expended on the litigation,
and in the form of reasoned explanation of financial or other risks incurred by
the named plaintiffs, is required in order for the trial court to conclude that
an enhancement was ‘necessary to induce [the named plaintiff] to participate in
the suit . . . .’”  Id. at 806-807.  
Plaintiff will seek, and defendant
will not oppose, Service Payments and General Release Payments to the Class
Representative not to exceed $10,000 for her service in the Action and in
exchange for her general release of all claims.
The Court will decide the issue of
the enhancement award at the time of final approval.
 
H.    May conditional class certification
be granted?
A detailed analysis of the elements
required for class certification is not required, but it is advisable to review
each element when a class is being conditionally certified.  Amchem Products, Inc. v. Winsor (1997)
521 U.S. 620, 622-27.
1.     Analysis
The parties stipulate to class
certification for settlement purposes only.
a.      Numerosity.
According to defendant’s records,
the Settlement Class is comprised of approximately more than 1,619 members.
b.     Ascertainability.
The Class Members are identifiable
from defendant’s employment and payroll records. 
c.      Community of interest.
The community of interest
requirement has three essential elements: 
“(1) predominant questions of law or fact; (2) class representatives
with claims or defenses typical of the class; and (3) class representatives who
can adequately represent the class.”  Linder
v. Thrifty Oil Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 429, 435.
Plaintiff asserts that Class
Members were subject to the same or similar job duties and unform operations
and employment practices, policies, and procedures during the time period at
issue.  Plaintiff contends that her
claims arise from defendant’s alleged uniform policy and systematic scheme of
failing to properly pay overtime and minimum wages for all hours worked,
failing to provide compliant meal and rest periods and associated premium pay,
failing to timely pay wages during employment and upon termination of
employment, failing to provide compliant wage statements, failing to keep
requisite payroll records, and failing to reimburse necessary business-related
expenses.  Defendant’s payroll and
recordkeeping practices with respect to plaintiff and the Class Members were
substantially the same during the time period at issue.  
d.     Adequacy of class counsel.
 
Class counsel has extensive experience in litigating wage and hour class
actions. 
The Court concludes that the class
may be conditionally certified since the prerequisites of class certification
have been satisfied.
The motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff counsel’s supplemental declaration
complied with the Court’s June 13, 2024 minute order ordering counsel to edit
and modify the proposed Class Notice; provide proof of submission of any
revised proposed settlement on the LWDA; and confirm that the release in Notice
is verbatim of release in settlement agreement. 
Plaintiff’s counsel noted in his declaration that no modifications were
required of the settlement agreement.
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling.