 Case Number:  23TRCV03440    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
KIG
  PROPERTIES, LLC,  


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03440




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ROSALBA
  QUIROZ,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                        August
1, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff KIG Properties, LLC
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Defendant to Respond to Form Interrogatories
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Defendant to Respond to Special Interrogatories
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Defendant to Respond to Requests for Production of Documents
(4)  
Motion
for Order that Facts in Requests for Admissions Be Deemed Admitted
 
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
The motions are GRANTED.
Defendant Rosalba Quiroz is ordered
to respond without objections to plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One and
Special Interrogatories, Set One within twenty days.
Defendant Rosalba Quiroz is ordered
(1) to serve on plaintiff a verified response without objections to plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One and (2) to produce all documents
and things in defendant’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive
to plaintiff’s request, within twenty days.
The Court orders the truth of the
matters deemed admitted in plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One against
defendant Quiroz.
The Court orders defendant Quiroz to
pay to plaintiff a monetary sanction in the amount of $1440, in total for the
four motions, within thirty days.
BACKGROUND
On October 17, 2023, plaintiff KIG
Properties, LLC filed a complaint against Rosalba Quiroz for (1) nuisance, (2)
negligence, and (3) preliminary and permanent injunction.  
Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff
and defendant’s properties are separated by a wall located on the western
boundary of the Quiroz property.  In
2012, defendant constructed or made alterations to the wall between the properties
and thereafter KIG began experiencing water intrusion issues as a result of the
wall preventing adequate drainage of rainwater from the building’s
foundation.  At the time the problem
first occurred, KIG paid defendant’s son $15,000 to repair, re-stucco, and
waterproof the wall.  The repair failed
and KIG has continued to experience water intrusion, which has resulted in
damage to its property.  KIG desired to
fix the issue and was willing to do so at its expense.  Defendant refused to cooperate with KIG and
refused KIG’s requests for access to defendant’s property.  In June 2023, communications began between
KIG and defendant’s son.  In mid-August
2023, they discussed an indemnification agreement, which defendant’s son agreed
to sign and to allow access.  In
September 2023, plaintiff contacted defendant’s son to coordinate and schedule
the repair work but he failed to respond and to sign the agreement.  
On November 17, 2023, defendant
(self-represented) filed an answer.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Interrogatories
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906. 
Request for Production of Documents
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1487.
Request for Admissions 
Pursuant to CCP § 2033.280(b), a
party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).  “Failure to timely respond to RFA does not
result in automatic admissions.  Rather,
the propounder of the RFA must ‘move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction’ under § 2023.010 et seq.”  Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 8:1370, citing CCP § 2033.280(b).  The court “shall” grant the motion to deem
RFA admitted, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  CCP §
2033.280(c).
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff KIG Properties, LLC requests
that the Court compel defendant Rosalba Quiroz to respond without objections to
plaintiff’s initial form and special interrogatories and request for production
of documents and to deem admitted the requests for admissions.
Plaintiff explains that it served its
discovery requests on defendant on January 29, 2024.  Responses were due by March 4, 2024.  When no responses were received, on April 4,
2024, plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter to defendant requesting
responses by April 15, 2024.  To date,
plaintiff’s counsel has not received responses.
The Court finds that plaintiff
properly served discovery requests and defendant failed to respond.  
The motions are GRANTED.
                        Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Plaintiff
requests $2110 ($725/hr.) in monetary sanctions for each motion.  The Court
finds that $1440 ($400/hr. x 3 hrs., $240 filing fee) is a reasonable amount to
be imposed against defendant in total for the four motions.
 
ORDER
The motions are GRANTED.
Defendant Rosalba Quiroz is ordered
to respond without objections to plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One and
Special Interrogatories, Set One within twenty days.
Defendant Rosalba Quiroz is ordered
(1) to serve on plaintiff a verified response without objections to plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One and (2) to produce all documents
and things in defendant’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive
to plaintiff’s request, within twenty days.
The Court orders the truth of the
matters deemed admitted in plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One against
defendant Quiroz.
The Court orders defendant Quiroz to
pay to plaintiff a monetary sanction in the amount of $1440, within thirty
days.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of ruling. 