 Case Number:  24VECV00204    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV00204 ZHARINOV V STARBUCKS[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Starbucks Corporation’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  Leave to amend is limited to curing the pleading defects identified.
Introduction 
Defendant Starbucks Corporation (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Yevgeniy Zharinov’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  The demurrer placed into issue the first cause of action (COA) for libel, the second COA for negligence, and the third COA for gross negligence.  Plaintiff’s opposition was due April 18, 2024 and none was filed.
Procedure 
Despite the demurrer citing to three separate COAs, Plaintiff’s Complaint only alleged a single COA for general negligence.  The Court reviewed the Complaint and the Demurrer based upon the express allegations made in the Complaint (i.e., a single COA for general negligence).  The Court noted that Plaintiff  alleged within the negligence COA that the false statements were libelous and grossly negligence.  (Compl. par. GN-1.)  The allegation as to libel or gross negligence is conclusory.  A conclusory claim within the body of the negligence COA is insufficient to plead libel or gross negligence as separate COAs.  Libel and gross negligence are non-existent in the Complaint.  The Court did not review the arguments as to the non-existent claims of libel and gross negligence. 
Discussion 
Defendant argued that the negligence COA is insufficiently supported with factual allegations and is uncertain.  Defendant asserted that there are insufficient facts as to a duty owed, breach, causation, or damages.  Plaintiff alleged that Defendant negligently wrote in a “customer restriction notice” that Plaintiff was “disruptive and/or threatening” to fellow customers and employees.  (Compl. par. GN-1.)  Plaintiff disputed that he was disruptive or threatening but then alleged that he refused to vacate the location.  For demurrer purposes, the factual allegation that Plaintiff was not disruptive or threatening is deemed true.  With such factual allegation, Plaintiff sufficiently plead a duty of care owed because Defendant owed a duty to not make false statements.  Plaintiff sufficiently alleged breach of the duty because Defendant allegedly issued a false “customer restriction notice”.  Plaintiff further alleged that the false “customer restriction notice” caused his injuries.  As to these elements, Defendant’s demurrer is unpersuasive because it is premised upon the contention that Plaintiff was disruptive/threatening which is a dispute over a factual allegation.  Disputes over the alleged facts are not proper for demurrer.
However, the Complaint is seen to be insufficiently pled on the element of damages.  The Complaint only alleged emotional distress damages which are insufficient to plead damages.  (Gravillis v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 761, 777 – no emotional distress damages absent breach of the duty threatening physical injury, as opposed to property or financial damages, with rare exceptions).)  Without facts to plead actual injury, the COA for negligence is insufficiently pled.
The demurrer to the first COA for general negligence is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.