  Case Number:  21STCV08285    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Application for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement
 
Moving Party: Defendants
Sam Ghanouni, Avi Galili, and Charles Hefner
Resp. Party:    None   
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel
 
Moving Party: Defense
Counsel Jonathan L. Endman and RELAW, APC
Resp. Party:    None   
 
 
The Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
The
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On March 3,
2021, Plaintiff ADH Swall Limited filed its Complaint against Defendant Swall
Heights, LLC on a cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 895, et
seq.    
 
        On June 17,
2021, Plaintiff filed its First Amended Complaint, which added additional
causes of action. 
 
        On May 23,
2022, Plaintiff amended its pleading by substituting Doe 1 with Sam Ghanouni,
Doe 2 with Avi Galili, Doe 3 with Jeremias Luza, and Doe 4 with Charles Hefner.

 
        On June 27,
2022, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office entered default on Defendant
Jeremias Luza. 
 
        On September
26, 2022, Defendants Sam Ghanouni, Avi Galili, and Charles Hefner filed their
respective Answers to the FAC. 
 
        On October 25,
2022, Plaintiff amended its pleading by substituting Doe 5 with Eduardo Castro.
 
        On January 20,
2023, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office entered defaulted on Eduardo
Castro. 
 
        On March 29,
2023, Plaintiff amended its pleading by substituting Doe 6 with Hanna
Construction Engineering, Inc. 
 
        On May 4, 2023,
by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice the
second and third causes of action from the FAC as to Defendant Hanna
Construction Engineering, Inc. 
 
        On June 15,
2023, Defendant Hanna Construction Engineering, Inc. filed its Answer to the
FAC.
 
        On October 16,
2023, Defendant Swall Heights, LLC filed its Answer to the FAC.
 
        On December 13,
2023, Defendants Sam Ghanouni, Avi Galili, and Charles Hefner filed their
Notice of Settlement and Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
(“Application”). In support of their Application, they concurrently filed: (1)
Proposed Order; and (2) Proof of Service. 
 
        On December 19,
2023, Jonathan L. Endman and RELAW, APC, who are counsel for Defendant Swall
Heights, LLC, filed: (1) MC-051, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel (“Motion”); (2)
MC-052, Declaration; and (3) MC-053, Proposed Order. Proof of service was filed
on January 17, 2024. 
 
        No opposition
or other response has been filed to either the Application or the Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Application for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement 
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“Any party to an action in which it
is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided
in subdivision (b) of Section 1005.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“In the alternative, a settling
party may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together
with an application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed
order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(a)(2).)
 
“The issue of the good faith of a
settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served
with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the
court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendants Sam Ghanouni, Avi
Galili, and Charles Hefner move the Court to find that the settlement they
entered into with Plaintiff was made in good faith pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2). (Application, p. 7:25–27.)
 
Among other things, their counsel declares: (1) that after discovery was
conducted, Plaintiff agreed to settle with Defendants Sam Ghanouni, Avi
Galili, and Charles Hefner for $10,000.00 in total for all three of these
defendants; (2) that Defendants Sam Ghanouni, Avi Galili, and Charles Hefner
prepared construction plans in accordance with the Building Code but have
determined that this settlement is reasonable and in good faith considering
their lack of insurance coverage for this claim; and (3) that this settlement
is not the byproduct of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct. (Application,
Decl. Rubin, pp. 9:21–27, 10:1–3.)
 
        The Court does not have any evidence
that would indicate the settlement was not entered into in good faith. Rather,
all of the evidence indicates that the settlement was entered into in good
faith.  None
of the non-settling defendants have filed an opposition or other response. 
 
The Court finds that the settlement was entered into good
faith. (Code Civ. Proc, § 877.6, subd. (b).) 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
II.       Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
An attorney moving to be relieved
as counsel under California Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must meet
the requirements set out in California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. 
 
To comply with rule 3.1362, the
moving party must submit the following forms: (1) Notice of Motion and Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel; (2) Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to
be Relieved as Counsel; and (3) Order Granting Attorney's Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(a), (c), (e).) 
 
The moving party must serve the aforementioned
forms on the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).) Further, when the client is served by mail,
the attorney's declaration must show that the client's address was confirmed
within the last 30 days and how it was confirmed. (Id.)  
 
Absent a showing of resulting
prejudice, an attorney’s request for withdrawal should be granted. (People
v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.) 
 
B.      Discussion
 
Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel complies with all of the requirements of California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362, in that Counsel provided notice of motion and motion to be
relieved as counsel; proposed order granting attorney’s motion to be relieved
as counsel; and declaration in support of the motion to be relieved as counsel.

 
The declaration states, among other
things, that Defendant Swall Heights, LLC has not paid attorney fees as
required by written retainer. 
 
Trial is scheduled for May 20,
2024, which is nearly four months from now. The Court has previously stated
that there would be no further continuances of the trial.  There is a moderate risk of prejudice to
Defendant Swall Heights, LLC by this withdrawal, both because of the
approaching trial date and because corporations cannot represent themselves in
propria persona. (Merco Constr. Eng’rs, Inc. v.
Mun. Ct. (1978) 21 Cal.3d.724, 730.)
 
However, the
trial court may allow a corporation’s attorney to withdraw from representation,
even if that would leave the corporation without representation. (Ferruzzo v. Super. Ct. (1980) 104
Cal.App.3d 501, 504.) “For the uncooperative corporate client who has not been
willing to bring in new counsel, granting of the withdrawal motion will put
extreme pressure on it to obtain new counsel of record for should it fail to do
so it risks forfeiture of its rights through nonrepresentation.” (Ibid.)¿
 
There is time for Defendant Swall
Heights to obtain new counsel prior to trial. Furthermore, it is not counsel’s
responsibility to litigate a matter without reasonable payment when that
counsel and its client have not agreed to a contingency agreement. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel is GRANTED.
 