 Case Number:  23STCV31794    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ANTHONY HAAG,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MK DIAMOND PRODUCTS,
  INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV31794
  Hearing Date:  April 17, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant continental casualty company’s
  demurrer to complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 28, 2023, Plaintiff
Anthony Haag filed this action against Defendants MK Diamond Products, Inc.,
Brian Delahaut, and CNA Financial Corporation. The parties have stipulated to
Continental Casualty Company substituting in for CNA Financial Corporation. 
The complaint asserts twelve causes of
action arising from a settlement agreement reached as part of an employment
discrimination action filed by Plaintiff. Plaintiff entered the settlement
agreement with Defendants MK Diamond and Delahaut. Pursuant to the contract, MK
Diamond and Delahaut agreed to pay $93,750 to Plaintiff and $143,750 to
Plaintiff’s attorneys in exchange for Plaintiff releasing his claims. MK
Diamond and Delahaut had an insurance policy with Defendant CNA Financial,
which disbursed the funds. MK Diamond and Delahaut thereafter issued a check to
Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that the check bounced and that Defendants failed
to reissue a check or otherwise make payment despite giving assurances.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have so far only paid him $16,000. 
On February 20, 2024, Defendant
Continental Casualty Company filed the instant demurrer to the seventh, eighth,
ninth, eleventh, and twelfth causes of action in the complaint. Plaintiff filed
his opposition on March 11, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on March 15, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether a
pleading states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the pleading, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Crane Decl.)
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice is denied. The document cannot be judicially noticed because it is
subject to dispute and is not capable of immediate and accurate determination
by a source of reasonably indisputable accuracy. (See Evid. Code, § 452(h).)
DISCUSSION
I.
Breach of Contract
            a. Insurance Code Section
11580(b)(2)
Plaintiff alleges breach of the insurance
policy under a theory of third-party beneficiary, specifically relying on
Insurance Code section 11580(b)(2). (Compl. ¶ 167, 169.) Section 11580(b)(2)
requires applicable policies to include “[a] provision that whenever judgment
is secured against the insured or the executor or administrator of a deceased
insured in an action based upon bodily injury, death, or property damage, then
an action may be brought against the insurer on the policy and subject to its
terms and limitations, by such judgment creditor to recover on the judgment.” 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff is
not a third-party beneficiary because the general rule is that “absent an
assignment of rights or a final judgment, a third party claimant may not bring
a direct action against an insurance company on the contract because the
insurer's duties flow to the insured.” (Harper v. Wausau Ins. Corp.
(1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1086.) Defendant argues that Section 11580(b)(2)
does not help Plaintiff because it only applies to judgments in cases based on bodily
injury, death, or property damage. Defendant contends that the underlying
discrimination case did not involve bodily injury, death, or property damage,
and did not end in a judgment because the parties settled.   
            Plaintiff argues that Section
11580(b)(2) applies because his discrimination claims involved “property
damage” in the sense that he was deprived of employment benefits. Plaintiff
cites to a California case interpreting pension rights as property interests (Dryden
v. Board of Pension Comm 'rs. (1936) 6 Cal.2d 575) and a Ninth Circuit case
holding that an employee may have a property interest in continued employment
and the terms of employment (Portman v. County of Santa Clara (9th Cir.
1993) 995 F.2d 898.) These cases are not on point and cannot be construed as
supporting the proposition that employment discrimination constitutes “property
damage” within the meaning of Insurance Code section 11580(b)(2). Plaintiff
also fails to address the fact that the discrimination case did not end in a
judgment because the parties settled. Therefore, Plaintiff is not a third-party
beneficiary under Section 11580(b)(2).
            b. Common Law and Civil Code
Section 1559
Plaintiff also argues that he is a
third-party beneficiary under common law and Civil Code section 1559. However,
it does not appear that Plaintiff alleged these two theories in the complaint. The
breach of contract claim focuses on third-party beneficiary based on Insurance
Code section 11580(b)(2). (See Compl. ¶ 167.) Plaintiff cannot overcome a
demurrer by raising unpled theories in his opposition. In any case, Plaintiff
fails to establish that he is a third-party beneficiary under either of these
two additional theories. 
While Plaintiff cites to caselaw discussing
third-party beneficiaries in the insurance context, none of the cited authority
supports Plaintiff being a third-party beneficiary in this case. Plaintiff
makes the following claims without support: “He was to be paid out, under the
insurance contract, to compensate him for his employment claims. He is no
different than the people injured in a car accident who are 3rd party
beneficiaries to the auto insurance policy of the driver who caused the damage.”
(Opp. 6:6-10.) There is no indication that the insurance policy was made for
Plaintiff’s benefit or that Plaintiff was to be paid directly under the policy.
None of the cited cases suggests that individuals injured in a car accident are
third-party beneficiaries to the insurance policy of the guilty driver. 
Civil Code section 1559 provides that “[a]
contract, made expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by
him at any time before the parties thereto rescind it.” Plaintiff fails to
demonstrate that the insurance contract between MK Diamond and CNA Financial
was made expressly for his benefit. The single cover page of the purported
insurance policy constitutes extrinsic evidence that cannot be considered on a
demurrer. The document also cannot be judicially noticed, as discussed above.
In any case, the document does not demonstrate that the insurance policy was
expressly made for the benefit of any third party, much less Plaintiff.  
II.
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
“Only one with the right to sue an
insurance company for contract damages for breach of the insurance policy can
also sue the insurance company for tort damages for breach of the covenant of
good faith.” (Wexler v. California FAIR Plan Assn. (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th
55, 62.) As discussed above, Plaintiff has no claim for breach of contract
against Defendant Continental. Therefore, he cannot maintain the derivative
implied covenant claim. 
III.
Negligence
The elements of
negligence are: (1) a duty to exercise ordinary care; (2) breach of that duty;
(3) causation; and (4) damages. (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12
Cal.4th 913, 917.) The complaint alleges that CNA Financial was negligent
because it “failed to do a thorough and timely investigation on MK DIAMOND's
financial status at the time of disbursement.” (Compl. ¶ 199.) “CNA FINANCIAL's
conduct was negligent in that it gave a potentially bankrupt company money it
needed to keep its business afloat, which belonged to PLAINTIFF. Rather than
paying PLAINTIFF directly, CNA FINANCIAL entrusted INSURED with the money,
proximately causing an injury to PLAINTIFF.” (Id., ¶ 200.)
Plaintiff fails
to establish that CNA Financial owed him a duty to investigate MK Diamond or to
directly pay him the insurance proceeds. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that “Plaintiff
is owed a duty of reasonable care by Continental for the same reason he is owed
a duty of good faith; Plaintiff is a 3rd party beneficiary under three
different theories.” (Opp. 10:21-22.) As discussed above, Defendant did not owe
Plaintiff a duty of good faith, and all three theories for third-party
beneficiary are without merit. None of the cited authority supports the
proposition that an insurance carrier has a duty to directly pay an insured’s
employee when the insured settles a discrimination claim with the employee.
Therefore, the negligence claim fails.
IV. Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
To state a cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff must
establish: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant’s
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous conduct. (Vasquez v. Franklin Management Real
Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832.) 
Defendant could
not have engaged in outrageous conduct against Plaintiff or caused Plaintiff’s
injuries if Defendant did not commit any wrong at all against Plaintiff. As
discussed above, Defendant had no duty to directly pay Plaintiff under the
insurance policy. Therefore, the IIED claim fails. 
V. Unfair Business
Practices
            Business
and Professions Code section 17200 prohibits unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent
business acts or practices. Each of the three prongs is an independent basis
for relief. (Smith v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (2001)
93 Cal.App.4th 700, 718.) For the same reasons as discussed above, Defendant
did not engage in any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent conduct against Plaintiff.
Therefore, the UCL claim fails. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant
Continental
Casualty Company’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 