 Case Number:  23STCV31214    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
TROCADERO INTERNATIONAL,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
DR. SEBI, LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV31214
  Hearing Date:  April 17, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants dr. sebi’s office, inc.’s and
  agustin ruiz miller’s demurrer to complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff
Trocadero International filed this action for breach of contract and fraud
against Defendants Dr. Sebi, LLC; Dr. Sebi’s Office, Inc.; and Agustin Ruiz
Miller. 
The complaint alleges that Plaintiff
entered into an oral agreement with Defendants to provide packaging for
Defendants’ tea product in exchange for $58,462.80. Defendants have allegedly
failed to pay the balance of $30,082.80. 
On March 13, 2024, Defendants Dr. Sebi’s
Office, Inc. (DSOI) and Agustin Ruiz Miller (Miller) filed the instant demurrer
to the complaint. Plaintiff filed its opposition on April 4, 2024. Defendants
filed their reply on April 10, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether a
pleading states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the pleading, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Pizarro Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Breach of Contract
To establish
breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the contract existed, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff. (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) A breach of contract can be
alleged by simply “plead[ing]
the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Miles
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.) 
The complaint sets forth the basic
elements for breach of contract. (See Compl. ¶¶ 8-11.) Defendants do not
dispute this but argue that the claim cannot be asserted against Miller because
he is not a party to the contract in his individual capacity and could not have
conspired with his employer (DSOI) in his capacity as an employee. Defendants
argue that according to the complaint, Miller was only acting on behalf of DSOI
and not in his individual capacity. 
These are factual matters that cannot be
resolved on a demurrer. The complaint asserts breach of contract against all of
the defendants. For pleading purposes, it must be assumed true that Plaintiff
contracted with all of the defendants and that all of the defendants breached
the contract by failing to pay. It may be reasonably inferred that all of the
defendants, including Miller, received consideration in the form of packaging
services. Plaintiff alleges in the fraud claim that Miller said he was
authorized to act on behalf of Dr. Sebi, not that Miller was actually acting on
behalf of Dr. Sebi. (Compl. ¶ 13.) That allegation does not constitute an
admission that Miller only acted on behalf of DSOI. Furthermore, Plaintiff
alleges that Miller promised to personally pay for Plaintiff’s services: “Miller
orally promised to Plaintiff that he and Dr. Sebi would pay all sums due
Plaintiff under the Agreement.” (Compl. ¶ 13.) This suggests that Miller dealt
with Plaintiff in his personal capacity and may be personally liable for the
debt. Even if Miller acted on behalf of
DSOI, he could also have been acting in his individual capacity at the same
time. Neither the allegations in the complaint nor Defendant’s legal authority
foreclose this possibility.     
Defendants also
argue that if Plaintiff is claiming Miller promised to answer for DSOI’s debt,
the alleged oral promise violates the statute of frauds. (See Civ. Code, §
1624(a)(2).) This again is a factual issue. It cannot be determined at the
pleading stage whether Miller was promising to cover DSOI’s debt or personally
promising to pay. 
Therefore, the
demurrer is overruled as to the first cause of action. 
II. Fraud
“The elements of
fraud that will give rise to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’” (Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974, quoting Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) Fraud must be pleaded with
specificity rather than with general and conclusory allegations. (Small v.
Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made. (Lazar, supra, 12
Cal.4th at p. 645.) 
Here, the fraud
claim alleges the following: “In or about April, 2023, at the time the
Agreement was made, defendant Miller represented to Plaintiff that he was
authorized to act on behalf of Dr. Sebi, and that Miller was in charge of the ‘tea
deal’ which was the subject of the Agreement. In April, 2023, Miller orally
promised to Plaintiff that he and Dr. Sebi would pay all sums due Plaintiff under
the Agreement. This representation was made by Miller to Richard Benichou and
Alex Benichou, Plaintif’s representatives, over the telephone.” (Compl. ¶ 13.)
This contains the requisite specificity. 
Defendants
reiterate their argument that Miller was not acting on his own behalf or for
his own benefit. However, the allegation is that Miller said he was
authorized to act on behalf of Dr. Sebi, not that Miller was actually doing so.
It remains a factual issue whether Miller was speaking on his own behalf or
someone else’s. Furthermore, fraud does not require the defendant to speak on
his own behalf. If Miller made a false representation on behalf of DSOI, he
still made a false representation and may therefore be liable for fraud.
Defendants cite no authority absolving an employee from fraud simply because
the employee was acting within the scope of employment. Fraud also does not
require the defendant to personally benefit from the wrongdoing; it only
requires damage to the plaintiff. 
Lastly,
Defendants argue that for promissory fraud, Plaintiff fails to allege
nonperformance by Defendants. However, the complaint must be read as a whole.
The complaint clearly alleges that Defendants failed to perform by refusing to
pay. (See Compl. ¶ 10.) The fraud claim incorporates all prior allegations.
(Compl. ¶ 12.)   
Therefore, the
demurrer is overruled as to the second cause of action. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants
DSOI’s and Miller’s demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 