 Case Number:  23SMCV02618    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Yazdi v. Robles,
et al., Case No. 23SMCV02618
Hearing Date
November 8, 2023 
Defendant Baum’s
Anti-SLAPP Motion and Demurrer 
 
Plaintiff dentist Yazdi
alleges defendant dentist Baum provided false expert testimony in a dental malpractice
arbitration action against Yazdi by defendant Robles. That action resulted in an
award against plaintiff Yazdi, affirmed on appeal. Plaintiff Yazdi sues for
equitable indemnity and contribution against defendant Baum, who brings this moves
to strike (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §425.16, the anti-SLAPP statute) and demurs.

 
Anti-SLAPP 
Courts resolving an anti-SLAPP motion under Cal. Civ. Code
§425.16 follow a two-step process. Jarrow
Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 733. In prong one, the
court determines whether the conduct underlying plaintiff’s cause of action
arises from defendant’s constitutional rights of free speech or petition. Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal. 5th 376,
395. This is a threshold issue; if moving party fails to show the conduct is
constitutionally protected, the court need not address prong two. Jarrow, supra, 31 Cal.4th at 733. The
anti-SLAPP statute covers litigation-related activities, and any statement or
writing made in “connection with” litigation is protected. Seltzer v. Barnes
(2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 953, 962. 
 
Under
the second prong, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show a legally sufficient
claim and to prove with admissible evidence a reasonable probability plaintiff
will prevail. E.g., Navellier v. Sletten (2002)
29 Cal.4th 82, 88. To fulfill prong two, a cannot rely on the allegations of
the complaint but must produce evidence admissible at trial. HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co. (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.
 
Defendant Baum argues his testimony at the arbitration
hearing constitutes protected litigation activity. The anti-SLAPP statute
protects statements “made in a judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law.” Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §425.16(e)(1). Per Century
21 Chamberlain & Assoc. v. Haberman (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1, 8, “arbitration
is not a judicial proceeding triggering anti-SLAPP protection,” nor an
“official proceeding authorized by law subject to anti-SLAPP protection.” When
arbitration is compelled by statute, rather than by private contract,
statements made in connection with the proceeding are protected by the
anti-SLAPP statute. Mallard v. Progressive Choice Ins. Co. (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 531, 539. 
 
Defendant does not claim the underlying arbitration was
compelled by statute. Under Century 21, his testimony at arbitration was
not made in a “judicial proceeding” or an “official proceeding authorized by
law,” so is not subject to anti-SLAPP protection. As defendant fails to fulfill
the first prong of the anti-SLAPP statute, the court need not address prong
two. DENIED. 
 
Demurrer 
Defendant Baum demurs, arguing statute of limitations and
litigation privilege. 
 
Statute of Limitations/Ripeness of Claim 
The parties agree a cause of action for contribution or
equitable indemnity not based upon a written instrument is subject to a
two-year statute of limitations. Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §339. 
 
Defendant Baum argues the claims are time-barred because they
arise out of a judgment entered more than two years before this action was
filed. The court takes judicial notice under Cal. Evid. Code §452 of the May
17, 2018 order confirming the arbitration award against plaintiff and the May
16, 2019 Court of Appeal order affirming. Request for judicial notice exhibits
A and B. 
 
Plaintiff argues the statute of limitations for contribution
or equitable indemnity does not begin to run until the underlying judgment has
been paid. He argues since he has not paid the judgment, the statute of
limitations has not begun to run, citing Valley Circle Estates v. VTN
Consolidated (1983) 33 Cal. 3d 604, 612. Valley Circle holds a cause
of action for equitable indemnity “accrues at the time the tort defendant pays
a judgment or settlement as to which he is entitled to indemnity.” Id. pg. 611. Since plaintiff has not paid the judgment, per Valley
Circle, the statute of limitations has not yet expired.
 
However, the claim has not accrued yet. Numerous authorities
support this conclusion. Under the contribution statute, a “right of
contribution may be enforced only after one tortfeasor has, by payment,
discharged the joint judgment or paid more than his pro rata share thereof.”
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §875(c). A claim for equitable indemnity may be brought
“either by filing a cross-complaint in the original action or by filing a
separate indemnity action after paying more than its proportionate share of the
damages through the satisfaction of a judgment or through a payment in
settlement.” Evangelatos v. Superior Court (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1188, 1197-98.
If equitable indemnity is not alleged in the original action, the claim does
not accrue for a separate action until the judgment debtor pays the judgment.
 
Plaintiff has not paid the judgment. Plaintiff did not file
a cross-complaint in the underlying action seeking equitable indemnity. Under Valley
Circle, Evangelatos and Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. 875(c), any claims for
indemnity and contribution are premature until he pays the judgment. SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to contribution and equitable indemnity.
 
Additionally, the complaint includes a cause of action
seeking “equitable relief from the judgment in its entirety.” Plaintiff
presents no authority that this court has authority to provide relief from a
judgment entered by a separate court and affirmed by the court of appeal.
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the equitable relief cause of action. 