 Case Number:  23VECV01606    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Michael Yoakum,
        
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Arrowhead Financial Group, et al.
 
          Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
23VECV01606           107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
 
 
 
 
 



 
 
Defendants Arrowhead Financial
Group, a General Partnership, Todd J. Schellback, Co-Trustee of the Orion
Trust, Cal Trustee Group, Trustee of the Arrowhead Financial Group Trust, and
Michael Henschel (collectively, “Defendants”) demur to the second amended complaint
brought by Plaintiffs Michael Yoakum and Highland Associates, a Limited
Partnership (“Plaintiffs”). 
 
This court sustains the demur with
leave to amend.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
In
or about 2008 through 2021, Plaintiffs and Defendants entered into a series of
contracts in which Defendants would modify Plaintiffs’ loans to reduce his
payments. (Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) ¶ 19.)
Plaintiff paid Defendants “to audit his mortgage payments, modify the loan, and
manage the Properties.” (SAC ¶ 21.) Defendants then “began to devise schemes to
get on title to the Properties and take over same from Plaintiffs.” (SAC ¶ 23.)
Thereafter, Defendants recorded various documents relating to Plaintiffs’
properties. (SAC ¶¶  25, 38-43, 47.) 
 
Plaintiff Michael Yoakum filed a complaint on April 13, 2023,
alleging three causes of action. On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff Michael Yoakum
filed his first amended complaint. On January 11, 2024, Defendants demurred to the
first amended complaint. On February 2, 2024, Plaintiff Michael Yoakum filed a
motion for leave to amend his first amended complaint. The court granted
Plaintiff’s motion. (Motion for Leave to File a SAC.)
 
Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint on April 3, 2024.  
 
On May 31, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demur. On August 5,
2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition, to which no reply was filed.
 
II.            
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants
request that the court take judicial notice of:

The
     Grant Deed recorded on July 23, 1993 as Instrument Number 93-1419542 in
     the Office of the Los Angeles County Recorder. (Ex. A.)
The
     Deed Of Trust recorded on November 8, 2007 as Instrument Number
     20072513667 in the Office of the Los Angeles County Recorder. (Ex. B.)
The
     Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale recorded on February 28, 2012 as Instrument
     Number 20120314434 in the Office of the Los Angeles County Recorder. (Ex.
     C.)
The
     Grant Deed recorded on January 16, 2015 as Instrument Number 20150060515
     in the Office of the Los Angeles County Recorder. (Ex. D.)

This court grants Defendants’ requests for judicial notice. (Evid.
Code §¿452(c).)
 
II.
PROCEDURAL MATTERS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Timeliness
of Filings¿ 
¿ 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.40, subdivision (a),
a demurrer to a complaint should be filed within 30 days after service of the
complaint. Per California Code of Civil Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b),
moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days before they are set for
hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine court days before
the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five
court days before the set hearing. Judges have discretion as to whether to
consider or strike an untimely demurrer or pleading. (McAllister v. County
of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 281; Tuck v. Thuesen (1970)
10 Cal.App.3d 193, 196 (disapproved on other grounds by Neel v. Magana,
Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6 Cal.3d 176).)
 
Plaintiffs served Defendants with the Second Amended Complaint on
April 4, 2024. Defendants filed a declaration of demurring or moving party in
support of automatic extension on May 2, 2024. Defendants filed its demurrer on
May 31, 2024. Plaintiffs filed the opposition on August 5, 2024. 
 
Thus, the filings are timely.
¿ 
B.   
The
Meet & Confer Requirement¿ 
¿ 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41,
subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good faith before the
filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in
the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file and serve with the
demurrer a declaration either confirming that parties were unable to resolve
the issues raised by the demurrer despite having met and conferred or that the
opposing party failed to meet and confer with the demurring party in good
faith. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41, subd. (a)(3).)¿ 
¿ 
Defendants
filed a declaration by counsel indicating Defendants’ counsel sent a meet and
confer letter to Plaintiffs’ counsel but the meet and confer did not result in
any resolution. (Reich Declaration ¶¶ 3-4.) 
 
The
Court finds the meet and confer requirement has been satisfied.
¿ 
III.
LEGAL STANDARD 
¿¿ 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains “[a]¿statement¿of
the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.”
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard, a “complaint
ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.”
(Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)¿
 
IV.
DISCUSSION 
 

Statute of Limitations

 
Defendants
argue Plaintiffs failed to substantiate the delayed discovery of the alleged
fraud and Plaintiffs’ causes of action are therefore barred by the statute of
limitations. (Memorandum pp. 4-5.) Plaintiffs argues they “became aware of the
fraudulent intentions and purpose of Defendants and each of them on or about
April 2020” when “FBI agents approached the Plaintiff on or [a]fter April
2020.” (Opposition p. 4.) Plaintiffs further argue that “Defendant Michael
Henschel, Shellback and the other defendants mounted serious and credible undue
influence on the Plaintiff and convince[d] the Plaintiff who was well over 82
years in 2020, and failing in health, who depends on caregivers for food, daily
upkeep and welfare to trust the Defendants thereby preventing the Plaintiff
from filing this action immediately.” (Opposition p. 4.)
 
“The
statute of limitations for a fraud based ca[u]se of action is three years.” (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Association (2009),
171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1390.)  The
discovery rule postpones accrual of a cause of action until the plaintiff
“discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action.” (Pooshs v.
Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al. (2011) 51 Cal.4th 788, 797.)
 
Plaintiffs’
second amended complaint alleges that on January 16, 2015, “Arrowhead Group
recorded a Grant Deed, Instrument # 20150060515 and transferred title and
interest in the Highland Property to Todd J. Schelbach, Co-Trustee of the Orion
Trust . . . The Grant Deed was recorded by Islas as Trustee of Arrowhead Group”
and filed as Exhibit J. (SAC ¶ 53.) Plaintiffs then allege that “[i]n spite of
the existence and recordation of Exhibit J, on or about April 1, 2020,
defendants approached [Plaintiff] to sign fresh documents transferring the
Highland Properties to Orio Trust” and “Plaintiffs became aware of defendants’
intention to use the falsely procured, documents to deceive the FBI and cover
Defendants’ crimes, after [Plaintiff] had signed the fresh documents and
transferred the Highland Properties to Orion Trust. When defendants approached
plaintiffs to sign the documents, defendants pleaded for plaintiffs protection
and dissuaded plaintiffs from cooperating with or trusting FBI, and to convince
the FBI that defendants were good people.” (SAC ¶¶ 53-54.) 
 
Plaintiff
Michael Yoakum filed his complaint on April 13, 2023. Plaintiffs allege they
discovered Defendants’ intentions to use the falsely procured documents after
Defendants recorded the deed on April 1, 2020. Three years after April 1, 2020,
is April 1, 2023. Thus, if Plaintiffs discovered or had reason to discover
Defendants’ fraudulent intentions before April 13, 2020, then Plaintiffs’
causes of action for fraud would be time-barred.  Plaintiffs alleged facts showing they
discovered or had reason to discover the cause of action after April 1, 2020,
but it is unclear when Plaintiffs discovered or had reason to discover
Defendants’ fraudulent intentions. Accordingly, Plaintiffs have not plead
sufficient facts to show the statute of limitations does not bar his
claim.  
 

Fraud

 
Defendants
argue all of Plaintiffs’ causes of actions fail because Plaintiffs failed to
sufficiently plead fraud. (Memorandum p. 7.) 
 
i.                
Fraud
in the Inducement
 
In
the second amended complaint, the first cause of action is for cancellation of
instruments under Civil Code § 3412.
Civil Code § 3412 states that: “A written instrument, in respect to which there is a reasonable
apprehension that if left outstanding it may cause serious injury to a person
against whom it is void or voidable, may, upon his application, be so adjudged,
and ordered to be delivered up or canceled.”
 
Fraud
in the inducement when “the promisor knows what he is signing but his consent
is induced by fraud, mutual assent is present and a contract is formed,
which, by reason of the fraud, is voidable. (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal. 4th 394, 415.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs alleges they own “real
properties located at 4170
Rogers Street, Los Angeles, CA 90063-11154, described as the “Rogers Property”;
and 2276 Highland Vista Drive, Arcadia, CA 91006-1535, described as the
“Highland Property”, which properties are referred to herein collectively as
“the Properties” or “Plaintiffs’ Properties”.” (SAC ¶
65.) The second amended complaint alleges that “Defendants through related and
associated entities and trusts, fraudulently took over Yoakum’s Properties and
registered bogus title transfer documents in defendants’ favor with which they
took over the Properties.” (SAC ¶ 83.) Specifically, Plaintiffs allege “plaintiffs
and defendants entered into a series of contract by the terms of which
defendants would modify plaintiffs’ loans and in order to reduce his payments
and help manage other costs.” (SAC ¶ 19.) And, “[r]elying on defendants’
assurance as to outcomes, plaintiffs engaged defendants to audit the mortgage
payments, modify the loan, and manage the Properties and plaintiffs paid the
necessary fees and provided to defendants, information and documents required.”
(SAC ¶ 21.) Plaintiffs also allege Yoakum “became emotionally attached to, and
dependent on defendants [but u]beknownst to plaintiffs, the friendship was part
of a ploy by defendants to warm themselves into Yoakum’s confidence in
furtherance of the scheme to defraud plaintiffs and acquire title to the
Properties.” (SAC ¶ 25.) Plaintiffs next allege Defendants diverted mail,
“deliberately managed the Properties with a view to orchestrating foreclosure
so that defendants would acquire the Properties” and “defendants’ loan
modification service was a scam and part of a nationwide scheme to defraud,
exploit, and take over properties of the elderly and vulnerable adults.” (SAC
¶¶ 26-30.)  Further, the second amended
complaint states that Plaintiffs entrusted Defendants with managing his
properties and Defendants “without plaintiffs’ authorization and/or knowledge
changed the mailing and notification address of the Properties, thereby
diverting plaintiffs’ mail.” (SAC ¶ 36.) The second amended complaint then
alleges Defendants’ actions on specific dates regarding specific properties.
(SAC ¶ ¶ 36-63.)   
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded fraud in the inducement.
 
ii.              
Financial
Elder Abuse
 
Financial
elder abuse occurs when a person or entity: “(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates,
obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult
for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both. (2) Assists in taking,
secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal property of
an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or
both. (3) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in
taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal
property of an elder or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in
Section 15610.70.” (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30.) Section 15610.30 also states that “A person or
entity shall be deemed to have taken, secreted, appropriated, obtained, or
retained property for a wrongful use if, among other things, the person or
entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains the property and the
person or entity knew or should have known that this conduct is likely to be
harmful to the elder or dependent adult.” And “For purposes of this section, a
person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or
personal property when an elder or dependent adult is deprived of any property
right, including by means of an agreement, donative transfer, or testamentary
bequest, regardless of whether the property is held directly or by a
representative of an elder or dependent adult.” (Id.) An “’[e]lder’
means any person residing in [California], 65 years or older.” (Welf. &
Inst. Code § 15610.27.) 
 
Here,
in addition to the allegations discussed above, Plaintiffs allege that “[a]t
the time plaintiffs entered into contract with defendants and at all times
material to this lawsuit, Yoakum was at least 67 years old.” (SAC ¶ 22.) 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs have sufficiently plead financial elder abuse.
 
iii.            
Cancellation of Irrevocable Trust
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ claim for cancellation or
modification of the irrevocable trust, which are based on Probate Code Section
15493, fails because there is no Probate Code Section 15493. (Memorandum p.
13.)
 
The
second amended complaint refers to the third cause of action as “Revocation and
Termination of Irrevocable Trust Procured Through Fraud in Factum (Probate Code
Section 15403.) Plaintiffs also refer  to
Probate Code section 15493 in the second amended complaint. (SAC ¶ 93.)  Probate Code section 15493 does not exist,
but section 15403 refers to modification or termination of irrevocable trusts
by all beneficiaries. 
 
Section
15403 allows beneficiaries of an irrevocable trust to petition the court for
modification or termination of the trust. Plaintiffs allege “continuation of
the trust is not necessary as it was created by defendants to defraud the
plaintiffs and deprive them of their properties” and allege “there is good
cause to terminate the said irrevocable trust.” (SAC ¶¶ 95-96.) 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded their third cause of action.
 
iv.            
Quiet
Title
 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 761.020 states a complaint
for quiet title “shall be verified and shall include all of the following: (a) A description of
the property that is the subject of the action. In the case of tangible
personal property, the description shall include its usual location. In the
case of real property, the description shall include both its legal description
and its street address or common designation, if any. (b) The title of the
plaintiff as to which a determination under this chapter is sought and the
basis of the title. If the title is based upon adverse possession, the
complaint shall allege the specific facts constituting the adverse possession. (c)
The adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a determination
is sought. (d) The date as of which the determination is sought. If the
determination is sought as of a date other than the date the complaint is
filed, the complaint shall include a statement of the reasons why a
determination as of that date is sought. (e) A prayer for the determination of
the title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims.”
The second amended complaint is verified. (SAC p. 1.)  It contains legal descriptions and addresses
of the property. (SAC ¶¶
16-17). The second amended complaint alleges defendants “claim some right,
title, estate, lien or interest in the Properties, and the real property
interests are adverse plaintiffs’ property interests at issue in this action.”
(SAC ¶ 99.) Plaintiffs seek quiet title to the properties as of April 13, 2023.
(SAC ¶ 101.) And Plaintiffs request a “judicial declaration that plaintiffs are
the owners of the Properties and to judgment in quieting title as at, or on the
day of filing this action.” (SAC ¶ 100.) 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs sufficiently pleaded their fourth cause of action.
 

Vague and Ambiguous 

 
Defendants
further argue that paragraphs of Plaintiffs’ second amended complaint are vague
and ambiguous. (Memorandum p. 9.) Specifically, Defendants argue that
paragraphs of Plaintiffs' second amended complaint do not identify which defendant
is referenced and do not state when the alleged action occurred. (Memorandum p.
15.) Finally, Defendants argue paragraphs of the second amended complaint
contradict other portions of the second amended complaint. (Memorandum at
p.12.)
 
The court may sustain a demurrer when the
pleading is uncertain, including when it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).)
 
Plaintiffs’
second amended complaint is not vague or ambiguous. Plaintiffs describe the
properties at issue. (SAC ¶¶ 16-19.) Plaintiff alleges the parties entered into
a contract “defendants being appointed managers,[and] began to devise schemes
to get title to the Properties.” (SAC ¶ 23.) Plaintiffs also describe the
actions taken by Defendants in interfering with Plaintiffs’ properties along
with the specific dates of the alleged actions and reference to documents
purportedly created by Defendants’. (SAC ¶¶ 32, 36-63.) Further, although the
complaint refers to actions taken by “defendants” the complaint alleges that Defendants
and each of them in carrying out the conduct stated here were acting as agents,
principals, co-venturers, partners, and attorneys in fact for each other.” (SAC
¶ 12.)
 
Defendants
also argue the second amended complaint contradicts itself. (Memorandum p. 12.)
Defendant appears to argue that Exhibits H and I contradict the second amended
complaint’s allegations that the “defendants” created the documents, even
though Exhibits H and I purportedly show a single signature. (SAC ¶ 49; Ex. H;
Ex. I.) But the second amended complaint alleges that “Defendants and each of
them in carrying out the conduct stated here were acting as agents, principals,
co-venturers, partners, and attorneys in fact for each other.” (SAC ¶ 12.)
Accordingly, the second amended complaint is not contradictory.
 

Plaintiffs’
     Interest in the Properties

 
Defendants argue the second amended complaint fails to demonstrate
Plaintiffs have any interest in the property subject to his second amended
complaint. (Memorandum p. 18.)
 
Plaintiffs’ second amended complaint alleges Yoakum owns “real
properties located at 4170
Rogers Street, Los Angeles, CA 90063-11154, described as the “Rogers Property”;
and 2276 Highland Vista Drive, Arcadia, CA 91006-1535, described as the
“Highland Property”, which properties are referred to herein collectively as
“the Properties” or “Plaintiffs’ Properties”.” (SAC ¶
65.)  The second amended complaint also
states that Plaintiff Highland Associates is a Limited Partnership wholly owned
and operated by Yoakum. (SAC ¶ 2.) The second amended complaint then alleges
Highland Associates is “the owner of title, and in possession of that real
property legally described as Lot 323 of Tract No. 7812, in the County of Los
Angeles, State of California, as per map recorded in book 82 pages 1 to 7
inclusive of maps, in the office of the County Recorder of said County,
commonly known as 4170 Rogers Street, Los Angeles, California, A.P.N. No.
5226-017-014 (the “Rogers Property”). Plaintiff Yoakum the owner of Highland
Associates L.P., acquired the Rogers Property in Highland Associates L.P. name
by a Grant Deed recorded on June 9, 1994, as Instrument # 94-1110911. Highland
Associates holds possession of the Rogers Property through tenants; and none of
the defendants has lived in or been in possession of Rogers Property.” (SAC ¶
17.)  The second amended complaint then
alleges that Defendants “got Yoakum to disclaim interest in the Highland
Property as part of defendants’ fraudulent activities in creating the title
documents” and that Defendants “recorded Notice of Default on the Rogers
Property” and “recorded a fictitious and forged Deed of Trust . . . against the
Roger Street property.” (SAC ¶¶  56,
38-39)  Plaintiffs also identify deeds
recorded against Plaintiffs’ interest in the Properties. (SAC ¶ 67.) Plaintiffs
then allege that “Defendants and each of them, acting as agents of each other,
fraudulently created and recorded the instruments described above on
Plaintiff’s Properties.” (SAC ¶ 66.) Finally, the second amended complaint
states “Plaintiffs dispute the validities of the Instruments . . . because,
there are numerous defects regarding the creation, authorization, notification
and recordation, of the documents.” (SAC ¶ 68.) 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs have alleged an interest in the properties.
 

Leave to Amend 

 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) “If there is
any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action,
it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v.
Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.) “If the plaintiff has
not had an opportunity to amend the complaint in response to the demurrer,
leave to amend is liberally allowed as a matter of fairness, unless the
complaint shows on its face that it is incapable of amendment.” (City of
Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 730, 747.) Courts generally
allow at least one time to amend a complaint, after sustaining a demurrer, even
without any request for leave to amend. (McDonald v. Superior Court
(1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 297, 303.)¿ 
¿ 
Although Plaintiffs have filed two amended
complaints, the court sees a reasonable possibility that Plaintiffs’ causes of
action can be cured by amendment.
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer with leave to amend. 
 
 
 
Dated:             October
1, 2024                                              _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court