 Case Number:  23LBCV01725    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Angelica Arreguin-Aguilar and Jose A. Arechiga-Perez filed
this action against Defendant, Joan M. Attwell for damages arising out of an
automobile accident.  
 
2.     Discovery
Motions
a.     Prior
Ruling
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear these motions on 7/23/24.  The
Court continued the hearing, noting, in pertinent part:
The Court is not
finding Plaintiffs failed to serve the responses, only that, for whatever
reason, they were not received if and when they were served on 4/19/24.  For purposes of this litigation, the
responses are deemed to have been served on 6/10/24, the same day Plaintiffs
filed opposition to the motions.  
 
If Defendant believes the responses
are deficient, Defendant must initiate the meet and confer process and file any
motions to compel further responses within 45 days from 6/10/24, unless the
parties agree to extend that time. 
Plaintiffs are advised that boilerplate objections are rarely sufficient
responses to discovery, and if they wish to avoid sanctions, they should
seriously consider which objections they can justify and whether supplemental
responses are necessary.  
 
The Court is not imposing sanctions
at this time.  The Court finds the
discovery dispute before it was caused by an unknown breakdown in email
communication, such that sanctions are not appropriate.  
 
b.     Supplemental
Papers
Defendant filed new motions to
compel on 7/29/24.  Defendant argues
Plaintiffs’ responses consist solely of boilerplate objections and are
therefore deficient.  
 
Plaintiffs filed opposition papers
on 7/31/24.  With respect to both
motions, Plaintiffs contend the motions were filed two days too late and should
not be considered.  Plaintiffs contend
the meet and confer process was not sufficient, and the moving papers contain
false statements concerning the attempts to meet and confer.  Plaintiffs contend their responses were
code-compliant.  
 
Defendant, in reply, contends the
motions were timely filed and the boilerplate responses are insufficient.  
 
c.     Timeliness
of Motions
Defendant filed the motions 47 days
after 6/10/24.  Plaintiffs argue the
Court held that the responses were served on 6/10/24, and therefore the motions
were due 45 days thereafter.  Defendant
correctly notes, in reply, that CCP §2030.300(c) and 2031.310(c) extend the
time for filing a motion to compel by two days if responses are served by
email, which they were in this case.  
 
Plaintiffs purport to add language
to the Court’s 7/23/24 ruling that is simply not in the ruling.  The Court said nothing one way or another
about whether time to file new motions was extended, and Defendant acted reasonably
in following the Code of Civil Procedure in this regard.  The Court finds the motions were timely
filed.
 
d.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares, with the
new moving papers, that he emailed Plaintiffs’ attorney on 7/24/24 and again on
7/25/24, and Plaintiffs’ attorney refused to engage, taking only the position
that the motions were not timely.  The
Court has read the parties’ correspondence, and finds this is what
occurred.  Notably, Plaintiffs, in their
opposing points and authorities, take the position that their attorney
attempted to call Defense Counsel back, but the call was not returned; there is
no declaration to this effect with the opposing papers.  Regardless, it is clear the parties were
unable to resolve their issues through meet and confer correspondence.  The Court notes that the timeline, with the
original ruling being on 7/23/24 and the new papers being filed on 7/29/24, was
very tight.  The Court finds Defendant’s
attempts to meet and confer sufficient.
 
e.     Responses
Plaintiffs’ responses to the
subject discovery consist solely of objections. 
The burden to justify an objection to a discovery request is on the
party asserting the objection.  See
Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.  Plaintiffs, in their opposition papers, did
not attempt to do so.  They argue briefly
that their responses are “code-compliant,” but “code-compliant” is not the
issue on a motion to compel further responses. 
The issue is whether the stated objections are justified, and if they
are not, then further responses must be compelled.
 
The motions to compel further
responses are granted.  Plaintiffs must
serve further responses to all subject discovery, without objections, within
ten days.
 
f.      Sanctions
The Court finds Plaintiffs took
their position, that the motions had to be filed within 45 days of receipt of
the original responses and/or within 45 days of the Court deeming responses
received, in good faith and with substantial justification.  The Court therefore declines to impose
sanctions.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.