 Case Number:  23LBCV02216    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Prior
Ruling on Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted
The Court heard
Plaintiff’s motion to deem RFAs admitted on 7/11/24.  Prior to the hearing, the Court issued the
following tentative ruling, which it ultimately adopted as its final ruling.  Notably, Defendant appeared at the prior
hearing, but Plaintiff did not.  The
Court’s prior ruling was as follows:
Plaintiff filed
this motion to deem RFAs admitted on 5/21/24, setting it for hearing on
7/11/24.  On 6/27/24, Defendant filed
timely opposition to the motion, contending (a) the hearing on the motion
should be continued because the handling attorney on the case recently took a
leave of absence and has not been in communication with the firm, such that the
firm cannot discuss the case with the attorney, and (b) Plaintiff did not
properly serve Defendant with the RFAs.  
 
Any reply to the
opposition was due on or before 7/03/24. 
The Court did not receive timely reply papers and will not consider
late-filed reply papers.  In light of the
circumstances, the Court continues the hearing on the motion to 9/03/24 at 8:30
a.m., to be heard concurrently with Plaintiff’s pending motion to compel
responses to RPDs.  
 
The Court
encourages the parties to attempt to resolve issues presented by the motions
without the need for the 9/03/24 hearing date. 
The Court notes that Defense Counsel lists three attorneys on the
opposition papers, and that the Clark Hill law firm website indicates the firm
has 700 attorneys.  Defense Counsel must
act swiftly to communicate with Defendant and respond to the subject discovery
to avoid imposition of adverse discovery orders and/or sanctions.  
 
2.    
Today’s
Hearings
On calendar today
are a motion to compel responses to RPDs as well as the continued hearing on
the motion to deem RFAs admitted.  On
8/20/24, Defendant filed opposition to the motion to compel, indicating
responses were never due because Plaintiff did not serve the RPDs on Defendant
at a proper address.  
 
To date, Plaintiff
has not filed a reply to the motion to compel or the motion to deem RFAs
admitted.  Because Defendant established
the discovery was not properly served, and because Plaintiff is silent in this
regard, both motions are denied.  The
Court notes that Defendant asks for a continuance of the hearing to permit it
time to respond, but if the requests were never served, and if Plaintiff is not
taking any contrary position, then the Court finds the motion should simply be
denied.  The ruling is without prejudice
to Plaintiff’s right to re-serve the discovery at the proper email address if
she chooses to do so.
 
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   