  Case Number:  22LBCV00293    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Duk Ha Kim filed this
action against Defendant, David Quackenbush to recover for injuries sustained
when Plaintiff fell off a ladder at Defendant’s property.    
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Deposition
Defendants have noticed Plaintiff’s
deposition on numerous occasions and have met and conferred at length in an
attempt to depose Plaintiff.  Plaintiff
initially indicated he could not be deposed because he is incapacitated and in
an assisted living facility.  However,
Plaintiff ultimately agreed to be deposed, if only to confirm he has no memory
of the incident and is cognitively impaired. 
Plaintiff’s attorney, however, repeatedly failed to provide dates for
the deposition, despite indicating he would do so.
 
Defendants move to compel the
deposition.  Any opposition to the motion
was due on or before Thursday, 8/22/24. 
The Court has not received timely opposition to the motion, and will not
consider late-filed opposition papers.  The
Court notes that the parties filed a stipulation on 8/23/24, and that
Defendants indicate, in the stipulation, that they are withdrawing their
request for sanctions but will not withdraw the motion itself unless Plaintiff
appears for deposition prior to the hearing. 

 
The motion is granted.  CCP §2025.450(a), (b).  The Court notes that Plaintiff’s attorney has
made a practice of communicating his inability to appear for properly noticed
depositions at the last minute. 
Defendants may unilaterally schedule the deposition for a date, time,
and location convenient to them, with statutory notice.  If Plaintiff is not available, Plaintiff must
communicate this promptly upon receipt of the notice of deposition, and must,
contemporaneously, provide at least three alternative dates and times for the
deposition to go forward.  
 
As noted above, Defendants withdrew
their request for sanctions in connection with the parties’ stipulation, filed
on 8/23/24.  The Court therefore does not
impose sanctions.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   