 Case Number:  23CHCV00429    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-15-24
Case #23CHCV00429,
David Avdalian vs. Jennifer Rachael Bauer
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Jennifer Rachael Bauer
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff David Avdalian
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant has
requested that the Court quash the service of summons.
 
RULING:
Motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This is a
personal injury case involving a motor vehicle accident filed on February 15,
2023. Plaintiff David Avdalian (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendant
Jennifer Rachael Bauer. When this action was commenced, the process server made
several attempts to serve Defendant at 2246 N Alvarado St., Los Angeles. At the
third attempt, the process server was told by an unnamed resident of the
property that the address is not valid for the subject Defendant. The process
server attempted three more times to serve Defendant at this address. For the
sixth attempt on October 17, 2023, the process server indicates that he served
the papers on the unidentified resident, a woman, via substituted service, per
the client’s (Plaintiff’s counsel) instructions. (Bell Decl., Ex. A.) The
process server also mailed the papers to that address after serving via
substituted service.
 
On October 26,
2023, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendant’s insurance carrier to let him know
that Plaintiff had served Defendant in the two ways discussed above. (Shahinyan
Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. C.) On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel received a letter
from Defendant’s insurance carrier advising them that the Law Offices of Borton
Petrini were appointed to respond to the suit and gave him the contact
information for Defendant’s attorney. (Shahinyan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. D.) On
February 8 and February 29, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel served Defendant’s
counsel with case filings related to the Case Management Conference. (Shahinyan
Decl., ¶¶ 9, 10.)
 
On February 29,
2024, the same day that Plaintiff’s counsel emailed the Notice of Court Order
for the Case Management Conference, Defendant filed this motion to quash this
service of summons, arguing that Defendant has not lived at the address where
she was allegedly served since the 1990s and that she does not know the person
who was served. Defendant also argues that Plaintiff has not substantially
complied with the statutory requirements for service of process.
 
Plaintiff
argues in his opposition that Defendant was properly served at her residential
address, though Plaintiff does not provide any indication as to why he believed
that this is Defendant’s current address. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant
has actual notice of this action.
 
Defendant has
not filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
The return of
process is prima facie evidence of proper service. (Evidence Code § 647; Los
Angeles v. Morgan (1951) 105 Cal.2d 726, 731.) Where proof of service
exists, the burden is then on the other party to produce evidence that they
were not, in fact, served. (See Evidence Code § 604; Palm Property
Investments, LLC v. Yadegar 194 Cal.App.4th 1419.) Simply denying receipt
of service is not sufficient to overcome the presumption of service. (Palm
Property, 194 Cal.App.4th at 1428.)
 
While there is
return of process for both the substituted service and the service by mail, Defendant
argues that these methods of service did not provide her with actual notice of
the suit. Plaintiff has not indicated why he believes that the address at which
Defendant was served via substituted service and service by mail was her
current address. In fact, Defendant’s sworn declaration states that she has
never been served with the summons and complaint, that she has not lived at
2246 N. Alvarado Street since the late 1990s, and that she does not know the
person who accepted service of process nor has she authorized any persons at
that address to accept service on her behalf. (Bauer Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11.) In this case, where even the process server indicated that he was told
that it was not a valid address and based on Defendant’s sworn declaration, there
appears to be evidence to overcome the presumption of service.
 
As for
Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant had actual notice of the action, Plaintiff
appears to be referring to the substituted service and the service by mail. However,
counsel for Defendant was appointed in January 2024 after Plaintiff’s counsel
had informed Defendant’s insurance carrier of the action back in October 2023.
It was only after Plaintiff’s counsel had emailed Defendant’s counsel the Case
Management Conference documents that Defendant filed this motion. Based on this
timeline of events, it appears that Defendant likely did not have actual notice
of the action until after Plaintiff’s counsel had emailed Defendant’s counsel
in February. Furthermore, Defendant swore in her declaration that she has never
been served with the summons and complaint. (Bauer Decl., ¶¶ 8, 9, 10, 11.)
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to quash service of summons is granted.
 
Moving party to
give notice.