 Case Number:  23CHCV01660    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-15-24
Case #23CHCV01660,
Rhiannon Claire Thomas vs. Roya Mohammadi
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO STAY OR DISMISS THIS ACTION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Roya Mohammadi
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Rhiannon Claire Thomas
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant has
requested that the Court stay or dismiss this action for forum non conveniens.
 
RULING:
Motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This action
involves a plane crash that occurred in the Bahamas. The plane was in route
from Long Island, Bahamas, to New Providence, Bahamas, when it crashed shortly
after takeoff. The aircraft was owned by and operated with the implied and
express consent of Defendant Roya Mohammadi (Defendant). Defendant also
selected and approved the pilot that was flying on the day of the accident.
Defendant is a resident of Los Angeles County, California, and the aircraft is
registered in the United States. The plane crashed about 2 nautical miles from
the airport in Long Island, Bahamas.
 
After the
crash, the pilot and five of the passengers were able to exit the aircraft. Another
passenger was ejected on impact and later succumbed to her injuries. Plaintiff
in this case, Rhiannon Claire Thomas (Plaintiff), was a passenger and alleges
that she suffered physical and emotional injuries. Plaintiff is a resident of
the Bahamas. The pilot and other passengers were also residents of the Bahamas.
 
On June 8,
2023, Plaintiff filed this action in California because Defendant is a resident
of California. On August 8, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to stay or
dismiss the action pursuant to the forum non conveniens doctrine. Defendant
argues in her motion that all of the conditions for dismissing an action based
on the forum non conveniens doctrine are present here: the Bahamas is a
suitable alternative forum, and a balancing of the private and public interest
justifies granting the motion. Defendant also argues that Plaintiff is forum
shopping.
 
In Plaintiff’s
opposition filed on January 1, 2024, Plaintiff argues that the action should
not be dismissed pursuant to the forum non conveniens doctrine. She argues that
the private interests of the litigants and the interests of the public justify
retaining the action in California. Plaintiff also argues that California law
governs this action and that the doctrine of comity is not applicable in this
case.
 
Defendant’s
reply, filed on January 9, 2024, argues that the private and public interests
balance in favor of Defendant and that California law does not govern this
action.
 
ANALYSIS
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections to Plaintiff’s Opposition:
            Sustained: 2, 4, 5, 9, 15
            Overruled: 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14
 
Staying or
dismissing a case based on forum non conveniens is allowable under CCP §
410.30, which provides that “When a court upon motion of a party…finds that in
the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum
outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in
part on any conditions that may be just.” (CCP § 410.30(a).) Furthermore, “A
defendant…may serve and file a notice of motion…to stay or dismiss the action
on the ground of inconvenient forum.” (CCP § 418.10(a)(2).)
 
“On a motion
for forum non conveniens, the defendant, as the moving party, bears the burden
of proof.” (Stangvik V. Shiley, Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.) Forum
non conveniens is “an equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary power of a
court to decline to exercise the jurisdiction” when it “may be more
appropriately justly tried elsewhere.” (Id.) In ruling on a motion based
on forum non conveniens, “A court must first determine whether the alternate
forum is a ‘suitable’ place for trial. If it is, the next step is to consider
the private interests of the litigants and the interests of the public in
retaining the action for trial in California. (Id.)
 
            Suitability of the Alternative
Forum
Suitability of
the alternative forum is determined by considering whether the alternative
forum has jurisdiction over the defendant and by seeing whether the statute of
limitations would bar the plaintiff’s cause of action in the alternative forum.
(Stangvik, 54 Cal.3d at 752.) Suitability is not determined by whether
the law in the alternative forum may be less favorable to the plaintiff (see Guimei
v. Gen. Elec. Co. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 689, 696 [finding that an
alternative forum is suitable unless it “provides no remedy at all”]) or by the
availability of a jury trial (see Investors Equity Life Holding Co. v.
Schmidt (2011 195 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1530). 
 
An additional
factor in favor of the suitability of an alternative forum is the existence of parallel
pending litigation in that jurisdiction. (St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance
Company v. AmerisourceBergen Corporation (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 1.)
 
In this case,
Defendant has submitted a declaration in support of her motion in which she
expressly agrees to the jurisdiction of courts in the Bahamas and agrees to
waive any statute of limitations defense which might be raised in the Bahamas
if this motion is granted. (Mohammadi Decl., ¶ 2 [sic].) Additionally,
Defendant has submitted evidence that there are three lawsuits pending against
her in the Bahamas arising out of the same June 5, 2022, aircraft crash that is
the subject of this lawsuit. (Chambers Decl., ¶ 2, Exs. A, B, and C.)
 
In her
opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to dispute the suitability of the Bahamas
as an alternative forum. Instead, she focuses on the private and public
interests involved.
 
The Court finds
that the Bahamas would be a suitable alternative forum.
 
            Private and Public Interests
In looking at
the private and public interests, the Stangvik Court outlines the
following:
“The private interest factors are those
that make trial and the enforceability of the ensuing judgment expeditious and
relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of access to sources of proof, the
cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses, and the availability of compulsory
process for attendance of unwilling witnesses. The public interest factors
include avoidance of overburdening local courts with congested calendars,
protecting the interests of potential jurors so that they are not called upon
to decide cases in which the local community has little concern, and
weighing the competing interests of California and the alternate jurisdiction
in the litigation.”
(Stangvik,
54 Cal.3d at 751; see also Piper Aircraft Co. v. Reyno (1981) 454 U.S.
235, 259-261.) Additionally, while there is “ordinarily a strong presumption in
favor of the plaintiff’s choice of forum,” the U.S. Supreme Court held that a
foreign plaintiff’s choice deserves less deference than the choice of a
resident. (Piper Aircraft, 454 U.S. at 255.)
 
Also, courts
have held that “‘with respect to regulating or affecting conduct within its
borders, the place of the wrong has the predominant interest.’” (Roman v.
Liberty University, Inc. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 670, 684, quoting Hernandez
v. Burger (1980) 102 Cal.App.3d 785, 802.)
 
There is no
question that the aircraft crash occurred in the Bahamas. Plaintiff, the other
passengers, and the pilot are all residents of the Bahamas. The Aircraft
Accident Investigation Authority of The Bahamas investigated the crash. Plaintiff,
by her own admission, received medical treatment in the Bahamas. 
 
While Defendant
is a resident of California and the aircraft was registered in the U.S., it is
not immediately apparent what interest potential Los Angeles County jurors or
the Los Angeles County community at large would have in a plane crash that
occurred in the Bahamas, particularly when all those involved in the crash were
residents of the Bahamas. The Bahamas would have a much greater interest in
this case than California, as the crash occurred within its borders.
 
Furthermore,
most of the potential witnesses and evidence are in the Bahamas. While
Plaintiff has indicated that she would stipulate to a video or live deposition
of any of the witnesses in the Bahamas, subpoenaing such witnesses would be
difficult, if not impossible. Plaintiff has also agreed to provide her medical
records during discovery so that it is unnecessary to call any of the doctors
that she saw in the Bahamas to testify, but those doctors would be needed in
order to authenticate Plaintiff’s medical records.
 
Plaintiff also
argues that all the evidence necessary for this case is in the U.S., but
provides no evidence to substantiate this statement. Plaintiff makes a lot of
assertions about what she would provide during discovery or how she would
produce witnesses, but unless the witnesses can be subpoenaed, there is no
guarantee that they would appear.
 
Based on the
foregoing, it is clear that the public and private interests weigh in favor of
moving this case to the Bahamas. 
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant has
demonstrated that the Bahamas is a suitable alternative forum and that the
private and public interests weigh in favor of the Bahamas.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to stay the case pursuant to the doctrine of forum non
conveniens is granted. The action is stayed pending a status report showing
that an action was filed in the Bahamas and that Defendant accepted
jurisdiction and waived any statute of limitations defense. The date for the
status report will be set at the hearing on this motion.
 
Moving party to
give notice.