  Case Number:  22CHCV01127    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  F51 
JULY 10, 2024
 

MOTIONS FOR
PROTECTIVE ORDERS

(Requests for
Admission, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22CHCV01127

 
Motions filed: 1/22/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Ramon Lopez and Yolanda Cruz
(collectively, “Moving Defendants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Irma Leticia Nila (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: ok  
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: A protective order finding that (1)
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission (“RFAs”), Set One, propounded on each Moving
Defendant, need not be responded to; or, alternatively, (2) that the number of RFAs
be appropriately limited, with each Moving Defendant provided at least 30 days
after the Court’s ruling to provide responses to the same. Moving Defendants
also seek monetary sanctions to be imposed against Plaintiff and her counsel in
the total amount of $2,878.22.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motions are granted in part.
Moving Defendants to serve code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s RFAs, Set
One, Nos. 39–51, within 30 days. The Court declines imposing monetary sanctions
against either party.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury action in
which Plaintiff alleges that on 2/18/22, she was injured while exiting an
apartment complex located at 11850 Gladstone Ave., Sylmar California 91342,
when she tripped over a sidewalk elevated by a tree root and fell onto the
concrete. (Compl. ¶
11.) Plaintiff alleges that nonmoving defendants County of Los Angeles (the
“County”) and City of Los Angeles (the “City”) owned and maintained the public
sidewalk, and that Moving Defendants owned and maintained the surrounding
property and curtilage. (Id. at ¶¶
8–9.)
 
On 11/10/22, Plaintiff filed the
instant action, alleging against Defendants Negligence and Statutory Liability.
On 12/16/22, the County filed its answer. On 12/27/22, Moving Defendants filed
their answer. On 1/17/23, the City filed its answer and cross-complaint against
Moving Defendants, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
Indemnification; (2) Apportionment of Fault; and (3) Declaratory Relief. On
3/22/23, Moving Defendants filed their answer to the City’s cross-complaint. On
4/13/23, Plaintiff dismissed the County from the instant action without
prejudice.
 
On 12/21/23, Plaintiff served Moving
Defendants with her first set of RFAs. (Ex. A to Decl. of Mineh Eisaeian.) On 1/22/24,
Moving Defendants filed the instant motions for protective orders. On 6/26/24
and 6/27/24, Plaintiff filed her oppositions. On 7/1/24, Moving Defendants
filed their replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.               
Meet and Confer
 
A motion for protective order must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.090, subd. (a); 2016.040.)
 
Here, Moving Defendants’ counsel
declares that beginning on 1/3/24, she met and conferred with Plaintiff’s
counsel regarding the issues raised in the instant motion, but the parties were
unable to come to a resolution. (Eisaeian Decl. ¶¶ 7–8.) While Plaintiff disputes the sufficiency of
the meet and confer process, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the
meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.090.
 
B.                
Protective Order
 
When RFAs have been propounded, the
responding party, may promptly move for a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.080, subd. (a).) “The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (Id. at
subd. (b).)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s RFAs, Set One,
propounded to each Moving Defendant, consists of 54 requests, seeking, inter
alia, admissions concerning the condition of the subject sidewalk resulting
from the subject tree and tree well, and Moving Defendants’ control over the
same. (Ex. A to Eisaeian Decl.) Moving Defendants argue that “no circumstances
exist in this straightforward trip and fall incident case that justify
Plaintiff and her counsel’s serving both Defendants with 54 identical RFAs,
which are excessive in number, not appropriately tailored, and are not
warranted in this non-complex case.” (Def.’s Mot. 5:16–19.)
 
1.     
Supporting Declaration
 
The discovery statute requires a
propounding party to attach a supporting declaration to RFAs exceeding the
statutory limit of 35 requests “if the greater number is warranted by the
complexity or the quantity of the existing and potential issues in the
particular case.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2033.040, subd. (a).) In the supporting declaration, the propounding party is
required to “state the reasons why the complexity or the quantity of issues in
the instant lawsuit warrant this number of requests for admission.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2033.050.) “If
the responding party seeks a protective order on the ground that the number of
requests for admission is unwarranted, the propounding party shall have the
burden of justifying the number of requests for admission.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.040, subd. (b).)
 
Here, in support of Plaintiff’s RFAs,
Set One, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that “this number of request [sic] for
admissions is warranted under Section 2034.030(b), 2033.040(a) because of the
complexity and/or the quantity of the existing potential issues in this
particular case.” (Ex. B to Eisaeian Decl., ¶ 8.) In bringing the instant motion, Moving Defendants
argue that “there are no facts included in the declarations supporting the
conclusory assertions that additional RFAs are warranted ‘because of the
complexity and/or the quantity of the existing potential issues in this
particular case.’ To the contrary, as demonstrated by the allegations in
Plaintiff’s complaint, the issues presented are not complex and there are few
issues in this common place trip and fall incident case with a single cause of
action for general negligence/premises liability.” (Def.’s Mot. 7:1–6.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff mistakenly
asserts that the burden of proof belongs to Moving Defendants, as the
responding parties, to establish the undue burden of responding to Plaintiff’s RFAs.
(Pl.’s Opp. 6:17–20, citing Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
539, 549.) While this may be the usual rule for protective orders, here, the
statute explicitly provides that the filing of the instant motion challenging
Plaintiff’s supporting declaration shifts the burden to Plaintiff as the
propounding party to justify the number of RFAs. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.040, subd. (b).) “To
meet that burden of proof, the propounding party must establish facts that
specifically support the reasons given in the declaration.” (Cal. Judges
Benchbook Civ. Proc. Discovery § 18.14.)
 
Here, the Court agrees with Moving Defendants
that “the conclusory assertion in Plaintiff’s declaration for additional
discovery that number of requests is warranted because of ‘the complexity and
the quantity of the existing and potential issues in this particular case’ does
not suffice because it does not articulate why the alleged complexity or
quantity of issues warrant the excessive number of” RFAs. (Def.’s Reply 3:9–12.)
Plaintiff merely argues that “pursuant to the Court’s ruling in Rifkind,
the subject written requests are the more appropriate and expedient method for
Plaintiff to obtain information relating to those legal contentions and
defenses contained within Defendant’s Answer to the Complaint and Defendant’s
Answer to the Cross-complaint. Such responses will permit Plaintiff and its
counsel to take an informed and thorough deposition of Defendant in order to
obtain that information which is necessary for this matter to be tried on its
merits.” (Pl.’s Opp. 7:14–19.)
 
In Rifkind v. Superior Court
(1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 1255, the Court of Appeal held that deposition questions
may ask a deponent about the basis for, or information about, factual
conclusions or assertions, but not the basis for a legal conclusion. “If a
deponent says that a certain event happened at a particular time or place, it
is quite proper to ask the person, at deposition, how he or she became aware of
it, his or her knowledge about it, and for similar information of a factual
nature.” (Rifkind, 22 Cal.App.4th at 1259.) However, in contrast,
deposition questions that call for a witness’ legal contentions are improper
because “legal contention questions require the party interrogated to make a
‘law-to-fact application that is beyond the competence of most lay persons.’ …
Even if such questions may be characterized as not calling for a legal opinion
… or as presenting a mixed question of law and fact … their basic vice when
used at a deposition is that they are unfair. They call upon the deponent to
sort out the factual material in the case according to specific legal
contentions, and to do this by memory and on the spot. There is no legitimate
reason to put the deponent to that exercise. If the deposing party wants to
know facts, it can ask for facts; if it wants to know what the adverse party is
contending, or how it rationalizes the facts as supporting a contention, it may
ask that question in an interrogatory.” (Id. at 1262.)
 
Here, the Court notes that only RFA
Nos. 39–51 ask for each Moving Defendant’s legal contentions, which Rifkind limits
to written discovery requests as opposed to oral deposition questions. As to
the remaining 41 requests, Plaintiff has not made a sufficient factual showing
that the number of RFAs is warranted based on the complexity and/or quantity of
the existing and potential issues in the case. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.040, subd. (a).) Based
on the foregoing, the Court limits the number of Plaintiff’s RFAs, Set One, to RFA
Nos. 39–51. The Court notes the parties’ arguments concerning the substance of
the subject RFAs but declines to reach them in light of the foregoing, and
because these issues were not raised during the meet and confer process.
 
C.               
Sanctions
 
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order under this section, unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 2025.420,
subd. (h), 2033.080, subd. (d), 2031.060, subd. (h).) Additionally, “the court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Moving Defendants request
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,439.11 per motion to be imposed on Plaintiff
and her counsel, totaling $2,878.22. This amount includes: (1) 8.6 hours of Moving
Defendants’ attorney’s time spent preparing each motion and appearing at the
hearing, at counsel’s hourly rate of $160.17 per hour; and (2) $61.65 in filing
fees per motion. (Eisaeian Decl. ¶¶
10–11.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions in the
total amount of $1,500.00 to be imposed on each Moving Defendant and their
counsel, totaling $3,000.00, which encompasses (1) 5 hours of Plaintiff’s
counsel’s time preparing each opposition; and (2) 1 hour attending each
hearing, at counsel’s hourly rate of $250.00 per hour. (Decl. of Andrew J.
Lopez, ¶ 10.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that monetary sanctions are not warranted in
this instance because neither party was completely successful in making or
opposing the motion.
//
//
//
//
CONCLUSION
 
The motions are granted in part.
Moving Defendants to serve code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s RFAs, Set
One, Nos. 39–51, within 30 days. The Court declines imposing monetary sanctions
against either party.