 Case Number:  21STCV17301    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  ALEJANDRO BANUELOS,Plaintiff;  vs. PATRIOT HYUNDAI OF EL MONTE, Defendant.  Case No.:  21STCV17301  Hearing Date:  October 24, 2023    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  PLAINITFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION (SET TWO)Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s further responses to Requests for Production (Set Two) Nos. 33 through 36  is GRANTED.Defendant is ordered to serve verified further responses without objections within five days after the date of this order.The Court imposes sanctions in the amount of $400 jointly and severally on Defendant and Defendant’s counsel of record.  Sanctions are payable within 30 days.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for failure to pay wages, violation of business and professions code section 17200, waiting time penalties, negligent infliction of emotional distress, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and violation of labor code section 1198.5. Plaintiff Alejandro Banuelos alleges that in July 2019, he was hired as a sales manager at Patriot Hyundai of El Monte. Although Plaintiff received his salary in June and July of 2020, he did not receive his promised commission checks for the months of May through July of 2020. PROCEDURAL HISTORY On May 7, 2021, Plaintiff Alejandro Banuelos filed his Complaint against Patriot Hyundai of El Monte, LLC.On March 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Doe Amendment naming Sam Agha as a defendant in this action.On June 14, 2023, the parties participated in IDC.On July 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to Requests for Production, set two.DISCUSSION Plaintiff moves for orders compelling Defendant to produce further responses to Requests for Production (“RPDs”), set two. I. Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, the Court may order a responding party to serve a further response to a request for production when the Court finds that any of the following apply: 1. A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; 2. A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 3. An objection in the response is without merit or too general. To prevail, the party moving for the order must first offer specific facts demonstrating “good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) This burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) If “good cause” is shown by the moving party, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Unless notice of the motion to compel a further response is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2031.310(c), 2030.300(c).)  Failure to timely move to compel within the specified period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel a further response. The 45–day rule to bring a motion to compel is mandatory and jurisdictional “in the sense that it renders court without authority to rule on motions to compel other than to deny them.” (Sexton v. Superior Ct. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)  II. DiscussionPlaintiff seeks a court order compelling Defendant’s further response to RPDs numbers 33-36. Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that he propounded RPDs, set two on Defendant on September 16, 2022. (Azat Decl., ¶3.) Defendant provided unverified responses containing both substantive responses and objections on October 21, 2022. (Id., ¶4.) At the IDC on June 14, 2023, the Court ordered Defendant to serve any verified supplemental responses by June 26, 2023 and ordered Plaintiff to file a motion by July 3, 2023 if no such responses were served. (Id., ¶6.) As of the date of the filing of this motion, Defendant had not served supplemental responses. (Id., ¶9.)In opposition, Defendant’s counsel testifies that on June 30, 2023, he served verified supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests. (McCreary Decl., ¶7.) In reply, Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that the responses were served at an outdated address and that his office never received the responses despite having its mail forwarded to a new address. (Azat Decl,. ¶¶5-9.)Civ. Code, section 1013(a) provides that papers served by mail must be served : at the office address as last given by that person on any document filed in the cause and served on the party making service by mail; otherwise at that party's place of residence.”Here, proof of service attached to Defendant’s supplemental responses shows the responses were served on June 30, 2023 at 1785 Locust St., Suite 3, Pasadena, CA 91106. (Opp., Exh. B.) However, Plaintiff’s counsel’s notice of change of address filed on April 24, 2023 states his new address is 600 South Lake Ave., Suite 410, Pasadena CA 91106. The last document that Plaintiff’s counsel appears to have served Defendant before June 30, 203 is a notice of ruling dated June 14, 2023 showing Plaintiff’s counsel’s address as the 600 South Lake Avenue address. Thus, Defendant failed to serve the supplemental discovery responses because they were not served at the office address as last given by Plaintiff’s counsel on any document filed in the cause and served on Defendant. Additionally, even if Defendant served the responses to the wrong address, Plaintiff’s counsel would have received the responses at his new address because mail from the old address is still being forwarded to his new address. Plaintiff’s counsel has not received any responses as of the date this motion was filed. Thus, Defendant failed to serve the supplemental responses.Plaintiff seeks Defendant’s further responses to RPDs numbers 33-36. Numbers 33 and 34 seek records of Plaintiff’s sales while employed by Defendant. Numbers 35-36 both request documents and communications related to the purchase of Patriot Hyundai, now Cardinaleway Hyundai of El Monte. Defendant objected to request numbers 33 and 34 on the grounds that they violated its right to privacy and called for disclosure of confidential information. Although Defendant stated it would produce all responsive documents, no documents were served. (Plaintiff’s separate statement, p.3.) Request numbers 33 and 34 are relevant because they seek documents that are relevant to Plaintiff’s claims that Defendant failed to pay Plaintiff’s promised commission. Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that Defendant promised to pay him 3% on monthly total gross sales that exceed $200,000. Thus, information about Plaintiff’s total sales are relevant to show how much Defendant owed him in commissions. Plaintiff has a legitimate discovery interest in these records that outweighs Defendant’s right to privacy because the records are necessary to prove Plaintiff’s damages. Additionally, the request does not appear to seek confidential information. Defendant’s objections to these requests are invalid. Defendant objected to requests 35 and 36 on the grounds that the documents are irrelevant, overbroad, privileged, and confidential due to tax payer privilege.As for numbers 35-36, the requests are relevant because they could lead to the discovery of a material witness or potential other parties. Because Cardinaleway Hyundai of El Monte purchased Defendant’s business, it is reasonable to conclude that it could have assumed Hyundai of El Monte’s liabilities, including the obligation to pay Plaintiff’s commissions. Thus, the information is relevant to whether other witnesses or potential parties exist in this case. The Court does not find that the requests are overbroad, oppressive, or unduly burdensome because they seek only documents and communications related to the sale. Although Defendant argues the documents are privileged, Defendant failed to provide a privilege log. Defendants also allege that the requests are privileged under tax payer privilege. However, the requests do not seek to discover Defendant’s tax returns. Defendant’s objections are thus invalid.Sanctions are mandatory here because Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses was granted. The Court finds Defendant was not substantially justified in making this motion because Defendant served supplemental responses on the wrong address and its objections were not valid. Moreover, Defendant did not provide the responses to Plaintiff’s counsel after the motion was filed despite repeated requests. (10/17/23 Azat Decl. ¶¶ 7-9). The first time Plaintiff saw the supplemental responses was when Defendant attached them to the opposition to this motion (Id.. ¶10.)Plaintiff requests sanctions based upon four hours of attorney time at $400 per hour. Given that this motion is almost identical to a motion for which sanctions were awarded yesterday, here the Court will award sanctions in the amount of $400 for one hour of attorney time.DATED:  October 24, 2023______________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court