  Case Number:  21STCV37822    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51 
Date: 6/7/24
Case #21STCV37822
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F-51
 

JUNE 6, 2024
 

MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE
CROSS-COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 21STCV37822

¿ 
Motion
Filed: 5/8/24                                                                                      Jury
Trial: 10/21/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant
Super Center Concepts, Inc., dba Superior Grocers (“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: None
NOTICE:
OK
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An order granting Moving
Defendant leave to file a cross-complaint against defendant Dart International.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The unopposed
motion is granted. Moving Defendant to separately file its proposed
Cross-Complaint within 20 days of this order.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a consolidated wrongful death action arising from a
vehicle collision which resulted in the death of Juan Carlos Menjivar and Ana
Elena Moreno Santos (collectively, “Decedents”). On 8/15/21, while traveling on
Interstate-5 Southbound, north of San Fernando Mission Boulevard, Los Angeles,
CA, decedent Menjivar drove his vehicle into a parked truck driven by defendant
Dart International’s employee, defendant Dewayne Maurice Floyd, while the truck
was parked on the shoulder of the highway. The collision caused the death of
both Menjivar and decedent Moreno Santos, who was a passenger in Menjivar’s
vehicle. At all relevant times, Floyd was allegedly acting within the scope of
his employment with Dart International to transport goods supplied by Moving
Defendant.
 
On 10/13/21, Plaintiffs Jezebel Moreno (decedent Moreno
Santos’ biological daughter and successor-in-interest) and Marvin Merino
(plaintiff Moreno’s biological father) filed their complaint against Menjivar,
Floyd, and Dart International, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
Wrongful Death; and (2) Negligence in the lead case, LASC Case No. 21STCV37822. On 11/23/21, Plaintiffs filed their first amended
complaint. On 5/12/22, Plaintiffs filed their second amended complaint,
alleging a sole cause of action for Negligence. On 8/29/22, Plaintiffs filed
their third amended complaint, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
Wrongful Death; and (2) Survival. On 5/9/23, Plaintiffs amended their complaint
to name Moving Defendant as previously unnamed Doe defendant 1.
 
On 1/25/22, Plaintiffs Victoria Menjivar and Sebastien
Menjivar (decedent Menjivar’s biological children) filed their complaint
against Floyd and Dart International, alleging the following causes of action:
(1) Motor Vehicle Negligence; and (2) General Negligence in LASC Case No.
22STCV02907. On 5/21/22, Plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint.
 
On 8/16/22, Plaintiffs Estate of Ana Elena Moreno Santos,
Arturo Moreno Banda (decedent Moreno Santos’ father), and Maria Santos Flores
(decedent Moreno Santos’ mother) filed their complaint against Menjivar; Floyd;
Dart International; Super Center Concepts, Inc.; Super Center Concepts Holdings
LLC; and Samantah Malexus Menjivar; alleging the following causes of action:
(1) Motor Vehicle Negligence; and (2) General Negligence in LASC Case No.
22STCV26608.
 
On 10/2/23, the parties filed a stipulation to consolidate
the three related cases. On 5/8/24, Moving Defendant filed the instant motion. No
opposition has been filed to date. On 5/31/24, Moving Defendant filed a notice
of non-opposition.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“A party
shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint
or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer
to the complaint or cross-complaint. … A party shall obtain leave of court to
file any cross-complaint…” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10.) If the proposed cross-complaint is
permissive, leave of court may be granted “in the interest of justice” at any
time during the course of the action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subd. (c).) On
the other hand, if the proposed cross-complaint is compulsory, then leave must
be granted so long as the defendant is acting in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc. §
426.50.)
 
Here, while
Moving Defendant does not specify whether its proposed cross-complaint is
permissive or compulsory, it contends that leave to file its cross-complaint
should be granted under statutes for either form. Moving Defendant argues that
on 9/16/10 it entered into an Independent Contractor Agreement with defendant
Dart International to transport goods, which contains an provision obligating
Dart International to indemnify Moving Defendant for any alleged negligence or
misconduct of Dart International’s employees or agents. (Mot. 4:13–17, citing
Ex. A to Decl. of Dane H. Taylor.) “Although Dart has accepted Superior
Grocers’ tender request under the Agreement, there exists the potential that a
judgment could possibly exceed the insurance limitations provided for in the
Agreement, necessitating the filing of this Cross-Complaint.” (Id. at
4:23–25.)
 
Moving
Defendant’s proposed cross-complaint alleges against Dart International the
following causes of action: (1) Equitable Indemnity; (2) Express Indemnity; (3)
Contribution; and (4) Declaratory Relief. (Ex. B to Taylor Decl.) The Court
notes that no opposition has been filed against the instant motion.
Accordingly, the Court finds that Moving Defendant is acting in good faith, and
therefore, in the interest of justice, Moving Defendant may file its proposed
cross-complaint against Dart International.
CONCLUSION
 
The unopposed
motion is granted. Moving Defendant to separately file its proposed
Cross-Complaint within 20 days of this order.