  Case Number:  19STCV30463    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON WINE WAREHOUSE’S FIRST MOTION FOR ISSUE AND MONETARY SANCTIONS  
 
Ben Myerson Candy
Co., Inc., dba Wine Warehouse v. Devoto-Wade LLC, dba Golden State Cider, and
related cross-complaint, Case No. 19STCV30463
Hearing Date: August
9, 2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
          By its
cross-complaint, Golden State Cider (“GSC”) sought some $30 million in lost
profits from Wine Warehouse (“WW”) arising from conduct of WW based on a
distribution agreement. After this action was filed, however, GSC was acquired in
May 2022 by a third party, Sonoma Craft Holdings (“Sonoma”). WW seeks to
determine whether the conduct in question made any difference in the amount for
which GSC was able to sell the business. On this motion, like with its second
motion for sanctions That the Court decided already, WW seeks issue and
monetary sanctions based on its attempt to conduct discovery from GSC concerning
the acquisition. This motion pertains to GSC not having produced certain email
notwithstanding an order to produce them, filed May 31, 2023.[1] The
Court addresses whether GSC’s position in not producing them, including seeking
review of the order, was “frivolous.” 
 
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
          On March 30,
2021, Judge Mel Recana (who was then assigned this case) appointed a referee
“for all discovery purposes in the action.” (Para. 4) The Court notes the
numerous discovery motions and other disputes providing “exceptional
circumstances” for the appointment of a referee. (Para. 2) The referee “shall
preside over hearings and depositions, take evidence; and rule on objections,
motions…” (Para. 5) “Nothing in this order shall preclude the Court from
hearing and deciding discovery matters if the Referee is unavailable or the
Court so orders.” (Attachment to Order, para. 5)   
 
          On March
23, 2023, the referee recommended to the Court that it order GSC to produce certain
documents it had not previously produced, notwithstanding its objections. The
referee found the objections, however, were substantially justified and denied
the request for sanctions. 
 
          On or
about April 3, 2023, the March 23 report became final when WW did not object
within ten days of service of the report. 
 
          On May 9,
2023, the referee recommended that the Court find the email on the privilege
log be produced, finding that they were not privileged. The referee again
denied the request for sanctions, however, finding GSC’s position was
“substantially justified.” 
 
          On May 31,
2023, Judge Recana approved the discovery referee’s May 9, 2023 recommendation
and report.  
 
          On August
1, 2023, WW filed this first motion for issue and monetary sanctions. WW seeks
to exclude, under CCP sec. 2023.030, for abuse of discovery, GSC putting on any
evidence to establish its claim of loss of enterprise value to GSC (in its
acquisition by Sonoma and or that Sonoma paid less for its purchase of GSC due
to conduct of WW) based on its not having complied with the order of May 31,
2023 that it produce two email alleged to concern that subject. As of that
date, WW had not received the email – that it had initially requested in
January 2023. WW complains that without a stay, GSC had no right to withhold
the email in violation of the order while it pursued its rights in higher
courts. (GSC’s requests for a stay in this court and the Court of Appeal were
denied.) Consequently, WW was not able to complete discovery or prepare for
trial that had been scheduled in April 2023. GSC was ordered to produce the
email by June 7, 2023. GSC filed the writ petition on June 15, 2023 and the
petition was denied on July 17, 2023. 
 
          In
addition, WW seeks monetary sanctions against GSC in the total amount of
$39,070. This amount comprises fees incurred in preparing the motion, incurred
on an OSC and motion re: contempt, an ex parte application as to
scheduling a hearing, as well as in opposing GSC’s petition for a writ of
mandate in the Court of Appeal and opposing its further petition for review by
the Calif. Supreme Court. 
 
          On August
9, 2023, GSC filed opposition to this first motion for sanctions. GSC argues there
was “substantial justification” for its conduct in seeking to protect
privileged communications, where its petition for review was still pending. (See
Costco v. Sup. Ct. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 741 (appellate
review proper where maintaining attorney client privilege is at stake)) In
turn, its petition for a writ was proper where that this was its only option in
face of an order to produce documents it claims are protected from production,
citing OXY Res Calif. v. Super. Ct (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
874, 886-87. GSC also noted the Court’s earlier conclusion that WW would obtain
an unfair advantage in obtaining these documents (in ruling on GSC’s motion to
disqualify WW’s counsel (arising from its representation of the lender involved
in the acquisition.)) 
 
          Further,
GSC argues: 
 
-         
An issue sanction would give WW an undue
windfall and constitute punishment (contrary to the purpose of discovery
sanctions), citing Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th
1164, 1193.
-         
WW failed to advise the Court that sanctions had
already been twice denied and that therefore could not now be sought again. (See
Fuss v. Sup. Ct. (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 807, 821) 
-         
These sanctions requests should have been
brought before the referee – to whom all discovery issues had been referred. 
-         
Monetary sanctions cannot be awarded for fees
incurred in the higher courts absent those courts finding the petitions
frivolous (see Benson v. Greitzer (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 11, 15) or
fees on an ex parte application that the court denied. 
 
          On August 15, 2023, WW filed its Reply
in further support of this first motion for sanctions. WW argues that as of
that date it still did not have the email notwithstanding the absence of a stay
or a request for stay to the Calif. Supreme Court. A party may not elect to not
comply with an order with which it may disagree. The referee did not rule on
this request for a finding of willful non-compliance with an order and the
reference to a referee still allows the court to hear the motion if it elects
to do so. WW complains that GSC’s conduct has caused WW to lose its trial date.

 
          On August
25, 2023, Judge Recana issued a tentative ruling to deny this first motion for
sanctions, citing Costco, supra. The court noted the Supreme Court
petition was still pending and that WW could raise the issues on this motion later
if the Supreme Court ultimately denied the petition. 
 
          On
September 27, 2023, the Calif. Supreme Court denied GSC’s petition for review. GSC
thereafter promptly produced the two email. 
 
          On
October 17, 2023, WW filed Supplemental papers in support of this first motion
for sanctions. WW argues that the two email were not privileged, nor
communications between attorney and client warranting the requested sanctions
for abuse of the discovery process that resulted in considerable unnecessary
litigation and loss of the earlier trial date. 
 
          On
October 23, 2023, GSC filed its Response to the Supplement. GSC contends no
sanctions are now necessary because WW has the two email that were the subject
of the discovery sought to be compelled, citing Newland v. Sup. Ct. (1995)
40 Cal.4th 608, 613. GSC argues WW was not prejudiced in not
receiving the documents previously.  
 
          On
November 3, 2023, WW filed a Supplemental Reply in further support of this
motion. WW argues that there was nothing privileged or that would constitute
work product to have warranted GSC to not have produced the two e-mail in the
first place but for a wrongful attempt to delay trial. 
 
           On November 16, 2023, Judge Recana denied WW’s
motion for contempt and sanctions pursuant to CCP sec. 1211(a) related to the
non-production of the email. Judge Recana found GSC “acted with extreme caution
that privileged client information would not be distributed…The prejudice of
having confidential information distributed outweighs the potential prejudice
of having to wait to go to trial.” The Court’s tentative ruling was also to
deny this first motion for sanctions. After hearing argument, the Court took
the sanctions motion under submission. 
 
          On
December 11, 2023, the Court revised its tentative ruling as to this first motion
for sanctions, taking it off calendar, without prejudice to consideration (by
the judge to which this case was to be assigned for a long cause trial (given
that these matters would impact motions in limine and issues at trial)) related
to WW’s request for a finding that GSC’s privilege claim was frivolous and that
it caused unnecessary expense.   
 
          On
December 22, 2023, WW filed a second motion for issue sanctions and monetary
sanctions. WW again sought an order precluding GSC from arguing WW’s conduct
caused loss of enterprise value. WW contended GSC had violated the May 31, 2023
order – this time related to the conduct of the PMK deposition. WW also complained
that GSC did not earlier produce two email of counsel regarding the acquisition
that GSC withheld from production on grounds of privilege until after the Calif.
Supreme Court denied its petition for review. WW argues that these facts, like
in Sauer v. Superior Court (1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 213, 228-229, warrant
the above-referenced issue sanctions.  WW
sought total monetary sanctions of $21,756, representing $14,063.60 in bringing
that motion and $7,692.40 for conducting the deposition in December 2023 that
did not produce the information GSC should have then provided. 
 
          On April
11, 2024, GSC filed its Opposition to the second motion. GSC argued initially
the motion was an impermissible motion for reconsideration of earlier orders. In
addition, GSC contended that WW improperly bypassed seeking relief from the
referee before filing the sanctions motion, that the referee found GSC’s
conduct “substantially justified,” precluding this motion, and among other
arguments that the e-mails between counsel were not relevant to the acquisition
that was the basis for re-opening discovery. Further, GSC again argued that the
proposed issue sanction would in any event act as a “windfall” to WW that would
not be justified (see Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th
1215, 1223) and that the monetary sanction was excessive given it includes time
for the first sanctions motion. 
 
          On April
17, 2024, WW filed its Reply in further support of the second motion. It argued
that motion was properly brought before this Court, as opposed to the referee, where
Judge Recana indicated this motion should be heard by the long-cause trial
judge, that it was not in effect an untimely motion for reconsideration, and various
issues concerning the second session of the GSC. WW reiterated why sanctions
are warranted based solely on what occurred at the deposition. 
 
          On April
24, 2024, Assigned Judge Rolf Treu, sitting in for Judge Recana, filed an order
on the second motion for sanctions, denying the request for issue sanctions and
granting in part the request for monetary sanctions in a reduced amount of
$12,345.40. Judge Treu found that “imposing issue sanctions would be improper
because Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently show how the two emails are
relevant to enterprise value.” Judge Treu found monetary sanctions were proper
because of the issues raised by WW in its motion concerning conduct of the Lacey
deposition. The Court found the time it took to prepare the motion to be
excessive, however, and therefore awarded monetary sanctions in a reduced
amount. 
 
          On June
21, 2024, the Court set this first motion for sanctions for hearing on August
9, 2024. 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          Continued
pursuit of this motion requires the Court to consider various orders already
issued that address the subject of this motion: 
 
-         
The two findings of the referee concerning GSC
having acted with substantial justification; the first of which became final by
operation of law and the second of which Judge Recana adopted after hearing
objection. 
-         
Judge Recana’s order discharging the OSC for
contempt and denying the related motion for sanctions under CCP sec. 1211(a).[2] 
-         
Judge Treu’s order denying the requested issue
sanctions in the second motion for sanctions and granting in part and denying
in part monetary sanctions. 
 
          Initially,
this motion should have been heard at least initially by the referee. The March
30, 2021 order makes this clear, as recited above. Even if ultimately the
motion would have come to the Court for an order, it would have gone first to
the referee for his report and recommendation. 
 
         WW argues
instead that Judge Recana ordered this motion be heard by the long-cause trial
court – as opposed to his deciding it - and that therefore it did not have to
be heard first by the referee. However, Judge Recana was silent on this issue. He
did not indicate a different rule should follow than the parties had engaged in
previously concerning discovery matters by using the referee, or not follow the
order appointing the referee – which remained in place. There was no showing
that the referee was unavailable or that the Court ordered for it to hear the
motion, not the referee – consistent with the order appointing referee. That
this trial courtroom should hear the motion rather than the courtroom of Judge
Recana does not mean he was indicating that WW should not have first been heard
by the referee. It makes little sense that the referee would not first provide
a report and recommendation where he already twice considered these issues. (WW
may also have improperly sought to avoid the referee deciding this issue where
he had found GSC’s position was substantially justified). The referral to this trial
court was due merely to this court having to address potentially overlapping
issues about what should properly be heard at trial. However, the motion
remained one arising from discovery issues even if its effect would concern the
scope of trial. 
          
          Even if
this motion did not have to go to the referee, the Court cannot conclude that
there is a basis for the requested sanctions. Though Judge Recana left it to this
court to decide whether WW’s position in withholding the two email was
frivolous, the referee has already twice found that GSC acted with substantial
justification in not producing the email, suggesting the withholding of the
email was not frivolous. In addition, Judge Recana ruled already on the OSC re:
contempt and related sanctions that GSC acted properly in promptly seeking
review of the order compelling production of these email and then producing the
email after the final petition was denied, noting that counsel’s “extreme caution”
in distributing client information outweighed WW having to wait for trial –
thereby again indicating that the withholding of documents was not frivolous.
Moreover, as discussed in the cases GSC cited, even if those petitions were
ultimately denied, unless the position was frivolous GSC acted properly. 
 
           That
said, if the issue was decided already, there would have been no reason to
refer the motion to this Court. It does not appear any court has reviewed the
email to determine whether counsel was taking a tenable position in asserting
the privilege as applied to these two email. 
 
           This
court does not find the assertion to have been frivolous: Initially, the
referee has ruled already that the privilege was not implicated by these two email.
This court has reviewed the language in the email. They are not communications
between counsel for GSC and its client. They are between counsel for GSC and counsel
for Sonoma. Though the two email refer to discussion between counsel for GSC
and its client (“[t]he GSC team has reached out to their litigation
attorney/insurance provider” as to whether the claim was insured against, they
do not reveal what was stated concerning insurance coverage. That there may be
insurance would be something that WW would be otherwise able to obtain through
discovery in any event. Similarly, the email do not reveal counsel’s thinking
or strategy as far as work product, except the vague statement that “we [GSC]
are aligned with your proposed response to question no. 2c.” This does not say
what that alignment would be as far as “worst scenario.” Further, this subject concerns
only risk assessment, not the facts of the case. In turn, merely stating what
WW is seeking ($9 million in damages) does not reveal any confidential
information. 
 
          Like
Judge Recana, this court finds the caution was likely “extreme” on counsel’s
part; perhaps unnecessary. On the other hand, it goes without citation to state
the duty of a lawyer to preserve client confidences is one of the most
paramount duties of a lawyer. The Court does not second-guess counsel for
asserting the privilege or work product where there is at least some potential
in this highly contested case that by not doing so he would thereby be opening
himself up to a claim of having waived the privilege or work product where
there was at least some reference to such discussions. Certain of the above
quoted language is close enough to revealing information that a prudent lawyer
might wish to ensure that there was not a waiver by implication. The court also
does not find that there is sufficient evidence to conclude that the assertion
of privilege and work product was for ulterior purposes or simply to cause
undue delay. There are not the typical indicia of bad faith here on the part of
GSC counsel to suggest more is at play. That there was a delay in trial (apparently
due in part to the filing of a disqualification motion) is an insufficient
basis to reach that conclusion. 
 
          Moreover,
as relates to the proposed issue sanctions, the Court agrees with GSC that
those are in any event too severe for what was involved here. This would
eradicate seemingly the principal claim of the cross-complaint or effectively
serve as a terminating sanction. There is nothing in the record showing prior
sanctions or other incremental discipline as to any wrongdoing by GSC previously
that would warrant taking this seemingly disproportionate – and punitive - step.
(Doppes v. Bentley Motors (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992)    
 
          Finally, as
relates to the proposed monetary sanctions, the referee’s two findings that
GSC’s position concerning the email was substantially justified in not
producing the mail is some evidence that sanctions are not warranted.
Similarly, Judge Recana’s order denying monetary sanctions related to the OSC
re: contempt – again concerning the exact same position – also is relevant to whether
GSC acted properly. Finally, Judge Treu’s order granting monetary sanctions in
part (and denying monetary sanctions in part) covers some of the same work at
issue on this sanctions motion (as well as what was at issue on that second
motion) and therefore has already been at least partly addressed. Those cannot
now be sought again through this motion, even if filed before the second motion.
Further, the fees incurred in the higher courts cannot be awarded in any event unless
this court found GSC’s position was frivolous – which this court does not find.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these
reasons, the Court denies the motion. 
  

