  Case Number:  24STCV17270    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  82 Pureland Hospitality LLC                                       Case No. 24STCV17270
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
October 22, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                                  United Escrow Co., Inc., et al.                            Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
                        
                                     
[Tentative] Order Granting Plaintiff’s
Application for Writ of Attachment
 
INTRODUCTION
 
Plaintiff Pureland
Hospitality LLC (“Plaintiff” or “Pureland”) moves for a writ of attachment
against Defendant United Escrow Co., Inc. (“Defendant” or “United Escrow”) in
the amount of $3.3 million.  Defendant
opposes the application, which is granted.  

 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“Upon the filing
of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to
this article for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an
application for the order and writ with the court in which the action is
brought.”  (Code Civ. Proc. 
§ 484.010.)  “Except as otherwise provided by statute, an
attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each
of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the total amount
of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than
five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney's
fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 483.010.)  
 
The court shall issue a right to attach order if the court
finds all of the following: 
 
(1)   The claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon
which an attachment may be issued. 
 
(2)   The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the
claim upon which the attachment is based. 
 
(3)   The attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the
recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based. 
 
(4)   The amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than
zero.  
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 484.090.)  
 
“A claim has ‘probable
validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a
judgment against the defendant on that claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 481.190.)  “The application
shall be supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts
presented would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the
attachment is based.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 484.030.)¿ “In contested
applications, the court must consider the relative merits of the positions of
the respective parties and make a determination of¿the probable outcome of the
litigation.”¿  (Hobbs v. Weiss (1999)
73 Cal.App.4th 76, 80.)  “The Attachment
Law statutes are subject to strict construction.”  (Epstein v. Abrams (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.)  
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
            
            Defendant
objects to the declaration of Jim Zhang, arguing that it is speculative, lacks
foundation, and contains legal conclusions. 
The court overrules the objections. 
The declaration  provides a proper
basis for Zhang’s personal knowledge and lays a proper foundation for the
admissibility of the attached exhibits.  
 
            Plaintiff
objects to the declaration of Christine Chung. 
The court sustains the objections to Paragraph 8 and Paragraph 9 based
upon hearsay and lack of foundation. 
Exhibit 3 is not properly authenticated, i.e., the relevant portion of
the exhibit is a business record of Citibank, N.A. (“Citibank”) and there is no
declaration from Nelson Wong or a custodian of records from Citibank
authenticating the record.[1]    
 
            The court
also sustains objections to the record of Antares attached to Chung’s
declaration.  These are business records
of Antares, and there is no declaration from a document custodian
authenticating them.  Although Chung can
testify that she received these documents, she cannot testify that they are
authentic business records of Antares. 
Therefore, their contents are inadmissible hearsay.  
 
            Finally, Defendant requests judicial notice of the court’s
own files and records in this matter, in particulate the underlying
application, the answer, and “related supporting documents.”  The court will construe “related supporting
documents” as relating to the underlying application.  The request for judicial notice is granted
per Evidence Code section 452(d).  
DISCUSSION 
            
A.        Notice 
 
The application and related pleadings appear to have been
served, because Defendants filed an opposition and do not challenge
service.  Therefore, Defendants received
proper notice of this application.  
  
B.        Probable
Validity of Plaintiff’s Claims 
 
Plaintiff demonstrates probable validity of its claims.  The application is based on Plaintiff’s cause
of action for breach of written contract. 
To
establish a claim for breach of contract, a plaintiff must prove: (1) the
existence of a contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach of the contract; and (4) damages
incurred by plaintiff as a result of the breach.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1367.)  
 
            Plaintiff
and Antares GR Limited (“Antares”) to purchase and operate a hotel in Orange
County, Florida.  (Zhang Decl. ¶¶ 1-3.)  United Escrow served as the escrow officer,
per an agreement dated July 20, 2023 (the “escrow agreement”).  (Id. ¶ 2.)  The escrow agreement required Defendant to
return the $3.3 million deposited in escrow by Plaintiff “in full and
automatically” if Antares failed to issue a commitment to purchase the property
within 90 days of Plaintiff’s deposit.  (Id.
¶ 3 & Exh. A ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff submits
evidence that it abided by the terms of the escrow agreement by depositing $3,300,000.00
in escrow, in strict compliance with the established timelines, which Defendant
does not dispute.  (Id. ¶ 6 Exhs. B
& C; see also Chung Decl. ¶¶ 7, 10 & Exhs. 2, 5.)
 
Plaintiff contends that Defendant breached its obligations
under the contract.  First, Plaintiff
contends that Antares did not issue a commitment to purchase the target
property within 90 days of the Escrow Agreement, pursuant to its obligations.  (Zhang Decl., ¶ 7.)  Despite this non-compliance, Defendant failed
to refund Plaintiff’s deposit “in full and automatically,” pursuant to the escrow
agreement.  (Id. ¶ 11.)  Second, Defendant later confirmed its breach
by stating that it released Pureland’s money to Antares, not to Plaintiff, and
claimed ignorance of the current status of Plaintiff’s money.  (Id. Exhs. F & G.) 
 
Defendant makes a series of arguments, none of which is
persuasive.  Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s application for a writ of attachment is not supported by sufficient
admissible evidence.  The declaration of
Jim Zhang and attached exhibit are sufficient.
 
Defendant also argues that it is not liable because it fully
complied with the express terms of the agreement.  The agreement states as follows:
 
(2) Within five (5)
working days after Pureland’s depositing funds as per §1, Antares shall
demonstrate proof of funds from a major, well-known first-class bank, in an
amount of USD nine figures or higher on deposit (at least thirty-three million
United States Dollars ($33,000,000)). Escrow will contact the designated bank
to inquire and verify in writing that sufficient funds on deposit in the USD
nine figures, and that same funds are available for Antares's withdrawal and/or
disposal.
 
(3) Upon independently verifying the above proof of
funds, Escrow will state the results of its verification. If Escrow is unable
to verify the proof of funds, Escrow will refund funds placed as per §1 to
Pureland, immediately, in full and automatically.
 
(Zhang Decl. Exh. A.) 
Defendant argues that it complied with these requirements because “Defendant
United sent out a verification letter to Mr. Nelson Wong, SVP of Commercial
Banking Group at Citibank, NA.”  (Defendant’s
Opposition (“Oppo.”) at 7:6-8.) 
Defendant also argues that “the same verification of Defendant Antares’
deposit account was then notified by United Escrow to both Plaintiff and
Defendant Antares on July 31, 2023 in writing as required under Section 3 of
the Escrow Agreement.”  (Id. at
7:9-14.) 
 
            There are
problems with Defendant’s arguments.  As
discussed, Defendant relies on inadmissible evidence, as the court has
sustained objections to the relevant parts of Chung’s declaration and
exhibits.  Putting that aside, Defendants
still was not authorized to transfer Plaintiff’s funds to Antares.  Per the agreement:
 
(5) Upon Pureland’s deposit of funds as per §4 above,
Antares shall form a new body corporate or LLC, (hereinafter the “Special
Purpose Entity,” or “SPE”). The name and domicile of the SPE shall be mutually
agreed upon by Pureland and Antares. Antares may retain a licensed law firm or
accounting firm to form the SPE. If Antares elects not to cause the formation
of the SPE within ten (10) working days after Pureland’s deposit of funds as
per §4 above, then Escrow will refund funds placed as per §1 and §4 to Pureland,
immediately, in full and without any further instructions from Pureland or
Antares. Upon both (i) establishment of the SPE, and (ii) Pureland’s placement
of funds as per §1 and §4 above, the following documents will be placed with
Escrow, which Escrow will forward as follows: (A) Documentation of Pureland’s
ten percent (10%) ownership interest in the SPE, which Escrow will release to
Pureland, and (B) Documentation of Antares’s ninety percent (90%) ownership
interest in the SPE, which Escrow will release to Antares. Pureland’s funds
placed as per §1 and §4 above convert into Pureland’s required Participation
Capital investment, against which Pureland receives its ten percent (10%)
ownership interest in the SPE. In order to preserve value, Pureland and Antares
hereby instruct Escrow to arrange the conversion of Pureland’s Participation Capital
investment into United States Treasuries (or other liquid, risk-free
securities, rated AAA or AA+ by Standard & Poor’s) through Antares,
selected as per Antares’s discretion, and titled to and held by the SPE.
 
(6) Upon mutual
execution of these written escrow Instructions, upon Escrow’s advising Pureland
that Escrow has verified Antares’s proof of funds, and upon Pureland’s
placement of its funds in accord with §1 and §4 above (ten percent (10%) of the
Funding Amount, equal to USD 3.3 million) into Escrow’s trust account, Antares
shall utilize one hundred percent (100%) of the Funding Amount, equal to USD
thirty-three million ($33,000,000.00), to fund the Project on behalf of the SPE
through your Escrow, for disbursing instructed remittances at closing.
 
(Zhang Decl. Exh. A.) 
This agreement does not clearly state that the funds shall be
transferred directly to Antares.  Rather,
Defendant was required to “to arrange the conversion of Pureland’s Participation Capital
investment into United States Treasuries (or other liquid, risk-free
securities, rated AAA or AA+ by Standard & Poor’s) through Antares,
selected as per Antares’s discretion, and titled to and held by the SPE.”  (Id. ¶ 6.)  Defendant apparently failed to comply with
this term.  
 
C.        Readily
Ascertainable Value of Plaintiff’s Claims
 
“[A]n attachment
may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which
is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the
claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five
hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 483.010(a).)  An attachment may not be issued on a claim
secured by real property.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 483.010(b).)  In an actin against
a defendant who is a natural person, the claim must arise from the defendant’s
trade, business, or profession.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 483.010(c); see also Advance
Transformer Co. v. Superior Court (1974) 44 Cal.App.3d 127, 143-144.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
application for writ of attachment is based on a contract claim for which the
total amount allegedly due is in excess of $500.  The claim is not secured by real property.  Plaintiff’s claim arises from Defendants’
conduct of a trade or business, i.e. escrow holding company.  Defendant do not dispute that the amount in
controversy is reasonably ascertainable.
 
D.        Purpose and
Amount of Attachment 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 484.090 states that the Court shall issue a right to attach
order if “the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on
the claim upon which the attachment is based . . . [and] the amount to be
secured by the attachment is greater than zero.”  Plaintiff contends that it seeks attachment
of the $3,300,000.00 in funds for the sole purpose of securing its claim.
(Zhang Decl., ¶ 16.) Plaintiff provides evidence to demonstrate that it has
repeatedly requested that Defendant pay the sought funds, rather than engage in
litigation. (Zhang Decl., ¶¶ 9-11.)  Plaintiff
further demonstrates that it did not realize Defendant was no longer in
possession of Plaintiff’s funds until Defendant advised Plaintiff as such on
June 12, 2024. (Id., ¶¶ 9-13, Exh. F, G.)    
 
Defendant argues
that the attachment is sought for an improper purpose because the escrow funds
have already been disbursed to Antares, in accordance with the instruction in
the Escrow Agreement.  This does not
address the dispositive issue, whether Plaintiff is pursuing the writ for a
purpose other than recovery on the claim. 
 
 
E.         Reduction of
Amount to be Secured, and Exemptions 
 
Defendants do not show that the
amount of attachment should be reduced pursuant to CCP section
483.015(b).   Defendants have not claimed
any exemptions.  
 
F.         Subject
Property 
 
Plaintiff requests attachments
against Defendant, who is a corporation, for all property for which a method of
levy is provided by Article 2 (commencing with Section 488.300) of Chapter 8.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 487.010(a); Application ¶ 5,
Attachment 5.)  That request is
proper.  Plaintiff is not required by
section 484.020(e) to describe the property sought for attachment with further
specificity.  (See Bank of America v.
Salinas Nissan, Inc. (1989) 207 Cal. App. 3d 260, 267-268 [“all-inclusive”
application satisfies Code Civ. Proc. section 484.020(e)].) 
 


 
G.        Undertaking 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 489.210 requires the plaintiff to file an undertaking before
issuance of a writ of attachment.  Section
489.220 provides, with exceptions, for an undertaking in the amount of
$10,000.  Neither party has argued for a
different amount of undertaking. 
Therefore, the court orders an undertaking of $10,000.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The court grants
the writ of attachment in the amount of $3,300,000.
 
            2.         The court signs the
proposed order on Form AT-120, lodged on August 13, 2024.
 
            3.         Plaintiff’s counsel
shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 
 
Dated: October 22,
2024                                            ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


