 Case Number:  23STCV03486    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
HALEY CHAPMAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MARRIOT INTERNATIONAL,
  INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV03486
  Hearing Date:  August 9, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion for summary judgment  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 16, 2023, Plaintiff
Haley Chapman, individually and as successor-in-interest to Noelle Glotfelty
(Decedent), filed this action against various Defendants for (1) wrongful
death, (2) survival cause of action, and (3) negligence. The complaint stems
from the death of Decedent, who committed suicide inside a Marriott hotel room.
Plaintiff is Decedent’s daughter. (Compl. ¶ 1.) 
            On February 24, 2022, Decedent’s
aunt, Suzanne Cookman, called the Ventura County Sheriff’s Office (VCSO) and
expressed concern over Decedent. (Def.’s Undisputed Facts (UF) 1.) Thereafter,
VCSO Deputy Scott arrived at Ms. Cookman’s residence, where Ms. Cookman
provided certain information about Decedent, including that Decedent had called
a suicide hotline. (UF 2-6.) Ms. Cookman advised Deputy Scott that Decedent had
not arrived at her residence, at Plaintiff’s residence, or at Decedent’s
mother’s residence. (UF 7-10.) Deputy Scott also spoke with Plaintiff on the
phone while he was at Ms. Cookman’s residence, and Ms. Cookman and Plaintiff
speculated that Decedent may have visited a hotel. (UF 12, 15.) 
            Upon leaving Ms. Cookman’s
residence, Deputy Scott began calling local hotels until he reached the
Courtyard Marriott in Agoura Hills, which confirmed that Decedent had checked
in earlier in the day. (UF 22-24.) However, the hotel employee refused to provide
Decedent’s room number over the phone. (UF 29.) Deputy Scott then contacted VCSO
superiors for permission to travel to the hotel, which was granted. (UF 30-33.)
Deputy Scott updated Ms. Cookman and then arrived at the hotel with Deputy
Sperber at around 12:18am on February 25, 2022. (UF 34-35.) 
            Upon the deputies’ arrival, a
different employee was manning the front desk. (UF 37.) This employee refused
to provide Decedent’s room number despite being informed of Deputy Scott’s
earlier phone conversation with the previous employee and despite being
informed of a potential suicide risk. (UF 38-44.) Deputy Scott convinced the
employee to call Decedent’s room, but there was no answer. (UF 45-47.) Deputy
Scott then asked the employee to call a supervisor, but there was no answer.
(UF 48-49.) The deputies then searched the hotel premises for 30 to 40 minutes
but did not locate Decedent. (UF 50-51.) Afterwards, the deputies departed the
premises, informing VCSO at 1:23am that their investigation was complete. (UF
53.) Decedent was found deceased in her hotel room later on the morning of
February 25, 2022. (UF 62.)     
            On May 22, 2024, Defendants County
of Ventura, Brett Scott, and Timothy Sperber filed the instant motion for
summary judgment. Plaintiff filed her opposition on July 26, 2024. Defendants
filed their reply on August 2, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            The Court does not consider
Defendants’ objections, as they are directed at Plaintiff’s separate statement
rather than actual items of evidence. Plaintiff’s legal arguments and summary
of facts are not properly subject to evidentiary objections. The objections
fail to identify the document and location of the specific material being
objected to and fail to set forth the objectionable statement or material. (See
Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1354(b).) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff bases the first and second
causes of action on a theory of negligence. “Everyone is responsible, not only
for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to
another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his
or her property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by
want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.” (Civ. Code,
§ 1714(a).) The elements of negligence
are: (1) a duty to exercise ordinary care; (2) breach of that duty; (3)
causation; and (4) damages. (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12
Cal.4th 913, 917.) 
I.
Duty of Care
a. General Principles
Generally, “one owes no duty to control
the conduct of another, nor to warn those endangered by such conduct.” (Regents
of University of California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 619.) “A
person who has not created a peril is not liable in tort merely for failure to
take affirmative action to assist or protect another unless there is some
relationship between them which gives rise to a duty to act.” (Ibid.) A
special relationship may arise when one undertakes to render services to
another: “One who undertakes, gratuitously or for consideration, to render services
to another which he should recognize as necessary for the protection of a third
person or his things, is subject to liability to the third person for physical
harm resulting from his failure to exercise reasonable care to [perform] his
undertaking.” (Paz v. State of California (2000) 22 Cal.4th 550, 558.) 
As applied to law enforcement, a special
relationship arises “when the state, through its agents, voluntarily assumes a
protective duty toward a certain member of the public and undertakes action on
behalf of that member, thereby inducing reliance . . . .” (Williams v. State
of California (1983) 34 Cal.3d 18, 24.) “[S]pecial relationships have been
found only in ‘a limited class of unique cases’ involving ‘police officers who
made misrepresentations that induced a citizen’s detrimental reliance
[citation], placed a citizen in harm's way [citations], or lulled a citizen
into a false sense of security and then withdrew essential safety precautions.’”
(Camp v. State of California (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 967, 977, quoting Adams
v. City of Fremont (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 243, 279-80.) “A special
relationship may also be predicated on detrimental reliance upon ‘the conduct
of a police officer, in a situation of dependency, [resulting] in detrimental
reliance on him for protection.’” (Von Batsch v. Am. Dist. Tel. Co. (1985)
175 Cal.App.3d 1111, 1123, quoting Williams, supra, 34 Cal.3d at p. 25.)

A “special relationship with a person in
peril is not established simply because police officers responded to a call for
assistance and took some action at the scene.” (Golick v. State of
California (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 1127, 1149.) “One cannot recover for
‘injuries caused by the failure of police personnel to respond to requests
for assistance, the failure to investigate properly, or the failure to
investigate at all, where the police had not induced reliance on a promise,
express or implied, that they would provide protection.’” (Von Batsch,
supra, 175 Cal.App.3d at p. 1122, quoting Williams, supra, 34 Cal.3d
at p. 25.)  
b. Liability for Negligent Search Efforts
Here, Plaintiff’s theory is that
Defendants induced reliance on their efforts to search for Decedent and then
failed to conduct that search with due care. In Arista v. County of
Riverside (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1051, 1062, the family of a bicyclist
successfully pled that deputies were negligent in their search for the victim,
who was injured while riding in Cleveland National Forest and died of
hypothermia before he could be rescued. The court found that a duty of care
existed because “Sheriff's Department personnel (the deputies), through their
actions, undertook the responsibility of rescuing the victim” and “signaled
that they were taking control of the rescue.” (Id. at p. 1061.) The
court concluded that “the deputies had the duty to exercise due care in
performing the rescue, which means (a) using reasonable care not to increase
the risk of harm, and (b) following through in a reasonable manner after
inducing reliance on the rescue.” (Ibid.) 
The court in Arista found that the
facts supported detrimental reliance: “That Wife did not start her efforts
until hearing of the deputies’ delay suggests Wife was relying on the deputies'
search efforts. Accordingly, the Family has sufficiently pled that the deputies
undertook rescue efforts and induced reliance on those efforts. In sum, the
trial court erred by ruling the deputies did not owe a duty of care.” (Arista,
supra, 29 Cal.App.5th at p. 1062.)  
c. Application to the Instant Case
            1.
The Facts Raise a Triable Issue That Defendants Induced Reliance 
Defendants argue that they could not have
induced any reliance on the part of Decedent’s family because “Deputy Scott
never told Plaintiff or Ms. Cookman that he or the VCSO would locate Decedent.
Nor did Deputy Scott ever promise that Decedent would be prevented from harming
herself. Likewise, Deputy Scott never told Plaintiff or Ms. Cookman that they
should discontinue any efforts to locate Decedent. Nor did Deputy Scott ever do
anything to prevent or discourage Plaintiff or Ms. Cookman from attempting to
locate Decedent.” (Mtn. 8:2-10; UF 17-20.)
However, Ms. Cookman testified that Deputy
Scott told her and Plaintiff over the phone that he would try to locate
Decedent. (Plntf.’s Ex. A at 77:11-78:20.) Deputy Scott then told Ms. Cookman
that he had located Decedent’s hotel and would update her. (Id. at
82:8-15.) Approximately an hour later, Deputy Scott called Ms. Cookman to
inform her that he and another deputy were on their way to the hotel. (Id.
at 82:19-83:10.) Ms. Cookman testified that she relied on the police to find
Decedent. (Id. at 93:4-94:12.)     
Like in Arista, these facts suggest
that law enforcement “undertook the responsibility of rescuing the victim” and
“signaled that they were taking control of the rescue,” thus inducing reliance.
(See Arista, supra, 29 Cal.App.5th at p. 1061.) This supports “the duty
to exercise due care in performing the rescue.” (Ibid.) 
It is not dispositive that Deputy Scott
never explicitly promised to find Decedent or prevent her suicide. Detrimental
reliance is not limited to instances of express promises. Promises may be
implied, and reliance may be induced by conduct. (See Von Batsch, supra, 175
Cal.App.3d at p. 1122-23.) In Arista, the court found that “Sheriff's
Department personnel (the deputies), through their actions, undertook
the responsibility of rescuing the victim.” (Arista, supra, 29
Cal.App.5th at p. 1061, emphasis added.) The facts here similarly support an
inference that Defendants’ actions induced reliance on their search efforts.
The fact that no one actively stopped Decedent’s family from conducting their
own search does not negate the reliance caused by Defendants’ actions. 
In sum, there is a triable issue over
whether Defendants induced reliance. For summary judgment purposes, the facts
sufficiently support the existence of a duty to conduct the search or rescue
with due care.  
            2.
The Facts Support Liability Against Deputy Sperber
“[A] public employee is not liable for an
injury caused by the act or omission of another person.” (Gov. Code, § 820.8.)
“[T]he voluntary conduct of one police officer may obligate that officer, but
does not impose a duty of care on all other officers in the employing police
department.” (Weissich v. County of Marin (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1069,
1077-78.) 
In this case, it is undisputed that Deputy
Sperber did not communicate with Plaintiff or Ms. Cookman. (UF 36.) Defendants
argue that as a result, Deputy Sperber owed no duty of care. However, as
discussed above, deputies may assume a duty of care through their actions. It
is undisputed that Deputy Sperber participated in the search and undertook the
same effort to find Decedent to prevent potential self-harm. (UF 35.) The mere
fact that there was no communication between Deputy Sperber and Decedent’s
relatives does not preclude a duty on his part as a matter of law. 
Plaintiff seeks to hold Deputy Sperber
liable for his individual negligence, not for the negligence of Deputy Scott.
(See Gov. Code, § 820.8 [“Nothing in this section exonerates a public employee
from liability for injury proximately caused by his own negligent or wrongful
act or omission”].) Deputy Sperber is not included as a defendant merely
because he is employed by the VCSO, but because he personally undertook to
search for Decedent. Therefore, there is a triable issue over whether Deputy
Sperber owed a duty to Plaintiff.  
II.
Breach of Duty
            “[T]he elements of breach of . . .
duty and causation are ordinarily questions of fact for the jury's
determination.” (Vasquez v. Residential Investments, Inc. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 269, 278.) “Because application of this principle is inherently
situational, the amount of care deemed reasonable in any particular case will
vary.” (Flowers v. Torrance Memorial Hospital Medical Center (1994) 8
Cal.4th 992, 997.) “Only ‘where reasonable [people] will not dispute the
absence of causality, [may] the court … take the decision from the jury and
treat the question as one of law.” (Hernandez v. Jensen (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 1056, 1069, quoting Constance B. v. State of California
(1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 200, 207.)   
Defendants argue that they could not have
breached the duty of care because they exhausted all reasonable efforts to
locate Decedent until they were left with no choice but to end the search.
Defendants point out that they located the hotel, traveled to the hotel, and
attempted to ascertain Decedent’s room number. (UF 22-38.) Despite informing a
hotel employee that there was a suicide risk, Defendants were not given
Decedent’s room number. (UF 39-44.) Deputy Scott convinced the employee to
allow him to call the room, but there was no answer. (UF 45-47.) The deputies
then convinced the employee to contact hotel management, but there was no
answer. (UF 48-49.) The deputies then searched the hotel for 30 to 40 minutes
but were unable to locate Decedent. (UF 50-51.) 
Despite listing all of the actions they
undertook, Defendants cite no legal authority or evidence to establish, as a
matter of law, that those actions satisfied their duty of care. As stated
above, the issue of breach is ordinarily a question of fact, and the amount of
care deemed sufficient differs from case to case. (Vasquez, supra, 118
Cal.App.4th at p. 278; Flowers, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 997.) The Court
cannot find, based on argument alone, that Defendants satisfied the duty of
care.   
Additionally, Plaintiff has evidence
raising a factual dispute. Plaintiff’s law enforcement expert, Richard Corriea,
avers that Defendants’ actions fell below the standard of care. Specifically,
Mr. Corriea avers that the deputies should not have ended their search, nor
changed the status of the call from missing person to welfare check, before
Decedent was actually located. (Corriea Decl. ¶ 12.) Furthermore, when the
hotel employee resisted the deputies’ efforts to ascertain Decedent’s room
number, the deputies should have leveraged their law enforcement authority to
compel compliance, which would have been justified given the exigency. (Ibid.)
Deputy Scott also failed to issue a BOLO for Decedent or make an entry into the
missing persons database. (Ibid.) 
Therefore, there is a triable issue over
whether Defendants met the standard of care. 
III.
Causation
            a. Speculation
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot
prove Defendants’ actions or inactions were a “substantial factor” in
Decedent’s death and that Plaintiff has nothing beyond speculation or
conjecture. (See Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th
763, 774; Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205-06.) 
            While Plaintiff bears the ultimate
burden of proving causation, Defendants bear the initial burden on summary
judgment. “[S]ummary judgment law in
California requires the defendant to present evidence, and not simply point out
through argument, that the plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably
obtain the needed evidence.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A. (2011) 202
Cal.App.4th 89, 110.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff has no evidence Decedent
was still alive at the time the deputies began their search, but Defendants
themselves present no evidence that Decedent was already deceased. Defendants
have offered nothing to preclude a jury from finding that Decedent was alive at
the time of the search and could have been found alive had the search been
conducted properly. By simply arguing that Plaintiff does not have evidence of
causation, Defendants have failed to satisfy their initial burden. Again,
causation is ordinarily a question of fact. (See Vasquez, supra, 118
Cal.App.4th at p. 278.)  
            Furthermore,
Plaintiff’s medical expert avers that Decedent’s mental illness was treatable
and that psychiatric treatment, if rendered, could have prevented Decedent’s
suicide. (Beckson Decl. ¶ 14.) A reasonable trier of fact may find that had
Defendants conducted their search properly and found Decedent while she was
alive, Decedent could have received treatment and would not have committed
suicide. Defendants argue that this theory is also speculative, because there
is no indication that Decedent would have accepted treatment, that the
treatment would have helped, or that Decedent would have refrained from suicide
after making contact with the officers. Again, however, the initial burden lies
with Defendants on this motion. Defendants have presented no evidence to
preclude a reasonable jury from finding that if Defendants had located Decedent
sooner, measures could have been taken to prevent her suicide. Therefore, this
triable issue would have existed even if Plaintiff had presented no evidence in
opposition.
            b. Intervening Cause
            Defendants
also argue that suicide is an intervening cause, citing a nonbinding trial
court decision that the Court already distinguished when overruling Defendants’
demurrer. (See Elie v. L.A. Unified Sch. Dist., 2022 Cal. Super. LEXIS
80157.) Specifically, Elie did not discuss potential liability under a
theory of negligent undertaking or negligent search efforts. Furthermore, Elie
relied on Tate v. Canonica (1960) 180 Cal.App.2d 898, 914-15, which held
that a defendant may be liable for a suicide if their conduct creates an
uncontrollable impulse to commit suicide but that causation is cut off if the
victim “is able to realize the nature of the act of suicide and has the power
to control it if he so desires.” This is immaterial to this case because
Plaintiff does not argue that Defendants directly caused Decedent’s suicide by
creating an uncontrollable impulse. Rather, Plaintiff argues that Decedent’s
suicide was a foreseeable consequence of Defendants’ failure to conduct their
search with due care. 
            Therefore, a triable issue remains
over causation. 
IV.
Vicarious Liability
“A public entity is liable for injury
proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from
this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee.”
(Gov. Code, § 815.2(a).)
The analysis above demonstrates that
Plaintiff has sufficiently established independent causes of action against the
employees of the County, i.e., the deputies. Therefore, Plaintiff may
maintain her vicarious claim against the County under section 815.2(a). 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is DENIED. 
 