 Case Number:  24STCV02420    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MIKE P. MCKELVY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
AIDS HEALTHCARE
  FOUNDATION, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV02420 
  Hearing Date:  August 9, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to quash subpoena




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff Mike
P. McKelvy filed this action against Defendant Aids Healthcare Foundation,
asserting causes of action for breach of habitability, negligence, nuisance,
emotional distress, breach of contract, unfair business practices, and fraud.
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on May 29, 2024.
Plaintiff seeks recovery for Defendant’s alleged failure to properly maintain
the rented premises where Plaintiff resided. 
            On July 11, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion to quash a subpoena served to nonparty IPM Tech. Plaintiff
filed a late opposition on August 1, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on August
2, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
  “If a subpoena requires the attendance of
a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things …, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a
party] . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a),
(b).)  
DISCUSSION
            On
May 21, 2024, Plaintiff issued a subpoena to nonparty IPM Tech, requesting “any
and all service reports, inspection reports, sanitation reports, invoices,
receipts, payments, contracts, emails, log books, key for deciphering codes in
documents, and correspondence . . . of any and all pest control services
performed and/or recommended at [the subject property] from 2019 through
present.” (Schwartz Decl., Ex. 1.) 
            Defendant
argues that the request is overbroad. However, the records are relevant to
establishing the existence and Defendant’s knowledge of pest infestations. Infestations
in areas beyond Plaintiff’s unit are reasonably calculated to lead to
admissible evidence regarding Defendant’s knowledge and failure to abate. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant concealed
an existing bedbug infestation in order to induce Plaintiff into signing the
lease. Thus, pest control issues from before Plaintiff’s residence are
relevant. However, Plaintiff alleges that he began renting the premises in
January 2022. (FAC ¶ 27.) Plaintiff does not explain the need for records
dating back to 2019. The records are limited to the period of January 1, 2020
to present. 
            Defendant
has not demonstrated any prejudice or undue burden upon IPM Tech from
responding to the subpoena. Nor has Defendant demonstrated that it would suffer
any prejudice or undue burden. Defendant does not contend that the requested
records implicate privacy or privilege, or that it would otherwise be harmed by
disclosure.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s
motion to quash subpoena is DENIED.  