 Case Number:  24STCV11194    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ALBA NIDIA VILLAREAL,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
WALNUT CREEK, LLC, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV11194
  Hearing Date:  August 9, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant motion to strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 3, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
this action against Defendant Walnut Creek, LLC alleging habitability issues. 
            On July 11, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion to strike punitive damages from the complaint. Plaintiffs
filed their opposition on July 24, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Shapiro Decl.)
DISCUSSION
“In an action
for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id.,
subd. (c)(2).) Fraud is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
In the
habitability context, allegations that a landlord knew of defective conditions
and knowingly failed to take corrective action sufficiently support punitive
damages. (See Penner v. Falk (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 858, 867; Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920.) Here, Plaintiffs allege
extensive defects with the subject premises, such as faulty electrics,
inadequate heating, dysfunctional plumbing, pest infestations, deteriorating
walls, and lead hazards. (See Compl. ¶¶ 19, 29.) Despite notice from Plaintiffs
and the health department, Defendant has failed to correct the deficiencies. (Id.,
¶¶ 26-27.) Instead, Defendant has retaliated against Plaintiffs by entering
Plaintiffs’ units for extended periods without making any repairs. (Ibid.)
Defendant exploited Plaintiffs’ status as low-income, unsophisticated tenants
with little knowledge of the law or access to resources. (Id., ¶ 32.) 
These facts go
beyond the knowing failure to repair that has been held sufficient for punitive
damages. The allegations demonstrate conscious disregard for Plaintiffs’ rights
and safety and conduct imposing unjust hardship. Therefore, the complaint in
this case adequately pleads a basis for punitive damages. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
 