 Case Number:  24VECV00626    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Citibank,
  N.A.,
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
Rshtuni Consulting Services, Inc., et al.
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
 24VECV00626               107




 
 
COURT’S [Tentative]
  ORDER RE:       
Application
  for Writ of Attachment (CCP 484.040)          
  



[THE
FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING]
 
I. BACKGROUND
On July 11, 2023, defendant Rshtuni
Consulting Services, Inc. (“Consulting”) applied for a business installment
loan with plaintiff Citibank, N.A. (“Plaintiff”). ( Complaint p. 2.)
Simultaneously, defendant Anna Rshtuni (“Anna” and, together with Consulting,
“Defendants” and Defendants, together with Plaintiff, “Parties”) executed a
guaranty (the “Guaranty”), guaranteeing Consulting’s performance under the
Agreement (as defined below). (Id. at p. 4.) On September 1, 2023,
Plaintiff approved Consulting for a $110,000 business installment loan at a
fixed interest rate of 6.5% per annum and lent Consulting such money under an
agreement thereby created (the “Agreement”). (Id. at pp. 2–3.) Pursuant
to the Agreement, Defendants received a certain business deposit account (the
“Account”) from Plaintiff, which they subsequently overdrew. (Id. at pp.
5–6.)
 
On October 30, 2023, Consulting
defaulted under the Agreement by ceasing to make payments due thereunder, and
Anna defaulted under the Guaranty by also failing to make payments due under
the Agreement. (Id. at p. 3–4.) Plaintiff consequently accelerated the
loan. (Ibid.) Plaintiff seeks the full balance of the loan principal,
accrued interest, late charges, the amount overdrawn from the Account, and
attorney’s fees from each Defendant. (Ibid.) 
 
On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an application to attach order and for an order for issuance of a writ of
attachment against each Defendant. The instant application (the “Application”) against
Consulting is being heard on April 18, 2024. The application against Anna is
being heard on April 19, 2024. Both applications are unopposed.
 
On April 11, 2024, defaults were
entered against both Defendants.
 
II.
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Attachment is an ancillary or
provisional remedy to aid the collection of a money demand by seizure of
property in advance of trial or judgment as security for satisfaction of a
judgment for the attaching party.” (Park v. NMSI, Inc. (2023)
96 Cal.App.5th 346, 353, quoting Burke v. Superior Court (1969) 71
Cal.2d 276, 279, fn. 3.) 
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint
or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for
a right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an application for
the order and writ with the court in which the action is brought.” (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 484.010.) The application shall be executed under oath and
must include (1) a statement showing that the attachment is sought to secure
the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) a statement
of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a statement that the
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based; (4) a statement that the applicant has no
information or belief that the claim is discharged or that the prosecution of
the action is stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C.
section 101, et seq.); and (5) a description of the property to be attached
under the writ of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and
believes that such property is subject to attachment. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
484.020.) 
   
A court shall consider the showing
made by the parties, as well as the pleadings and other papers in the record.
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 484.090(a), (d).) A court shall issue a right to attach
order if it finds all of the following:
 
(1) the claim upon which the
attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued,
 
(2) the plaintiff has established
the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based,
 
(3) the attachment is not sought
for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is
based, and
 
(4) the amount to be secured by the
attachment is greater than zero. 
             
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
484.090(a)(1)–(a)(4).)  
  
“The Attachment Law statutes are
subject to strict construction….” (Epstein v. Abrams (1997) 57
Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.)  
 
III.
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff seeks a right to attach
order and order for issuance of a writ of attachment in the total amount of $160,269.31
against Consulting on any property of Consulting.
 

Procedural Requirements

 
The Application, having been filed
on an approved Judicial Council form, contains the statements required by California
Code of Civil Procedure section 484.020, which therefore satisfies those
procedural requirements.
 
At the times prescribed by California
Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b), the defendant must be
served with a copy of the summons and complaint, notice of application and
hearing, and a copy of the application and supporting affidavits. (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 484.040.) 
 
Plaintiff filed a proof of service
indicating that all required documents were personally served on Consulting on
February 21, 2024. The service of notice requirement has been met.
 

Attachability of Claim

 
To issue a right to attach order,
the court must find, inter alia, that “[t]he claim upon which the attachment is
based is one upon which an attachment may be issued.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 484.090, subd. (a)(1).)
 
The court may only issue an
attachment in an action on a claim for money, based on a contract, totaling at
least $500.00 exclusive of costs, interest, and attorneys’ fees. (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 483.010, subd. (a).) Plaintiff makes a claim for money based on
the Agreement, which is a contract, for at least $110,000, exclusive of costs,
interest, and attorneys’ fees.
 
“An attachment may not be issued on
a claim which is secured by any interest in real property….” (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 483.010, subd. (b).) The Austin Declaration (as defined below)
states that “Plaintiff has no collateral or other security for the payment of
the obligation” and attaches copies of the documents making up the Agreement,
which only provide for security in the form of Consulting’s personal property
and fixtures, and all proceeds and products thereof, not any real property.
(Austin Decl. p. 5, Exh. 1, Exh. 2, Exh. 3.)
 
Accordingly, we find that
Plaintiff’s claim, upon which the attachment sought by the Application is
based, is one upon which an attachment may be issued.
 

Probable Validity

 
To issue a right to attach order,
the court must find, inter alia, that “[t]he plaintiff has established the
probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.” (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 484.090, subd. (a)(2).)
 
“Attachment… requires a court to
make a preliminary determination of the merits of a dispute.” (Lorber
Industries v. Turbulence, Inc. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 532, 535.) For its
part, the creditor applying for attachment must “follow[] the statutory
guidelines and establish[] a prima facie claim to have a debtor’s assets seized
and held until final adjudication at trial.” (Ibid.) “The plaintiff has
the burden of establishing the probable validity of the claim upon which the
attachment is based.” (Rreef America Reit II Corp, YYYY v. Samsara Inc.
(2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 609, 617.) “Probable validity means ‘it is more likely
than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on
that claim.’” (Park v. NMSI, Inc., supra, 96 Cal.App.5th 346,
354, quoting Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 481.190.)
 
The application for a writ of
attachment must be supported “by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the
facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the
attachment is based.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 484.030.) “Except where
matters are specifically permitted to be shown upon information and belief,
each affidavit or declaration must show that the affiant or declarant, if sworn
as a witness, can testify competently to the facts stated therein. [Citation.]
This means that the affiant or declarant must show actual, personal knowledge
of the relevant facts, rather than the ultimate facts commonly found in
pleadings, and such evidence must be admissible and not objectionable.” (Lydig
Construction, Inc. v. Martinez Steel Corp. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 937,
944.)
 
“Whenever, under any law of this
state or under any rule, regulation, order or requirement made pursuant to the
law of this state, any matter is required or permitted to be supported,
evidenced, established, or proved by the sworn statement, declaration,
verification, certificate, oath, or affidavit, in writing of the person making
the same (other than a deposition, or an oath of office, or an oath required to
be taken before a specified official other than a notary public), such matter
may with like force and effect be supported, evidenced, established or proved
by the unsworn statement, declaration, verification, or certificate, in writing
of such person which recites that it is certified or declared by him or her to
be true under penalty of perjury, is subscribed by him or her, and (1), if
executed within this state, states the date and place of execution, or (2), if
executed at any place, within or without this state, states the date of
execution and that it is so certified or declared under the laws of the State
of California.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2015.5.)
 
The standard elements of a breach
of contract claim are (1) the existence of the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4)
damages to the plaintiff therefrom. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York
Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) Plaintiff submits with the
Application a declaration (the “Austin Declaration”) signed under penalty of
perjury under the laws of the State of California that states, based upon the
declarant’s personal review of Plaintiff’s records of Consulting’s account, (1)
Parties entered the Agreement, (2) Plaintiff performed under the Agreement or
was excused for nonperformance, (3) Consulting defaulted by failing to make
payments under the Agreement, and (4) Plaintiff is consequently owed but has
not been paid money damages. (Austin Decl. pp. 2–6.) The Austin Declaration
meets the requirements of an affidavit and states a prima facie case for breach
of contract against Consulting.
 
Accordingly, we find that Plaintiff
has established the probable validity of its claim for breach of contract upon
which the attachment sought by the Application is based.
 

Purpose of Attachment

 
To issue a right to attach order,
the court must find, inter alia, that “[t]he attachment is not sought for a
purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is
based.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 484.090, subd. (a)(3).)
 
The Application contains the
statement, “[a]ttachment is not sought for a purpose other than recovery on a
claim upon which the attachment is based.” (Application p. 1.) The Application
is signed by Scott Austin (“Austin”) under penalty of perjury. (Id. at
p. 3.) As Austin has signed the Application under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the State of California, it is equivalent to an affidavit. (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 2015.5.) Furthermore, the Judicial Council form permits the
applicant to set forth facts in a verified complaint or an attached
affidavit or in the body of the application itself. (See Application
¶ 7.) Therefore, Austin’s statement, under penalty of perjury, in support
of the Application regarding the purpose for which Plaintiff seeks attachment
is sufficient to satisfy the affidavit requirement contained in California Code
of Civil Procedure section 484.030.
 
Accordingly, we find that Plaintiff
does not seek attachment for any purpose other than the recovery on its claim
upon which the sought attachment is based.
 

Amount to Be Attached

 
An attachment order may be issued
only if the claim upon which the attachment is based is, inter alia, for money
based upon a contract that is of a “fixed or readily ascertainable amount.”
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 483.010, subd. (a).) “Attachment will lie in an
action for breach of contract when it appears by reference to the contract,
complaint, and affidavit for attachment that the computation of damages alleged
is reasonable, definite, and readily ascertainable.” (Hayward Lumber &
Inv. Co. v. Construction Products Corp. (1952) 110 Cal.App.2d 386, 387.)
“Although damages need not be liquidated, they must be measurable by reference
to the contract sued upon, and their basis must be reasonable and certain.” (Kemp
Bros. Construction, Inc. v. Titan Electric Corp. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th
1474, 1482, fn. 5; CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. v. Super DVD, Inc.
(2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 537, 541.) 
 
Plaintiff attaches to the Austin
Declaration copies of the documents making up the Agreement, a statement for
the Account, and terms related to the Account. (Austin Decl. Exhs. 1–6.)
Plaintiff’s claim for the full balance of the loan under the Agreement,
interest thereon, and the amount overdrawn from the Account are therefore fixed
and readily ascertainable by reference to the Agreement, the terms and
statement of the Account, the Complaint, and the Austin Declaration.
 
In an action on contract, the award
of attorneys’ fees is governed by California Civil Code section 1717, and is
only awarded when the contract specifically provides for it. The Agreement
provides for Consulting’s payment of attorneys’ fees and costs associated with
Plaintiff’s collection of amounts due thereunder. (Austin Decl. Exh. 3.) Thus,
the Agreement provides a basis for attorneys’ fees and costs. However, the
amount of attorneys’ fees and costs is not explained in any affidavit and is
therefore not fixed or readily ascertainable by reference to the contract,
complaint, and affidavit for attachment.
 
To issue a right to attach order,
the court must find, inter alia, that “[t]he amount to be secured by the
attachment is greater than zero.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 484.090, subd.
(a)(4).)
 
We find that the balance of the
loan under the Agreement, interest thereon, and the amount overdrawn from the Account
are fixed or readily ascertainable and may be the basis for attachment. These
amounts sum to $157,589.31, which is greater than zero.
 
Accordingly, we find that the
amount to be secured by the attachment sought by the Application is greater
than zero.
 
IV.
CONCLUSION
 
Thus, we find that (1) Plaintiff’s
claim, upon which the attachment sought by the Application is based, is one
upon which an attachment may be issued, (2) Plaintiff has established the
probable validity of its claim for breach of contract upon which the attachment
sought by the Application is based, (3) Plaintiff does not seek attachment for
any purpose other than the recovery on its claim upon which the sought
attachment is based, and (4) the amount to be secured by the attachment sought
by the Application is greater than zero. Per California Code of Civil Procedure
section 484.090, subdivision (a), this court therefore shall issue a right to
attach order.
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the
Application in the reduced amount of $157,589.31.
 
 
Dated:  April 18, 2024                                                 _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court