 Case Number:  24STCV13472    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



RAKHI CHAMES, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
LOS
   ANGELES COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24STCV13472
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT LOS ANGELES COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY’S DEMURRER
   TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   10, 2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
On May 30,
2024, plaintiff Rakhi Chames (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants
Los Angeles County Development Authority (“Defendant”) and Keandre Butler.
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on August 31,
2024. 
Plaintiff
alleges claims for harassment, discrimination, retaliation, and wrongful
termination, as well as intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”). The
IIED claim is the subject of Defendant’s demurrer. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face.  (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell v. California Department of Public
Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.) In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific
factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations. (Financial Corporation of
America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.) 
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities
can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is
so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (f).)
Where the complaint contains
substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues
it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or
plaintiff will be given leave to amend. (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
A.  
Allegations
of the FAC
As alleged in the FAC, Plaintiff began
her employment with Defendant in or about August 2020 in Palmdale, California.
(FAC, ¶ 8.) From August 2020 through September 2023, she was allegedly sexually
harassed by Defendant’s employee, co-defendant Keandre Butler (“Butler”). (FAC,
¶ 9.) On multiple occasions, Butler, who was allegedly employed as a security
guard for Defendant, attempted to make conversation with Plaintiff by stating
that she “is a queen and needed a king”, and suggesting that she should end her
relationship with her partner. (FAC, ¶¶ 10-11.) In November 2020, Plaintiff
also witnessed Butler attempt to obtain the personal contact information of a
client by providing false instructions, and the client informed Plaintiff that
Butler had on occasion followed her home while making derogatory comments.
(FAC, ¶ 12.) Also around November 2020, Plaintiff witnessed Butler making other
sexually inappropriate comments on the phone and she complained to her managers
and supervisors about Butler’s sexually harassing conduct. (FAC, ¶ 13-15.) 
In or around February of 2022,
Plaintiff alleges that she saw Butler run into the office after his lunch break
wearing a tank top without a shirt; additionally, Butler’s pants were unbuttoned
with the zipper open. (FAC, ¶ 17.) As Plaintiff tried to leave the office,
Butler attempted to make conversation with Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 17.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant did nothing in response to Plaintiff’s complaints to end
the sexual harassment she experienced and Plaintiff was forced to end her
employment. (FAC, ¶¶ 19-20.) 
As part of Plaintiff’s Seventh Cause of
Action for IIED, she alleges that Defendant (and Butler) engaged in extreme and
outrageous conduct including sexual harassment. (FAC, ¶ 111.) Plaintiff further
alleges that Defendant engaged in retaliation and failed to investigate or
discipline the assaulters and harassers, or provide resources or sexual
harassment training. (Ibid.) Defendant’s allegedly “extreme and
outrageous conduct” also includes creating and perpetuating a hostile work
environment. (Ibid.) 
B.          
Demurrer

Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s IIED
claim on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to identify a statutory basis for
liability and does not plead an IIED claim with sufficient specificity. The
elements of an intentional infliction of emotional distress cause of action
are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to
cause or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress;
(3) severe emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the
emotional distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.)
To satisfy the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct
“‘must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 780
(quoting Tererice v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878,
883).) 
Liability against a public entity must
be authorized by statute.  (Eastburn
v. Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1179; Gov.
Code, § 815, subd. (a) [“A public entity is not liable for an injury . . .
except as otherwise provided by statute”].) “Ordinarily, negligence may be
pleaded in general terms and the plaintiff need not specify the precise act or
omission alleged to constitute the breach of duty.  [Citation]. 
However, because under the Tort Claims Act all governmental tort
liability is based on statute, the general rule that statutory causes of action
must be pleaded with particularity is applicable.  Thus, ‘to state a cause of action against a
public entity, every fact material to the existence of its statutory liability
must be pleaded with particularity.’” (Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit
Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
her IIED claim is permitted pursuant to Government Code section 815.2, which
imposes vicarious liability upon a public entity “for injury proximately caused
by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of
his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have
given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal
representative.” (Gov. Code, § 815.2.) Plaintiff contends that Defendant is
liable under a vicarious liability theory for the actions of Butler or
Plaintiff’s managers and supervisors. (Opp., pp. 4-5.) Plaintiff additionally
claims that she has properly alleged all the elements for an IIED claim. Plaintiff
claims she has alleged outrageous conduct by listing Defendant’s failures to
stop, reprimand, fire or take any action against Butler when he routinely
harassed Plaintiff and others by making openly sexual remarks or “attempted to
control” her personal life by suggesting she end her relationship with her
partner. (Opp., pp. 5-6.) Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s failure to act
amounts to outrageous conduct, especially considering that Defendant also
retaliated against her for reporting Butler’s sexual harassment and assault. Notably,
however, the FAC does not describe what retaliation, if any, occurred in
connection with Plaintiff’s complaints about Butler. 
On reply, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s IIED claim fails because it cannot be vicariously liable for
Butler’s sexual harassment, which is not within the scope of his employment.
(Reply, p. 3; see Farmers Ins. Group v. County of Santa Clara (1995) 11
Cal.4th 992, 1008-1019.) Additionally, even if Plaintiff’s supervisors and
managers’ alleged conduct took place within the scope of their employment,
there can be no vicarious liability here because her supervisors and managers are
not personally liable for their alleged failure to prevent harassment. (See Fiol
v. Doellstedt (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1327-1328 [inaction on a sexual
harassment complaint is not “aiding and abetting” harassment and does not
provide grounds for personal liability]; Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics
(1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 79-80.) Since mere inaction does not create personal liability
for a supervisory employee’s failure to prevent sexual harassment (and
Plaintiff alleges no specific facts supporting her claim for retaliation in
connection with her complaints about Butler’s conduct), it follows that her
supervisors and managers cannot be personally liable for IIED for the same
inaction, and thus there is no basis for vicarious liability against Defendant.
(See Lopez, supra, 40 Cal.3d at p. 795.) Accordingly, the Court
concludes that Plaintiff fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action for IIED. The demurrer is sustained to the Seventh Cause of Action. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to the Seventh
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated this 10th day of December
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 