 Case Number:  23AHCV01733    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LAWANDA JACKSON, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
STATE
   FARM INSURANCE,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01733
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO CORRECT COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   10, 2024



 
          On November
1, 2024, plaintiffs Lawanda Jackson and Kayzah Jackson (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this motion to amend the complaint and name the correct
defendant. The motion is unopposed. 
          Plaintiffs’
counsel, Barry Zelner, describes the general confusion in identifying and
naming the correct defendant in this case. At first, Plaintiffs’ initial
complaint named only State Farm Insurance. On December 5, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a First Amended Complaint naming State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
(“State Farm Mutual”) and State Farm General Insurance Company (“State Farm
General”) and referred to them collectively as “State Farm.” State Farm General
was eventually dismissed because all parties mistakenly believed that the
correct defendant was State Farm Mutual. (Zelner Decl., ¶ 3.) However, it was later
determined that the correct defendant was in fact State Farm General, therefore
Plaintiffs filed a notice of errata and attempted to file an amended request to
dismiss State Farm Mutual. This “amended” request for dismissal was not
entered, but the parties continued to litigate with the understanding that State
Farm Mutual had been dismissed and that State Farm General was the correct
defendant. It was then discovered in August 2024 that State Farm General was no
longer a party. (Zelner Decl., Ex. 5.) 
This motion followed. 
The court may, in its discretion and
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading, including adding or striking out the name of any
party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) “The court may deem a
motion to file an amendment to a pleading to be a motion to file an amended
pleading and require the filing of the entire previous pleading with the
approved amendments incorporated into it.” (CRC 3.1324, subd. (c).) 
Here, given the parties’ extensive difficulties
in identifying and naming the correct defendant, the Court will require the
filing of a Second Amended Complaint that includes the name of the correct
defendant (State Farm General) and removes State Farm Mutual as well as “State
Farm” as a collective reference from the pleading.  This appears to be the best method for maintaining
an orderly record showing the proper parties to this action.
Accordingly, the Court continues the
hearing to __________ so that Plaintiffs may submit a proposed Second Amended
Complaint which incorporates the requested amendments. The proposed pleading
must be filed no later than 5 court days before the date of the hearing. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 10th
day of December
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.