 Case Number:  24AHCV00364    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YULISSA ANDREA JIMENEZ, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
FCA US
   LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 
)
  )
)


      CASE NO.: 24AHCV00364
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT FILED BY DEFENDANT W&B
   AUTOMOTIVE, INC. dba BRAVO CHRYSLER DODGE JEEP RAM OF ALHAMBRA
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   10, 2024



 
On February 21, 2024, plaintiff Yulissa
Andrea Jimenez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against FCA US LLC and W&B
Automotive, Inc. dba Bravo Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram of Alhambra (“Bravo”). On
April 25, 2024, default was entered against Bravo at Plaintiff’s request. On August
16, 2024, Bravo filed this motion to set aside the default pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 473(b). The motion is unopposed. 
The court has broad discretion to
vacate the entry of default, default judgment, or a dismissal where the moving
party timely establishes a proper ground for relief. (Cruz v. Fagor America,
Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.) The general underlying purpose of
Section 473, subdivision (b) is to promote the determination of actions on
their merits.  (Even Zohar Const. & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 838-839.) Code of Civil Procedure, section 473,
subdivision (b) contains a provision for discretionary relief that provides: 
The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. 
 
Here, Bravo requests relief on the
grounds that Plaintiff served the summons and complaint at its dealership
located at 1100 W. Main Street in Alhambra, California, but Bravo was in the
process of moving its office to 1700 W. Main Street. (Taramona Decl., ¶ 4.) Bravo
states that the summons and complaint were inadvertently lost during the move
before they could be forwarded to counsel. Bravo did not realize that the
summons and complaint had been misplaced until it received the request for
entry of default in the mail on May 15, 2024. Bravo filed an answer on August
15, 2024, and this motion was brought within 6 months of the entry of default. In
light of these circumstances, the Court finds that Bravo’s failure to respond
earlier was due to mistake and inadvertence. 
Accordingly, Bravo’s motion to set
aside the default is GRANTED. The Case Management Conference scheduled for
April 30, 2025, shall remain on calendar as set. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 10th
day of December
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 