 Case Number:  22STCV15934    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  May 13, 2022, Plaintiff Elton Spain (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against  Defendants Metcalf Constructions, Inc., Joseph Dante Dalessio (“Dalessio”), and  Does 1-50 for negligence—motor vehicle, negligence per se, and negligent  hiring, retention, training, and supervision.  On  September 6, 2022, Dalessio filed an answer.  On  September 14, 2022, Defendant Metcalf Construction Services, LLC, erroneously  sued and served as Metcalf Construction, Inc. (“Metcalf”), filed an answer.  On  March 22, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Sierra  Pacific Industries (“Sierra”) as Doe 1.   On August 15, 2023, the Court dismissed Sierra without prejudice at  Plaintiff’s request.  On  July 24, 2023, Metcalf filed a motion for summary judgment to be heard on June  26, 2024.  On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff  filed an opposition.  On June 20, 2024,  Metcalf filed a reply.  On June 21, 2024,  Plaintiff filed a request for leave to file a supplemental declaration, which  the Court denies.  Trial  is scheduled for August 26, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Metcalf  asks the Court to grant summary judgment.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Summary judgment            “‘[F]rom commencement to conclusion, the party moving for  summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue  of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87  Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)  25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment  bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the  nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of  production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a  burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence  of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,  supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)             When the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the  plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at  p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the plaintiff cannot establish at least  one element of the cause of action by showing that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must  “present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must  ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations,  admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which  judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but  need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the  plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the  plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as  through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect  that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.  at p. 855, original emphasis.)             “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .  shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)  “Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a  witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be  disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman  v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)            In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary  adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth  plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are  undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference  to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &  Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),  quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment];  see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication  “shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].)  The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate  statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving  party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or  disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth  plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends  are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed  shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party  fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that  failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide  the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.  (b)(1), (3).)              In ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the  evidence and all the inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such  evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at  p. 843.)   B.   Vicarious liability  “[A]  principal who personally engages in no misconduct may be vicariously liable for  the tortious act committed by an agent within the course and scope of the  agency. [Citation.] Agency is the relationship which results from the  manifestation of consent by one person to another that the other shall act on  his behalf and subject to his control, and consent by the other so to act . . .  .[Citation.]” (Barenborg v. Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity (2019) 33  Cal.App.5th 70, 85.)  DISCUSSION  A.   Complaint   Plaintiff’s  complaint alleges that on July 27, 2021, Metcalf authorized its employee  Dalessio to drive a motor vehicle in which Plaintiff was a passenger even  though Metcalf knew that Dalessio was unlicensed due to multiple vehicle code  violations.  Dalessio rear-ended a  semi-truck, injuring Plaintiff.  B.   Undisputed facts  On  July 27, 2021, Metcalf employed Dalessio and Plaintiff at a jobsite in  Anderson, California.    Metcalf  employed Dalessio solely as an electrician. Dalessio never drove a  company-owned or company-possessed vehicle. It was not part of Dalessio’s job  duties to drive other employees home.  On  July 27, 2021, Dalessio was involved in an accident while driving Plaintiff.  Dalessio  was operating his own personal vehicle.  C.   Metcalf has carried its initial burden on summary  judgment  “An  employee’s commute to and from the workplace is generally not considered to be  within the course and scope of employment.” (Newland v. County of Los  Angeles (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 676, 685.) “This rule, commonly referred to  as the ‘going and coming rule,’ is grounded in the notion that ‘the employment  relationship is “suspended” from the time the employee leaves until he returns  [citation], or that in commuting he is not rendering service to his employer.’  ” (Id. at 686.)  Metcalf  has presented evidence that Dalessio had finished work for the day and was driving  home with Plaintiff when the accident occurred, making a prima facie showing  that the “going and coming” rule applies.   Therefore, Metcalf has carried its initial burden on summary judgment,  shifting the burden to Plaintiff.  D.   Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of fact  Plaintiff  has submitted a declaration stating that at about 4:30 p.m. on July 27, 2021,  Metcalf’s foreman Matt Cooley (“Cooley”) approached Dalessio and Plaintiff and  asked Dalessio if he could drive Plaintiff back to the hotel in Red Bluff where  Plaintiff was staying.  Dalessio agreed. (Spain  dec. ¶ 10.)  Metcalf  argues this testimony does not raise a triable issue of fact because other  witnesses, including Dalessio and Cooley, contradict it.  According to Metcalf, under Aguilar, supra,  25 Cal.4 826, to avoid summary judgment Plaintiff must present evidence showing  it is “more likely than not” that his account is true.  In McGrory  v. Applied Signal Technology, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1510 (McGrory),  the Court of Appeal addressed the language in Aguilar on which Metcalf  bases its argument:  “We recognize that Aguilar, supra, 25  Cal.4th 826, 107 Cal.Rptr.2d 841, 24 P.3d 493 included an extended discussion  about what to do when there are conflicting inferences in a case alleging an  unlawful conspiracy in violation of antitrust laws, concluding that a  defendant's summary judgment motion should be granted unless the plaintiff  produces evidence supporting an inference that unlawful conspiracy was ‘more  likely than’ permissible competition. [Citation.]  Aguilar also stated earlier that ‘[t]here  is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a  reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party  opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.’ [Citation.] “Kids' Universe v. In2Labs (2002) 95  Cal.App.4th 870, 116 Cal.Rptr.2d 158 noted that this embellishment is  inconsistent with the summary judgment statute and with other passages in Aguilar.  [Citation.]  To create a triable issue,  it should be enough to show that two conflicting inferences can be reasonably  drawn from the evidence, not that the opposition's evidence preponderates.  According to the statute, a court may not grant the motion ‘based on inferences  reasonably deducible from the evidence, if contradicted by other inferences or  evidence, which raise a triable issue as to any material fact.’ ([Code Civ.  Proc.,] § 437c, subd. (c).) On further consideration, we are inclined to agree  with the Second District Court of Appeal, Division Five, that the special rule  for conflicting inferences stated in Aguilar is limited to summary  judgment motions in antitrust cases.   [Citation.]”  (McGrory, supra,  212 Cal.App.4th at p. 1530, fn. 14.)  Having  considered all the evidence and all the inferences reasonably drawn from it in  the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment (see Aguilar,  supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843), the Court finds that Plaintiff has  presented evidence raising a triable issue of fact.  The Court denies Metcalf’s motion.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Defendant Metcalf Construction Services, LLC’s motion for summary  judgment.            Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.