 Case Number:  24STCV01168    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
9-4-24
Case
#24STCV01168
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, Nick Alden, pro se 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant,
David Westley, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Cross-Complaint
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Professional Negligence
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
·        
3rd
Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
In
January 2012, Defendants David and Victoria Westley, and Han Realty, Inc.,
retained attorney Plaintiff Nick Alden for representation involving a pending
foreclosure of their home. Following several years of litigation, Plaintiff
presented a legal bill of $1.35 million. Plaintiff represents third party
mortgage holder Bank of America agreed to “pay” the outstanding legal bill “in
full by reducing the amount owed ... in exchange” for payment of $50,000 to
Bank of America. Plaintiff also agreed “to give” the Westleys $400,000 from the
$1.35 million received from Bank of America. The agreement with the Westleys
was apparently secured with a $960,000 deed of trust by Westleys, which
Plaintiff alleges was false. Plaintiff alleges discovery of the fraudulent deed
of trust upon efforts to record the document. 
 
Meanwhile,
the Westleys “attempted to sell the house” to third parties Victor and Nicole
Palumbo. A title report revealed the property was encumbered with $3.8 million
in liens. On August 12, 2016, the Palumbos filed a complaint against the
Wesleys and Han Realty. Plaintiff initially represented the Wesleys in the
Palumbo litigation until disqualification “after six years of litigation” due
to Plaintiff potentially appearing in the action as a “material witness.” The
liens were subsequently expunged.
 
On
January 16, 2024, Plaintiff, in pro se, filed a complaint for Fraud and Deceit,
Declaratory Relief, and Breach of Contract. The subject complaint appears to
only involve the allegedly fraudulent deed of trust notwithstanding the
allegations of the Palumbo litigation.
 
On
March 15, 2024, Defendants answered and filed a cross-complaint against Nick
Alden, Law Offices of Nick Alden, and Aleksey Sirotin for Professional
Negligence, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Declaratory Relief. Cross-Complainants
allege Alden both conducted the litigation in a substandard manner, as well as
engaged in conduct constituting a conflict of interest without obtaining a
waiver or consent from the clients.
 
On
July 29, 2024, Cross-Defendants dismissed Aleksey Sirotin and Law Offices Nick
Alden without prejudice. 
 
RULING: Sustained with
Leave to Amend in Part/Overruled in Part.
Request
for Judicial Notice in the Reply: DENIED.
The
request includes a number of items not subject to judicial notice. Any and all
of the documents were introduced well after the opposition thereby depriving
Cross-Complainants from responding to any and all of the documents, even if
said documents actually support the extrinsic reliant narrative(s) driving this
demurrer. The court therefore declines to consider any content, even if some of
the documents, such as the grant deed were subject to judicial review.
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant,
Nick Alden, pro se, (Alden) submits a demurrer to the cross-complaint of David
Westley, Victoria Westley, and Han Realty Corp. Alden contends the
cross-complaint is barred by the statute of limitations, and subject to
demurrer on grounds of uncertainty. Cross-Complainants in opposition provide an
extensive background referencing allegations, including information beyond any
allegations in the operative cross-complaint; deny any bar under the statute of
limitations; and, maintain all claims are sufficiently pled. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
in reply introduces new argument challenging a lack of actual damages, due to
the pending “underlying action.” The reply again extensively cites to the
extrinsic evidence, including factual challenge to the counter-narrative
presented in the opposition, as well as the motion for disqualification in
order to establish certain fixed dates. 
 
A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules, where the
complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.]
 
The
demurrer and opposition both reference documents via judicial notice. The court
electronic filing system shows no request for judicial notice filed by Alden
before, concurrent with, or after the filing of the April 11, 2024, notice of
demurrer and demurrer, or any request for judicial notice by Cross-complainants
concurrent with, before or after the August 23, 2024, filed opposition. Again,
the court declines to take judicial notice of number of items submitted with
the reply. Both parties reference numerous facts beyond the scope of the
operative cross-complaint, which cannot be considered as established in the
standard for a demurrer.
 
Statute
of Limitations
Alden
challenges the entire cross-complaint on grounds of the statute of limitations.
Although the notice of demurer identifies the statute of limitations defense as
part of the demurrer to both the first and second causes of action, the court
finds no specific argument as to the breach of fiduciary claim statute of
limitations. 
 
The
argument relies on the complaint and extrinsic inference, whereby Alden
maintains disqualification from any representation of Cross-Complainants on
December 8, 2021, as well as the representation beginning with the Bank of
America action, whereby judgment was entered on February 4, 2016.
Notwithstanding the position of Alden, the operative cross-complaint alleges
representation by Alden from April 12, 2016, to April 21, 2023, in the Palumbo
action only. [Cross-Comp., ¶ 10.] 
 
The
court declines to rely on any and all of the extrinsic references relied upon
by any party in reviewing the demurrer. The court will NOT consider factual
argument beyond the operative pleading or the documents submitted in the
request for judicial notice with the reply. The demurrer establishes no basis
for a finding of claims barred by the one year statute of limitations given the
allegations of representation occurring until 2023, and the complaint and
cross-complaint both filed less than 12 months from the end of the purported
representation period. The demurrer is overruled on this basis. 
 
1st
Cause of Action: Professional Negligence 
“The
elements of a cause of action for professional negligence are (1) the duty of
the professional to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other members of
the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) a
causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and
(4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional negligence.” (Nichols
v. Keller (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1672, 1682.) The cross-complaint
sufficiently articulates the elements. [Cross-Comp., ¶¶ 10-14.] The court
declines to consider the argument over standing, the Bank of America litigation,
or any other facts completely extrinsic to the operative cross-complaint. The
demurrer is overruled on this cause of action.
 
2nd
Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty 
“‘The
elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are: (1) existence
of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage
proximately caused by the breach.’” (Gutierrez v. Girardi (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 925, 932.) The cross-complaint sufficiently articulates the
elements. [Cross-Comp., ¶¶ 15-20.] The court declines to consider the argument
over standing, the Bank of America litigation, or any other facts completely
extrinsic to the operative cross-complaint. The demurrer is overruled on this
cause of action.
 
3rd
Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief
Alden
challenges the subject cause of action on grounds of failure to state a
prospective claim. Declaratory relief under Code of Civil Procedure section
1060 requires “two essential elements: “‘(1) a proper subject of declaratory
relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating
to the rights or obligations of a party.’” (Lee v. Silveira (2016) 6
Cal.App.5th 527, 546.)
 
The
cross-complaint alleges a claim of $1.3 million in damages from improperly
collected fees. Given the cessation of representation articulated in the
cross-complaint as 2013, it remains unclear how and what requires further
determination between the parties. Any claim for damages involving past conduct
in no way qualifies for declaratory relief. The opposition lacks any apparent
argument on this argument regarding an ongoing controversy. The demurrer is
sustained with leave to amend.
 
In
summary, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the professional negligence and breach
of fiduciary duty causes of action, and SUSTAINED with 30 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND,
as to the declaratory relief cause of action. 
 
Cross-Complaints may NOT add any new causes of action, and
may ONLY add facts in support of declaratory relief. (Harris v. Wachovia
Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) Any new causes of
action added without leave of court may be subject to a motion to strike. Material
changes to the operative complaint seeking to alter the material terms of any
purported agreements or representation may also be subject to a demurrer under
the sham pleading standard. Any potential demurrer to first amended cross-complaint
will only be allowed as to the declaratory relief cause of action unless
Cross-Complainants in any way alters the two overruled causes of action.
 
If
Cross-Complainants elect to not file a first amended cross-complaint, Alden
shall answer the remaining causes of action of the cross-complaint within 10
days of the lapse of the 30 day amendment deadline (e.g. 40 days from the date
of this order).
 
Case
Management Conference and OSC re: Failure to Obtain Defaults set for October 11,
2024.
 
Nick
Alden to give notice. 
 