 Case Number:  23STCV11602    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
9-4-24
Case
23STCV11602
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
TRIAL PREFERENCE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Wendy Viridinia Solano-Castro 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants, C&C North America, Inc., et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Trial Preference
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Wendy
Viridinia Solano-Castro, et al. alleges the wrongful death of Raul Garcia-Leon
caused from as a stone fabricator and installer. Plaintiffs contend working
with “toxic” stone products led to the development of silicosis and death of
Garcia-Leon on February 16, 2023.
 
On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 582 paragraph complaint for negligence, strict
liability – warning defect, strict liability – design defect, fraudulent
concealment, and breach of implied warranties. The complaint names a multitude
of parties comprised of suppliers, sellers, etc. The case was deemed
non-complex on June 5, 2023, and assigned to Department 68 on June 7, 2023. 
 
On
October 11, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer of MS International, Inc. to
the fourth cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. On November 2, 2023,
Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a cross-complaint for indemnity, declaratory relief
and apportionment. On December 29, 2023, Lowes Home Centers, LLC filed a
cross-complaint indemnity, declaratory relief and apportionment.
 
RULING: Denied.
Plaintiff
Wendy Viridinia Solano-Castro moves for trial preference on grounds that minor
Plaintiff Rebecca, a minor under the age of 14 years old qualifies for
preference. Defendant C&C North America, Inc., opposes the motion on grounds
of failure to qualify for relief under the statute, and preferential trial
setting in this case violates the due process rights of Defendants. Plaintiff
in reply cites the mandatory provision for trial preference brought by persons
under 14, and denies due process violations. Plaintiffs then present extensive
argument over the preparation of the case for trial.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 36
subdivision (b) states in relevant part: “A civil action to recover damages for
wrongful death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the
motion of any party to the action who is under 14 years of
age unless the court finds that the party does not have a substantial
interest in the case as a whole. A civil action subject to subdivision (a)
shall be given preference over a case subject to this subdivision.”
 
The motion presents declarations establishing that Plaintiff
was 13 years old at the time of the filing of the motion (D.O.B. 9-2-10) and maintains
a substantial interest in the case. [Declaration of James Nevin.] Relief under
Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (b) is mandatory rule, not
discretionary. (Peters v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 218, 224.)
At the time of the hearing, however, Nicole will be 14 years and 2 days old. Neither
party presents any authority regarding whether the aggrieved party can preserve
preference by filing a motion prior to the hearing, regardless of any statutory
lapse at the time of the hearing and order. Plaintiffs maintain the statutory
language regarding the “filing” of the motion somehow preserves the date, but
the reply lacks any legal citation in support.
 
While a motion for preference can be granted where a party
will turn age 70 during the pendency of the action, the court finds no
corollary provision for when a minor turns 14 before the time of the hearing,
but ages out by the time of the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).) Again,
Plaintiffs cite to the language of the statute that the right vests at the time
of filing if the minor was still aged under 14 at the time of the hearing,
regardless of whether the minor turning 14 during the pendency of the
litigation. The argument adheres to a very literal and strict interpretation of
the words “upon the motion” as provided in section 36, subdivision (b). The
court was unable to find any authority on the specific subject matter. 
 
Nevertheless, because the minor will in fact be over the age
of 14 before any order issued by the court, the court finds a lack of
application of the statute. The court interprets the plain language of the
statute as one requiring a finding of the proper age at the time of the hearing
itself (e.g. at the time of review of the motion itself), and not preserved or conditioned
based on the time of filing. (See Peters v. Superior Court, supra,
212 Cal.App.3d at p. 223.) The court find the language precludes the court from
effecting any actual relief at the time of the hearing. (See Wilson &
Wilson v. City Council of Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1574.)
 
The motion is therefore denied.
 
Case Management Conference set for September 6, 2024.


Caesarstone LTD to give notice to all parties. 
 