 Case Number:  24VECV01374    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  W MAXIMO BELLEZA
NARVAEZ, JR vs MARCX S. DIAZ
 
defendant
marcx s. diaz’s motion for an order allowing the filing of a cross-complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        November 7, 2024                            Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV01374
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Marcx S. Diaz   
Responding Party:     No
opposition.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff Maximo
Belleza Narvaez Jr. filed a complaint against Defendant Marcx S. Diaz for
fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, and accounting. Plaintiff alleges they are a
general partner with Defendant Diaz in a restaurant called Cebunchon, located
in Woodland Hills. Plaintiff alleges on March 15, 2024, a dispute ensued
between Plaintiff and Defendant Diaz as the handling of the daily cash
collections, deposits, remittance, and tips received from Cebuchon and as a
result of the dispute, Defendant Diaz unilaterally decided to relinquish and
turn-over management and operations of Cebuchon to Plaintiff. Plaintiff also
alleges Defendant Diaz convinced Plaintiff to sell 5% ownership to Diaz’s
brother in law, Dino Adrian Potato, and misrepresented to Plaintiff that
Cebuchon was short of funds. As a result, Plaintiff did not receive a full
amount for the 5%. Plaintiff alleges Defendant also misrepresented that
Plaintiff’s investment into Cebuchon would generate a good return of
investment. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Marcx Diaz’ Motion for
an Order Allowing the Filing of a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Marcx S. Diaz moves the court
for an order permitting Diaz to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff Max
Belleza, Jr. and to add additional cross-defendants, Dino Adrian Potato and
Cebuchon SA Barrio, SA XMC LLC. 
 
Where a defendant wishes to assert a
“related cause of action” against plaintiff, it must do so in a
cross-complaint. Failure to plead it will bar defendant from asserting it in a
later lawsuit. (CCP § 426.10 [“‘Related cause of action’ means a cause of
action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges
in his complaint.”].) 
 
A cross-complaint against plaintiff may
be filed as a matter of right if it is filed before or at the same time as the answer.
(CCP § 428.50(a).) Otherwise, leave of court must be obtained. (CCP §
428.50(c).) Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during
the course of¿the action.¿(CCP § 428.50(c).) Indeed, where a cause of action
would otherwise be lost, leave to amend is appropriate even if the party was
negligent in not moving for leave to amend earlier.¿ “The legislative mandate
is clear.¿ A policy of liberal construction of section 426.50 to avoid
forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial court.”¿ Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99 (Silver
Orgs).¿[“Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other
cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad
faith.”]; Sidney v. Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718 [a
“strong showing of bad faith” is required].)  
 
The court finds Defendant is entitled to file the proposed
cross-complaint pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 426.50. Defendant
has demonstrated their failure to file the proposed cross-complaint
concurrently with their initial answer was due to possibility settlement and
lack of time to determine the propriety of a cross-claim against Plaintiff.
(Sullivan Decl. ¶¶5-12.) Defendant argues the cross-complaint is not made in
bad faith and there is no prejudice to Plaintiff as the court has not yet set a
trial date in this action nor has any depositions taken place. Defendant
attaches the proposed cross-complaint. 
 
Based upon the foregoing, the court GRANTS Defendant Marcx Diaz’
Motion for an Order Allowing the Filing of a Cross-Complaint. 