  Case Number:  22VECV01242    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  W DAVID FASSNACHT v. JOHN WORDIN, et al.
 
plaintiff david fassnacht’s motion fo rsummary
adjudication as to plaintiff’s causes of action 5 and 6
 
Date of Hearing:        November 7, 2024                Trial Date:            June 9, 2025 
Department:              W                                            Case No.:             22VECV01242
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff David
Fassnacht  
Responding
Party:     No opposition  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On Plaintiff August 29, 2022, Plaintiff David Fassnacht filed a
complaint against Defendants John Wordin, John Wordin dba Life Aid Holdings,
Inc., Life Aid Holdings, Inc., Life Aid Research Institute dba Life Aid
Holdings, Inc. for fraudulent inducement, fraud (intentional
misrepresentation), fraud (deceit by concealment), and fraud (negligent
misrepresentation). Plaintiff alleges Defendant misrepresented an investment
opportunity in regards to the app, LifeScore App. On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint adding two new causes of action for breach of
contract (first note) and breach of contract (second note). 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff David Fassnacht’s Motion for Summary Adjudication as to
Plaintiff’s Causes of Action 5 and 6 is CONTINUED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff moves this court for an order granting summary
adjudication in favor of Plaintiff and as prayed for in Plaintiff’s fifth and
sixth causes of action against Defendant Life Aid Holdings, Inc. Plaintiff
makes the motion on the grounds that there is no defense to the fifth and sixth
causes of action, that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that Plaintiff is entitled to adjudication as a matter of law. 
 
Counsel for Life Aid Holdings, Inc. has recently filed a motion to
be relieved as counsel. In light of the motion to be relieved as counsel, the
court will have the parties address whether the motion for summary adjudication
should be continued so Defendants may obtain new counsel and the status of
pending discovery. The court notes that defendant has filed an ex parte
application to stay the matter while he obtains counsel.   