 Case Number:  23STCV15919    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BRITTNEY RAMIREZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DECKERS OUTDOOR CORPORATION,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV15919
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 31, 2024



 
On
July 3, 2023, Plaintiff Brittney Ramirez filed this action against Defendant Deckers
Outdoor Corporation.  The Complaint alleges
violations of (1) California Invasion of Privacy Act (“Section 631”), and (2) California
Unauthorized Access to Computer Data Act (“Section 502”).
On
February 15, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer.
DISCUSSION
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant’s website contains code that intercepts the inquiries that
consumers believe are being sent directly to Defendant and diverts them to non-party
Gladly.  (Complaint ¶ 9.)  Gladly gains access to users’ information and
stores it for its own purposes, without Defendant informing its website users.  (Complaint ¶¶ 10-12.)  Gladly also shares the data it collects and stores
with Defendant, who adds the data to the existing profiles it has surreptitiously
collected from its users.  (Complaint ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant secretly records
those conversations and pays third parties to eavesdrop on them in real time to
be ‘targets’ for non descript mercantile campaigns.”  (Complaint ¶ 12.)
A.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege a Claim Under
Penal Code Section 631.
The
California Invasion of Privacy Act sets forth four manners through which a person
may have unlawfully engaged in wiretapping: (1) “by means of any machine, instrument,
or contrivance, or in any other manner, intentionally taps, or makes any unauthorized
connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise,
with any telegraph or telephone wire, line, cable, or instrument, including the
wire, line, cable, or instrument of any internal telephonic communication system”;
(2) “who willfully and without the consent of all parties to the communication,
or in any unauthorized manner, reads, or attempts to read, or to learn the contents
or meaning of any message, report, or communication while the same is in transit
or passing over any wire, line, or cable, or is being sent from, or received at
any place within this state”; (3) “uses, or attempts to use, in any manner, or for
any purpose, or to communicate in any way, any information so obtained”; or (4)
“aids, agrees with, employs, or conspires with any person or persons to unlawfully
do, or permit, or cause to be done any of the acts or things mentioned above in
this section.”  (Pen. Code, § 631, subd. (a).)
            1.         Plaintiff
Cannot Allege a Claim Under the First Clause.
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant permitted Gladly to record and eavesdrop upon Plaintiff’s
communications through its website.  (Complaint
¶¶ 17-19.)  “[C]ourts have repeatedly found
that [the first] clause applies only to eavesdropping on ‘telegraph and telephone’
wires, lines, cables, or instruments, and not to any eavesdropping that is alleged
to have occurred as to communications over the internet.”  (Heiting v. Taro Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.
(C.D. Cal. 2023) 709 F.Supp.3d 1007, 1014 (Heiting).)  “[B]ecause Plaintiff alleges interception of a
chat communication on Defendant’s website, instead of over the phone, Plaintiff
cannot state a claim under the first clause of section 631(a).”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff
argues that the first clause does apply to the internet, citing Javier v. Assurance
IQ, LLC (9th Cir., May 31, 2022, No. 21-16351) 2022 WL 1744107 and that court’s
statement that “[t]hough written in terms of wiretapping, Section 631(a) applies
to Internet communications.”  (Opposition
at p. 4.)  The Javier court’s next
sentence is, “It makes liable anyone who ‘reads, or attempts to read, or to learn
the contents’ of a communication ‘without the consent of all parties to the communication.’”  This is language from the second clause of Section
631, subdivision (a), not the first clause.
In
sum, Plaintiff cannot allege a CIPA claim based on the first clause.
            2.         Plaintiff Does Not Sufficiently Allege a Claim Under the
Second Clause.
Defendant
argues that the party exception applies here. 
(Demurrer at pp. 12-14.)  A party to
the communication is exempt from liability under CIPA.  (Williams v. What If Holdings, LLC (N.D.
Cal., Dec. 22, 2022, No. C 22-03780 WHA) 2022 WL 17869275, at *3.)  “[The] relevant inquiry here is whether a website
owner’s usage of third-party recordation software can be considered equivalent to
having hired a third party to record.  That
inquiry thus determines whether or not the software provider can be considered a
third party in the first place for purposes of a Section 631(a) analysis. . . .
[A] key distinction is whether or not the alleged third-party software provider
aggregates or otherwise processes the recorded information, which might suggest
that the software vendor independently ‘uses’ the gathered data in some way.”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff
alleges that after Gladly gains access to users’ information, “it stores it for
its own purposes.”  (Complaint ¶ 10.)  At the pleading stage, this is sufficient to allege
that Gladly (and not only Defendant) obtained or stored the intercepted information
for its own uses, and Defendant aided Gladly’s interception.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff does not allege interception while in transit.  (Demurrer at pp. 14-15.)  “Alleging that the defendant[] intercepted a communication
in real time is insufficient, without specific facts about what was intercepted
and when or how the interception took place.” 
(Valenzuela v. Super Bright LEDs Inc. (C.D. Cal., Nov. 27, 2023, No.
EDCV2301148JAKSPX) 2023 WL 8424472, at *10.) 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s code “intercepts the inquiries that consumers
believe are being sent directly to [Defendant] and diverts them to gladly.com,”
and Defendant “pays third parties to eavesdrop on them in real time.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 9, 12.)  “Plaintiff has not added any additional factual
details to make clear when the interception occurred.  Merely parroting the statutory requirement that
it occurred in transit is insufficient.” 
(Heiting, supra, 709 F.Supp.3d at p. 1019.)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff does not allege that the contents of her communication were
intercepted.  (Demurrer at pp. 15-16.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “collects a wide
range of personal information from website users and consumers, including personal
identifiers, unique device identifiers, persistent identifiers and may deduce additional
demographic details like gender; transaction details; precise location details,
including GPS data, IP addresses; various details about website usage, such as links
clicked, page views, searches, time spent, and interactions with others; inferences,
social media interactions and other information.”  (Complaint ¶ 11.)  “Within the past year, Plaintiff used the chat
box feature on [Defendant’s] site, however, Defendant did not inform Plaintiff that
Defendant was not communicating with Deckers at all.”  (Complaint ¶ 13.)  The Court cannot assume what the contents of any
communications were when the Complaint generally alleges collection of personal
information, but it does not allege that Defendant in fact collected this data and
does not allege any substantive communications by Plaintiff that she believes were
intercepted.  (Heiting, supra, 709
F.Supp.3d at p. 1018.)
Plaintiff
insufficiently alleges a CIPA claim based on the second clause.
3.         Plaintiff
Does Not Allege a Claim Under the Third Clause.
“A
violation under the third clause of § 631(a) is contingent upon a finding of a violation
of the first or second clause of § 631(a).” 
(Swarts v. Home Depot, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2023) 689 F.Supp.3d 732, 744.)  Plaintiff does not sufficiently allege a violation
of the first or second clauses, so she does not allege a claim under the third clause.  (See Demurrer at p. 16.)
The
demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.
B.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege a Claim Under
Penal Code Section 502.
Section
502 imposes liability on a person who “(1) Knowingly accesses and without permission
alters, damages, deletes, destroys, or otherwise uses any data, computer, computer
system, or computer network in order to either (A) devise or execute any scheme
or artifice to defraud, deceive, or extort, or (B) wrongfully control or obtain
money, property, or data”; or “(2) Knowingly accesses and without permission takes,
copies, or makes use of any data from a computer, computer system, or computer network,
or takes or copies any supporting documentation, whether existing or residing internal
or external to a computer, computer system, or computer network,” among other things.  (Pen. Code, § 502, subd. (c).)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant acted “without permission.”  (Demurrer at pp. 16-18.)  “Without permission” means “accessing or using
a computer, computer network, or website in a manner that overcomes technical or
code-based barriers.”  (Facebook, Inc.
v. Power Ventures, Inc. (N.D. Cal., July 20, 2010, No. C 08-05780 JW) 2010 WL
3291750, at *11.)  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant “exceeded the scope of its authorization from Plaintiff,” and “no authorization
was provided by Plaintiff at all and no authorization for the data collection by
means of using a chat box is ever requested or given.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 23-24.)  This does not allege that Defendant acted “without
permission” under Section 502.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant used data inappropriately.  (Demurrer at pp. 18-19.)  The phrase “or otherwise uses” in Section 502
is narrowly construed “to refer to uses that involve data alteration, damage, deletion,
and destruction.”  (Ticketmaster L.L.C.
v. Prestige Entertainment West, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2018) 315 F.Supp.3d 1147, 1175,
fn. 5.)  Plaintiff alleges only that Defendant
allowed Gladly to use information about her IP address, geolocation, and browser
history.  (Complaint ¶ 26.)  This does not allege a prohibited use.
Finally,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff does not allege that she was damaged.  (Demurrer at pp. 19-20.)  “[T]he owner or lessee of the computer, computer
system, computer network, computer program, or data who suffers damage or loss by
reason of a violation of any of the provisions of subdivision (c) may bring a civil
action against the violator for compensatory damages and injunctive relief or other
equitable relief.”  (Pen. Code, § 502, subd.
(e)(1).)  “[T]he CDAFA’s private right of
action contemplates some damage to the computer system, network, program, or data
contained on that computer, as opposed to data generated by a plaintiff while engaging
with a defendant’s website.”  (Heiting,
supra, 709 F.Supp.3d at p. 1021.) 
Plaintiff does not allege any harm other than Defendant allowing Gladly to
collect her data.  (Complaint ¶ 26.)
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED.
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 31st day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 