 Case Number:  24STCV11900    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PRUDENT SECURITY SOLUTIONS INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
NJB PROTECTION LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV11900
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO DISMISS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 31, 2024



 
On
May 10, 2024, Plaintiff Prudent Security Solutions Inc. filed this action against
Defendant NJB Protection LLC, and on May 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (“FAC”).
On
September 16, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to dismiss based on a forum selection
clause.
DISCUSSION
“In
California, the procedure for enforcing a forum selection clause is a motion to
stay or dismiss for forum non conveniens pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections
410.30 and 418.10.”  (Berg v. MTC Electronics
Technologies (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 349, 358 (Berg).)  “[A] motion based on a forum selection clause
is a special type of forum non conveniens motion.  The factors that apply generally to a forum non
conveniens motion do not control in a case involving a mandatory forum selection
clause.”  (Ibid.)  Instead, “the test is simply whether application
of the clause is unfair or unreasonable, and the clause is usually given effect.”  (Ibid.)
A.        Defendant Has Shown the Existence of a
Mandatory Forum Selection Clause.
On
October 20, 2022, the parties entered into a subcontract agreement.  (FAC, Ex. A.) 
The contract contains a forum selection clause: “The parties hereto hereby
consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of any state or federal court located within
the County of Westchester, State of New York and irrevocably agree that all actions
or proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the other related
documents shall be litigated in such courts. 
Each of the parties hereto accepts for itself and in connection with its
properties, generally and unconditionally, the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the
aforesaid courts and waive any defense of forum non conveniens, and irrevocably
agree to be bound by any judgment rendered thereby in connection with this Agreement.”  (FAC, Ex. A, § 8.3.)
This
clearly identifies “any state or federal court located within the County of Westchester,
State of New York” as the exclusive forum for actions arising from the contract.
B.        Plaintiff Has Not Shown That Application
of the Forum Selection Clause Would be Unfair or Unreasonable.
Plaintiff
argues that “New York is not a reasonable forum because it will not accomplish substantial
justice if the key material witnesses are unable to attend,” and this forum “is
inequitable and detrimental to the interests of all parties involved.”  (Opposition at p. 3.)
“Claims
that the previously chosen forum is unfair or inconvenient are generally rejected.  [Citation.] 
A court will usually honor a mandatory forum selection clause without extensive
analysis of factors relating to convenience. 
[Citation.]  ‘“Mere inconvenience or
additional expense is not the test of unreasonableness . . .”’ of a mandatory forum
selection clause.  [Citation.]”  (Berg, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at pp. 358-359.)
Plaintiff
has not shown that application of the forum selection clause is unfair or unreasonable.
CONCLUSION
The
motion to dismiss is GRANTED.  This action
is DISMISSED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 31st day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 