  Case Number:  23TRCV01165    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                            Wednesday, December 13, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 9  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Keep
America Safe and Beautiful, Inc. v. Memebox Corporation, et al.
23TRCV01165
1.      Keep America Safe and Beautiful, Inc.’s Motion to
Approve Settlement    
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Keep
America Safe and Beautiful, Inc.’s Motion to Approve Settlement is granted.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April 14, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Defendant manufactures, packages,
distributes, markets, and/or sells consumer products that contain DEHP. Plaintiff
seeks to cause Defendant to warn consumers in California that they are being
exposed to DEHP pursuant to Proposition 65 - Health and Safety Code § 25249.5.
Plaintiff requests an injunction and civil penalties.
 
Motion to Approve Settlement
 
CCP § 664.6 states: “If
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of
the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant
to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may
retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”
 
Health & Saf. Code, § 25249.7(f)(4) states, in
relevant part:
“If there is a settlement of an action brought by a
person in the public interest under subdivision (d), the plaintiff shall submit
the settlement, other than a voluntary dismissal in which no consideration is
received from the defendant, to the court for approval upon noticed motion, and
the court may approve the settlement only if the court makes all of the
following findings:
(A) The warning that is required by the settlement
complies with this chapter.
(B) The award of attorney's fees is reasonable under
California law.
(C) The penalty amount is reasonable based on the
criteria set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).
          Plaintiff contends that on
or about October 4, 2023, the parties finalized the terms of a settlement and
executed a proposed consent judgment which was forwarded to the attorney
general for reporting as required by the applicable statute. (Decl., Joseph R.
Manning, ¶¶ 9-10, Ex. B.) The Court finds that the warning that is required by
the settlement complies with Chapter 6.6, the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic
Enforcement Act of 1986. The Court finds that the award of attorneys’ fees of
$18,000 is reasonable and that the penalty amount of $2,000.00 is reasonable
under the criteria set forth in Section 25249.7(b)(2).
 
Thus, the Court grants the
Motion to Approve Settlement and enters judgment in accordance with terms of
the consent judgment.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.