  Case Number:  20VECV01412    Hearing Date:   October 29, 2024    Dept:  W NAVY FEDERAL CREDIT UNION vs ERIC D.
WILLIAMS, et al.
 
motion to enforce settlement
 
Date of Hearing:        October
29, 2024                                          Trial Date:       None set.  
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        20VECV01412
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Navy Federal Credit Union 
Responding Party:     No opposition.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 1, 2020, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendant Williams and Family Investment Group, Inc. and Eric
D. Williams for breach of contract and common counts. 
 
The action was dismissed June 21, 2021
pursuant to a settlement agreement. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff Navy Federal Credit Union’s
Motion to Enforce Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiff moves this court for an
order enforcing the settlement agreement entered into between Plaintiff and
Defendants Williams and Family Investment Group, Inc. and Eric D. Williams for
entry of judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 644.6. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 664.6, “if parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a
writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally
before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion,
may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.  If
requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to
enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement.” (CCP §664.6.) The 2021 Amendment to Section 664.6 now expands
the party-signature requirement to provide that the writing may also be signed
by an attorney who represents a party, or, if a party is an insurer, an agent
who is authorized in writing by the insurer to sign on the insurer’s behalf.
(CCP §664.6(b).) 
 
“ ‘A request for the trial court
to retain jurisdiction under section 664.6 “must conform to the same three
requirements which the Legislature and the courts have deemed necessary for
section 664.6 enforcement of the settlement itself: the request must be made
(1) during the pendency of the case, not after the case has been dismissed in
its entirety, (2) by the parties themselves, and (3) either in a writing signed
by the parties or orally before the
court.’  [Citation.]  The ‘request must be express,
not implied from other language, and it must be clear and unambiguous.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Mesa, 33 Cal.App.5th at p. 917.)  “ ‘[A]
request that jurisdiction be retained until the settlement has been fully
performed must be made either in a writing signed by the parties themselves, or
orally before the court by the parties themselves, not by their attorneys
of record, their spouses, or other such agents.’  [Citation.]”  (Id. at
p. 918.) 
 
Plaintiff provides the parties’
settlement agreement, which provides that Defendant agreed to pay $29,083.21 as
follows: one payment of $2,938.21 on or before January 2021 and additional
payments of $747.00 to be paid monthly thereafter until the full payment of
$29,083.21 is made. (LeRoy Decl. Exh. A.) Payments were to be paid on the 28th
of each month. (LeRoy Decl. Exh. A.) The settlement agreement contains a clause
providing “the parties hereto agree that the Court shall retain jurisdiction in
this matter pursuant to the California Code of Civil Procedure 644.6.”)
(LeRoy Decl. Exh. A, ¶5.) Plaintiff asserts Defendant made some payments toward
the settlement amount but breached the terms of the agreement by failing to
make any further payments. (LeRoy Decl. ¶12.) 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to enforce
settlement and enter judgment against Defendant is granted because Defendant
failed to perform under the settlement agreement. Additionally, the motion is
unopposed.
 
The court notes, however, the proposed
judgment fails to include the amount remaining owed. Plaintiff is to submit a
new proposed judgment with the outstanding balance owed by the date of the
hearing.  