 Case Number:  23STCV31516    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 



KEVIN HART, an
  individual; and K. HART ENTERPRISES, INC., a California corporation,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
MIESHA SHAKES, an individual; LATASHA
  TRANSRINA KEBE, an individual; KEBE STUDIOS, LLC, a Georgia limited liability
  company; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.           
                    


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV31516
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANTS YELEN ENTERTAINMENT LLC AND
  LATASHA TRANSRINA KEBE’S SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST AMENDED
  COMPLAINT 
 
Date: April 24, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept: 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
Trial: None Set



 
Moving
Parties:          Defendants Yelen
Entertainment LLC (“Yelen”) and Latasha `                                              Transrina
Kebe (“Kebe”)
Responding
Parties:    Plaintiffs Kevin Hart (“Hart”)
and K.Hart Enterprises (“KHE”)
 
The
Pleadings
On
January 2, 2024, plaintiffs Hart and KHE (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”) against defendants Miesha Shakes
(“Shakes”), Kebe, Kebe Studios, LLC, Yelen and Does 1 through 20, alleging five
causes of action for: (1) Civil Extortion, (2) Breach of Contract, (3)
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations, (4) Invasion of Privacy
(Public Disclosure of Private Facts), and (5) Defamation.  The second cause of action for breach of
contract is asserted against Shakes only.
Hart
is a well-known comedian and actor. Shakes worked as Hart’s personal assistant
for a number of years.  This case arises
out of Shakes’ participation in a broadcast interview (the “Interview”) about
her experience working for him.  The Interview,
which was conducted by Kebe and broadcast by Yelen, discusses alleged scandals
involving Hart, including the 2017 release of a sex tape with a woman other
than his wife, and lawsuits arising out of that incident (the “Las Vegas Incident”).

On
March 4, 2024, Yelen and Kebe (collectively, the “Yelen Defendants” or
“Defendants”) filed the instant motion to strike under the Anti-SLAPP law (the
“Motion”).  Plaintiffs filed their
opposition to the Motion on March 28, 2024 and the Yelen Defendants replied to
the opposition on April 4, 2024. 
Request for Judicial Notice
            Plaintiffs request judicial notice
of the following documents pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d): 
(1)  Homepage of
Defendant Latasha Kebe’s (“Kebe”) website www.tashaklive.com
(2)  Homepage of
Kebe’s YouTube Channel https://www.youtube.com/@unwinewithtashak
(3)  Homepage of
Kebe’s Facebook program: https://www.facebook.com/unwinewithtashak/
(4)  Operative
Judgment entered in the district court litigation entitled Almanzar v. Kebe,
et al. – USDC ND GA - Case No. 1:19-cv-01301-WMR
(5)  Debtor’s
Voluntary Petition in the bankruptcy case entitled In re Kebe – Case No.
0:23-BK-14082-SMG
(6)  Order re
Non-Dischargeability in bankruptcy adversary proceeding entitled Almanzar v.
Kebe – Case No. 0:23-AP-01153-SMG
(7)  Complaint
filed in district court litigation against Kebe and others entitled Kelly v.
United States, et al. – Case No. 1:23-cv-15885
(8)  Complaint
filed against Kebe in Supreme Court of State of New York, Kings County, in
action entitled Whitehead v. Kebe, et al. – Case No. 516724/2023.
Section 452(d) provides that “[j]udicial notice may be taken of . . .
records of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United
Sates or of any state of the United States.”  (Evid. Code § 452(d).)  Section 452 provides a proper basis for
judicial notice of the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth documents.  Upon taking notice of court records, the court
accepts as true only that (1) they were filed and (2) the assertions therein
were made; the court does not take notice of the truth of their contents.  (See Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage
(1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374-375; see also Day v. Sharp (1975) 50
Cal.App.3d 904, 916.)  The Court takes
judicial notice of the documents attached as Exhibits 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 in
Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice.  Section 452 does not provide a basis for
judicial notice of the three web pages corresponding to Exhibits 1, 2 and 3 of
Plaintiffs’ request.  Accordingly, the
Court denies judicial notice of the webpages.
Evidentiary Objections
Defendants’ objections to Watts
Declaration
·      
Sustained: 1, 2, 3, 5
·      
Overruled: 4
 
Defendants’ objections to Mills
Declaration
·      
Sustained: 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12
·      
Overruled: 

 
Defendants’ objections to Brown
Declaration
·      
Sustained: 13, 14, 15, 16
·      
Overruled: 

 
Defendants’ objections to Hart Declaration
·      
Sustained: 17, 18, 20, 21
·      
Overruled: 19, 22
 
Anti-SLAPP
Motion 
The Yelen Defendants seek to strike the First, Third,
Fourth and Fifth causes of action alleged against them in the FAC pursuant to
Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16.  The Yelen
Defendants bring this Special Motion to Strike on the ground that each of those
causes of action arises from activity protected by Section 425.16 and
Plaintiffs cannot establish a probability of prevailing on those causes of
action. 
a.     Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 sets forth the
procedure governing anti-SLAPP motions.  In pertinent part, the statute
states, “A cause of action against a person arising from any act of that person
in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech under the
United States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a
public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court
determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that
the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
425.16(b)(1).)  The purpose of the statute is to identify and dispose of
lawsuits brought to chill the valid exercise of a litigant’s constitutional
right of petition or free speech.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(a); Sylmar
Air Conditioning v. Pueblo Contracting Services, Inc. (2004) 122
Cal.App.4th 1049, 1055-1056.) 
Courts employ a two-step process to evaluate anti-SLAPP
motions.  (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29
Cal.4th 53, 61.)  To invoke the protections of the statute, the defendant
must first show that the challenged lawsuit arises from protected activity,
such as an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.  (Ibid.) 
From this fact, courts “‘presume the purpose of the action was to chill the
defendant’s exercise of First Amendment rights.  It is then up to the
plaintiff to rebut the presumption by showing a reasonable probability of
success on the merits.’”  (Ibid.)  In determining whether the
plaintiff has carried this burden, the trial court considers “the pleadings,
and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the
liability or defense is based.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(b)(2); see
Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291 (“Soukup”).) 
b.     Protected Activity 
As to the first prong, an anti-SLAPP motion requires the
moving party to bear the initial burden of establishing a prima facie showing
that the plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the defendant’s free speech or
petition activity.  (Wilbanks v. Wolk (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 883,
894.)        
Defendants contend that both the Interview and the
promotional video teasing the Interview’s upcoming release (the “Teaser”) (collectively,
the “Broadcasts”) are written or oral statements made in a public forum in
connection with an issue of public interest within the meaning of CCP § 425.16.
 The Broadcasts were made publicly
accessible on websites and streaming platforms, which constitute public forums.
 The subject matter qualifies as an issue
of public interest because speech about celebrities and the entertainment
industry has repeatedly been held to qualify as such.  (See, e.g., Jenni Rivera Enters. v. Latin
World Ent. Holdings (2019) 36 Cal. App. 5th 766, 796 [celebrity gossip
concerning high profile individuals constitutes a matter of public concern].) 
The Yelen Defendants assert that all of the causes of
action alleged against them arise from the Broadcasts.  The tortious interference, invasion of
privacy, and defamation claims expressly arise out of the Interview and
statements made in it.  (See FAC ¶¶ 49-51 (“Kebe published the interview” and thus
allegedly interfered with the Shakes-Hart contract); ¶¶ 53-58 (The Interview
“disclosed publicly” “purported private facts”); ¶¶ 60-61 (Shakes allegedly
made false and defamatory statements in the Interview).  Plaintiffs’ extortion claims against the Yelen
Defendants arise out of the Teaser. (FAC ¶¶ 30, 35-40.)
Plaintiffs do not dispute that the Broadcasts constitute
protected activity within the meaning of California’s Anti-SLAPP statute. 
Defendants have met
their initial burden of establishing a prima facie showing that
Plaintiffs’ causes of action alleged against Defendants arise from Defendants’
free speech activity.
c.    
Minimal Merit 
On the second component of the analysis, courts employ a
“summary-judgment-like” procedure, “accepting as true the evidence favorable to
the plaintiff and evaluating the defendant’s evidence only to determine whether
the defendant has defeated the plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law.” 
(Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein, LLP (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th
435, 444.)  In other words, the Court does not assess credibility, and the
plaintiff is not required to meet the preponderance of the evidence
standard.  The Court accepts as true the evidence favorable to the
plaintiff, who need only establish that his or her claim has “minimal merit” to
avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.  (Soukup, supra, 39 Cal.4th
at p. 291.) 
1.     Extortion
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ first cause of
action for civil extortion lacks minimal merit because California does not
recognize the existence of such a cause of action.  In opposition, Plaintiffs cite to case law that
purportedly affirms the denial of anti-SLAPP motions as to complaints bringing
civil extortion as a cause of action.  The
cases cited by Plaintiffs on this issue are not, however, on point.  In both Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39
Cal.4th 299, 306 and Mendoza
v. Hamzeh (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 799, 802, the court’s holding
was not that civil extortion is a cause of action, but rather that the
communications in question constituted criminal extortion and therefore were
not protected by the anti-SLAPP statute. In Flatley,
the communication in question was a settlement demand letter that threatened
legal action and incriminating press releases.  (Flatley, supra, at 309.)  In Mendoza, the communication in
question was a demand letter that threatened legal action against a former
employee and threatened to report alleged transgressions to enforcement
agencies.
Though not cited by Plaintiffs, the Court of Appeal of
the Third Appellate District has upheld the existence of a civil extortion
cause of action; however, in that case, Fuhrman v. California Satellite
Systems (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 408, disapproved on other grounds by Silberg
v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, the court defined civil extortion as “a
cause of action for recovery of money obtained by the wrongful threat of
criminal or civil prosecution.”  (Fuhrman,
supra, at 179 Cal.App.3d 426.) 
Here, unlike in Flatley, Mendoza and Fuhrman,
the wrongful threat in question is not one of criminal or civil prosecution.  Rather, the Yelen Defendants are only alleged
to have threatened to release a video that contains statements alleged to be
defamatory and to invade Plaintiffs’ privacy.  Plaintiffs have therefore not met their burden
of showing a reasonable probability of success on the
merits as to their civil extortion cause of action. 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion
is GRANTED as to first cause of action in the FAC for civil extortion. 
2.     Interference
with Contract
Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for intentional interference with
contractual relations lacks minimal merit on the grounds that:  (1) neither Yelen nor Kebe knew of any binding
contractual agreement between Plaintiffs and Shakes; (2) the Yelen Defendants
did not engage in any “improper’ or “wrongful” conduct; and (3) this claim is
preempted by the Uniform Trade Secrets Act.
In
opposition, Plaintiffs contend that Defendants knew about the existence of a
nondisclosure agreement (the “NDA”) between Plaintiffs and Shakes because
Shakes said so herself during the Interview. The relevant Interview segment (0:48:06-15)
corresponds to the following conversation:
Kebe:               He
didn’t put y’all on no NDAs?
Shakes:            The NDA got loopholes in it, so we
can do what we want.
Kebe:              Well,
he don’t pay you.
Shakes:            No, he don’t pay me.
Kebe:              The
NDA don’t work.
(Reply,
4:19-21.)  
Defendants
contend that this video segment in fact serves to show the opposite of what
Plaintiffs contend, i.e. that Kebe did not know that there was a binding
NDA between Plaintiffs and Shakes.  At
the anti-SLAPP stage, it is not the Court’s duty to evaluate the credibility of
evidence. The Court accepts as true the evidence
favorable to the plaintiff, who need only establish that his or her claim has
“minimal merit” to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.  (Soukup, supra,
39 Cal.4th at p. 291.)  The evidence submitted by
Plaintiffs could support an inference that Kebe knew about an NDA between
Plaintiffs and Shakes, but chose to ignore it, because “[Hart] don’t pay
[Shakes]” anymore. 
 As further evidence of
Defendants’ knowledge of the NDA, Plaintiffs submit the cease-and-desist letter
sent by Plaintiffs’ attorney, Donte Mills, to Kebe on November 22, 2023. The
letter predates the Interview’s publication by several weeks.  The letter describes an extortion attempt, and
warns Kebe that any publication related to the subject matter alluded to in the
Teaser “would constitute a violation of a non-disclosure agreement between Mr.
Hart and Ms. Shakes – that certain Mutual Release and Non-Disclosure Agreement
dated October 22, 2020 (the “NDA”), between those individuals.”  (Mills Decl., ¶ 8; Exh. A.)  Defendants argue in
reply that the letter is inconsequential because it was sent “after the alleged
breach . . . so the letter is irrelevant to what the Yelen Defendants knew at
the time.”  (Reply, 5:1-2.)  This argument holds little weight, as the FAC
clearly alleges Kebe’s publication of the interview as an element of
Plaintiffs’ interference cause of action. 
(FAC ¶ 49 [“Despite being fully aware of Plaintiffs’ contractual
relationship with Shakes under the NDA, Kebe published the Interview, after
undertaking the independently wrongful conduct of making the extortionate
threats described herein.”].)
Lastly, the Court agrees with Plaintiffs
that Defendants’ Trade Secrets Act argument is not persuasive.  Defendants contend that the information Shakes
allegedly revealed are trade secrets solely because that information was
“confidential [business] information.”  (Motion,
10:10-20.)  Such an argument would have trade secret law subsume any business
tort where confidential information is involved.  It does not. 
Civil Code § 3426.1 defines trade secret as “information [that] derives
independent economic value . . . from not being generally known to the
public”.  (Civ. Code § 3426.1(b).)  The Civil Code provides examples of such
information: “a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method,
technique, or process.”  (Id.)  Defendants contend that the information
revealed by Shakes during the Broadcasts holds economic value from not being
generally known simply because their disclosure caused damages.  (Reply, 6:3-4.)  This is a logical fallacy.  Defendants offered no cognizable argument as
to how the allegedly confidential information constitute trade secrets.
            Plaintiffs have, however, shown
minimal merit in Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for intentional interference
with contractual relations.  Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion as to this cause of action is DENIED.
3.     Invasion
of Privacy
Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for invasion of privacy claim lacks
minimal merit because: (1) KHE, as a corporation, lacks any actionable privacy
interests; (2) Hart cannot assert a right of privacy as to statements made
about unspecified family members or employees; (3) Plaintiffs do not identify
any “private facts” disclosed in the Interview; and (4) the statements about
Hart in the Interview are matters of public concern. 
Plaintiffs’
opposition appears to concede that KHE does not have actionable privacy
interests.  Defendants cite to several
cases to support the argument that corporations lack privacy rights.  (See Motion, 11:1-8.)  Accordingly, KHE’s cause of action for
invasion of privacy fails as a matter of law. 
As to Hart’s cause of action for invasion of privacy, Plaintiffs
contend that the FAC identified private facts disclosed in the Interview.  Paragraph 54 of the FAC alleges: “Some of the
matters Shakes purported to disclose would necessarily have been based on her
purported knowledge of private facts, including but not limited to statements
regarding personal relationships affecting the employment status of personnel
at Hart-affiliated companies, and interactions among Hart and his family
members.”  (FAC, ¶ 54.)  As discussed above, KHE, being a corporate
entity, may not assert an invasion of privacy claim.  Moreover, privacy rights are actionable only
by the person whose rights were invaded. 
(See, e.g., Moreno v. Hanford Sentinel (2009) 172 Cal. App. 4th
1125, 1131 [“[t]he right of privacy is purely personal” and “cannot be asserted
by anyone other than the person whose privacy has been invaded”].)  Accordingly, Plaintiffs cannot state a claim
based on the alleged disclosure of private facts about KHE employees.
Plaintiffs
also assert in their opposition that “Hart’s privacy claim is [based] on
information, inter alia, regarding private interactions between Hart and
his family.  (FAC, ¶ 54.)”  (Opp’n, 16:1-2.)  Those interactions include “Hart’s
communications with his wife after revelations regarding the Las Vegas Incident
had come to light.”  (Opp’n, 15:23-24.)  Unlike the Las Vegas Incident itself,
Plaintiffs contend, Hart’s discussions about the Incident with his wife were
never public.  Defendants contend in reply
that Hart cannot survive this Motion by asserting “new, un-pleaded
theories.”  (Reply, 6:20.)  While it is true that Hart provided more
details as to the communications at issue for this cause of action in the opposition
papers, Hart had properly pleaded that Shakes disclosed private facts,
including “interactions among Hart and his family members.”  (FAC, ¶ 54.) 
There is no requirement to plead an invasion of privacy claim
specifically, as there is, for example, with fraud pleading.  
Plaintiffs
have shown that Hart’s invasion of privacy claim has minimal merit, although
KHE’s invasion of privacy claim does not. 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Anti-SLAPP Motion as to the fourth cause of
action for invasion of privacy is DENIED as to Hart and GRANTED as to KHE.
4.     Defamation
 Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action
for defamation lacks minimal merit on the grounds that: (1) Plaintiffs have not
identified any statements that concern KHE; (2) Plaintiffs have not identified
the specific, allegedly defamatory statements at issue in this cause of action;
(3) Plaintiffs cannot prove that any statement about Hart made in the Interview
is demonstrably false; (4) the claim is barred by the “fair and true report”
privilege of Civil Code § 47(d); (5) Plaintiffs cannot prove that Defendants
acted with actual malice; and (6) Plaintiffs did not plead and cannot prove
special damages as required by Civil Code § 48a. 
Plaintiffs’
opposition appears to concede that no defamatory statements were made as to
KHE.  Accordingly, KHE’s cause of action
for defamation fails as a matter of law. 
As to Hart’s cause of action for defamation, the FAC specifically
alleges that in the Interview, Shakes falsely stated that “Hart purportedly
recorded a video of a sexual encounter and faced criminal charges regarding
that supposed incident,” with reference to the Las Vegas Incident. (FAC, ¶ 61.)  Plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded the
defamatory statements at issue in this cause of action. 
Moreover, Plaintiffs’ claim that those statements are untrue has, at
the very least, minimal merit.  Shakes
and Kebe’s use of the word “charges”, in context and based on the common usage
of the word, could lead a reasonable observer to conclude that Hart faced
criminal prosecution.  Defendants do not
dispute that Hart never faced criminal charges in connection with the Las Vegas
Incident.  To the extent that Shakes was
referring to civil “charges” (which is not the common usage of the term), that
statement also would have been untrue, because Ms. Sabbag’s civil suit against
Hart regarding the Las Vegas Incident had been dismissed months earlier in June
2023.  (Cate Decl., ¶ 9.)  Further, Shakes cannot escape liability by alleging,
after the fact, that her statement that Hart himself filmed the Las Vegas Incident,
was merely an opinion, when the Interview is premised on the fact that Shakes
is an insider with intimate knowledge of the issues being
discussed.  (See, e.g., Mamou v.
Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686, 728 [statements “could
be found to convey an actual imputation of fact if they implied the speaker’s
possession of undisclosed supporting facts”]; Overstock.com, Inc. v.
Gradient Analytics, Inc. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 688, 706 [defamation
liability where speaker “holds itself out to its subscribers as having
specialized knowledge”].)
Defendants’
argument based on the fair and true report privilege also fails because there
is no showing that Kebe’s platforms constitute a public journal within the
meaning of Civil Code § 47(d).
Defendants’
argument based on Civil Code § 48a also fails because Defendants have not shown
that Kebe’s videos are “weekly news publications” within the meaning of section
48a. (See, e.g., Burnett v. National Enquirer, Inc. (1983) 144
Cal.App.3d 991 [holding that a newspaper that publishes “how to” stories,
celebrity stories, gossip items and TV column items was not protected by Civil
Code § 48a.].)
Plaintiffs concede that Hart, a public figure, must prove actual
malice to prevail on a defamation claim. 
Actual malice was specifically pleaded in the FAC.  (FAC, ¶ 66.) 
Plaintiffs contend that, to show malice, they may rely on inferences
drawn from circumstantial evidence, including “reliance upon sources . . .
known to be biased against the plaintiff.” 
(Christian Research Institute v. Alnor (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 71,
85.)  During the Interview, Shakes
alluded to negative aspects of her relationship with Hart, stating that she had
“been beaten down emotionally for a long time” working with Hart (Interview, at
3:58), and that, despite Hart’s purported wealth, “[she] can’t get a raise!” (Id.,
at 51:42, 55:58-56:06.)  Perhaps more
importantly, Plaintiffs point to Defendants’ extortion attempt as evidence of
malice.  Although several of Defendants’
evidentiary objections concerning the alleged extortion attempt were sustained,
the record still contains admissible evidence of extortion.  (See, e.g., Mills Declaration, Ex. A [“As you
are no doubt aware, recently, someone on Mr. Hart’s team was contacted by an
unknown individual who indicated that he was affiliated with you [Kebe] and/or
your blog(s). This individual working at your direction stated that you would
publish a story on social media (the “Story”) that you contend would be
damaging to Mr. Hart’s reputation, unless Mr. Hart pays $250,000.”].) 
Plaintiffs
have shown that Hart’s defamation claim has minimal merit.  Accordingly, Defendants’ Anti-SLAPP Motion is
DENIED as to Hart’s defamation claim as alleged in the fifth cause of action of
the FAC, and GRANTED as to KHE’s defamation claim.
Conclusion
Defendants Kebe and
Yelen’s special motion to strike is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
The motion is
GRANTED as to: (1) Hart and KHE’s first cause of action for civil extortion;
(2) KHE’s fourth cause of action for invasion of privacy; and (3) KHE’s fifth
cause of action for defamation.
The motion is DENIED
as to: (1) the FAC’s second cause of action for intentional interference with
contract; (2) Hart’s fourth cause of action for invasion of privacy; and (3)
Hart’s fifth cause of action for defamation.
Moving Parties are ordered to give
notice of this ruling.





 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
          
Dated this 24th day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



