 Case Number:  23STCV09293    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant Second Home US, Inc.’s Motion
for Consolidation
Defendant Second Home US, Inc. moves
to consolidate this action with St. Andrews Second Home LLC v. Second Home
US Inc., et al., case No. 23STCV21223. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1048(a) provides, “When actions
involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may
order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the
actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders
concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.”  
This action alleges breach of lease
by the lessee of commercial property in Hollywood.  The latter action is an unlawful detainer proceeding
concerning the same property.  Though
they have overlapping issues, the primary issue in the unlawful detainer action
is possession of the premises.  (Harris
v. Bissell (1921) 54 Cal.App. 307, 313.) 
“The denial of certain procedural rights which are enjoyed by litigants
in ordinary actions is deemed necessary in order to prevent frustration of the
summary proceedings by the introduction of delays and extraneous issues.”  (Vasey v. California Dance Co. (1977)
70 Cal.App.3d 742, 747.)  Consolidating
the cases would frustrate the summary proceeding under which plaintiff seeks to
regain possession of the property.
Defendant relies on cases regarding
consolidation of an unlawful detainer action with an unlimited civil action that
includes the issue of title to the property. 
(See, e.g., Martin-Bragg v. Moore (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 367, 385
[“When an unlawful detainer proceeding and an unlimited action concerning title
to the property are simultaneously pending, the trial court in which the
unlimited action is pending may stay the unlawful detainer action until the
issue of title is resolved in the unlimited action, or it may consolidate the
actions”].)  Title to the property is not
at issue in this civil action.  Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges only breach of contract. 
Second Home US, Inc.’s cross-complaint alleges breach of contract and
fraud.  
Moreover, the court has already
declined to find these cases related.  Local
Rule 3.3(g)(1) provides, “Cases may not be consolidated unless they are in the
same department.  A motion to consolidate
two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in
different departments, have been related into a single department, or if the
cases were already assigned to that department.”  These actions are not in the same
department.  The court therefore cannot
consolidate them.
Defendant Second Home US, Inc.’s
motion to consolidate is denied.