  Case Number:  23STCV01875    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant Armando J. Berriz’s Motion
to Compel Production of Documents at Deposition
Defendant Armando J. Berriz moves to compel
production of documents requested at the deposition of Jacob Emrani.  If a deponent “without having served a valid
objection under Section 2025.410, fails … to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (CCP § 2025.450(a).)
After defendant filed this motion, plaintiff The Law
Offices of Jacob Emrani produced the requested documents.  Berriz still seeks $3,085 in monetary
sanctions against plaintiff.  “The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed.”  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
Meet and Confer
            Plaintiff
The Law Offices
of Jacob Emrani argues Berriz did not adequately meet and confer before filing
this motion.  Before moving to compel further
discovery responses, a party must make a “reasonable and good faith attempt at
an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2016.040.)  “The level of
effort at informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith
attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances.”  (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
Berriz
made an adequate attempt to informally resolve this dispute.  At Emrani’s deposition on July 11, 2023, he
testified that his firm’s claim management system may have notes relevant to
the subject of this lawsuit.  (Suarez
Decl., Ex. C, Emrani Depo., 57:16-22.)  On
the record, Berriz’s counsel and Emrani’s counsel discussed their positions on
whether those notes should have been produced. 
(Id., 57:23-60:5.)  Both
Emrani and his counsel stated they would produce the records.  (Id., 59:19-60:1.)  
On
July 21, Berriz’s counsel sent an email stating, “As a follow-up to my earlier
email, I have not seen any response from you regarding your document
production. Mr. Emrani testified that he did not search for any documents and
identified documents regarding Karen Edmonson that were not produced.”  (Suarez Decl., Ex. A, p. 4.)  The email thread includes no response about
the documents until after Berriz filed this motion on August 15.  (Id. pp. 1-3.)  Berriz made a sufficient effort to informally
resolve this dispute.  Filing the motion
on August 15 was not premature.  
Document
Requests
Plaintiff argues these documents do not respond to
any of the categories of documents requested in the notice of Emrani’s
deposition.  The notice of deposition
includes request No. 2: “All DOCUMENTS which RELATE TO Karen Edmonson” and No.
3 “All DOCUMENTS which RELATE TO any and all services performed my YOU for
Karen Edmonson.”  Claim management system
notes about plaintiff’s representation of Karen Edmonson fall within both these
categories.  
Sanctions
            The court will impose $3,085 in
sanctions against plaintiff The Law Offices of Jacob Emrani, APC and
plaintiff’s counsel Rodrigo Suarez.  “If
a motion” to compel deposition or production of requested documents “is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction … in favor of the party who
noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(CCP § 2025.450(g)(1).)  Plaintiff
and its counsel did not act with substantial justification.  Sanctions are just under the circumstances.
Disposition
            Defendant Armando J. Berriz’s motion to compel production of documents
requested at deposition is moot as to an order compelling production.  Defendant Armando J. Berriz’s motion is granted as to monetary sanctions. 
Plaintiff The Law Offices of Jacob Emrani, APC, and plaintiff’s counsel
Rodrigo Suarez are ordered to pay defendant Armando J. Berriz $3,085 in
sanctions within 20 days.  Plaintiff and
counsel Suarez are jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.