  Case Number:  22STCV35324    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JANE DOE C.J. 
 
        
  vs.
 
DOE #1, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV35324 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: June 28, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion for leave to compel Plaintiff to submit to a psychological examination
is GRANTED, subject to the conditions set forth below.
 
On 11/4/2022,
Plaintiff Jane Doe C.J. filed suit against Doe #1 (a public entity) and Doe #2
alleging personal injuries and damages from childhood sexual abuse. 
 
           Now,
Defendant seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to submit to a psychological
examination. 
 
Discussion 
 
           Defendant
seeks to compel Plaintiff to submit to an examination by Dr. Ted D. Evans, PhD.

 
           In
opposition, Plaintiff agrees to submit to a psychological examination, but asks
for the following limitations: (1) that the mental examination limit intrusions
into her medical history; and (2) that the examination be conducted at a
mutually agreed upon location within the 75-mile parameters set by the Code of
Civil Procedure.   
 
           As
for the first request, Plaintiff does not identify any areas of the proposed
examination that she wishes to limit but rather broadly argues to the extent
Defendant “seeks to inquire into such private affairs, that inquiry should be
circumscribed and limited.” (Opp., 4: 10-11.) Defendant is already limited by
the Discovery Act only to conduct discovery into relevant areas of discovery.
Plaintiff has not identified any areas from which the order should be
additionally narrowed. 
 
           As
to the second request, this request is granted. Within 10 days of entry of this
order, Plaintiff is to provide a list of three available dates at a proposed
location within 75 miles of her location.
 
           Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for leave to compel Plaintiff to submit to
a psychological examination is granted, subject to the conditions set forth
above. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                       
                   
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 