 Case Number:  23STCV30116    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MICHAEL DEEMING 
  
        
  vs.
 
AIDS HEALTHCARE FOUNDATION, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV30116    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 28, 2024




 
           Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.
 
           On
12/8/2023, Plaintiff Michael Deeming filed suit against AIDS Healthcare
Foundation and Golden Hills Towers, LLC. On 4/23/2024, Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint (FAC) against the same parties, alleging: (1) negligence; (2)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; (3) breach of the implied
warranty of habitability; (4) tortious breach of the warranty of habitability;
(5) private nuisance; (6) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (7) violation
of Civil Code section 1942.4; and (9) violation of the UCL.
 
           Now,
Defendant AIDs Healthcare Foundation (AHF or Defendant) demurs to Plaintiff’s
second, third, and fifth causes of action. Defendant also moves to strike
portions of Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
Factual Background
 
Plaintiff
brings this action against his current landlord (AHF) and former landlord
(Golden Hill Towers LLC). 
 
Discussion 
 
           Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs claims are insufficiently pled. 
 
           As
to the second cause of action, the elements of a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED) are “(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff
suffered severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant’s extreme and outrageous
conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the severe emotional distress.” (Crouch
v. Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 994,
1007).
 
           In
the previous round of demurrer, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to
this claim writing: 
 
Thus, while
conclusory allegations of a failure to repair will not establish extreme and
outrageous conduct, specific allegations that the landlord knowingly allowed
uninhabitable conditions to continue will suffice under certain circumstances.
However, similar facts are not alleged here. For instance, in the complaint,
Plaintiff alleges “At all relevant times, Defendants had actual and/or
constructive notice of the following defects yet failed to take timely or
reasonable steps to abate and/or remedy the defects” which is specific as to
how Defendants knew about the issues. (Complaint ¶ 23.) Further in Newby, the
court of found there was outrageous behavior when “the evidence showed that
after the plaintiff tenant organized opposition to rent increases, the landlord
shouted at the tenant and insulted her, directed her to vacate the premises.
The plaintiff was also told if she did not leave ‘. . . [w]e [will] handle this
the way we do down South.’ ” (Id. at 921-922.) Again, here, Plaintiff
was not threatened with bodily harm.
 
           (4/3/2024
Minute Order.) 
 
           Now,
Plaintiff’s FAC includes allegations such as:
 
-       
The Property was inspected by the Los
Angeles Department of Public Health (“LACDPH”) on February 12, 2019, and again
in October 12, 2021, during AFH’s ownership and/or control and various
violations were found including, but not limited to, cockroaches, torn carpet,
trash/debris accumulation, holes in ceiling and walls and more. The LACDPH
provided actual notice to Defendants of these various public health violations.
Plaintiffs were on actual notice of their duty and obligation as landlord and
their responsibility to provide habitable housing for its tenants yet knowingly
allowed the uninhabitable conditions to continue harming their tenants and
Plaintiff thereby. (FAC ¶ 30.)
 
-       
On at least one occasion, in 2023,
Plaintiff provided AFH’s agents and/or employee, Ebony [last name unknown], a
signed letter where Plaintiff described the “black mold” that persisted for
over a year, how the black mold was simply “painted over” three times in the
course of nine months, and how it took three months for the mold to “start
showing up again.” This letter also states that Apt. 510 lack adequate
weatherproofing as the “plastic window” does not retain heat in the winter,
defective locking mechanism on Plaintiff’s door which he was told twice would
be repaired but never was and Plaintiff had to pay and replace the lock
himself, the bathroom light fixture was defective, inadequate water
temperature, deteriorating carpeting, peeling paint, and the lack of addressing
these issues over the years. (FAC ¶ 31.) 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff has now alleged specific facts which could show that Defendant knew
about uninhabitable conditions and the harm it was causing, and failed to take
steps to abate the issues. 
 
Accepted as
true at the pleading stage, these allegations are sufficient to state a claim
for IIED. 
 
As for the
third cause of action, to state a claim for the breach of implied warranty of
habitability, plaintiff must show “the existence of a material defective
condition affecting the premises' habitability, notice to the landlord of the
condition within a reasonable time after the tenant's discovery of the
condition, the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency,
and resulting damages.” (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)
 
Here, just as
above, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to this claim, on the grounds
that “[t]he allegations contain conclusory statements that do not present
sufficient specific information regarding the defects, when and how they were
reported to Defendants, and whether Defendants had an opportunity to remedy
these conditions.” (4/3/24 Minute Order.) Now, as set forth above, Plaintiff
has alleged specific facts to show that he put Defendant on notice as to the
defects and they were not remedied in a reasonable time. (FAC ¶ 31.) Moreover,
Plaintiff now alleges that Defendant failed to respond remedy conditions that
were identified by the Los Angeles Department of Public Health (LACDPH) during
inspections on 2/12/19 and 10/12/21. (FAC ¶ 30.) Accepted as true at the
pleading stage, these allegations are sufficient to state a claim for breach of
the warranty of habitability. 
 
As for the
fifth cause of action, Defendant argues that this claim is redundant because
the “new allegations were incorporated into both the negligence and nuisance
claims making them duplicative of each other by relying on the same set of
facts.” (Demurrer, 2: 11-13.) However, this argument is not supported by any
additional analysis beyond this assertion, nor is it accompanied by legal
authority. (“This failure to cite pertinent legal authority is enough reason to
reject the argument”); Akins v. State of California (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1, 50, 71 (contention waived by failure to cite legal authority).
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
           Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for punitive damages. However, as
set forth above, the Court overruled Defendant’s demurrer. Accordingly,
Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts that could show Defendant engaged in “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
 
           Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion to strike is denied.    
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  June   
, 2024
                                                                                                                       
                   
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 