 Case Number:  23TRCV00445    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 November 12, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00445
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Gabriella Morgan v. American Honda Motor
Co., Inc., et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Gabriella Morgan
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       May
5, 2025
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED.
 
 
             
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On
February 15, 2023, Plaintiff, Gabriella Morgan (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc., and DOES 1 through 10. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act –
Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. Plaintiff’s
suit alleges that Honda’s collision mitigation system contains a defect covered
by the express new motor vehicle warranty that was not repaired even after
three specific repair attempts alleged in the Complaint.  Plaintiff does not allege that the facts give
rise to the so-called Lemon Presumption because the allegations of the Complaint
do not assert that the three repair visits occurred within the first 18 months
or 18,000 miles, nor does the Complaint allege the before filing suit Plaintiff
notified Honda itself in writing of the failure to repair what she calls a
Sensing Defect.  But in a suit filed before
January 1, 2025, a plaintiff need not allege pre-suit notification if she is
not relying on the Lemon Presumption.  
 
With
the case having progressed in discovery and trial approaching next year, Plaintiff
has filed a Motion for Summary Adjudication to seek to eliminate Honda’s
asserted defenses to one of the Song-Beverly Act’s two alternative species of
civil penalties.  The MSA is made on the
following grounds: (1) Plaintiff is entitled to summary adjudication as to
Defendant’s Fifth Affirmative Defense, because defendant does not have a
qualified third-party dispute resolution process; (2) Plaintiff is entitled to
summary adjudication as to Defendant’s Eighth Affirmative Defense, because
defendant does not have a qualified third-party dispute resolution process; and
(3) Plaintiff is entitled to summary adjudication as to Defendant’s Eighth
Affirmative Defense because willful civil penalties are not barred by the
existence of a qualified third-party dispute resolution process.
 
B.   
Procedural 
 
On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion for Summary
Adjudication. On October 29, 2024, American Honda Motors Co., Inc. (“AHM”)
filed an opposition brief. To date, no reply brief has been filed. 
 
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
            Filed concurrently with the opposition papers, AHM also
filed a request for judicial notice, seeking this Court judicially notice the
following: 
 
1.    
The National Center for Dispute Settlement’s
Automotive Warranty Disputes FAQs, located at https://www.ncdsusa.org/consumers/automotive-warranty-disputes/auto-faq.html
[last accessed, October 29, 2024], a print out of which is attached at Exhibit
C to the Declaration of Christian P. Foote in support of AHM’s Opposition to
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication.
 
The Court GRANTS this request
and takes judicial notice of the above pursuant to Evidence Code section 452.       
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
 
Once the moving party, here the Plaintiff,
has met its initial burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party, here the Defendant,
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
 
B.   
Discussion

Here, Plaintiff seeks summary
adjudication on AHM’s fifth and eighth affirmative defenses, which invoke
protections against the potential award of a non-willful civil penalty based on
AHM’s third-party dispute resolution process. 
These defenses are asserted pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act, Civil Code section 1793.22 and 1794, subdivision (e). Plaintiff argues
that AHM failed to maintain a “qualified third-party dispute resolution process.”
As such, Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to AHM’s fifth and eighth
affirmative defense as Plaintiff argues they have no merit because AHM does not
maintain a qualified third-party dispute resolution process.   AHM is one of only a handful of manufacturers
doing business in the lucrative California new motor vehicle market to have
elected not to maintain a California-certified Lemon Arbitration program.  Accordingly, the issue of a non-willful civil
penalty rarely arises in a Song-Beverly Act case because the overwhelming
majority of manufacturers have chosen to certify and thereby immunize themselves
from the secondary species of civil penalty available under Song-Beverly’s subdivision 1794 subdivision (e).  “Subdivision (e) of section 1794, which
pertains only to suits involving violations of the “replacement or
reimbursement” provisions for new motor vehicles . . . , also gives the
trier of fact discretion to award civil penalties of up to two times the amount
of the plaintiff's damages.”  (Suman
v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1309, 1315.)  “The overall thrust of subdivision (e) is the
Legislature's preference for using alternative forms of dispute resolution when
a new motor vehicle buyer has repeated difficulties getting his or her
nonconforming vehicle repaired properly. The intent of the Legislature
vis-à-vis subdivision (e) is encouragement of both the new motor vehicle
manufacturer and the new motor vehicle buyer to work out their problems without
resort to court intervention.”  (Suman,
supra, 39 Cal.App.4th at p. 1318.) 
But the Legislature did not require the alternative form of dispute
resolution to be CERTIFIED by the State; rather, it only required that the program
“substantially comply” with Section 1793.22's formula for a qualified
third-party dispute resolution process. 
(Id.)  The Second District
indicated that on instructing the jury as to the potential award of a
non-willful civil penalty, they “may take into consideration the nature of the
defendant's conduct, including the extent to which the defendant did or did not
act reasonably or in good faith, in (1) failing to honor plaintiff's demand for
replacement of the defective vehicle or restitution, and (2) failing to
establish a third party dispute resolution process which could have resolved
this matter without litigation.”  (Suman,
supra, at p. 1323.)  Under Suman,
a defendant in a Lemon Law case may still defend against a non-willful civil penalty
even if it has no Lemon Arbitration program, if it has a good faith basis for
failing to establish a qualified program. 
Thus, in the Court’s view, the issue of whether Honda’s national program
is not California-certified would not preclude Honda from raising a good faith
defense to a non-willful civil penalty. 
Plaintiff’s motion does not address this issue.
Plaintiff’s evidence supporting its
MSA here establishes the undisputed fact that Honda does not have a program
certified by the California Department of Consumer Affairs, and Honda does not
quarrel with that proposition. Plaintiff’s evidence also establishes that the
only state agency with authority to certify a manufacturer’s program is the California
Department of Consumer Affairs.  AHM’s evidence establishes that it has a Lemon
Arbitration program called NCDS, the National Center for Dispute
Settlement.  AHM’s evidence also
establishes that AHM identifies that program in its warranty booklet, and that
the parameters of the NCDS appear to contain at least some of the elements required
by the Legislature in Section 1793.22.  A
qualified third-party dispute resolution process is one that meets the nine parameters
listed under Civ. Code, § 1793.22, subdivision (d).  One of those parameters, contained in
subdivision (d)(9), is that the Lemon Arbitration program “Obtains and
maintains certification by the Department of Consumer Affairs.”  Plaintiff’s evidence shows that Honda’s NCDS
program does not meet this 9th parameter, but does not speak to the
other 8 parameters.  There is a triable
issue of fact as to whether the NCDS program meets all of the other 8 parameters
of Section 1793.22, at least on the record presented here.  Neither side addresses the other 8 parameters
in its evidence supporting or opposing this MSA, but it is Plaintiff who
carries the initial burden of proof on a dispositive motion.  
Civil Code section 1794,
subdivision (e)(2) does not mandate that a manufacturer’s Lemon Arbitration
program contain all 9 of the listed parameters to substantially comply with the
Tanner Consumer Protection Act, Section 1793.22, subdivision (d).  The Legislature’s use of the term “substantially
complies” implies that less than 100% of the nine listed requirements for
certification need not be met under Civil Code 1794. Plaintiff has not carried
it burden of proof on this motion to show that Honda’s national Lemon
Arbitration program as a matter of law does not substantially comply, i.e., by
proof that that more than half of those requirements are unmet by AHM’s
program.  Second, pursuant to the recent
Court of Appeal decision in Valdvinos v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2024)
104 Cal.App.5th 732, the Fourth District rejected the definition of willful
adopted by some California courts which define “willful” as “intentional”
because such a definition “would entitle a consumer to a civil penalty whenever
a manufacturer’s noncompliance with the Act is merely nonaccidental. Because
the decision whether to replace or repurchase a vehicle is necessarily
intentional, this standard would make the Act’s civil penalty available
whenever the Act is simply violated. This would obliterate the two tiers of
penalties under the Act, and eliminate the punitive purpose of the civil
penalty.”  (Valdovinos v. Kia Motors
America, Inc. (2024) 104 Cal.App.5th 732, 762.) 
Plaintiff may pursue a willful
civil penalty pursuant to Section 1794(c) in this matter regardless of Honda’s
national Lemon Arbitration program because the existence of a
substantially-compliant program is not a defense to a willful violation.  The Section 1794(e)(2) defense only applies
to a non-willful civil penalty as the literal language of the statutory defense
pertains only to the penalty sought “pursuant to this subdivision,” i.e., subdivision (e) of Civil Code
section 1794.  A willful civil penalty
may be sought pursuant to subdivision (c) regardless of whether a manufacturer
has a qualifying or a certified Lemon Arbitration program. (Suman v. BMW of
North America, Inc. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1, 11.)
 
IV.
CONCLUSION
 
            Based on the foregoing, this Court
finds Plaintiff has failed to carry her initial burden on a motion for summary adjudication.
Her Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.  AHM is ordered to provide notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 