 Case Number:  23TRCV01230    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 November 12, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01230   CASE NAME:                        Cayden Byrd, by and through his Guardian ad  Litem, Nicole Jackson v. Centinela Hospital Medical Center, et al.               MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Cayden Byrd, by and through  his Guardian ad Litem, Nicole Jackson   RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,  County of Los Angeles   TRIAL DATE:                         May 12, 2025  MOTION:                              (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for  Leave to File First Amended Complaint and file Late Government Claim.    Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.   I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual    On April 20, 2023, Plaintiff, Cayden  Byrd, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Nicole Jackson (“Plaintiff”) filed  a complaint against Defendants, Centinela Hospital Medical Center, Stanton P.  Jasicki, D.O., Steven L. Scott, P.A., LaLa Park, M.D., and DOES 1 through 100.  The complaint alleges one cause of action for  Medical Malpractice/Negligence.    Now, Plaintiff moves on a Motion for  Leave to File a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).   B. Procedural    On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a  Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint. On October 2, 2024, Defendant  filed an opposition brief. On November 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief.    II. ANALYSIS    A.    Legal Standard    “Except as provided in Section 946.4 and  946.6, no suit for money or damages may be brought against a public entity on a  cause of action for which a claim is required to be presented in accordance  with Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with  Section 910) or Part 3 of this division until a written claim therefore has  been presented to the public entity and has been acted upon by the board, or  has been deemed to have been rejected by the board, in accordance with Chapters  1 and 2 of Part 3 of this division.”  (Gov. Code, § 945.4.)   “A  claim relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to  personal property or growing crops shall be presented as provided in Article 2  (commending with Section 915) not later than six months after the accrual of  the cause of action. . . . (Gov. Code, § 911.2, subd. (a).)      “When a claim that is required by Section  911.2 to be presented not later than six months after the accrual of the cause  of action is not presented within that time, a written application may be made  to the public entity for leave to present that claim.”  (Gov. Code, §  911.4, subd. (a).)  “The application shall be presented to the public  entity as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) within a  reasonable time not to exceed one year after the accrual of the cause of action  and shall state the reason for delay in presenting the claim.  The  proposed claim shall be attached to the application.”  (Gov. Code, §  911.4, subd. (b).)      “The board shall grant or deny the  application within 45 days after it is presented to the board.”  (Gov.  Code, § 911.6, subd. (a).)  “The board shall grant the application where  one or more of the following is applicable: (1) The failure to present the  claim was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect and the  public entity was not prejudiced in its defense of the claim by the failure to  present the claim within the time specified in Section 911.2.  [¶] (2) The  person who sustained the alleged injury, damage or loss was a minor during all  of the time specified in Section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim.   [¶] (3) The person who sustained the alleged injury, damage or loss was  physically or mentally incapacitated during all of the time specified in  Section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim and by reason of such  disability failed to present a claim during such time.  [¶] (4) The person  who sustained the alleged injury, damage or loss died before the expiration of the  time specified in Section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim.”  (Gov.  Code, § 911.6, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)    “If an application for leave to present a  claim is denied or deemed to be denied pursuant to Section 911.6, a petition  may be made to the court for an order relieving the petitioner from Section  945.4.”  (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (a).)  “The petition shall be  filed within six months after the application to the board is denied or deemed  to be denied pursuant to Section 911.6.”  (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd.  (b).)  “This petition shall show each of the following: (1) The  application was made to the board under Section 911.4 and was denied or deemed  denied.  (2) The reason for failure to present the claim within the time  limit specified in Section 911.2.  (3) The information required by Section  910.”  (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (b)(1)-(3).)      “The court shall relieve the petitioner  from the requirements of Section 945.5 if the court finds that the application  to the board under Section 911.4 was made within a reasonable time not to  exceed that specified in subdivision (b) of Section 911.4 and was denied or  deemed denied pursuant to Section 911.6 and that one or more of the following  is applicable: (1) The failure to present the claim was through mistake,  inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect unless the public entity  establishes that it would be prejudiced in the defense of the claim if the  court relieves the petitioner from the requirements of Section 945.4.”   (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (c)(1).)  “The court shall make an independent  determination upon the petition.  The determination shall be made upon the  basis of the petition, any affidavits in support of or in opposition to the  petition, and any additional evidence received at the hearing on the  petition.”  (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (e).)  “If the court makes an  order relieving the petitioner from Section 945.5, suit on the cause of action  to which the claim relates shall be filed with the court within 30 days  thereafter.”  (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (f).)      B.     Discussion                Plaintiff seeks leave to file his  FAC and file a late-claim pursuant to Government Code section 946.6 on the  grounds that he states his cause of action for medical negligence against the  County of Los Angeles did not accrue until Plaintiff discovered, or had reason  to discovery, the factual bases for a cause of action against it which occurred  in or around the Spring of 2024. Plaintiff, a minor, filed a claim with the  County of Los Angeles which was also filed in the alternative as a “late”  claim. The application was denied by the third-party administrator for the  County of Los Angeles (Sedgwick) and Plaintiff was directed to file the instant  motion for relief.                The County of Los Angeles argues  that this court should deny the motion on the grounds that Plaintiff has not  established proper service under the requirements of Government Code section  946.6, subdivision (d). For example, County states neither the notice of  hearing nor the petition illustrate that either document has been served on the  clerk, secretary, or Board of Supervisors of the County of Los Angeles. Second,  County of Los Angeles also argues this court should deny the motion on the  grounds that Plaintiff has the burden of establishing entitlement to late-claim  relief by preponderance of the evidence, and that the inadmissible hearsay  statements and improper legal conclusions set forth in the Declaration of  Eduardo J. Ascencio in support of Plaintiff’s Motion must be disregarded.  Similarly, County argues that Declaration of Nicole Jackson also fails to stand  as supporting evidence. Instead, County states Plaintiff’s mother, Nicole  Jackson should have suspected her son’s injures were caused by “someone doing  something wrong” in January 2022. The court disagrees.                The declarations submitted on behalf  of Plaintiff provide more than mere conclusions that Nicole Jackson did not  know of any wrongdoing on behalf of County prior to Spring of 2024 as no expert  was directed to examine the conduct of County’s physicians earlier than this  time. Certainly, at the pleading stage, this is enough. Whether Plaintiff can  prove the claims alleged in the proposed FAC is a question for a later motion  or trial. However, the court finds good cause to GRANT this motion.     III. CONCLUSION    For  the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion is GRANTED.                Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.  