  Case Number:  21STCV07431    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Wallach, et
al., v. Providence Health System-So. Cal., et al.
CASE NO.:                21STCV07431
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
HEARING DATE:   4/9/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
            A party may move for summary
judgment in any action or proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit
or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The
purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to
cut through the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that
one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.” (CCP, § 437c(f)(1).) If a party seeks summary
adjudication as an alternative to a request for summary judgment, the request
must be clearly made in the notice of the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior
Court (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542, 1544.)  “[A] party may move for
summary adjudication of a legal issue or a claim for damages other than
punitive damages that does not completely dispose of a cause of action,
affirmative defense, or issue of duty pursuant to” subdivision (t).
(CCP, § 437c(t).) 
 
            To
prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law. (CCP, § 437c(c).) The motion cannot succeed unless the
evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts; the
court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when a material fact is the witness’s state of
mind and “that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s]
affirmation thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).) 
 
            Once
the moving party has met their burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
“to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(1).) “[T]here is no obligation on the opposing party... to establish
anything by affidavit unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated
facts establishing every element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his
favor.” (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 468.) 
 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary
judgment motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment
is to delimit the scope of the issues and to frame the outer measure
of materiality in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity
National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations
and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the burden of a defendant moving for
summary judgment only requires that he or she negate plaintiff's theories of
liability as alleged in the complaint; that is, a moving party need
not refute liability on some theoretical possibility not included in the
pleadings.” (Ibid.) 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Khalil Tabsh MD moves for
summary judgment and summary adjudication of the wrongful death and survival causes
of action of Plaintiffs David Wallach, Time Wallach, and the estate of
Elizabeth Wallach. Plaintiffs filed a notice of non-opposition. 
 
To allege a cause of action for wrongful death, a
plaintiff must allege: 1) a wrongful act or neglect on the part of one or more
persons; 2) causing the death of another. (Norgart v. Upjohn Co. (1999)
21 Cal.4th 383, 404.) To establish the “wrongful act or neglect” element, a
plaintiff must rely on an independent legal theory of liability, such as
negligence. (Id. at 390; see also CCP §377.30 [re: survival
cause of action].)
 
A healthcare provider is negligent
if he fails to use the level of skill, knowledge, and care in diagnosis and
treatment that other reasonably careful healthcare providers of the same type
would use in the same or similar circumstances. (Landeros v. Flood
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 408.) As the practice of medicine is not within the
common knowledge of lay persons, expert opinion testimony is necessary to
establish the standard of care. (Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 836, 844.) “When a defendant moves for summary judgment and
supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the
community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.” (Munro v. Regents
of University of California (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 984-985, citations
omitted.) An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to
the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the particular conduct of
the health care provider. (Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 988,
999.)
 
Defendant’s expert testimony
sufficiently demonstrates that he met the standard of care throughout the
course of treatment. Defendant initially saw Decedent on August 27, 2019, when
she was 32 years old and approximately 11 weeks pregnant. (UMF 1.) Defendant
considered Decedent’s pregnancy to be high risk because she had Lynch syndrome
(hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer), fibroids, low PAPP-A, equivocal
varicella immunity results, and pregnancy resulting from in vitro fertilization.
(Id.) That said, none of those factors would lead to a higher-than-normal risk
of developing Deep Venous Thrombosis (“DVT”). (Id.) Further, Decedent had no
reported history of blood clots. (Id.) During each of Decedent’s visits with Defendant,
she reported no unusual complaints, but just general pregnancy discomfort
toward the end of her pregnancy. (UMF 2.)
 
On February 24, 2020, Defendant suggested,
and Decedent agreed, that due to the high-risk nature of her pregnancy,
primarily uterine fibroids, she would deliver the baby by Caesarean-section on
March 14, 2020. (UMF 3) At that time, Decedent signed a disclosure and consent
form, which identified “Venous Thrombosis/pulmonary embolism” which may be
“life-threatening”. (UMF 4.)
 
On March 14, 2020, Decedent’s water
broke, and she was admitted to defendant Providence Health System-Southern
California dba Providence Saint John’s Health Center (“St. John’s Hospital” or
the “Hospital”) at 39 weeks, 2 days gestation. (UMF 5.) At around 1:00 pm,
Decedent was taken to the Operating Room for the C-section. (UMF 6.) During the
C-Section, Decedent had Sequential Compression Devices (“SCDs”), “sleeves” that
wrap around the legs and inflate with air and compress the lower legs in order
to improve blood flow and reduce the risk of DVT, were present on her legs. (UMF
8.) This was a standard practice at the Hospital to prevent stasis, i.e., blood
clotting in the veins. (Id.) At 1:44 pm, Decedent delivered Time Wallach. (UMF
7.) Decedent tolerated the procedure well and was taken to the Post Anesthesia
Care Unit in stable condition. (Id.) Further, there were no complications noted
in the operative report. (Id.)
 
Following the C-Section, at around
2:53 pm, Defendant issued a post-partum order which included placement of “compression
stockings,” meaning to place compression stockings on Decedent’s legs as a DVT
prophylaxis. (UMF 9.) Although Defendant ordered compression stockings, he was
not averse to using SCDs instead, as they served the same function. (Id.) Defendant
trusted the nurses to decide which was to be used based upon patient comfort
and/or preference. (UMF 10.)
 
Decedent arrived from the PACU to
her room around 4:45 p.m. (UMF 11.) Around 5:53 p.m., Nurse Ribeiro confirmed
that compression devices were on Decedent’s legs. (Id.) The SCDs remained on
Decedent’s legs until at least the afternoon of March 15, 2020. (Id.) Per
Hospital policy, the nurses were to attempt to ambulate mothers around eight hours
post-C-section. (UMF 12.) Nurses Ribeiro and Bhutia, who cared for Decedent
from the time she was transferred to her room on March 14, 2020, to around
March 15, 2020, at 7:00 a.m., were aware of that policy when they treated
Decedent. (UMF 12.) On the evening of March 14, 2020, Decedent was ambulatory
at least once. (UMF 13.) At around midnight, Decedent ambulated with assistance
from a Certified Nurse Assistant to the bathroom. (Id.) It is also Hospital
policy for nurses to enter into a patients’ medical charts whether their
patients have any difficulties with ambulation. (UMF 14.) Notably, Decedent’s
medical chart does not contain any entries indicating she had difficulty with ambulation
until March 15, 2020, at around 4:20 p.m., immediately prior to the Code Blue. (Id.)
 
On March 15, 2020, at around 1:00 p.m.,
Defendant physically examined the Decedent. (UMF 15.) In his chart, Defendant noted
Decedent’s vital signs were within normal limits, she had slight swelling in
her legs, no calf tenderness to palpation, the SCDs were in place, and that
there was no evidence of DVT seen on his physical examination of her legs. (Id.)
At this time, Defendant expected that the SCD’s would remain on Decedent until
she was up and walking around, which meant to him more than a single trip to
the bathroom. (UMF 16.) Defendant was not notified by the nursing staff that Decedent
had any difficulty ambulating after the C-section delivery. (UMF 17.) Further,
Defendant neither gave an order for the SCDs to be removed, nor was notified by
the nurses that the SCDs were to be removed. (UMF 18-19.) After the exam, and
after Mr. Wallach had left the room for lunch, a nurse came to the room to
remove Decedent’s urinary catheter. (UMF 20.) After Mr. Wallach returned, he
was informed that the SCDs were removed from Decedent’s legs while he was at
lunch. (UMF 21.) Decedent confirmed this to Mr. Wallach and told him that she
was in a tremendous amount of pain. (Id.) Defendant was never told the Decedent
was having increased pain after his examination at 1:00 p.m. (UMF 22.)
 
On March 15, 2020, at around 4:20 p.m.,
after having gotten out of bed to use the bathroom with the assistance of a
nurse, Decedent fainted multiple times. (UMF 23.) Two nurses provided smelling
salts to Decedent and helped her back to bed. (Id.) At around 4:24 p.m., a
“Code Blue” was called. (UMF 24.) Upon learning of the code blue, Defendant got
in his car and went to the Hospital, but he did not participate in the Code
Blue which was already underway when he arrived. (UMF 25.) After approximately
50 minutes of CPR and inability to resuscitate, the Code Blue was terminated.
(UMF 26.) Decedent’s time of death was noted as 5:44 p.m. (Id.) According to
the Autopsy Report, Decedent’s cause of death was listed as pulmonary embolism
due to probable DVT. (UMF 27.)
 
Defendant presents the declaration
of Thomas R. Moore, M.D., a board-certified obstetrician/gynecologist with a
subspecialty in fetal medicine, who has been a practicing OB/GYN in Southern
California since 1979, and is familiar with the standard of care applicable to
Defendant. (Moore Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) Defendant establishes that Dr. Moore possesses
the professional education, training, and experience necessary to qualify to
render expert opinions in this case, including a determination of compliance or
non-compliance with the applicable standard of care and causation. (Id.)
 
Dr. Moore details the care and
treatment at issue and the reasons for his opinion that the care and treatment Defendant
rendered to Decedent complied with the standard of care. (UMF 24.) In summary,
Dr. Moore opines that Defendant did not breach the standard of care in his pre-operative
care, performance of the C-section, and in his post-partum care. (UMF 28-34.) Defendant
properly recommended that Decedent deliver via C-Section. (UMF 29.) Defendant
informed Decedent of the risks of complications, including pulmonary embolism.
(Id.) The standard of care did not require Defendant administer
anti-coagulants to reduce the risk of VTE absent a history of blood clots,
which Decedent did not have. (Id.) 
 
SCDs were properly placed on
Decedent’s legs for the duration of the C-Section delivery to reduce the risk
of DVT, in compliance with the standard of care. (UMF 30.) The standard of care
did not require Defendant to administer anti-coagulants at this time absent a
history of blood clots. (Id.)  Defendant’s
post-partum orders appropriately included the continuation of compression
stockings on both of Decedent’s legs. (UMF 31.) Again, the standard of care did
not require administering anti-coagulants post-C-section, absent a history of
blood clots. (Id.) Further, the standard of care did not require Defendant to
issue post-partum orders for the nurses to ambulate Decedent, as it was already
the Hospital’s policy that the nurses would do so eight hours after the
C-section. (UMF 32.)
 
Defendant properly examined
Decedent the day after the C-section, which showed her vital signs were within
normal limits, the SCDs were in place, and there was no evidence of DVT through
physical examination. (UMF 33.) The standard of care did not require Defendant
to do anything further, as he was never notified by anyone from the time of his
examination of Decedent through the time of the Code Blue of her increased pain
or that the SCDs had been discontinued. (UMF 34.)
 
With the above evidence, Defendant
meets his burden of production to show entitlement to judgment as a matter of
law. No opposition was submitted to create a dispute as to any material fact. Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED.