 Case Number:  23TRCV01665    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                         Thursday, June 20, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 14   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Edward
Luis Zavala v. General Motors LLC, et al.
23TRCV01665
1.     
Edward Luis
Zavala’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified
2.     
Edward Luis
Zavala’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
Documents, Set One  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Edward Luis Zavala’s Motion to Compel Deposition of
Defendant’s Person Most Qualified is denied without prejudice.
 
Edward Luis Zavala’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One is deemed moot.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on May 25, 2023. This is
a “Lemon Law” case brought by Plaintiff concerning a 2022 GMC Sierra. Plaintiff
alleges that the vehicle suffers from widespread defects, including body,
powertrain, safety, braking, noise, and electrical defects. Defendant has been
unable to repair their vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts. 
 
Motion to Compel Deposition 
 
The
party noticing the deposition may move for an order compelling appearance at
the deposition and production of documents, pursuant to the deposition notice,
from the party deponent who fails to appear or produce materials requested in
the deposition notice, and who has not served a valid objection under §
2025.410(a).  CCP § 2025.450(a).  
 
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  CCP § 2025.450(b)(2). 
 
Plaintiff
failed to set forth a meet and confer declaration stating that Plaintiff contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.  Instead, the meet and confer declaration
appears to simply document attempts to schedule the date and time of the
deposition.  (Decl., Noreelie Panhwar, ¶¶
14-16.)  There is no showing that the
deponent failed to appear at the date and time scheduled for his or her
deposition, and then, thereafter, Plaintiff inquired about the nonappearance.
 
Based
on the failure to comply with the mandatory meet and confer requirement,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition is denied without prejudice.
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents 
 
A
party responding to an inspection demand shall respond to each demand with one
of the following:  a statement the party
will comply with the demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to
comply with the demand, or an objection. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an inspection demand may be
inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete; contains an incomplete
statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or evasive representation
of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general objections to a
demand.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If
a demanding party believes the responding party responded inadequately, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(a).)  “Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).)    
 
Meet and Confer
 
Plaintiff
set forth a meet and confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP §
2031.310(b)(2).  (Declaration, Noreelie
Panhwar, ¶¶ 25-32.)
 
Motion to Compel 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set
One, is moot because Defendant served further responses on October 31, 2023.  (Decl., Claudia Gavrilescu, ¶ 10.)
 
The
parties are informed and/or reminded that Department M requires that an
informal discovery conference be scheduled and heard prior to the hearing of any
discovery motion that concerns compelling further responses to discovery
requests.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.