 Case Number:  23TRCV00842    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                         Thursday, June 20, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 13   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Cheryl
Monsegue-Leeds v. Reza Tehrani, et al.
23TRCV00842
1.      Reza Tehrani, et al.’s Motion for Order Compelling
Production of Documents and for Monetary Sanctions    
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Reza
Tehrani, et al.’s Motion for Order Compelling Production of Documents and for Monetary
Sanctions is denied without prejudice. 
 
            Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March 22, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges that she was involved in a motor vehicle accident with
Defendants.  
 
Motions to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena
 
Where the witness whose deposition is sought is not a
party, a subpoena must be served to compel the witness’ attendance, testimony,
or production of documents. CCP §§ 2020.010(b), 2025.280(b); Terry v. SLICO
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 352, 357. Personal service of a deposition subpoena
obligates a California resident to appear, testify and produce documents
specified in the subpoena, and to appear in any proceedings to enforce
discovery.  CCP § 2020.220(c).  The deposition subpoena may be enforced by a
motion to compel compliance pursuant to CCP § 1987.1.  If a nonparty disobeys a deposition subpoena,
the subpoenaing party may seek a court order compelling the nonparty to comply
with the subpoena within 60 days after completion of the deposition
record.  CCP § 2025.480(b); Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007)
156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127.  
 
Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1:  “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
 
Defendants move to compel the custodian of records for
Andrew Fox, M.D. to comply with a subpoena duces tecum to produce documents
related to the care and treatment of Plaintiff.  However, Andrew Fox, M.D. was not properly personally
served with a deposition subpoena. According to the proof of service that was
submitted with the motion, in fact, Andrew Fox, M.D. was not served at all. Instead,
the only service that is documented is service upon Plaintiff’s counsel by
mail. (Decl., Ronald Zurek, Ex. B.) Without proper personal service of a
deposition subpoena, a non-party deponent cannot be compelled to appear for
deposition or produce documents pursuant to a subpoena duces tecum. 
 
Thus, the motion to compel compliance with the
deposition subpoena and request for sanction is denied without prejudice. 
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 