  Case Number:  22TRCV00051    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
                                        Thursday, June 20, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar
No. 12 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Go
Nakasone v. Takee International, Inc., et al. 
            22TRCV00051
1.      Grant
Nigolian’s, Counsel for Defendant Shinya Ii, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel     
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Grant
Nigolian’s, Counsel for Defendant Shinya Ii, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is
granted.   
       
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on January 31, 2022. Plaintiff alleges the following facts.
Plaintiff was a former employee of Defendants. Plaintiff was discriminated
against based on a disability. Plaintiff was misclassified as an exempt
employee. Plaintiff was not paid all required wages, including overtime pay.
Plaintiff was not provided the required rest and meal breaks during his
employment with Defendants. Plaintiff was not provided with accurate payroll
records. Plaintiff was not compensated for using his cell phone and personal
vehicle for the benefit of Defendants. Plaintiff was ultimately constructively
terminated.  
 
            Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
 
            Counsel states, in the declaration,
valid reasons for withdrawal. Counsel states that there has been a breakdown in
the relationship of the parties because the client has engaged in conduct as
outlined in Cal. Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.16(b). The Court finds
that the attorney has filed and served upon the client a declaration.  The Court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reasons why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted and why the attorney brought a motion under Code of Civil Procedure §
284(2) instead of filing a consent under section 284(1). The Court finds that
the attorney served the proposed order upon the client as required by Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d)(1).
 
            Therefore, the motion to be relieved
as counsel is granted.
 
            The attorney is relieved as counsel
of record for the client effective upon the filing of the proof of service of
the signed order upon the client. 
 
            Grant Nigolian is ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling.