 Case Number:  22TRCV01341    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 October 23, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV01341  CASE NAME:                        Madhukumar  Sripathi . Ashok Sreepathi, et al.    ATTORNEY NAME:             Craig B. Forry, Esq., counsels of  record for Defendant, Ashok Sreepathi    TRIAL DATE:                        February  3, 2025   MOTION:                              (1) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel    Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.   Discuss whether trial date will need to be postponed to afford client time to  locate new counsel     I.                     Background     On  November 28, 2022, Plaintiff, Madhukumar Sripathi (“Plaintiff”) filed a  complaint against Defendants, Ashok Sreepathi, Suresh Sripathi, and DOES 1  through 20. On February 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint  (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Intentional  Misrepresentation; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Disgorgement of All Sums  Paid to Unlicensed Contractor; and (5) Declaratory Relief.      On  September 17, 2024, Defendant, Ashok Sreepathi’s attorney, Craig B. Forry,  Esq., (“Forry”) filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant, Ashok  Sreepathi.    Currently, trial is set for February 3, 2025.     II.                  Legal Standard & Discussion     Code of Civil Procedure section 284  states that “the attorney in an action…may be changed at any time before or  after judgment or final determination, as follows: (1) upon the consent of both  client and attorney…; (2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of  either client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.”  (Code  Civ. Proc. § 284; CRC 3.1362.)  The withdrawal request may be denied if it  would cause an injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the court's  discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably.  (See Mandell  v. Superior (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert¿v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.)    In making a motion to be relieved as  counsel, the attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of  Court 3.1362.  The motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of  Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client – Civil  (MC-051); Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the  confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” reasons the motion was  brought (MC-052); and a Proposed Order (MC-053).  (Ibid.)  The  forms must be filed and served on all parties who have appeared in the  case.  (Ibid.)    Here, Defendant, Ashok  Sreepathi’s attorney, Forry, moves the Court to relieve him as attorney of record for Defendant,  Ashok Sreepathi. Forry properly filed a Notice of Motion, Motion to be Relieved as  Counsel, Declaration, and Proposed Order in accordance with California Rules of  Court, Rule 3.1362. On September 17, 2024, all original forms for the pending  motion were served on Defendant, Ashok Sreepathi by mail at the client’s last  known address with copies of the motion papers served with the declaration.  Further, on September 17, 2024, Forry provided proofs of service that the motion was served on  Defendant, Ashok Sreepathi via mail. The attorney indicates that he has been  able to confirm within the past thirty (30) days that Ashok Sreepathi’s address  is current via conversation with the client.    In the declaration, Forry notes that: “The  attorney-client relationship has deteriorated to the point that Attorney Craig  B. Forry can no longer continue to represent Defendant and Cross-Complainant  Ashok Sreepathi because conduct and decisions by client render it unreasonably  difficult for attorney to carry out the representation effectively and within  the California Rules of Profession Conduct.” He further contends that “[t]here  is a break down in the attorney-client relationship sufficient to justify withdrawal  of Attorney, and the overwhelming and primary motivation for the Attorney’s  withdrawal is the obligation to adhere to the ethical imperatives under  California statute or California State Bar rules, and such other reasons  subject to the attorney-client confidential communication.” Lastly, Forry  asserts that “Client has failed to agree to a substitution of attorney as of  the filing of the Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved As Counsel-Civil.”   Since Defendant, Ashok  Sreepathi’s attorney has complied with all procedural requirements in filing a  motion to be relieved as counsel and because the withdrawal would not cause an  injustice or undue delay in proceedings, the Court finds that withdrawal of Craig B. Forry as  attorney of record for Defendant, Ashok Sreepathi, can be accomplished without  undue prejudice to his interests.    III.               Conclusion & Order    For the foregoing reasons, Craig B.  Forry, Esq.’s Motion to Be Relieved As Counsel is GRANTED and the Order will be  signed at the hearing. “After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order  must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the  case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) The Order on this Motion will not  be effective “until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on Plaintiff  and Defendant has been filed with the court.” (Id.)    Moving party is ordered to  give notice. 