 Case Number:  23TRCV03999    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 23, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      23TRCV03999
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Rosalie Fierro v. Stadco LA, LLC dba Sofi
Stadium, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendant, Stadco LA, LLC, Pincay RE, LLC, and
Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC
                                                (2) Plaintiff,
Rosalie Fierro
                                                (3) Defendant, Hollywood Park Management
Company, LLC
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1)
Plaintiff, Rosalie Fierro
                                                (2) Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC
                                                (3) Plaintiff,
Rosalie Fierro
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       August 25, 2025 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration
(2) Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Initial Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Requests for Production of Documents,
and Motion to Deem Matters Admitted, and Requests for Sanctions
(3) Defendants’ Motion to Request Relief from Waiver with Respect
to Objections Raised in Discovery
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) Defendants’ Motion to
Compel Arbitration is CONTINUED.
(2) Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Initial Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Requests for Production of Documents,
and Motion to Deem Matters Admitted, and Requests for Sanctions is DENIED as
being mooted by the belated service of initial responses.
(3) Defendants’ Motion to Request Relief from Waiver with Respect
to Objections Raised in Discovery is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿¿
¿¿¿ 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff, Rosalie Fierro
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Stadco LA, LLC dba Sofi
Stadium, Stadco LA Manager, LLC, Pincay RE, LLC, Hollywood Park Management
Company, LLC, Hollywood Park Management Company II, LLC, and DOES 1 through 50.
The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Negligence; and (2) Premises
Liability. The complaint asserts allegations that on January 30, 2022,
Plaintiff was an attendee and ticketholder of the 49ers game at Sofi Stadium, when
– during the second quarter of the game – Plaintiff felt a blunt force impact
to the back of her head and neck, which allegedly propelled her out of her
seated position, and directly into the back of a stadium seat directly ahead of
where she was seated. (Complaint, ¶¶ 11, 12, & 16.) 
 
Plaintiff further alleges that just prior to being
struck, she is informed and believed, that an intoxicated individual, John Doe
1, lost their balance and fell into the rows of people ahead of them.
(Complaint, ¶ 17.) Plaintiff asserts that she is informed and believes that
John Doe 1 through his fall, fell over seats and onto rows ahead of him,
resulting in John Doe 1 ultimately impacting the back of Plaintiff, resulting
in the incident. (Complaint, ¶ 18.) Plaintiff contends that the impact of her
face and body with the stadium seat ahead of her caused serious injuries to
Plaintiff, including, but certainly not limited to, a concussion, bruising, and
severe head, neck, and back pain. (Complaint, ¶ 19.) Moreover, Plaintiff
alleges that event staff and emergency personnel failed to notice or tend to Plaintiff
after impact despite Plaintiff being in excruciating pain from the incident.
(Complaint, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff argues that instead, she had to proceed to leave
her seat and seek help and was required to walk all over the premises before
finding event staff to assist her. (Complaint, ¶ 20.) As a result of the
incident, Plaintiff asserts that she suffered severe injuries to her body and
nervous system as a result of the incident, and Plaintiff continues to suffer
from these injuries to the present day. (Complaint, ¶ 21.) 
 
                                  
i.         
Facts Relating to Motion to Compel Arbitration 
 
Defendants, Stadco LA, LLC, Pincay RE, LLC, and Hollywood Park Management
Company, LLC (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion to compel arbitration. Moving
Defendants assert that Plaintiff expressly agreed to their Stadium Seat License
Agreement Terms and Conditions on September 5, 2019. Moving Defendants state
that section 11 of the License Agreement Terms included an arbitration
provision which mandates that all disputes must and will be settled by binding
arbitration and that both the Defendant and Plaintiff were each waiving the
right to trial by judge or jury. As such, Moving Defendants have brought this
motion to compel arbitration. 
 
                                 
ii.         
Motion to Compel Further Responses 
 
Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Further Responses
from Hollywood Park Management
Company, LLC (“HPMC”). Plaintiff asserts that on April 16, 2024, she served
Defendant with Set One of written discovery. Plaintiff argues that responses
were originally due on May 20, 2024. On May 14, 2024, Plaintiff states that
Defendant’s counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel to request an extension until
June 3, 2024, to provide discovery responses, which Plaintiff agreed to. On
June 3, 2024, Plaintiff further states that Defendant’s counsel requested a
second extension until June 17, 2024, to provide Plaintiff with discovery
responses, which Plaintiff granted. A third extension was requested for July 1,
2024, but was granted for June 24, 2024. Moreover, Plaintiff asserts that on
June 24, 2024, counsel for HPMC requested a fourth extension until June 28,
2024, which Plaintiff agreed to. A fifth extension was requested on June 26,
2024 for July 12, 2024, but was granted by Plaintiff for July 5, 2024. Again,
on July 3, 2024, a sixth extension was requested for July 12, 2024, which was
agreed to by Plaintiff. 
 
On July 10,
2024, Defendant HPMC again requested a seventh extension until July 19, 2024,
which Plaintiff notes that she agreed to. After further meet and confer
discussions, Plaintiff notes that she reluctantly agreed to an eighth extension
until July 17, 2024. On July 18, 2024, Plaintiff contends that Defendant served
untimely discovery objections. 
 
After
further meet and confer efforts, Plaintiff argues that Defendant HPMC’s counsel
neither met and conferred with Plaintiff, nor have they provided further
document production. Thus, Plaintiff has filed this Motion to Compel Further
Responses from Defendant HPMC as to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and has filed a
Motion to Deem Matters Admitted. 
 
                               
iii.         
Motion for Relief from Waiver 
 
In anticipation of the above discovery motion,
Defendant HPMC has filed a Motion to Request Relief from Waiver with Respect to
Objections Raised in Discovery. Defendant HPMC asserts that relief is sought on
the grounds that due to an apparent electronic hiccup with the service of
HPMC’s discovery responses and objections by counsel, although HPMC asserts
that the responses were prepared, finalized, and believed to be served by
counsel on the date they were due, they were apparently actually sent and
received by Plaintiff’s counsel the following morning. As such, Defendant HPMC
moves for an order granting relief pursuant to those sections as it argues the
evidence demonstrates that this situation was due to a technical defect which
far exceeds the threshold of “mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect”
provided by the statutes. 
 
B.    Procedural¿¿¿ 
 
                                  
i.         
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
 
On September 3, 2024, Moving Defendants
filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration. On September 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.  On October 16,
Defendants filed a reply brief. 
 
                                 
ii.         
Motion to Compel Further Responses 
 
On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed her Motion to Compel
Further Responses. On October 10, 2024, HPMC filed an opposition brief. To
date, no reply brief has been filed. 
 
                               
iii.         
Motion for
Relief from Waiver 
¿¿ 
On September 19, 2024, Defendant HPMC
filed its Motion to Request Relief from Waiver with Respect to Objections
Raised in Discovery. On September 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition
brief.  On October 16, Defendant filed a reply
brief. 
 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Motion to
Compel Arbitration 
 
                         
i.         
Legal Standard 
The Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) California law incorporates many
of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act,
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)
California law states
that “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, §
1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears
the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to
compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting¿rulings on common issues. 
 
When seeking to compel
arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by preponderance of evidence. 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It
is sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of the arbitration
agreement or set forth the agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa, 72
Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The burden then shifts to the opposing party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract
or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  Subsequently, the moving party must
establish with the preponderance of admissible evidence a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then
weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion to make a final
determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) 
 
If the court orders
arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is
completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
                       
ii.         
Discussion 
Moving
Defendants argue that Plaintiff entered into a License Agreement concerning her
season tickets at SoFi Stadium. Section 11 of the License Agreement contains an
arbitration clause which states: 
“11. CHOICE OF LAW; MANDATORY AND BINDING ARBITRATION; NO
CLASS OR REPRESENTATIVE ACTIONS OR ARBITRATIONS; LIMITATION ON TIME TO MAKE
CLAIMS.
PLEASE READ THIS PROVISION CAREFULLY. THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT
PROVIDES THAT ALL DISPUTES BETWEEN THE PARTIES WILL BE RESOLVED BY BINDING
ARBITRATION. LICENSEE IS THUS GIVING UP LICENSEE’S RIGHTS TO GO TO COURT TO
ASSERT OR DEFEND ITS RIGHTS UNDER THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT (EXCEPT FOR MATTERS
THAT MAY BE TAKEN TO SMALL CLAIMS COURT). THE PARTIES’ RIGHTS WILL BE
DETERMINED BY A NEUTRAL ARBITRATOR AND NOT A JUDGE OR JURY. THE PARTIES ARE
ENTITLED TO A FAIR HEARING, BUT THE ARBITRATION PROCEDURES ARE SIMPLER AND MORE
LIMITED THAN RULES APPLICABLE IN COURT. THE ARBITRATOR’S DECISIONS ARE AS
ENFORCEABLE AS ANY COURT ORDER AND ARE SUBJECT TO VERY LIMITED REVIEW BY A
COURT. 
* * *
 b) Mandatory and
Binding Arbitration. With respect to any and all disputes arising out of or
relating to this License Agreement, no matter on what theory, including without
limitation, contract, tort, statutory or regulatory, or common law, and
including regarding the applicability or validity of this arbitration provision
(collectively, “Claims”), the parties agree to negotiate in good faith to
achieve a mutually satisfactory resolution. If the parties do not resolve any
dispute by informal negotiation, any other effort to resolve the dispute will
be conducted exclusively by binding arbitration as described in this Section
11; provided, however, that the parties have the right to litigate any Claim in
small claims court, if all the requirements of the small claims court,
including any limitations on jurisdiction and the amount at issue in the Claim,
are satisfied. Licensee agrees to bring a Claim in small claims court only in
Licensee’s county of residence or the County of Los Angeles, California. LICENSEE
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT LICENSEE IS GIVING UP THE RIGHT TO LITIGATE (OR PARTICIPATE
IN AS A PARTY OR CLASS MEMBER) ALL DISPUTES IN COURT BEFORE A JUDGE OR JURY,
except as described in the foregoing sentence for Claims that may be litigated
in small claims court. Instead, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable
law, all Claims will be resolved before a neutral arbitrator, whose decision
will be final except for a limited right of appeal under the Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. sections 1-9 (or any successor thereto). Any court
with jurisdiction over the parties may enforce the arbitrator's award. 
Except for Claims eligible to be heard in small claims court
as described above, all Claims that cannot be settled through informal
negotiation will be adjudicated exclusively through confidential binding
arbitration in accordance with the then current Consumer Arbitration Rules of
the American Arbitration Association (the “AAA”), or, in the event the AAA
declines or is unable to administer the arbitration, by a nationally recognized
arbitration forum reasonably selected by Fanfaire. AAA rules are available from
the AAA, which can be contacted by mail at 725 South Figueroa, Suite 400, Los
Angeles, California 90017, by telephone at (800) 778-7879, or through its
website at www.adr.org. The arbitrator’s award shall be binding and may be
entered as a judgment in a court of competent jurisdiction. Licensee agrees
that the Stadium Company, Fanfaire or the Team Party may seek any interim or
preliminary relief from a court of competent jurisdiction in Los Angeles
County, California necessary to protect its rights or property pending the
completion of arbitration.” (Id. at p. 21-22 (§ 11(b).) 
(Exhibit 1 pg. 38-39)
In Plaintiff’s opposition brief, she
argues that the License Agreement is for her season tickets to the Rams
football team at Sofi Stadium, not for the injury she sustained at the stadium.
The Court is not persuaded by this argument. Section 11, subsection (b) of the
arbitration agreement states “Mandatory and Binding Arbitration. With respect
to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to this License Agreement,
no matter on what theory, including without limitation, contract, tort,
statutory or regulatory, or common law, and including regarding the
applicability or validity of this arbitration provision (collectively,
“Claims”), the parties agree to negotiate in good faith to achieve a mutually
satisfactory resolution.” Thus, the arbitration agreement does not only speak
to Plaintiff’s season tickets, and instead, includes any theory of liability
arising from her being a season ticket holder – including injuries she may
suffer while using said season tickets. 
However, Plaintiff also argues that
this court should deny Moving Defendants’ motion because Plaintiff asserts that
Defendants: (1) waived its right to arbitration through its voluntary
participation in proceedings; (2) is attempting to enforce an alleged
arbitration agreement despite the fact that it is not a signatory to that
agreement; and (3) that the arbitration provision cannot be enforced. 
1.     Waiver 
Plaintiff’s opposition asserts that Moving
Defendants have waived their (what Plaintiff argues is non-existent) right to
arbitration through its voluntary participation in these proceedings. Plaintiff
argues that this is because Moving Defendants have filed their Answer without
ever raising arbitration as an affirmative defense and engaging in merits
discovery by serving Plaintiff with written discovery on February 26, 2024. Plaintiff
relies on the factors set forth in St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of
California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187 (“St. Agnes”).  The recent California Supreme Court decision in
Quach v. California Commerce Club, Inc. noted that “[t]he United States
Supreme Court’s decision in Morgan v. Sundance, Inc. (2022) 596 U.S. 411
(“Morgan”) rendered the St. Agnes framework inapplicable in cases
governed by the FAA’s procedural rules.” (Quach v. California Commerce Club,
Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 562 (“Quach”).) The Court in Morgan specifically
rejected an arbitration-specific prejudice requirement, stating, “”the FAA’s
‘policy favoring arbitration’ does not authorize federal courts to invent
special, arbitration-preferring procedural rules.” (Morgan, supra, 596
U.S. at 418.) 
The California Supreme Court in Quach,
after careful analysis of the CAA, found there was no basis for the arbitration-specific
prejudice rule under California law. (Quach, supra, 16 Cal.5th at 576.) The
Court also turned to the question of how to analyze a waiver issue without the St.
Agnes prejudice requirement, finding “[i]n ruling on a motion to compel
arbitration, a court should separately evaluate each generally applicable state
contract law defense raised by the party opposing arbitration. It should not
lump distinct legal defenses into a catch-all category called ‘waiver.’” (Id.
at 583-84.) The Quach Court found that “[a]mong the factors we
identified as relevant to a ‘waiver’ determination in St. Agnes are some
that are relevant to other defenses, such as forfeiture, estoppel, laches or
timeliness, but not to waiver. [Citation.]…[Citations.] Instead, a court should
be careful to consider only those factors that are relevant to the specific
state law defense the party resisting arbitration has raised.” (Id. at
584.) 
As in Quach, the defense
raised by Plaintiff in this case was waiver. (Ibid.) “The waiver inquiry
is exclusively focused on the waiving party’s words or conduct; neither the
effect of that conduct on the party seeking to avoid enforcement of the
contractual right nor that party’s subjective evaluation of the waiving party’s
intent is relevant. [Citations.] This distinguishes waiver from the related
defense of estoppel, ‘which generally requires a showing that a party’s word or
acts have induced detrimental reliance by the opposing party.’ [Citations.] To
establish waiver, there is no requirement that the party opposing enforcement
of the contractual right demonstrate prejudice or otherwise show harm resulting
from the waiving party’s conduct.” (Id. at 585.) 
The California Supreme Court in Quach
found clear and convincing evidence of waiver. But the Coourt is inclined to continue
the hearing ont eh arbitration motion because of the new matters raised for the
first time in moving parties’ reply papers, so that Plaintiff can submit a
sur-reply. 
 
B.    Motion to Compel Initial Responses 
 
                         
i.         
Legal Standard 
A party must respond to
interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not provide
timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses
to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also
waives the right to make any objections, including one based on privilege or
work-product protection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no
time limit for a motion to compel responses to interrogatories other than the
cut-off on hearing discovery motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are
required before filing a motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411 (“Sinaiko”).)

Further, where there has been no timely response to a Code
of Civil Procedure section  2031.010
demand, the demanding party must seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300.) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product. Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses.
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve
the matter outside court before filing the motion. Where the motion seeks only
a response to the inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is
required. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2033.280(c), the court shall make the order deeming the truth of the matters
admitted unless the responding party serves before the hearing a proposed
response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with
Code Civ. Proc § 2033.220. Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.220 requires that
each answer either admits, denies or specifies that the responding party lacks
sufficient information or knowledge. As stated in Demyer v. Costa Mesa
Mobile Home Estates, the moving party is not required to meet and confer
before bringing this action. (Demyer v. Costa Mesa Mobile Home Estates,
36 Cal.App.4th 393, 395.)¿¿ Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction on a
party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes failing to respond or
submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subd. (d).)¿¿ 
 
                       
ii.         
Discussion 
 
Here, Plaintiff is seeking this court order HPMC’s objection-free
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One,
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One and Document Production, and to
Deem Matters Admitted from Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One. HPMC
does not disagree that it served untimely responses to Plaintiff’s propounded
discovery as they have filed a premature Motion for Relief of Waiver. The court
also notes that Plaintiff’s moving paper’s conclusion seeks an order compelling
further responses, despite moving under statutes for initial responses,
noticing and filing a motion for initial responses and to deem matters
admitted, and including such a request in her introduction. 
 
Regardless of the parties’ efforts to combine their
arguments on original lack of any response with their arguments on the
sufficiency of the belated responses (and the objections), and the asserted
grounds for relief from waiver of the right to object, the constellation of
arguments bearing on the July 18, 2024 written responses is premature.  This is a motion to compel INITIAL, not
FURTHER responses.  The pending motions
were filed after responses had already been served, after objections were
asserted, and after additional meet-and-confer efforts to address the asserted
inadequacy of the belated responses. 
There is no separate statement required for a motion to compel initial
responses, but one is required for FURTHER responses, and one is not filed in
the present case.  The Code has different
provisions for motions to compel further responses, for an order addressing
objections, and for argument as to whether objections are deemed waived or
whether relief from the deemed waiver should be afforded.  Those latter issues are not properly before
the Court at this time.
The Court
determines that the motion to compel an initial response to the interrogatories,
document demands, and motion to deem matters admitted is improperly filed after
responses had already been served and is thus DENIED as being mooted by the belated
service of the responses. A motion to compel further responses is the proper
motion to have been filed. Further, the issue of waived objections or relief
from any such waiver was presented by the notice of motion filed separately by
HPMC and is discussed below, unless the parties can resolve those issues by
meeting and conferring as to the same. The Court thus
encourages the parties to stipulate to extend the time to bring a motion to
compel FURTHER responses, to meet and confer on resolving the objections and
claimed insufficient substantive responses, and to attempt to narrow the
remaining issues if any requiring the court’s assistance in resolving.  
                     
iii.         
Sanctions
            
Sanctions are denied under the circumstances outlined above. 
 
C.    HPMC’s Motion for Relief 
 
Although the Court encourages the parties to further meet and
confer regarding the responses, the court notes that pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, HPMC’s counsel has attested to his mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, and/or excusable neglect. As such, the Court is
inclined to grant relief from waiver of objections. 
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, the
hearing on Moving Defendants’
Motion to Compel Arbitration is CONTINUED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Initial
Responses and Deem Matters Admitted is DENIED. 
 
HPMC’s Motion for Relief from Waiver is
tentatively GRANTED.  
 
HPMC shall give written notice unless
waived.  
 
 