 Case Number:  23TRCV01801    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling  HEARING DATE:                 October 23, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01801  CASE NAME:                        Daisy  Montoya v. Hye Soo Kim, et al.   ATTORNEY NAME:             Jacob O. Partiyeli, Esq., counsels  of record for Plaintiff, Daisy Montoya    TRIAL DATE:                        Not  Set.   MOTION:                              (1) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel    Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.      I.                     Background     On  June 5, 2023, Plaintiff, Daisy Montoya (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against  Defendants, Hye Soo Kim, an individual, and DOES 1 through 100. The complaint  alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of California Civil Code § 1942.4;  (2) Tortious Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; (3) Private Nuisance; (4)  Business & Professions Code § 17200, et seq.; (5) Negligence; (6) Breach of  Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress;  (8) Negligence Per Se; (9) Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act, California  Civil Code § 1750, et seq.; and (10) Toxic Environmental Mold Tort.    On  August 29, 2024, Plaintiff’s attorney, Jacob O. Partiyeli, Esq., (“Partiyeli”)  filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff.    Currently, trial has not yet been set.    II.                  Legal Standard & Discussion     Code of Civil Procedure section 284  states that “the attorney in an action…may be changed at any time before or  after judgment or final determination, as follows: (1) upon the consent of both  client and attorney…; (2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of  either client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.”  (Code  Civ. Proc. § 284; CRC 3.1362.)  The withdrawal request may be denied if it  would cause an injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the court's  discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably.  (See Mandell  v. Superior (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert¿v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.)    In making a motion to be relieved as  counsel, the attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of  Court 3.1362.  The motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of  Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client – Civil  (MC-051); Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the  confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” reasons the motion was  brought (MC-052); and a Proposed Order (MC-053).  (Ibid.)  The  forms must be filed and served on all parties who have appeared in the  case.  (Ibid.)    Here, Plaintiff’s attorney, Partiyeli, moves the Court  to relieve him as attorney of record for Plaintiff. Partiyeli properly filed a Notice of  Motion, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, Declaration, and Proposed Order in  accordance with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362. On August 29, 2024, all  original forms for the pending motion were served on Plaintiff personally.  Further, on August 29, 2024, Partiyeli provided proofs of service that the motion was served on Plaintiff  personally. The attorney indicates that he has been able to confirm within the  past thirty (30) days that Plaintiff’s address is current via telephone call  with the client.    In the declaration, Partiyeli notes that: “There has been  a breakdown in client communications, which makes it impossible for [his] firm  to proceed with this case and to act in the best interest of Plaintiff. [He  further indicates] that [t]he Plaintiff’s behavior prevents [them] from  effectively representing her in this matter.”   Since Plaintiff’s attorney has  complied with all procedural requirements in filing a motion to be relieved as  counsel and because the withdrawal would not cause an injustice or undue delay  in proceedings, the Court finds that withdrawal of Jacob O. Partiyeli, Esq. as  attorney of record for Plaintiff, can be accomplished without undue prejudice  to her interests.    III.               Conclusion & Order    For the foregoing reasons, Jacon O. Partiyeli, Esq.’s Motion to Be Relieved As Counsel  is GRANTED and the Order will be signed at the hearing. “After the order is  signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all  parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).)  The Order on this Motion will not be effective “until proof of service of a  copy of the signed order on Plaintiff and Defendant has been filed with the  court.” (Id.)    Moving party is ordered to  give notice.   