 Case Number:  23TRCV03160    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 23, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV03160
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Conjunction
junction, LLC v. Gordon Leon, et al.
 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants,
Gordon Leon, Michael Barth, Jim Knight, and Colleen Miller
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Conjunction Junction
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Attorneys’ Fees
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) ARGUE.  
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On September 25, 2023,
Plaintiff, Conjunction Junction, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Gordon Leon, Michael Barth, Sandy Marshall, Jim Knight, Scott
Kerwin, Colleen Miller, collectively dba ACLAD dba Abalone Cove Landslide
Abatement District, and DOES 1 through 100. On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1)
Declaratory Relief; (2) Fraud – Concealment; (3) Fraud – Intentional
Misrepresentation; (4) Fraud – Negligent Misrepresentation; (5) Constructive
Trust; and (6) Violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983. On March 12, 2024, this Court
SUSTAINED the Defendants, Gordon Leon, Michael Barth, Jim Knight, and Colleen
Miller’s demurrer to the FAC. 
 
On March 26, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action
for: (1) Declaratory Relief; (2) Fraud – Concealment; (3) Fraud – Intentional
Misrepresentation; (4) Fraud – Negligent Misrepresentation; (5) Constructive
Trust; (6) Violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983; (7) Violation of State and Local
Election Laws; (8) Violation of The Brown Act; (9) violations of Prevailing
Wage Laws; (10) Violations of Proposition 13 and 218; (11) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty; and (12) Public Records Act. This Court sustained demurrer as to the
prescriptive easement and adverse possession causes of action, and overruled
demurrer as to the equitable easement cause of action. 
 
Defendants assert that they successfully defended
ACLAD against Plaintiff’s claims, by defeating and securing a dismissal of all
of Plaintiff’s claims, the Defendants enforced an important public right and
conferred a significant public benefit for which private enforcement by the
individually-named Defendants was necessary. As such, Defendant now brings a
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On September 19, 2024,
Defendants filed this Motion for Attorneys’ Fees. On October 10, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On October 16, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply brief.  
 
¿II. REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
            With their moving papers, Defendants requested this Court
take judicial notice of the following: 
 
1.    
Exhibit 5 to the Declaration of Stephen J. Tully
(a true and correct copy of the Certified Transcript of the March 12, 2024
hearing on Defendant’s demurrer to, and motion to strike plaintiff’s first
amended complaint, and motion for protective order and request for judicial
notice); and 
2.    
Exhibit 13 to the Declaration of Stephen J.
Tully (a true and correct printout of background information for GHAD
recognizing ACLAD as the first GHAD pursuant to the Beverly Act of 1979, which
was obtained by accessing https://www.conservation.ca.gov/cgs/Pages/GHAD.aspx,
which is made publicly available. Defendants assert they accessed and retrieved
the information from that public website.) 
 
The court GRANTS Defendants’ request
and takes judicial notice of the above. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.    Legal
Standard 
 
Defendants seek an award of attorney’s
fees under  Code of Civil Procedure
section 1021.5. Code of Civil Procedure § 1021.5 provides in relevant part as follows: 
 
“Upon
motion, a court may award attorneys' fees to a successful party against one or
more opposing parties in any action which has resulted in the enforcement of an
important right affecting the public interest if: (a) a significant benefit,
whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the general public or
a large class of persons, (b) the necessity and financial burden of private
enforcement, or of enforcement by one public entity against another public
entity, are such as to make the award appropriate, and (c) such fees should not
in the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery, if any. 
 
“Th[e] statutory language can be divided
into the following separate elements. A superior court may award attorney fees
to (1) a successful party in any action (2) that has resulted in the
enforcement of an important right affecting the public interest if (3) a
significant benefit has been conferred on the general public or a large class
of persons, (4) private enforcement is necessary because no public entity or
official pursued enforcement or litigation, (5) the financial burden of private
enforcement is such as to make a fee award appropriate, and (6) in the
interests of justice the fees should not be paid out of the recovery.” (Robinson
v. City of Chowchilla (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 382, 390.)
  
B.    Discussion
 
Preliminarily,
the court notes that the motion is timely. Here, Defendant’s moving papers
indicate that they are seeking attorneys’ fees in the amount of $99,435.22 on
two bases: (1)  First, for successfully
defeating Plaintiff’s claims under Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5; and
(2) Second, under 42 U.S.C. section 1988.
 
i.               
Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5
 
As
noted above, to proceed on attorneys’ fees under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1021.5, Defendants will be required to show
that they are the successful party in an action which has resulted in the
enforcement of an important right affecting the public interest if: (a) a
significant benefit, whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on
the general public or a large class of persons, (b) the necessity and financial
burden of private enforcement, or of enforcement by one public entity against
another public entity, are such as to make the award appropriate, and (c) such
fees should not in the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery, if any.

 
As this Court SUSTAINED Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC on May 24, 2024, without leave to amend, Defendants
are the prevailing party. The issue now remains as to the three factors
presented by Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5. 
 
Defendants argue that they are entitled
to an award of attorneys’ fees because their defeat of Plaintiff’s claims
protected and served the public interest. “In determining whether an aware of
attorney fees should be granted under California’s Private Attorney General
Act, the trial court in its discretion must realistically assess the litigation
and determine, from a practical perspective, whether or not the action served
to vindicate an important right so as to justify an attorney fee award.” (In
re Taco Bell Wage and Hour Actions (2016) 222 F.Supp.3d 813.) Defendants
set forth that it is undisputed that statutory and legal purpose of ACLAD, and
therefore, Defendants’ defense of it in this case, advanced and protected
important public interests of preventing and abating geologic hazards.
Defendants note that ACLAD was, in fact, created by the California Pubic
Resources Code. Thus, Defendants argue that their defense of ACLAD and its
formation and functions advanced and protected ACLAD and its mission. The court
agrees. 
 
Next, Defendants argue that the
Defendants (who were individually named because of their positions on ACLAD’s
board) enforced an important public right and conferred a significant public
benefit from which private enforcement by the individually-named
Defendants was necessary. However, the court notes that Defendants do not
assert why, in the interest of justice, the fees should not be paid out of
their recovery. Although the law does not indicate that this is a burden Defendants
bear, the court notes it will be using its discretion to determine this factor.

 
            Plaintiff
will be asked to provide oral argument as to why it has not provided an
opposition to this argument. However, the Court would tentatively find in favor
of granting a portion of Defendants’ asserted attorneys’ fees pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1021.5. 
 
ii.             
42
U.S.C. § 1988
 
Defendants
move for attorneys’ fees under 42 U.S.C. section 1988 on the grounds they argue
Plaintiff unreasonably and continuously litigated a meritless claim. The court
disagrees with the granting of attorneys’ fees on these grounds. “A prevailing
defendant is entitled to attorney fees under 42 U.S.C § 1988 only when the
plaintiff’s claims are ‘groundless, without foundation, frivolous, or
unreasonable.” (Karam v. City of Burbank (9th Cir. 2003) 352 F.3d 1188,
1195.) The Court does not interpret Plaintiff’s claims as such, or else it
would have sustained demurrer with prejudice as to the first demurrer that came
onto its calendar. Additionally, as noted by Plaintiff’s opposition brief, this
was a case of first impression with little precedential guideline. Thus, the Court
denies the motion for attorneys’ fees based on this argument. 
 
iii.            
Reasonableness of Fees 
 
Lastly,
as to the reasonableness of fees, Plaintiff’s opposition takes issues with the
following: (1) Defendants’ attorneys claiming 373.2 hours on this case for a
case that did not make it past the pleading stage; and (2) Defendants’
attorneys including their costs in their attorneys’ fees motion, as shown in
the bills, there are $7,058.22 in costs being requested, but that no memorandum
of costs was filed, and thus all costs are waived. 
 
As
noted by Defendants, despite Plaintiff’s argument that the amount of hours
spent on the case being 373.2, Plaintiff does not provide examples of what it
deems to be excessive. However, the court notes that Defendants do not address
the issue of the missing memorandum of costs.
 
Based
on the parties’ lack of addressing each relevant issue here, the court is
inclined to await oral argument from each of the parties. 
 
 
Pendency
of Appeal
 
The
Court also seeks oral argument as to whether it should defer ruling on the fee
motion pending the outcome of the ending appeal.  If the Second District reverses the Court’s
rulingon the Demurrer, that would moot any fee award.  On the other hand, if the appellate court
affirms, Defendants would likely seek additional fees, requiring a second fee
hearing and order.
 
 
 