  Case Number:  21TRCV00666    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    October 23, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21TRCV00666
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Sebastian
Medvei v. Dominique Nikko, et al.
 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant, Dominique Nikko Westmoreland 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Sebastian Maximilian Medvei (No Opposition) 
¿¿ 
DISPOSED OF DATE:           August 6, 2024
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to
Seal   
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) DENIED.  The arguments in the brief are not supported
by admissible evidence such as declarations of one or both parties that show
the factors a court is required to find to justify sealing the record 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿  
 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
September 10, 2021, Plaintiff, Sebastian Medvei (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant, Dominque Nikko Westmoreland, and DOES 1 through 100. The
Complaint alleges a cause of action for Malicious Prosecution. 
 
Plaintiff,
as a lawyer of Medvei Law Group, APC, represented a party that sued one of
Defendant’s clients, Brandi Linton, in Case No. 20STCV42456. Thereafter, in a
subsequent case, 21STCV07905, Defendant, via his client Brandi Linton, filed a
Complaint against Plaintiff, who is not an immigration consultant as defined in
the Immigrations Consultants Act (“ICA”), for violating the ICA. Plaintiff
informed Defendant that the ICA does not apply to attorneys. Plaintiff
repeatedly asked Defendant to dismiss the case and Defendant refused.
Eventually, Plaintiff served a motion for sanctions under Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7 on Defendant. In response to that motion, Defendant
voluntarily dismissed Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges a cause of action for Malicious
Prosecution.
 
The
lawsuit has since been resolved and the parties’ stipulated to a dismissal of
the action. Now, Defendant Westmoreland has filed a Motion to Seal, arguing that
the parties jointly agree that the record should be sealed because both parties
assert they have made unfavorable accusations against the other that could be
damaging to their reputations. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On September 5, 2024,
Defendant Westmoreland filed a Motion to Seal the Entire Record. No opposition
has been filed.  
 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard  
 
A party that requests that a
record or portion of a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an
application for an order sealing it, which must be accompanied by a supporting
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the
sealing. (Cal Rules of Ct 2.551(b)(1).) A copy of the motion or application to
seal must be served on all parties that have appeared in the case. (Cal Rules
of Ct 2.551(b)(2).) Unless the judge orders otherwise, any party that already
has access to the records to be placed under seal must be served with a
complete, unredacted copy of all papers as well as a redacted version. Other
parties must be served with only the public redacted version. When a party's
attorney, but not the party, has access to the record, only the party's
attorney may be served with the complete, unredacted version. (Cal Rules of Ct
2.551(b)(2).) 
A record
may be filed under seal only if the judge expressly finds facts that establish
all the following (1) an overriding interest exists that overcomes the right of
public access to the record and supports sealing the record; (2) a substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (3) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (4) no
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. (Cal Rules of
Ct 2.550(d); NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v Superior Court (1999) 20
Cal.App.4th 1178, 1217–1218; Saunders v Superior Court (2017) 12
Cal.App.5th Supp 1, 24, (right of access to judicial records is not absolute
and nondisclosure may be appropriate “for compelling countervailing reasons”
due to events that tend to undermine individual security, personal liberty, or
private property, or that injure the public or the public good)): 
Only the
specific words of documents that constitute the sensitive material should be
sealed; generally, it is not permissible to seal the entire document. Examples
of documents that may include information that may warrant sealing are: (a)
Documents containing trade secrets. (See In re Providian Credit Card Cases
(2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 292, 300 (dictum); McGuan v. Endovascular Tech., Inc.
(2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988—quality control records and complaint handling
procedures.); (b) Documents containing material protected by a privilege. (See
Huffy Corp. v. Sup.Ct. (Winterthur Swiss Ins. Co.), supra, 112 Cal.App.4th
at 108—attorney-client privilege (dictum)]; and (c) Confidential settlement
agreement. (See Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Unity
Pictures Corp.) (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283(dictum).) 
B.    Discussion 
 
Here, Defendant Westmoreland’s Motion to Seal indicates that the
parties have jointly agreed that the record should be sealed, and notes that he
has been informed that Plaintiff will not object nor oppose the motion. But the
5 short sentences of the supporting declaration do not support the key arguments
made in the memorandum of points and authorities.  The declaration does not address the four facts
the law requires for a Court to find before it can seal a document, record, or
other matter, much less the entire record as per Rule
of Ct 2.550(d);
Records may not be
filed under seal without a court order and the prerequisite motion and
findings. (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rules 2.551(a)-(b), 2.550(d)-(e).) The trial
court cannot rely solely on an agreement or stipulation of the parties as the
basis for permitting records to be filed under seal. (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
2.551(a).) The parties and their counsel are duty bound to know and apply these
rules of civil procedure. (Ten Eyck v. Industrial Forklifts Co. (1989)
216 Cal.App.3d 540, 545.) But the Westmoreland Declaration does not even
state that the parties have agreed or stipulated to seal a single document much
less the entire case file. Westmoreland argues that the parties’ overriding
interest is protecting their professional reputations within the general public
and that there is no meaningful public interest in disclosure here. But there
are facts in his declaration, as distinct from the brief, that would enable the
Court to make such a finding.  
Further, while the
moving papers argue that the sealing of records from regular public access is
narrowly tailored, and no less restrictive to meet the objective of preventing
the public access from detecting this action as representative of both
attorneys’ ability and competency in the law. The Court questions the parties
on how the sealing of all records present in a matter is narrowly tailored.  The Court questions whether the appellate
record over which this trial-level court has no authority would also be sealed,
or if a separate application for a sealing order is also being made to the Second
District.  
The Court finds that
Defendant Westmoreland has failed to carry his burden of showing the court that
the factors weigh in favor of sealing the entire record. The Court
will allow oral argument addressing the above concerns of the Court, however,
the tentative ruling is to DENY the motion to seal. 
 