 Case Number:  24TRCV00797    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 23, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV00797
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Youngkyu Lee v. Eric
Floyd, et al.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Plaintiff, Youngkyu Lee 
                                                
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendants, Eric Floyd and Wanda Dee (No Opposition)
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       November
4, 2024
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment
                                                (2) Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication  
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s moving papers carry her initial
burden of proof on an MSJ, shifting the burden to defendant to raise a triable
issue of fact such as proof of an issue to be tried as to an affirmative
defense raised by the Answer.  Defendants
did not submit any such evidence.
                                                (2) Mooted by the
granting of full MSJ
. 
             
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff, Youngkyu Lee
(“Plaintiff”) filed an Unlawful Detainer Complaint against Defendants, Eric
Floyd, Wanda Dee, and DOES 1 through 5. On August 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). Plaintiff alleges that he is the owner of
31023 Via Rivera, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90275 (“Rental Premises”). Plaintiff
contends that Defendants, Eric Floyd and Wanda Dee (collectively, “Defendants”)
are the tenants at the Rental Premises. Plaintiff argues that after months of
non-payment of rent, after receiving multiple chances, and execution of an
addendum to extend lease because Defendants requested more time to find another
rental property, Defendants continue to not pay rent. Plaintiff asserts that
Defendants have not been current on their rent since October of 2023. 
 
Plaintiff now files a motion for summary judgment or,
in the alternative, for summary adjudication, requesting this Court grant
summary adjudication in favor of Plaintiff on the following grounds: (1)
Defendants are unable to establish their affirmative defense of breach of the
warranty of habitability; (2) Defendants are unable to establish their
affirmative defense of retaliatory eviction due to tenant’s complaint; (3)
Defendants are unable to establish their affirmative defense of repair and
deduct; and (4) Defendants are unable to establish their affirmative defense of
the Tenant Protection Act of 2019. 
 
B.   
Procedural 
 
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion for Summary
Adjudication. To date, no opposition has been filed.  
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
In an
unlawful detainer proceeding, a "motion for summary judgment may be made
at any time after the answer is filed upon giving five days’ notice. Summary
judgment shall be granted or denied on the same basis as a motion under Section
437c."  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1170.7.)
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold
Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
 
Once the moving party has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto.¿To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
In
an unlawful detainer action or other action brought under chapter 4 of title 3
of part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure (commencing with section 1159), notice
of a motion for summary judgment must be given in compliance with Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1010.6 or 1013 and 1170.7. 
 
B.   
Discussion

Plaintiff argues that she is entitled to summary
judgment on her complaint on two independent grounds: (1) Expiration of a
fixed-term tenancy; and (2) failure to pay rent. 
                                            
i.         
Expiration of a Fixed-Term Tenancy
CACI 4301
sets out the necessary elements of a fixed-term tenancy: 
[Name of plaintiff] claims that [name of defendant] [and
[name of subtenant], a subtenant of [name of defendant],] no longer [has/have]
the right to occupy the property because the [lease/rental agreement/sublease]
has ended. To establish this claim, [name of plaintiff] must prove all of the
following: 
1. That [name of plaintiff]
[owns/leases] the property;
2. That [name of plaintiff] [leased/subleased]
the property to [name of defendant] until [insert end date]; 
3. That [name of
plaintiff] did not give [name of defendant] permission to continue occupying
the property after the [lease/rental agreement/sublease] ended; and  
4. That [name of
defendant] [or subtenant [name of subtenant]] is still occupying the
property. 
 
            Here, Plaintiff cites to her own
declaration, stating that she is the owner and landlord for the real property
located at 31023 Via Rivera, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90275. (Declaration of
Youngkyu Lee (“Lee Decl.”), ¶ 2.) For the second element, Plaintiff cites to
her declaration, which attaches as Exhibit A, a copy of the written lease
agreement, noting that the written lease was for a fixed term that began on
October 20, 2021 and terminated on October 31, 2023, 5:00p.m. (Lee Decl., ¶ 3,
Exhibit A, p. 1.) Further, Plaintiff notes that on January 25, 2024, Plaintiff
and Defendants entered into a written Addendum to extend the lease to a new
fixed-term date ending on March 10, 2024. (Lee Decl., ¶ 4, Exhibit B, p. 1.) 
For the third element, Plaintiff stated in her
declaration that she never gave Defendants any permission to continue occupying
the Rental Premises after the notice to pay rent or quit period elapsed, the
three-day notice to quit, or after leased expired on March 10, 2024. (Lee
Decl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff also cited to the Declaration of David Kim (“Kim
Decl.”) to state that Defendants admitted that Plaintiff never waived any of
their breaches. (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 4 & 8, Exhibits J & N, RFA No. 42.) Lastly,
for the fourth element, Plaintiff argues that Defendant continues to occupy the
Rental Premises after the lease expired and are still occupying it. (Kim Decl.,
¶¶ 4 & 8, Exhibits J & N, RFA No. 7.) Based on this, Plaintiff
argues that the undisputed material facts, admitted by Defendants themselves,
establish that Plaintiff is entitled to summary judgment on this independent
basis.  The Court notes that while the RFAs do not
admit that Plaintiff did not give permission to allow Defendants to continue
occupying the property after the addendum date ended, that is a reasonable
inference to draw from the fact that they admitted that Plaintiff did not waive
Defendants’ breaches. (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 4 & 8, Exhibits J & N, RFA No.
42.)
Based on the moving papers, Plaintiff has carried
her burden of proving a premia facie case for eviction predicated on the expiration
of a fixed-term tenancy.  Habitability is
not a defense to this ground for eviction, but Defendants have failed to raise
a triable issue of fact bearing on the habitability or any other defense.  The Motion is thus GRANTED as to the first
basis for the eviction.
                                          
ii.         
Nonpayment of Rent 
The basic elements of unlawful
detainer for nonpayment of rent contained in Code of Civil Procedure section
1161, subdivision (2), are (1) the tenant is in possession of the premises; (2)
that possession is without permission; (3) the tenant is in default for
nonpayment of rent; (4) the tenant has been properly served with a written
three-day notice; and (5) the default continues after the three-day notice
period has elapsed.” (Kruger v. Reyes (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th Supp. 10,
*16.)  
CACI 4302 more fully sets out the necessary elements: 
[Name of plaintiff] claims that [name of defendant] [and
[name of subtenant], a subtenant of [name of defendant],] no longer [has/have]
the right to occupy the property because [name of defendant] has failed to pay
the rent. To establish this claim, [name of plaintiff] must prove all of the
following: 
1. That [name of plaintiff]
[owns/leases] the property;
2. That [name of plaintiff]
[rented/subleased] the property to [name of defendant]; 
3. That under
the [lease/rental agreement/sublease], [name of defendant] was required to pay
rent in the amount of $[specify amount] per [specify period, e.g.,
month]; 
4. That [name of
plaintiff] properly gave [name of defendant] three days’ written notice to pay
the rent or vacate the property; 
5. That as of
[date of three-day notice], at least the amount stated in the three-day notice
was due; 
6. That [name of
defendant] did not pay the amount stated in the notice within three days after
[service/receipt] of the notice; and 
7. That [name of
defendant] [or subtenant [name of subtenant]] is still occupying the
property. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that
undisputed facts can prove each of the elements. First, Plaintiff asserts that she
owns the property. (Lee Decl., ¶ 2.) Second, she asserts that she rented the
Rental Premises to Defendants through the Initial Lease and the subsequent
Addendum. (Lee Decl.,
¶ 3 & 4, Exhibit A, p. 1, Exhibit B, p. 1.) Plaintiff contends that under
the lease and addendum, Defendants were required to pay $7,850.00
in monthly rent under both. (Lee Decl., ¶ 3 & 4, Exhibit A & B.) Plaintiff argues that Defendants
failed to pay rent as required and due, citing to Defendants’ RFA admissions. (Kim
Decl., ¶¶ 4 & 8, Exhibits J & N, RFA Nos. 20-21, 23-24, 29.) Plaintiff
also asserts that as a result of non-payment of rent, on February 22, 2024,
Plaintiff caused to be served to Defendants a three-day notice to pay rent or
quit requesting payment of $29,438.00 in unpaid rent, including the 3-day
notice to pay rent or quit. (Lee Decl., ¶ 5, Exhibit C.) Plaintiff also
includes for this fourth element the process server, Joshua Chang’s
declaration, noting that he served the 3-day notice on February 22, 2024.
(Chang Decl., ¶ 2, Exhibit E.) Moreover, Plaintiff also includes Defendants RFA
admissions that they were served with this notice. (Kim Decl., ¶ 8, Exhibit N,
RFA Nos. 8-9.) 
Next, as to the next element,
Plaintiff states that as of the date of the three-day notice, February 22,
2024, Defendants owed at least $29,438.00 in unpaid rent, as stated in the
three-day notice. (Lee Decl., ¶ 6; Kim Decl. ¶¶ 8 & 13, Exhibit N, RFA Nos.
2, 18, Exhibit S FI-UD Nos. 70.11, Exhibit N, RFA Nos 20-21, 23-24, 29.) As to
this amount, Plaintiff’s evidence establishes prima facie proof that  Defendants did not pay the amount stated in
the notice, or any portion thereof, within three days after service of the
notice, or at any time thereafter, which was admitted by the Defendants in
their RFAs. (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 8, Exhibit N, RFA Nos. 10-14, 20-21, 23-24, 29.) Afterwards,
on March 4, 2024, Plaintiff asserts that she caused to be served to Defendants
a three-day notice to quit. (Fact 10.) Defendants continued to occupy the
Rental Premises after both of these notices and are still occupying the Rental
Premises. (Kim Decl., ¶ 8, Exhibit N, RFA No. 7.) Thus, on either of these two
independent grounds, Plaintiff argues that summary judgment must be granted in
Plaintiff’s favor, especially in light of Defendants’ admissions.  The Court agrees and finds that Plaintiff
has established a prima facie case for eviction based on non-payment of
rent.  In the absence of any opposition
evidecen to raised a triable issue of fact, the Court thus GRANTS summary judgment.
Plaintiff argues that Defendants
have identified two primary conditions that they contend are the habitability
violations: (1) fallen fencing; and (2) cracks on exterior pillar of the house.
While Defendants’ Answer to the FAC lists fifteen (15) issues under this
affirmative defense, which could be a defense in a failure-to-pay case, an
Answer cannot be raised as opposition to an MSJ.   “[I]t is axiomatic that the party opposing
summary judgment “ ‘must produce admissible evidence raising a triable issue of
fact.’” (KB Salt Lake III, LLC v. Fitness Internat., LLC (2023) 95
Cal.App.5th 1032, 1054, quoting All Towing Services LLC v. City of Orange
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 946, 960.)  In KB
Salt Lake, the trial court granted the landlord’s MSJ and the Court of
Appeal affirmed, noting that the tenant’s opposition raised various legal arguments
but no triable a issue of fact bearing on the landlord’s prima facie proof of a
failure to pay rent.  Here, there was no
opposition filed and not even an argument has been raised in opposition to the motion.  A defendant cannot rely upon the mere
allegations or denials of her or his pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists; rather, the defense must “set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o) (1).)  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849.)  
            Plaintiff also argues the undisputed
material facts admitted by Defendants themselves establish that they cannot
succeed on the repair and deduct defense. First, Plaintiff includes the RFA
Admissions of Defendants as to RFA No. 39: “Admit that you never deducted any
repairs from the rent owed for the RENTAL PREMISES.” (Kim Decl., ¶ 8, Exhibit
N., RFA No. 39.)  Second, Plaintiff also includes
Defendants’ admission to RFA No. 72 which stated: “Admit that you never gave
notice of any amounts expended for repairs on the RENTAL PREMISES to Plaintiff
Youngkyu Lee.”   The Court agrees that
Plaintiff has carried her burden on summary adjudication as to the repair and
deduct affirmative defense, and without an opposition carrying the shifted
burden, summary adjudication as to this affirmative defense would be granted if
full summary judgment were not being also granted here. 
 
                                        
iii.         
Tenant Protection Act of 2019
 
Plaintiff lastly argues that this
court should grant summary adjudication as to Defendants’ affirmative defense
of the Tenant Protection Act of 2019 on the grounds that: (1) The Tenant
Protection Act of 2019 does not apply to expiration of fixed-term tenancies;
and (2) Plaintiff had “at-fault just cause” due to Defendants’ failure to pay
rent and Plaintiff complied with all the TPA requirements. The court agrees
that, in this case, the TPA does not apply to the fixed-term lease as the lease
would terminate on its own and not by the landlord’s just/unjust cause. Thus,
the court analyzes Plaintiff’s second point. 
 
Pursuant to Civil Code section 1946.2,
subdivision (b)(1)(A), “At-fault just cause” is defined as “Default in the
payment of rent.”   Plaintiff’s movng
papers carry the initial burden on summary judgment to show that default in the
payment of rent occurred here, and that Plaintiff satisfied the notice
requirements.  Were this Court not granting
summary judgment in full, it would grant summary adjudication on the TPA defense
given the prima facie proof of the ground of non-payment of rent as a basis for
eviction, and given Defendants’ failure to raise a triable issue of fact in
opposition.  
 
IV.
CONCLUSION
 
            Based on the foregoing, this Court
finds Moving Defendants have shown as a matter of law that no triable issue of
material fact exists as to the expiration of fixed term tenancy and/or the non-payment
of rent ground for eviction.  Thus, the
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to provide
notice. 
 