 Case Number:  23STCV21144    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
9-10-24
Case
23STCV21144
Trial
Date: 10-7-24
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Del Terra Real Estate Services, Inc., et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Pinner Construction Co., Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Second Amended Complaint
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Negligence
·        
3rd
Cause of Action: Violations of Business and Professions Code section 17200
·        
6th
Cause of Action: Taxpayer Temporary and Permanent Injunction Injunctions
Setting Aside Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
November 15, 2016, Plaintiff Pioneer Construction Co., Inc. entered into a
contract with defendant Rio Hondo Community College District (Rio Hondo) for
the construction of Rio Hondo College “L” Tower Project. Rio Hondo also hired
defendant Del Terra Real Estate Services, Inc. dba Del Terra Group as
construction manager for the project. The president of Del Terra is defendant
Luis Rojas. 
 
Plaintiff
alleges the Del Terra defendants intentionally sought to delay construction in
order to yield additional fees and/or cut compensation to Plaintiff. After a
purported 925 day delay, Del Terra “forced” Plaintiff and the subcontractors to
“accept far less than what was owed” under the contract or file for bankruptcy.
Plaintiff settled for $5,243.525, thereby foregoing an additional $2,691.484
sought. Plaintiff alleges the Del Terra parties are under criminal
investigation and were able to engineer the delays due to “control” of at least
three seats on the Rio Hondo Community College District Board of Trustees. Defendants
Marilyn Flores, Kristal Orozco, Anais Medina Diaz, Oscar Valladares, Rosaelva
Lomeli, and Vicky Santana, are identified as members of said board of trustees.
 
On
September 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of Contract, Breach
of Implied Warranty of the Plans and Specifications, Intentional Interference
with Contractual Relations, International Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage, Recission of Contract, Violations of Business and
Professions Code section 17200, and Vicarious Liability for Interference with
Contract and Prospective Business Advantage. On September 25, 2023, Rio Hondo
Community College District filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff for Breach
of Written Construction Contract, Breach of Written Settlement Agreement,
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Money Damages and
Civil Penalties for Violations of California False Claims Act, Making or Using
False Records of Statements to Obtain payment or Approval of False Claims; and
Conspiracy to Violate the False Claims Act.
 
On
October 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed its first amended complaint for Breach of
Contract, Breach of Implied Warranty of the Plans and Specifications,
Intentional Interference with Contract, Negligence, Recission of Contract,
Violations of Business and Professions Code section 17200, Vicarious Liability
for Interference with Contract, Taxpayer Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty,
Taxpayer Action for Waster, Taxpayer Action for Temporary and Permanent
Injunctions Setting Aside Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra.
 
On
February 29, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer of Rio Hondo Community
College District, Marilyn Flores (“Flores”), Kristal Orozco, Anais Medina Diaz,
Oscar Valladares, Rosaelva Lomeli, and Vicky Santana to the first, second,
fourth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth causes of action for Breach of
Contract, Breach of Implied Warranty of the Plans and Specifications,
Negligence, Recission of Contract, Vicarious Liability for Interference with
Contract, Taxpayer Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Taxpayer Action for
Waster, Taxpayer Action for Temporary and Permanent Injunctions Setting Aside
Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra with leave to amend. On February 29,
2024, the court sustained the demurrer of Del Terra Real Estate Services, Inc.
dba Del Terra Group and Luis Rojas to fourth cause of action for negligence in
the first amended complaint, and overruled the demurrer to the third, sixth,
and tenth causes of action for Intentional Interference with Contract,
Violations of Business and Professions Code section 17200, and Taxpayer Action
for Temporary and Permanent Injunctions Setting Aside Contracts between RHCCD
and Del Terra causes of action. 
 
On
March 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint for Intentional
Interference with Contract, Negligence, Violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200, Taxpayer Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Taxpayer
Action for Waste, Taxpayer Action for Temporary and Permanent Injunctions
Setting Aside Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra.
 
RULING
Demurrer:
Overruled in Part/Sustained with Leave to Amend in Part.
Defendants
Del Terra Real Estate Services, Inc. dba Del Terra Group and Luis Rojas (Del
Terra) submit a demurrer to the first, second, third, and sixth causes of
action in the second amended complaint for Intentional Interference with
Contract, Negligence, Violations of Business and Professions Code section
17200, and Taxpayer Action for Temporary and Permanent Injunctions Setting
Aside Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra. Defendants move on grounds of the
statute of limitations, and lack of sufficient facts to allege “viable” causes
of action. Plaintiff Pioneer Construction Co., Inc. (Pinner) in opposition cite
back to the prior order of the court overruling the demurrer and maintain the
subject arguments continue to lack merit. Del Terra in reply reiterates the
statute of limitations, the lack of viability, and flaws in the operative
complaint. 
 
A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by
raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading,
for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally
construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules,
where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.]
 
On February 29, 2024, the court overruled the demurrer to
the Intentional Interference with Contract, Violations of Business and
Professions Code section 17200, and Taxpayer Action for Temporary and Permanent
Injunctions Setting Aside Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra causes of
action, when they were numbered as third, sixth, and tenth causes of action.
While Plaintiff notes the prior order overruling the demurrer certain appellate
districts considering the question of successive demurrers on previously
overruled causes of action allow such practices. “The
objecting party is acting properly in raising the point at his first
opportunity, by general demurrer. If the demurrer is erroneously overruled, he
is acting properly in raising the point again, at his next opportunity. If the
trial judge made the former ruling himself, he is not bound by it.” Ion
Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 877; Carlton v. Dr.
Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal. App. 4th 1200, 1211; Pacific
States Enterprises, Inc. v. City of Coachella (1993) 13 Cal. App. 4th 1414,
1420 (footnote 3).) The Second Appellate District, which governs this court,
however, appears to treat such a practice as an improper motion for
reconsideration barring a showing of new or different facts. (Bennett v. Suncloud (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 91, 96-97.)
 
Following all of these cases however was a change in the
Code of Civil Procedure which states: “A party demurring to a pleading that has
been amended after a demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading was
sustained shall not demur to any portion of the amended complaint,
cross-complaint, or answer on grounds that could have been raised by demurrer
to the earlier version of the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).) The court adheres to the new state wide
standard presented in the Code of Civil Procedure, and declines to seek
distinction from prior out of district appellate district authority.
 
Even if the court considered any and all new arguments, the
court adheres to the Second Appellate District authority under the reconsideration
standard, whereby the new demurrer would require reexamination and
consideration of new or different facts. Other than renumbered causes of
action, the demurrer lacks any identification of altered allegations or newly
presented arguments. 
 
A review of the prior order and demurrer shows no challenge
on the statute of limitations. The court will not now consider argument over
the statute of limitations. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).) The
demurrer is overruled as to this new argument. 
 
The
court also previously found three of the challenged causes of action were
properly pled, as to intentional interference with contract, violations of
Business and Professions Code section 17200, and taxpayer temporary and permanent
injunction injunctions setting aside contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra. A
comparison of the challenged allegations in the first and second amended
complaint show no material changes between the pled causes of action. The court
finds the restated arguments offer no new argument justifying reconsideration.
The court also finds no erroneous ruling upon second presentation thereby justifying
sua sponte reconsideration. 
 
The
demurrer is overruled as the first, third, and sixth causes of action, with the
parties directed to the February 29, 2024, order of the court for reference.
“If a demurrer is overruled as to a cause of action and that cause of action is
not further amended, the demurring party preserves its right to appeal after
final judgment without filing a further demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (g).)
 
2nd
Cause of Action: Negligence
Del
Terra challenges the subject claim on grounds of failure to state an
independent cause of action due to the incorporation of the prior claims
without any specific distinction for the negligence elements. Del Terra also introduces
a new argument regarding a bar under the economic loss rule, due to a lack of
distinction between the tort and contractual damages claims. Plaintiff counters
the negligence claim is well pled based on a sufficient showing of duty between
the parties. The court previously sustained the demurrer to the instant cause
of action, and will therefore address previously raised arguments. Because the
newly pled complaint now incorporates allegations regarding the economic loss
rule, the court will also consider the new economic loss rule position. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).) 
 
“To state
a cause of action for negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant
owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2) the defendant breached that duty, and
(3) the breach proximately caused the plaintiff's damages or injuries.” (Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62.) The first amended
complaint incorporated the prior allegations and then conclusively alleged the
negligence standard without any factual context other than incorporation. [First
Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 36-40.] 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff cites to paragraph 12 of the
second amended complaint, as well as paragraphs from the third cause of action
for intentional interference with contract which are in no way incorporated
into the previously filed identified cause of action. Paragraph 12 in the
second amended complaint identifies a long list of dates involving alleged
prior unlawful conduct by the Del Terra defendants. The actual negligence cause
of action itself also now includes a allegation of a duty of care based on the
“administering” of the contract, which led to “economic loss.” [Sec. Amend.
Comp., ¶¶ 43.]
 
The court finds a list of alleged prior criminal
conduct lacks support for a finding of a basis of duty unless Plaintiff relies
on the allegation regarding Del Terra became the designated contract manager.
Paragraph 14 of the operative complaint continues: 
 
“PCC is informed and believes and based thereon
alleges that in or about January 2018, Del Terra and Luis Rojas, and each of
them, formulated a scheme to intentionally delay the Project and earn
themselves hundreds of thousands – if not millions – of dollars of additional
compensation. This scheme consisted of interfering with the Project’s required
plan revision and submission process. The scheme was successfully carried out
as the interference delayed the Project by 926 days and, as contemplated, resulted
in Del Terra earning itself almost $1 million in additional compensation for
its work on the Project.” 
 
The allegations continue with articulation of the
manifestation of said “scheme” [Sec. Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 15-24], until September
23, 2022, when “Del Terra completely abandoned its most basic obligations as
the Project’s construction manager by refusing to respond to PCC’s telephone
calls and emails. This refusal prevented a close out of the Project, prevented
processing of final change orders, and prevented release of PCC’s retention.”
[Id., ¶ 25.]
 
While the economic loss rule presents a potential
basis of new challenge, the court again cannot determine a basis of duty
between the parties. Del Terra was brought in as the construction manager on
behalf of the Rio Hondo parties, not Plaintiff. Furthermore, the demurrer and
opposition cite to inapplicable portions of the second amended complaint. The
review of the actual operative sections again leads to a conclusion questioning
any basis of duty or reasonable reliance. Without an articulated basis of duty,
the court declines to make an advisory opinion on potential economic loss rule
consideration in that said argument still assumes some form of duty between the
parties. (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022)
12 Cal.5th 905, 922.)
 
The demurrer is sustained on this cause of action.
 
In summary, demurrer is sustained as to the negligence cause
of action, and overruled on the remainder. Plaintiff may not add any new causes
of action or allegations to the previously existing claims. (Harris v.
Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) Any new
causes of action added without leave of court may be subject to a motion to
strike. If Plaintiff elects to forego filing an amended pleading, the Del Terra
defendants are ordered to answer the remaining complaint within 10 days of the
lapse of the amendment deadline.
 
“In response to a demurrer and prior to the case being at
issue, a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended more than three
times, absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to be
pleaded that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to state
a cause of action. The three-amendment limit shall not include an amendment
made without leave of the court pursuant to Section 472, provided the amendment
is made before a demurrer to the original complaint or cross-complaint is
filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (e)(1).) The court has now twice
reviewed the negligence cause of action. 
 
Del Terra Defendants to give notice to all parties.Dept.
68Date:
9-10-24Case
23STCV21144Trial
Date: 10-7-24 DEMURRER MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Rio Hondo Community College District, et al.RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Pinner Construction Co., Inc. RELIEF
REQUESTEDDemurrer
to the Second Amended Complaint·        
4th
Cause of Action: Taxpayer Breach of Fiduciary Duty·        
5th
Cause of Action: Taxpayer action for Waste·        
6th
Cause of Action: Taxpayer Temporary and Permanent Injunction Injunctions
Setting Aside Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra SUMMARY
OF ACTIONOn
November 15, 2016, Plaintiff Pioneer Construction Co., Inc. entered into a
contract with defendant Rio Hondo Community College District (Rio Hondo) for
the construction of Rio Hondo College “L” Tower Project. Rio Hondo also hired
defendant Del Terra Real Estate Services, Inc. dba Del Terra Group as
construction manager for the project. The president of Del Terra is defendant
Luis Rojas.  Plaintiff
alleges the Del Terra defendants intentionally sought to delay construction in
order to yield additional fees and/or cut compensation to Plaintiff. After a
purported 925 day delay, Del Terra “forced” Plaintiff and the subcontractors to
“accept far less than what was owed” under the contract or file for bankruptcy.
Plaintiff settled for $5,243.525, thereby foregoing an additional $2,691.484
sought. Plaintiff alleges the Del Terra parties are under criminal
investigation and were able to engineer the delays due to “control” of at least
three seats on the Rio Hondo Community College District Board of Trustees. Defendants
Marilyn Flores, Kristal Orozco, Anais Medina Diaz, Oscar Valladares, Rosaelva
Lomeli, and Vicky Santana, are identified as members of said board of trustees. On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of Contract, Breach of
Implied Warranty of the Plans and Specifications, Intentional Interference with
Contractual Relations, International Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage, Recission of Contract, Violations of Business and Professions Code
section 17200, and Vicarious Liability for Interference with Contract and
Prospective Business Advantage. On September 25, 2023, Rio Hondo Community
College District filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff for Breach of
Written Construction Contract, Breach of Written Settlement Agreement, Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Money Damages and Civil
Penalties for Violations of California False Claims Act, Making or Using False
Records of Statements to Obtain payment or Approval of False Claims; and,
Conspiracy to Violate the False Claims Act. On
October 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed its first amended complaint for Breach of
Contract, Breach of Implied Warranty of the Plans and Specifications,
Intentional Interference with Contract, Negligence, Recission of Contract,
Violations of Business and Professions Code section 17200, Vicarious Liability
for Interference with Contract, Taxpayer Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty,
Taxpayer Action for Waster, Taxpayer Action for Temporary and Permanent
Injunctions Setting Aside Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra. On
February 29, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer of Rio Hondo Community
College District, Marilyn Flores (“Flores”), Kristal Orozco, Anais Medina Diaz,
Oscar Valladares, Rosaelva Lomeli, and Vicky Santana to the first, second,
fourth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth causes of action for Breach of
Contract, Breach of Implied Warranty of the Plans and Specifications,
Negligence, Recission of Contract, Vicarious Liability for Interference with
Contract, Taxpayer Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Taxpayer Action for
Waster, Taxpayer Action for Temporary and Permanent Injunctions Setting Aside
Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra with leave to amend. On February 29,
2024, the court sustained the demurrer of Del Terra Real Estate Services, Inc.
dba Del Terra Group and Luis Rojas to fourth cause of action for negligence in
the first amended complaint, and overruled the demurrer to the third, sixth,
and tenth causes of action for Intentional Interference with Contract,
Violations of Business and Professions Code section 17200, and Taxpayer Action
for Temporary and Permanent Injunctions Setting Aside Contracts between RHCCD
and Del Terra causes of action.  On
March 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint for Intentional
Interference with Contract, Negligence, Violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200, Taxpayer Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Taxpayer
Action for Waste, Taxpayer Action for Temporary and Permanent Injunctions
Setting Aside Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra. RULING: Overruled.Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted.·        
The
court can take judicial notice of the existence of the documents, but not the
content for any truth of the matter asserted.·        
The
court takes judicial notice of the filing of the government claim and contents
only. Gong v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 369 (footnote
1).) Defendants
Rio Hondo Community College District (Rio Hondo), Marilyn Flores (“Flores”),
Kristal Orozco (“Orozco”), Anais Medina Diaz (“Diaz”), Oscar Valladares
(“Valladares”), Rosaelva Lomeli (“Lomeli”) and Vicky Santana (“Santana”) submit
a demurrer to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action in the second
amended complaint for Taxpayer Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Taxpayer action for
Waste, and Taxpayer Action for Temporary and Permanent Injunctions Setting
Aside Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra. Defendants collectively challenge
the second amended complaint on grounds of a prematurely filed complaint, to
wit, filed before any action was taken on the claim; the subject action alleges
causes of action beyond the scope of the issues presented in the claim; the
claim letter omits the name of the Trustee defendants; the claim period on the
fourth of action is now time barred; all causes of action are uncertain; and,
the individual trustee defendants are immune from any personal liability under
the Government Claims Act. Plaintiff
in opposition contends the Government Tort Claims Act in no way bars the tax
payer claims, thereby excusing any compliance requirements with the claim
requirements. Even if the Government Tort Claims Act applies, Plaintiff
maintains sufficient compliance with the notice requirements under substantial
compliance doctrine due to both a rejection of the claim before any appearance
in the action, and through notice sufficiently apprizing defendants of all
claims. Plaintiff denies any time bar as the damages continue to accrue. Plaintiff
denies any uncertainty and immunity. Plaintiff alternatively requests leave to
amend.  Defendants
in reply reiterate the arguments in the demurrer, including application of the
Government Tort Claims Act to taxpayer claims; lack of substantial compliance
doctrine to excuse the premature filing of the complaint less than 45 days from
the date of the claim; non-compliance with the Government Claims Act;
uncertainty; and immunity. Defendants also deny any tolling of the statute of
limitations, and maintain leave to amend would be futile. A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by
raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading,
for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally
construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.) “A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules,
where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.] Premature
FilingDefendants challenge the filing of
the complaint only seven days after the submission of the claim. The argument
depends on the request for judicial notice of a copy of the purported claim
with a received date of May 15, 2023. [Req. Jud. Not., Ex. 2.] The opposition offers
no objection or dispute the submitted date of the claim, and instead challenges
the applicability of the Government Tort Claims Act. “Except as provided in Sections
946.4 and 946.6, no suit for money or damages may be brought against a public
entity on a cause of action for which a claim is required to be presented …
until a written claim therefor has been presented to the public entity and has
been acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by the
board...” (Gov. Code, § 945.4.) “A claim
relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to personal
property or growing crops shall be presented … not later than six months after
the accrual of the cause of action.” (Gov. Code, § 911.2, subd. (a).)  “If the
board fails or refuses to act on an application within the time prescribed by
this section, the application shall be deemed to have been denied on the 45th
day or, if the period within which the board is required to act is extended by
agreement pursuant to this section, the last day of the period specified in the
agreement.” (Gov. Code, § 911.6, subd. (c).) The fourth and fifth causes of action allege the following
damages claims: “As a result, the taxpayers have suffered at least the
following damages: (a) all monies paid to Del Terra; (b) the loss of use of the
facility resulting from the delays caused by Del Terra; (c) the monies that
RHCCD will be forced to pay PCC and its subcontractors as a result of delays to
the project; and (d) attorney and claims consultants’ fees paid by RHCCD to
defend additional claims regarding the Project delays.” While perhaps phrased
as a tax payer recovery, subsection (c) regarding money paid to “PCC and its
subcontractors” clearly anticipates some form of (collateral) recovery. Said
allegation at a minimum implicitly seeks recovery of damages notwithstanding
the intentional omission of explicitly seeking said recovery from the
government entity directly. The court finds the situation from the pled
distinction of non-sought funds directly from the government entity in no way
renders the improperly spent taxpayer funds paid back to Plaintiff relieves
Plaintiff from the claim filing requirement. (Stanson v. Mott (1976) 17
Cal.3d 206, 224; Gates v. Superior Court (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 301, 307;
see Minsky v. City of Los Angeles (1974) 11 Cal.3d 113, 117; Escamilla
v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th
498, 506.)  As noted
above, the claim was received on May 15, 2023. The complaint was filed on May
22, 2023, which is less than 45 days from the claim expiration date. The action
was therefore prematurely filed. (Lowry
v. Port San Luis Harbor District (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 211, 219.) The court within in its
discretion can dismiss the case based on an inability to amend the complaint to
correct the defect, (Id. at p. 221 [“[Plaintiff’s] noncompliance
with the Act cannot be cured by amending the complaint to allege [it] complied.”].)
Later cases considering the impact of premature filing however allow for
substantial compliance doctrine to avoid overly technical application of the
statute where no showing of prejudice to the government entity appears. (Malear
v. State (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 213, 221-222.) The filing of the first
amended complaint on October 13, 2023, both constituted a superseding pleading,
and therefore informed Defendants of all claims. (Ibid.) The court overrules
the demurrer on prematurity grounds. Scope of
ClaimOn the
scope of the claims, Defendants challenge the claim as not reflective of the
items addressed in the claim letter. Specifically, the letter addresses the
purported wrongful conduct of the Del Terra defendants, but nothing references
the taxpayer claims under Government Code section 526a. Defendants also
challenge the lack of any identification of the individual defendants.  “The
claim [] need not specify each particular act or omission later proven to have
caused the injury. (Citation.) A complaint's fuller exposition of the
factual basis beyond that given in the claim is not fatal, so long as the
complaint is not based on an ‘entirely different set of facts.’ (Citation.)
Only where there has been a ‘complete shift in allegations, usually involving
an effort to premise civil liability on acts or omissions committed at
different times or by different persons than those described in the claim,’
have courts generally found the complaint barred. (Citation.) Where the
complaint merely elaborates or adds further detail to a claim, but is
predicated on the same fundamental actions or failures to act by the
defendants, courts have generally found the claim fairly reflects the facts
pled in the complaint. (Citation.)” (Stockett v. Association of Cal.
Water Agencies Joint Powers Ins. Authority (2004) 34 Cal.4th 441, 447; Plata
v. City of San Jose (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 736, 749.) “If a plaintiff relies
on more than one theory of recovery against the [governmental agency], each
cause of action must have been reflected in a timely claim. In addition, the
factual circumstances set forth in the written claim must correspond with the
facts alleged in the complaint; even if the claim were timely, the complaint is
vulnerable to a demurrer [or motion for judgment on the pleadings] if it
alleges a factual basis for recovery which is not fairly reflected in the
written claim.” (Fall River Joint Unified School Dist. v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 431, 434.) The claim
itself categorically identifies the subject matter as one for “failing to
comply with California law and the terms of the contract.” The claim continues
with the allegations of alleged misconduct in bringing in the Del Terra parties
for project management, but contends said source of conduct was due to the
“criminal tactics” of the Del Terra parties. Plaintiff therefore seeks to
allege a claim of vicarious tort liability as well, but identified as the
interference with contract damages claims. [Req. Jud. Not., Ex. 2.] In
considering the sufficiency of the claim, the court may consider the legal
foundation for the claims, but cannot render granular distinctions specifically
analyzing the factual basis of support for the three challenged causes of
action based on the claim letter and operative pleading. (Plata v. City of
San Jose, supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at p. 749; Fall River Joint Unified
School Dist. v. Superior Court, supra, 206 Cal.App.3d at p. 434.)
Again, the claim letter specifically identifies a contract claim on which the
court finds no relationship to a taxpayer suit. Nevertheless, in alleging the
wrongful conduct by the Del Terra defendants and the purported influence
resulting in the identified vicarious liability tortious interference with
contract claims, the court considers the basis of a taxpayer claim.  “[T]he
powers of municipal officers are well defined. Their modes of procedure in all
matters of expenditure are pointed out with particularity. They are given by
law a legal adviser, and, if not, are fully empowered to employ one. There is
no occasion whatsoever for their taking any step without such advice. There is
no reason for their ever making any illegal expenditure of the public's moneys.
To countenance the making by these officials of an illegal expenditure in one
case is to open wide the door for like expenditures in every case.” (Stanson
v. Mott (1976) 17 Cal.3d 206, 223–224.) “A taxpayer in his representative
capacity can sue a municipality only in cases involving fraud, collusion, ultra
vires, or a failure on the part of the governmental body to perform a duty
specifically enjoined.” (Silver v. City of Los Angeles (1961) 57 Cal.2d
39, 40-41.)  While not
an exact match, the claim categorically identifies allegedly improper conduct
by the District acting through its trustees. Given such contracts are paid with
taxpayer funds provided to the District to manage under its authority, any and
all claims can arise for both recovery of personal damages, as well as a
taxpayer claim. For purposes of the demurrer, the court therefore finds the
later articulated claim for taxpayer relief sufficiently arises from the claim
against both the district and the trustees. The demurrer is overruled on this
basis. In ruling on the subject issue for purposes of the demurrer, however,
nothing precludes later, factual consideration. (Plata v. City of San Jose,
supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at p. 749.)  Time BarredDefendants contend the “claim” on
the fourth cause of action for Taxpayer Breach of Fiduciary Duty is
barred. The position depends on a finding that any
purported breach of fiduciary duty occurred no later than January 2018, when
Del Terra became the project manager. Defendants also reference a “Settlement
Agreement” on January 15, 2021. [Sec. Amend. Comp., ¶ 22.] Plaintiff in
opposition contend the taxpayer liability claim actually accrued in 2022, when
the Del Terra parties were awarded a new contract with a 14% premium increase
over project value. [Sec. Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 24, 55.] The argument depends on the claim filing deadlines, which
were previously found premature, but timely with the filing of the first
amended complaint. The court therefore declines to find the cause of action
barred under this standard.  The demurrer otherwise lacks actual address of the
underlying, applicable statutes of limitations for the individual cause of
action, which range as long as four years for the breach of contract claim.
Plaintiff on the other hand presents discussion of delayed discovery yet the
operative complaint lacks any such allegations of specific dates. [Sec. Amend.
Comp., ¶¶ 24, 55.] Assuming a potential accrual date “sometime in or around
2022,” an argument can be made for no lapse of the statute of limitations
assuming a potential four year statute of limitations. The court declines to
infer any and all dates based on the limited legal support and unfound
allegations of dates, notwithstanding the parties citation to the operative
complaint along with other unclear sections. [See Sec. Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 18, 23,
24, 55.] Given the lack of sufficiently supported argument and the
burden on Defendants to challenge the operative allegations, the court
overrules the demurrer. Again, the ruling only applies to the subject demurrer,
and in no way bars later, more articulated consideration of the issue. Sufficiency and Government ImmunityDefendants challenge the
sufficiency of the challenged causes of action, and maintain immunity applies. The court
previously overruled the demurrer on sufficiency and immunity. Defendants
present no basis for reconsideration or justification for not raising any
potentially new arguments. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b); Bennett v. Suncloud (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 91, 96-97.) The demurrer is overruled. In summary, the demurrer is OVERRULED in its entirety. Due to the concurrent demurrer of the Del Terra parties,
should Plaintiffs not file a third amended complaint, the court orders
defendants to answer the second amended complaint within 40 days of the Del
Terra demurrer order (e.g. 30 days leave to amend was granted on the negligence
cause of action, with a 10 day period to answer upon the lapse of the amendment
deadline, if applicable). If Plaintiffs elect to proceed with a third amended
complaint, Defendants are also ordered to answer said complain within 10 days unless
Plaintiff adds any new unauthorized addition of new causes of action or
allegations subject to a motion to strike or potential demurrer. Moving Defendants to give notice to all parties. 

 