 Case Number:  21STCV02613    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  8, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV02613




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Reconsideration




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Maria Elenas




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 22, 2021, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendant Ampam Parks Mechanical Inc. Defendant filed
an answer on March 11, 2021. The matter was set for a Final Status Conference
on August 29, 2023 (“FSC”). Plaintiff’s counsel did not appear. On that date,
the Court set an Order to Show Cause Re: monetary sanctions against all counsel
for failure to comply with the 8th Amended General Standing Order to
be ready for the final status conference (“OSC”). Counsel for defendant was
ordered to give notice to Plaintiff. (See Minute Order Dated August 29, 2023.)
A notice of ruling and proof of service were filed on August 29, 2023.
Defendant filed a declaration in response to the order to show cause. On
September 12, 2023, Plaintiff again failed to appear and was ordered to pay
monetary sanctions in the amount of $250. (See Minute Order Dated September 12,
2023.)
 
Plaintiff now moves for reconsideration
of the Court’s monetary sanction order.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 provides, in pertinent
part:   
 
“(a) When an application for an order has been made to a
judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.  
 
(b) A party who originally made an application for an order
which was refused in whole or in part, or granted conditionally or on terms,
may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to
be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a
subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on an ex parte
motion.   
… 
(e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with
regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to
reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered
by any judge or court unless made according to this section.”  
(Code Civ. Proc. section 1008, subds. (a),
(b), (e).)   
 
A motion for
reconsideration under Section 1008 requires that the moving party present new
or different facts that were not previously considered by the Court. (New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.)
However, the burden under Section 1008 “is comparable to that of a party
seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information
must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered or produced it at the trial.” (Id.; Even Zohar
Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61
Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that Section 1008 imposes the special requirement of
having to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also
to “show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new
or different information earlier…”].)¿¿A disagreement with a ruling is not a
new fact that will support the granting of a motion for reconsideration. (Gilberd
v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.)  
 
If the above
statutory requirements are granted, reconsideration should be granted. However,
a court is not required to change its decision upon reconsideration. (Corns
v. Miller (1986) 181 CA3d 195, 202, 226 CR 247, 251.) Although parties may
move for reconsideration only as authorized by Code of Civil Procedure section
1008, the statute “do[es] not limit the court's ability, on its own motion, to
reconsider its prior interim orders so it may correct its own errors.” (Le
Francois v. Goel¿(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107.)  
            
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff argues that counsel had
no notice of the OSC and the parties had agreed to request a trial continuance
on September 5, 2023. (Keshmiri Dec.¶ 2.)[1]
 
Plaintiff’s counsel does not
explain the initial failure to appear at the August 29, 2023 FSC when the OSC
was set. Plaintiff argues that counsel had no notice of the OSC, but Defendant
filed a proof of service of notice to counsel. Moreover, as to the OSC itself,
Plaintiff does not explain why counsel did not promptly return the stipulation
to continue to counsel for Defendant for filing in advance of the FSC. (See
Tusa Dec. in response to OSC ¶ 8-9 [explaining that defense counsel mailed the
stipulation on 8/21/23 and plaintiff’s counsel did not return it until
8/28/23].) Plaintiff’s counsel refers to a stipulation to continue trial that
was filed after the FSC, which does not explain the failure to be prepared for
the FSC itself.
 
Nonetheless, although there is a
presumption of notice given the proof of service of notice of the OSC, the
Court vacates the order for monetary sanctions on September 12, 2023 in light
of counsel’s sworn testimony that counsel did not receive notice of the OSC.
Counsel is admonished to be prepared and in compliance with the Court’s orders,
including in particular the 8th Amended Standing Order for
Procedures Governing PI Hub Courts, and to appear in court when ordered. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration. The September
12, 2023 order for monetary sanctions against counsel for Plaintiff is vacated.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 


