 Case Number:  21STCV05140    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  8, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV05140




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant City of Alhambra




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
3.      Declaration of Richard Vergara
4.      Declaration of Mariam Ko
5.      Declaration of Charles H. Abbott
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 8, 2021, Plaintiff
Liling Zhong (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants City of Alhambra
and Does 1 to 50 for premises liability, general negligence, and dangerous
condition of public property. Plaintiff alleges that she tripped and fell on uneven
ground at S. El Molino St. and E. Shorb St. in Alhambra, California. 
 
Defendant City of Alhambra
(Defendant) now moves for summary judgment arguing that no triable issue of material
fact exists. No opposition was timely filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) “The function of
the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)  As to each claim
as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential
element, or to establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v.
D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)            
 
DISCUSSION
 
Government Code section 835 states:¿“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred, and either:¿ 
 
(a) A
negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within
the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or¿¿ 
 
(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2
a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against
the dangerous condition.”¿¿ 
 
Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for
dangerous condition of public property fails because Defendant had no actual or
constructive notice of the alleged defect. However, a summary judgment motion
must completely dispose of the case. Here, Plaintiff may either show “[a] negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of
the public entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous
condition,” or that the public entity had notice. Plaintiff has alleged both
in her complaint. (See Complaint, 4, Prem. L-4.) Yet, Defendant offers no facts
or argument showing that a public employee did not create the alleged dangerous
condition. Therefore, because Defendant fails to set forth facts to defeat an
essential element, it fails to meet its burden on summary judgment. Additionally,
because Defendant did not move for summary adjudication in the alternative, the
Court does not address Defendant’s arguments surrounding the other purported
causes of action. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant City
of Alhambra’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 