 Case Number:  22STCV35702    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  8, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV35702




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash or Modify Subpoenas 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  James Ellis




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Aids Healthcare Foundation



 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 10, 2022, Plaintiff James Ellis (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation (Defendant) for
negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff alleges that he rented a unit from
Defendant at the subject premises and that Defendant failed to respond to
warnings about a violent tenant who later shot Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff now moves to quash seventeen subpoenas issued by Defendant and
directed to various medical businesses. Plaintiff also seeks monetary
sanctions. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1(a) states: 
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production
of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before
a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person. 
 
“The state Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of
privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, § 1.) Protection of informational privacy is the
provision's central concern. [Citation omitted.] In Hill, [the
California Supreme Court] established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.
[Citation omitted.] The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations. [citation
omitted].” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533 (citing
Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.) 
 
“[Prior] cases correctly recognize that when a discovery request seeks
information implicating the constitutional right of privacy, to order discovery
simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test
for relevance has been met is an abuse of discretion. [Citation omitted.] But
they also stand for the proposition that whenever discovery of facially private
information is sought, the party seeking discovery must demonstrate a “
‘compelling state interest’ ” [citation omitted] or “compelling need” [citation
omitted]. Although in this they are not alone [citation omitted], they
nevertheless are incorrect.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556.) “To
the extent prior cases require a party seeking discovery of private information
to always establish a compelling interest or compelling need, without regard to
the other considerations articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn., [citation omitted], they are disapproved.” (Id. at 557.)
 
“Only obvious invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy
must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th
at 556.) When lesser interests are at stake, “the strength of the
countervailing interest sufficient to warrant disclosure of private information
var[ies] according to the strength of the privacy interest itself, the
seriousness of the invasion, and the availability of alternatives and
protective measures.” (Id.) “The trial courts in exercising their
discretion should keep in mind that the Legislature has suggested that, where
possible, the court should impose partial limitations rather than outright
denial of discovery.” (Id. at 559 [quotation omitted].)
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 provides that “the
court may in its discretion award the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing [a motion to quash], including reasonable attorney’s fees,
if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1987.2(a).)
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
The subject subpoenas are directed to: Los Angeles General Medical
Center, Miracle Home Healthcare, Inc., United Medical Imaging, JWCH Wesley
Health Centers, Wesley Health Centers, Ming W. Liu, M.D., Avita Pharmacy, East
Los Angeles Cardiology Medical Group, Inc., Los Angeles General Medical Center
– Billing, Los Angeles General Medical Center – Radiology, Miracle Home
Healthcare, Inc. – Billing, United Medical Imaging – Billing, JWCH Wesley
Health Centers – Billing, Wesley Health Centers – Billing, Wesley Health
Centers – Radiology, Cardiac and Vascular Interventions – Billing, and East Los
Angeles Cardiology Medical Group, Inc. – Billing. 
 
The various subpoenas seek:
 
1.     
“Any and all records, reports, charts, histories,
including but not limited to sign-in sheets, doctor’s notes, nurses’ notes,
SOAP notes, emergency room records, correspondence, memorandum, insurance records,
worker’s compensation records, pharmacy/prescription records, photographs,
physical therapy records, radiology reports, laboratory reports, statements,
patient information sheets, and all other records pertaining to James Ellis
from January 1, 2012 to the present.”
2.     
“Any and all records, reports, charts, histories,
including but not limited to sign-in sheets, doctor’s notes, nurses’ notes,
SOAP notes, emergency room records, correspondence, memorandum, insurance
records, worker’s compensation records, pharmacy/prescription records,
photographs, physical therapy records, radiology reports, laboratory reports,
statements, patient information sheets, and all other records pertaining to
James Ellis from January 1, 2012 to the present. Any and all radiology images
of any sort, including but not limited to X-Rays, MRI’s, CT’s myelograms,
tomograms, MRA’s, PET scans, CAT scans, fluoroscopy, etc. pertaining to James
Ellis from January 1, 2012. Prior to duplication, please provide a breakdown of
all radiology images in your possession, custody, or control. All approved
radiology images are to be produced on a DICOM compliant CD. ”
3.     
“Any and all records, reports, charts, histories,
including but not limited to sign-in sheets, doctor’s notes, nurses’ notes,
SOAP notes, emergency room records, correspondence, memorandum, insurance
records, worker’s compensation records, pharmacy/prescription records,
photographs, physical therapy records, radiology reports, laboratory reports,
statements, patient information sheets, and all other records pertaining to
James Ellis from January 1, 2012 to the present. Any and all itemized
statements of the billing charges pertaining to the care, treatment and
examination of the patient, including but not limited to payment history,
payment status records, including but not limited to, CD-ROM, tape drive
documents. stored electronically or digitally, floppy drive, hard drive,
scanned documents and all other statements of charges, radiology billing,
physician billing, ER billing, payment transactions, billing adjustments,
billing write-offs, write-downs, write-ups from all sources, including but not
limited to, all charges, including all bills sent to collections, explanation
of benefits, billing records to show amounts accepted as payment in full,
itemized statements, itemized charges, account detail, account summary,
invoices, payment history, ICD/CPT codes, and all other records pertaining to
James Ellis from January 1, 2012 to the present.”
4.     
“Any and all itemized statements of the billing charges
pertaining to the care, treatment and examination of the patient, including but
not limited to payment history, payment status records, including but not
limited to, CD-ROM, tape drive documents. stored electronically or digitally,
floppy drive, hard drive, scanned documents and all other statements of
charges, radiology billing, physician billing, ER billing, payment
transactions, billing adjustments, billing write-offs, write-downs, write-ups
from all sources, including but not limited to, all charges, including all
bills sent to collections, explanation of benefits, billing records to show
amounts accepted as payment in full, itemized statements, itemized charges,
account detail, account summary, invoices, payment history, ICD/CPT codes, and
all other records pertaining to James Ellis from January 1, 2012 to the
present.”
5.     
“Any and all radiology images of any sort, including
but not limited to X-Rays, MRI’s, CT’s, myelograms, tomograms, MRA’s, PET
scans, CAT scans, fluoroscopy, etc. pertaining to James Ellis from January 1,
2012. Prior to duplication, please provide a breakdown of all radiology images
in your possession, custody, or control. All approved radiology images are to
be produced on a DICOM compliant CD.”
 
Plaintiff first argues the information sought is irrelevant and not
reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence. Plaintiff also argues the
requests are overbroad. Here, the subpoenas request medical records and medical
billing records from January 1, 2012. Plaintiff argues these are irrelevant
since the injury he is alleging resulted from a gunshot wound on July 26, 2022.
Defendant argues they require past medical records because Plaintiff is
claiming future damages due to his injury as well as ongoing pain and suffering.
As a result, Defendant requires information about Plaintiff’s past medical
conditions to estimate how his future rehabilitation will be affected by
underlying conditions. (Opp., 3.) Based on this, it appears that some
information about Plaintiff’s past medical conditions is relevant to determine
how his underlying conditions will affect his recovery, and to assess his
ongoing pain and suffering claims. 
 
Next Plaintiff argues that the request for records starting from
January 1, 2012, is improper. Defendant contends this is necessary because
since the COVID pandemic in 2020, people have generally failed to regularly
schedule doctor’s visits. (Opp., 7–8.) It contends the pre-2020 records will
contain more information to establish a baseline for Plaintiff’s health. In the
alternative, Defendant states it is agreeable to an eight-year limit prior to
the incident. Plaintiff contends that any record prior to the incident is
overbroad and irrelevant. For the reasons above, the Court disagrees. However, Defendant
has not established why a few years prior to 2020 would not be sufficient to
establish whether Plaintiff had ongoing conditions prior to the incident that
would impact his claims for damages here. Therefore, the Court orders the
subject subpoenas to be modified to request records starting from January 1,
2017. 
 
Finally, Plaintiff argues the subpoenas infringe on his right to
privacy. A
party’s medical records are privileged under the
patient-physician privilege. (See Hale v. Superior Court
(1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1421, 1424.)¿ “Discovery of constitutionally protected
information is on a par with discovery of privileged information.”¿
(Tylo v. Superior Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1387.)¿ Where the
party filing an action has arguably waived the privacy in their protected or privileged information by
filing a lawsuit, the waiver must be narrowly construed such that discovery is
only permitted of those matters directly relevant to the party’s claims. (Britt
v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 858-859.)¿ Notwithstanding, the
party still has privacy rights as to physical and mental conditions unrelated
to the claimed injury.¿ (See id. at 864; Heller v. Norcal Mutual
Insurance Co. (1994) 8
Cal.4th 30, 44.)¿¿ 
 
      Plaintiff contends that Defendant has the burden to show a
compelling need. Defendant correctly argues that the Supreme Court in Williams
held that a showing of a compelling need is not automatically required in every
case. Nonetheless, Defendant has shown a compelling need for the discovery,
namely to test Plaintiff’s claims of ongoing pain and suffering due to the
subject incident and claims of future damages. In balancing Plaintiff’s privacy
interests against Defendant’s need for discovery, the Court concludes that the
countervailing interests justify the invasion of privacy, particularly because there
do not appear to be less intrusive means available.[1]
The Court would consider a protective order or limiting language for the
subpoenas, but Plaintiff has not proposed any.[2] (See
Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556 [noting under Hill, the party
seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that the same
alternatives].)
 
The Court finds this motion
was not made in bad faith and declines to award sanctions to either party.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to quash subpoenas.
Plaintiff’s request for an order modifying the subpoenas is granted in part.
The information requested in the subject subpoenas must request records
starting from January 1, 2017. 
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.


