 Case Number:  BC705015    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  8, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


BC705015




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash Deposition Subpoena




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Israel Marines 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Mountain View Unified School District 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 4, 2023 Defendant
Mountain View Unified School District (Defendant) served a deposition subpoena
on Plaintiff Israel Marines’ (Plaintiff) treating physician, Tracy L. Zaslow,
set for October 31, 2023. On October 27, 2023, Plaintiff served an objection on
the basis that Plaintiff’s counsel was unavailable on the date. Plaintiff
contends the date was set unilaterally. Plaintiff then filed this motion to
quash on October 30, 2023. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal
service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a
resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies;
to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the
subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff generally argues that
Defendant failed to coordinate the deposition with Plaintiff as required by
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1010(a) and case law. California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1010(a) allows a party to take an oral deposition, if among other
things, it “makes all arrangements for any other party to participate in the
deposition in an equivalent manner.” Here, Defendant served the subpoena on
Plaintiff on October 4, 2023 for a deposition set on October 31, 2023.
Therefore, Plaintiff had sufficient time to object and re-schedule on a
mutually beneficial date. Plaintiff does not explain why he waited until
October 27, 2023, four days before the deposition, to serve an objection. Plaintiff
cites Tenderloin Housing Clinic, Inc. v. Sparks (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 299 to argue that Defendant should not
have scheduled the deposition when Plaintiff had a conflict. However, Tenderloin
involved a party who scheduled motions and depositions knowing that the other
party had a pre-planned conflict. (Id. at 304–305.) Here, there is no evidence
that Defendant knew in advance that Plaintiff’s counsel had a scheduled trial
on that date. 
 
Next, Plaintiff argues that the
deposition subpoena is defective because there is no indication it was served
on Dr. Zaslow. While section 2020.220(c) requires
personal service to compel a deponent to appear for deposition, here the
deponent appears to have voluntarily agreed to appear. Based on Defendant’s
assertions, the deposition was scheduled with Dr. Zaslow through his counsel. 
 
Both parties seek sanctions.
However, there is insufficient evidence that the parties acted in bad faith in
making or opposing the motion. Both parties are encouraged to meet and confer
to promptly schedule a mutually beneficial date and time for Dr. Zaslow’s
deposition. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to quash.   
 
            Plaintiff shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.