 Case Number:  YC072873    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    November 8, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   YC072873
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Anna
Mezheritsky v. Dorothy Kovich, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendants, Dorothy Kovich Klein,
Thomas Kovich, and Liberty Mutual Insurance 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Lien Holder, LaToya S. Redd, Esq. 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                           None set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to File
Interpleader of Funds, Discharge of Liability, and Recovery of Attorneys’ Fees
and Costs
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On May 10, 2018,
Plaintiff, Anna Mezheritsky (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against
Defendants, Dorothy Kovich Klein, Thomas Klein, and DOES 1 through 50.
This lawsuit alleging bodily
injury and emotional distress damages arises from a long-term tenancy where
Plaintiff rented an apartment in Hermosa Beach allegedly owned by Defendant
Dorothy Kovitch Klein.  The lawsuit was
filed in May of 2018 and has been actively litigated in Inglewood since the
case was reassigned to Judge Frank in February of 2022.  
 
On May 6,
2024, Defendants, Dorothy Kovich Klein, Thomas Kovich, and Liberty Mutual
Insurance filed this Motion for Leave to file Complaint-in-Intervention requesting this court to grant this Motion for Leave
to Intervene and permit Liberty to file its Complaint-in-Intervention against
Defendants-in-Intervention who are the lienholders of the settlement amount
$200,000 that was granted on September 13, 2023. This court granted that motion
on June 7, 2024. 
 
Now,
Petitioner/Proposed Plaintiff-in-Intervention, Liberty Mutual Insurance
(“Liberty”), moves this court for an order granting interpleader of funds
(specifically, the sum of $200,000, $198,500 of which will be contributed by
Liberty and $1,500 of which will be paid from the client trust account of
moving parties’ attorneys of record), dismissing moving party and defendants,
Dorthy Kovich Klein and Thomas Klein from the above-captioned action, and
discharging Liberty and the Klein defendants of all liability. 
 
B.   
Procedural 
 
On September 30, 2024,
Defendants, Dorothy Kovich Klein, Thomas Kovich, and Liberty Mutual Insurance
filed this Motion to File Interpleader of Funds, Discharge of Liability and
Recovery of Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Lien Holder, LaToya S. Redd dba Redd
Law, filed an opposition brief. To date, no reply brief has been filed.  
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard
¿ 
            Liberty moves under Code of Civil
Procedure section 386 and 386.5. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
386, subdivision (b), “[a]ny person, firm, corporation, association, or other
entity against whom double or multiple claims are made, or may be made, by two
or more persons which are such that they may give rise to double or multiple
liability, may bring an action against the claimants to compel them to
interplead and litigate their several claims. The action of interpleader may be
maintained although the claims have no common origin, are not identical but are
averse to and independent of one another, or the claims are unliquidated and no
liability on the part of the party bringing the action or filing the
cross-complaint has arisen.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.) Further, Code of
Civil Procedure section 386.5 provides that “[w]here the only relief sought
against one of the defendants is the payment of a stated amount of money
alleged to be wrongfully withheld, such defendant may, upon affidavit that he
is a mere stakeholder with no interest in the amount or any portion thereof and
that conflicting demands have been made upon him for the amount by parties to
the action, upon notice to such parties, apply to the court for an order
discharging him from liability and dismissing him from the action on his
depositing with the clerk of the court the amount in dispute and the court may,
in its discretion, make such order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.5.)
 
            However, Lien Holder, LaToya S. Redd
(“Redd”) argues in opposition that Code of Civil Procedure section 386 and
386.5 are improper in this case, and that the applicable code section is Code
of Civil Procedure section 572. Pursuant to Section 572, “[w]hen it is admitted
by the pleadings, or shown upon the examination of a party to the action, that
he or she has in his or her possession, or under his or her control, any money
or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of litigation, is
held by him or her as trustee for another party, or which belongs or which is
due to another party or which should, under the circumstances of the case be
held by the court pending final disposition of the action, the court may order
the same, upon motion, to be deposited in court or delivered to such party,
upon those conditions that may be just, subject to the further direction of the
court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 572.) 
 
 
 
B.    Discussion
 
                                  
i.         
Interpleader Determination
 
Preliminary,
this motion follows on the heels of two different motions by Defendants, Dorothy
Kovich Klein and Thomas Kovich to Motion to Enforce Settlement based on a
signed mediation agreement.  On July 14,
2023, the Court granted Klein’s motion to enforce the short-form mediation
agreement signed by Plaintiff, seeking to end the litigation by payment of $200,000
as Ms. Mezheritsky agreed in writing at the mediation.  Ms. Mezheritsky opposed the motion on a
variety of grounds, including her assertion that the lawyer who represented her
at the mediation lied to her about what the settlement provided for or did not
provide for.  Later, on January 12, 2024,
this court denied a subsequent motion by Defendants, Dorothy Kovich Klein and
Thomas Kovich’s Motion to Enforce Settlement, which sought an order requiring the
$200,000 settlement amount to be paid in its entirety to Plaintiff, Anna
Mezheritsky. The Court denied that motion, indicating its  reasoning for the multiple payee requirement
of its order granting the previous motion to enforce settlement.  Those reasons included the likelihood of
additional lawsuits by lienholders to enforce their lien rights against persons
or parties including defense counsel who have knowledge of the liens but who
filed to provide for satisfaction of those liens in the settlement. 
 
On
June 7, 2024, this court GRANTED Liberty’s Motion for Leave to File Complaint-in-Intervention.
In its minute order, this court reasoned that it was inclined to grant the
motion in order to allow the parties to posture the case for a hearing and
submit admissible evidence bearing on the fact that Liberty had only previously
submitted evidence of counsel’s declaration stating that “[t]he insurance
carrier informed Mr. Feldman that his request cannot be fulfilled because the
system does not allow a single check to be payable to 7 payees.” The court also
encouraged the parties to consider whether interpleading the funds or
depositing the funds with the court, with a mechanism for lien claims to be
resolved, be negotiated among the lien claimants. 
 
Per
the court’s prior encouragement, Liberty now files this Motion to File
Interpleader of Funds, Discharge of Liability, and Recovery of Attorneys’ Fees
and Costs. As noted above, Liberty’s motion moves under Code of Civil Procedure
section 386 and 386.5. Specifically, Liberty seeks relief under Section 386,
subdivision (b). Although Section 386, subdivision (b) does not require the
party seeking to interplead to be a defendant, the “person, firm, corporation,
association or other entity” must either show first that: (1) double or
multiple claims are made against it by two or more persons which are such that
they may give rise to double or multiple liability; or (2) that double or
multiple claims may be made against it by two or more persons
which are such that they may give rise to double or multiple liability. If the
proposed interpleader can show one of those requirements, “they may bring an action
against the claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate their several
claims.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (b).) 
 
In
the interpleader motion, Liberty asserts it fears that Anna Mezheritsky will
not endorse the check herself and will not pay some or all of the lien holders.
Liberty also states that one of the lien holders has already filed suit against
Defendants Dorothy Kovich Klein and Thomas Kovich as well as their various
attorneys and law firms. (Declaration of Brett G. Hampton (“Hampton Decl.”), ¶
6.) In this case, there are six (6) other lien holders. (Hampton Decl., ¶ 3.)
Thus, Dorothy Kovich Klein and Thomas Kovich may certainly may fall into the
second a category of section 386, subdivision (b) – albeit, would have
different requirements under the second paragraph of Section 386, subdivision
(b) applicable to defendants, there is nothing in the moving papers to discuss
that Liberty faces the threat of two or more persons or entities that may give
rise to double or multiple liability. Would Liberty be subject to double or
multiple liability if they have already paid their coverage limit? The court is
uncertain. Again, the only evidence provided is the declaration from Liberty’s
counsel. There, the “evidence” includes a statement declared by Liberty’s
counsel “one of the lienholders [] has already filed suit against Defendants as
well as their various attorneys and law firms.” (Hampton Decl., ¶ 6.) As such,
based on the moving papers, Liberty has failed to carry its burden in showing
how double or multiple claims may be made against Liberty.  While the motion does not specifically assert
that double or multiple claims would be made against the Kovich Defendants, not
only their insurer, that assertion is implicit in the moving papers.  
 
In
opposition, Redd argues that Liberty has not brought an action against these
potential “claimants” compelling them to interplead and litigate their several
claims. Because of this, Redd argues Liberty’s failure to bring a
complaint-in-interpleader as opposed to a complaint-in-intervention, like it
did here, that this bars application of Code of Civil Procedure section 386 and
386.5. 
 
The
court disagrees with Redd’s opposition and grants the interpleader.  This litigation must be brought to a close,
the agreed settlement amount must be paid, and a mechanism for allocating the settlement
amount among disputing claimants must be achieved.  Whether that is done under Section 386 subdivision
(b), 386.5. or 572 may the subject of future law and motion hearings, but the
Court grants the interpleader.  
.                                                                                  
 
III. CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, Liberty’s Motion to File Interpleader of Funds, Discharge
of Liability, and Recovery of Attorneys’ Fees and Costs is GRANTED.  
¿ 
 
 