 Case Number:  23STLC06696    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  26 Silva v. JP Morgan Chase Bank NA, et al.,TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.’s Motion for Entry of “Stipulation and Protective Order – Confidential Designation Only” is GRANTED.ANALYSIS:Plaintiff Leonard Elmo Silva (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action for conversion, concealment, and unfair competition against Defendant JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA (“Defendant”) on October 18, 2023. Defendants filed an answer on January 3, 2024.On October 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Entry of “Stipulation and Protective Order – Confidential Designation Only.” No opposition has been filed to date. Plaintiff filed a statement of no opposition on December 9, 2024.DiscussionDefendant brings the instant Motion for entry of the parties’ stipulated protective order pursuant to case law. The Court of Appeals holds:Parties to civil litigation . . . often choose to avoid costly and time-consuming motion practice by entering into stipulations for protective orders that permit production but limit disclosure and use of discovered information deemed by the producing party to contain confidential, proprietary, and/or private information. They thereby defer or obviate the need for specific court determination as to the propriety of designating materials confidential unless and until that designation is challenged.. . . .We are not unmindful of the ever-increasing costs of civil litigation and involvement of courts in the policing of all types of pretrial matters; we have no desire to add to those litigation costs and court burdens by creating unnecessary disincentives to the resolution of discovery controversies. (See Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 253–254, 92 Cal.Rptr.2d 70, 991 P.2d 156: “A central purpose of the Discovery Act was to keep the trial courts out of the business of refereeing day-to-day discovery by requiring parties to conduct discovery and resolve disputes with minimal judicial involvement.”)(Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 98-99.) Here, the parties executed and entered into a stipulated protective order to facilitate discovery of information that may be subject to confidentiality limitations on disclosure due to federal laws, state laws, and privacy rights. (Motion, Busu Decl., ¶¶2-3 and Exhs. A-B.) Accordingly, the Court grants the request to enter the stipulated protective order.ConclusionDefendant JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.’s Motion for Entry of “Stipulation and Protective Order – Confidential Designation Only” is GRANTED.Moving party to give notice.