  Case Number:  21STCV20680    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior  Court of California County of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT  17   TENTATIVE  RULING      ASHLEY    RYAN             vs.   GENERAL    MOTORS, LLC        Case No.:     21STCV20680         Hearing    Date:  February 13, 2024       Plaintiff is  awarded $9,143.50 in reasonable attorney fees.     Given that  Plaintiffs’ motion did not include a verified memorandum of cost, the Court  does not consider the cost award at this time.      On 6/2/2021,  Plaintiff Ashley Ryan (Plaintiff) filed suit against General Motors, LLC  (Defendant), alleging: (1) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision  (d); (2) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b); (3) violation  of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3); (4) breach of express written  warranty; (5) breach of implied warranty; and (6) fraud by omission.               Now,  Plaintiff moves for an award of attorney fees and costs totaling $44,995.58.   Legal Standard    The party  claiming attorneys’ fees must establish entitlement to such fees and the  reasonableness of the fees claimed.  (Civic Western Corporation v. Zila  Industries, Inc. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 1, 16.) “Except as attorney’s fees  are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation  of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or  implied, of the parties[.]” (CCP § 1021.)   “It is well  established that the determination of what constitutes reasonable attorney fees  is committed to the discretion of the trial court, whose decision cannot be  reversed in the absence of an abuse of discretion.”  (Melnyk  v. Robledo (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 618, 623.)   In exercising its discretion, the court should  consider a number of factors, including the nature of the litigation, its  difficulty, the amount involved, the skill required in handling the matter, the  attention given, the success or failure, and the resulting judgment.  (Ibid.)    In  determining what constitutes a reasonable compensation for an attorney who has  rendered services in connection with a legal proceeding, the court may and  should consider the nature of the litigation, its difficulty, the amount  involved, the skill required and the skill employed in handling the litigation,  the attention given, the success of the attorneys’ efforts, their learning,  their age, and their experience in the particular type of work demanded the  intricacies and importance of the litigation, the labor and necessity for  skilled legal training and ability in trying the cause, and the time consumed.  (Stokus v. Marsh (1990) 217  Cal.App.3d 647, 657 (Stokus).)    In  determining the proper amount of fees to award, courts use the lodestar  method.  The lodestar figure is  calculated by multiplying the total number of reasonable hours expended by the  reasonable hourly rate.  “Fundamental to  its determination … [is] a careful compilation of the time spent and reasonable  hourly compensation of each attorney … in the presentation of the case.”  (Serrano  v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 48 (Serrano  III).)  A reasonable hourly rate must  reflect the skill and experience of the attorney.  (Id.  at 49.)  “Prevailing parties  are compensated for hours reasonably spent on fee-related issues.  A fee request that appears unreasonably  inflated is a special circumstance permitting the trial court to reduce the  award or deny one altogether.”  (Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621,  635 (Serrano IV); see also Weber v. Langholz (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th  1578, 1587 (“The trial court could make its own evaluation of the reasonable  worth of the work done in light of the nature of the case, and of the  credibility of counsel’s declaration unsubstantiated by time records and  billing statements.”)   Reasonable  attorney fees should be based on an objective standard of reasonableness, i.e.,  the market value of services rendered, not on some notion of cost incurred. (PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000) 22  Cal.4th 1084, 1090.)  The value of legal  services performed in a case is a matter in which the trial court has its own  expertise.  (Id. at 1096.)  The trial  court may make its own determination of the value of the services contrary to,  or without the necessity for, expert testimony.   (Ibid.)  The trial  court makes its determination after consideration of a number of factors,  including the nature of the litigation, its difficulty, the amount involved,  the skill required in its handling, the skill employed, the attention given,  the success or failure, and other circumstances in the case.  (Ibid.)   Discussion                Plaintiff  seeks attorney fees, costs, and expenses in the total amount of $44,995.58.  This amount consists of: (1) $28,955.50 in attorney fees; (2) a 1.35 multiplier  enhancement on the attorney fees (or $10,134.43); (3) $2,405.65 in costs and  expenses; and (4) an additional $3,500.00 for Plaintiff’s counsel to review  Defendant’s Opposition, draft the Reply, and attend the hearing on this Motion.     Plaintiffs’  counsel claims the following hourly rates for the attorneys who worked on this  case:    -          Mani Arab: $495/hour -          Olivia Avelino: $595/hour -          Christopher Campbell: $495/hour -          Tionna Carvalho: 2019 rate of $395/hour,  2020 rate of $425/hour, and 2023 partner rate of $570/hour -          James Carrol: $595/hour -          Mark Gibson: $495/hour -          David Lunn: $620/hour -          Ian McCallister: $595/hour  -          Zavig Mkrdech: $375/hour  -          Rebecca Neubauer: $495/hour -          Matthew Pardo: $435/hour  -          Dhara Patel: $335/hour  -          Debora Rabieian: 2021 rate of $395/hour  and 2022 rate of $410/hour -          Ekjot Singh: $285/hour   In Morris  v. Hyundai Motor Am. (2019) 41 Cal. App. 5th 24, 41, the trial court  reduced the rates of Bryan Altman of the Altman Law Group, who has 30-plus  years of litigation experience with over 100 jury trials, of which 20-plus were  as lead trial counsel in lemon law cases, from $650 to $500 per hour, reduced  Steve Mikhov of the Knight Law Group from $500 to $400, and reduced all the  associates’ rates that ranged from $450 to $350 to $300 per hour. (Id. at 8-9.)  In support of the lower court decision, the court of appeal held that:   [E]ven if  Morris established that her attorneys’ rates were generally commensurate with  other consumer law attorneys with the same level of experience and skill,  Morris ignores that there are a number of factors that the trial court may have  taken into consideration in determining that reductions in the attorneys’  hourly rates were warranted. The court reasonably could have reduced the rates  based on its finding that the matter was not complex; that it did not go to  trial; that the name partners were doing work that could have been done by  lower-billing attorneys; and that all the attorneys were doing work that could  have been done by paralegals.               (Id.  at pp. 23-24.)               Similarly,  Judge Randolph Hammock of the Los Angeles County Superior Court recently found  rates of $350 per hour appropriate for an “experienced” lawyer to take a lemon  law case all the way through trial. (See Mikhaeilpoor v. BMW of N. Am., LLC  (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 240, 245-46 [“The court found the requested fee amount  “was just not reasonable.”… The court decided that $350 “is a reasonable hourly  rate for the services that were done.”].)               Here,  the Court finds the hourly rates to be unreasonable, and, based on case law,  reduces the hourly rates for each of plaintiffs’ attorneys to a reasonable  blended $400 per hour for all attorneys who litigated this case, consistent  with Mikhaeilpoor. This is also informed by the fact that this case did  not address novel or difficult questions, and was straightforward and simple.    Hours                Plaintiff  counsel claims a total of 46.6 hours. However, as detailed in Defendant’s  opposition, the billing records indicate padding and unreasonable billings. For  example, Ms. Rabieian billed 2.2 hours to revise and finalize Plaintiff’s  template Complaint. Mr. Singh billed 3.8 hours to draft a repair chronology.  Not only is this amount excessive, but this is Mr. Singh’s only billing. As  such, the Court cannot conclude that Mr. Singh’s contribution or involvement in  this case was reasonable or necessary. Counsel billed 2.3 hours to draft and  finalize Plaintiff’s discovery responses despite Plaintiff’s responses being  templated objections. Mr. McAlister seeks a total of eight hours ($4,760.00)  for “drafting” templated motions in limine (MILs) and templated oppositions to  GM’s standard MILs. There are also a number of vague block billed entries. (See  Defendant’s Opp., 9: 6-13.)                After  review, the Court agrees with Defendant’s analysis setting forth 35.4 claimed  hours as unreasonable, and reduces the award accordingly.    Lodestar Enhancement    Plaintiffs  request a 1.35 lodestar enhancement based on the contingency nature of the case  and the quality of the work performed.    Relevant  factors to determine whether an enhancement is appropriate include (1) the  novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed in  presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded  other employment by the attorneys, (4) the contingent nature of the fee  award.  (Ketchum v. Moses (2001)  24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132.)    Here, the  hourly rates set forth above capture the skill and the contingent nature of the  work performed. Thus, any multiplier would be duplicative of the calculations  set forth above. Furthermore, an analysis of the relevant factors do not  justify an enhancement award.    Conclusion                Plaintiff  is awarded $9,143.50 in attorney fees. The Court does not award costs given  that Plaintiff did not submit a verified memorandum of costs, and Defendant’s  opposition objects to Plaintiff’s claimed costs.       It is so ordered.    Dated:  February     , 2024                                                                                                                                                                Hon. Jon R.  Takasugi    Judge of the  Superior Court       Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must  send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits  on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must  identify the party submitting on the tentative.   If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this  tentative as the final order.  If the department  does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the  tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed  off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)  633-0517.            Superior  Court of California County of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT  17   TENTATIVE  RULING      ASHLEY    RYAN             vs.   GENERAL    MOTORS, LLC        Case No.:     21STCV20680         Hearing    Date:  February 13, 2024      Plaintiff’s  motion to determine that trade-in value should not be treated as an offset is  DENIED.    On 6/2/2021,  Plaintiff Ashley Ryan (Plaintiff) filed suit against General Motors, LLC  (Defendant), alleging: (1) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision  (d); (2) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b); (3) violation  of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3); (4) breach of express written  warranty; (5) breach of implied warranty; and (6) fraud by omission.               On  5/16/2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Settlement.                On  11/17/2023, Plaintiff moved for a determination as to whether Defendant is  entitled to a trade-in value offset due to Plaintiff’s subsequent sale of the  Subject Vehicle.     Discussion                Plaintiff  argues that Defendant should not be permitted to receive any type of trade-in  offset to Plaintiff’s recovery based on any sales proceeds.               In  support, Plaintiff cites the recently decided case Williams v. FCA US, LLC (2023)  88 Cal. App. 5th 765, 772. There, Plaintiffs traded their truck at a  third-party dealership for a truck of a different brand. Citing Figueroa v.  FCA US, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 708 regarding the definition of  restitution, the Court held that restitution under the Song-Beverly Act of the  “actual price paid or payable” does not include an offset for amounts received  from trading in the Subject Vehicle.                Plaintiff  also cited the recently decided Figueroa v. FCA US LLC (2022) 84  Cal.App.5th 708 where the Court similarly concluded that “[t]he statute is  clear and unequivocal. Nowhere in section 1793.2. subdivision (d)(2)(B), or  elsewhere in the Song-Beverly Act, is there a provision allowing cash back to  the manufacturer. We cannot add words to a clear and unequivocal statute.” (Ibid.  at p. 712.)               In  opposition, Defendant argues that this Court should defer its ruling pending  the Supreme Court’s review of Niedermeier v. FCA US LLC (2020), Figueroa  v. FCA US LLC, and Williams v. FCA US LLC, which will inform whether  Plaintiff is entitled to recover again from GM the sales proceeds she already  received when she traded in her vehicle.               In  support, Defendant notes that while the Courts in Williams and Figueroa  determined that Song-Beverly did not include an off-set, the Court of  Appeals in Niedermeier concluded otherwise, and reversed a trial court  that denied the car manufacturer’s request for an offset based on the vehicle’s  trade-in value.               More  specifically, the Niedermeier Court ruled:    We thus conclude  that the requirement in section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(2)(B) that a  manufacturer “make restitution in an amount equal to the actual price paid or  payable by the buyer” does not include amounts already recovered by the buyer  through trade-in. To conclude otherwise would be “contrary to the legislative  intent apparent in the statute” and “would lead to absurd results” (Simpson  Strong-Tie, supra, 49 Cal.4th at p. 27), including a near  nullification of the labelling and notification provisions.                 As  such, the Court has before it three published opinions which hold conflicting  interpretations of the same statutory language, and which are currently under  review by the Supreme Court. Indeed, all three cases have been consolidated on  appeal before the Supreme Court.   In its  motion, Defendant contends that “[t]he result of that consolidated set of  appeals will have substantial bearing on the question at issue here: whether  Plaintiff is entitled to recover again from GM the sales proceeds she already  received when she traded in her vehicle. Given this pending review, good cause  and equitable principles counsel in favor of this Court exercising its inherent  authority to defer its ruling in the interests of justice and judicial  economy.” (Opp., 4: 16-19.)   However,  there is no indication as to when a decision will be published. This would  leave final resolution of this case in indefinite purgatory. As such, the Court  finds its more appropriate to make a ruling on the merits, and allow the  parties to move for reconsideration in the future if appropriate. Typically, a motion for  reconsideration must be brought within 10 days of entry of the order. However,  CCP section 1008, subdivision (c), provides “[i]f  a court at any time determines that there has been a change of law that  warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may do so on its own  motion and enter a different order.”     After review,  the Court concludes that the trade in value should be treated as an offset.    Section  1793.2(d)(2)(B) characterizes Song-Beverly’s refund remedy as “restitution”  because the Legislature sought to restore buyers to the same position they  would have been in had they not bought a defective vehicle. In Figueroa  and Williams, the Court of Appeal indicated that the Legislature  departed from the plain and common-sense meaning of “restitution.” In Figueroa,  the court pointed to statutory language requiring a manufacturer to make  restitution “in an amount equal to the actual price paid or payable by the  buyer.” (Figueroa at p. 712.) Williams similarly reasoned that  “the phrase ‘actual price paid or payable’ . . . means the cost to obtain the  vehicle at the time of purchase.” (Williams at p. 779.)   Here,  reducing a buyer’s damages award to account for the proceeds of a resale does  not give a buyer less than the “amount equal to the actual price paid or  payable” for her vehicle. Nor does applying the ordinary meaning of restitution  mean that “Defendant would unfairly and improperly pocket a substantial portion  of the original purchase price.” (Mot. at 5:27-28; see also Figueroa at p.  712.) Although the manufacturer pays less in restitution to account for the  fact it does not receive the vehicle, the buyer still recovers the full amount  she paid at the time of purchase and need not pay the manufacturer anything.    As such, the  concerns over a “windfall” are misplaced. Moreover, the Court finds the Niedermeier  Court’s analysis to be more persuasive that the requirement in section  1793.2, subdivision (d)(2)(B) that a manufacturer “make restitution in an  amount equal to the actual price paid or payable by the buyer” does not include  amounts already recovered by the buyer through trade-in.” To conclude otherwise  would allow for double-recovery.   Based on the  foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to determine that trade in value should not be  treated as an offset is denied.         It is so ordered.    Dated:  February     , 2024                                                                                                                                                                Hon. Jon R.  Takasugi    Judge of the  Superior Court       Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must  send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits  on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must  identify the party submitting on the tentative.   If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this  tentative as the final order.  If the department  does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the  tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed  off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.            