 Case Number:  23TRCV01292    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
GERALD
  JOHNSON,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01292




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GLOBAL
  CLEAN ENERGY, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 28, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Ryan Jackman,
Esq., attorney for plaintiff Gerald Johnson 
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The Court considered the moving
papers and first amended declaration. 
The hearing had been continued to allow counsel to provide a
supplemental declaration as to additional efforts to confirm his client’s last
known address.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The Court orders that the attorney is
relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Gerald Johnson, effective upon the
filing of the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the
client.
BACKGROUND
On April 25, 2023, plaintiff Gerald
Johnson filed a complaint against Global Clean Energy, Global Clean Energy
Holdings, Inc., and Richard Palmer for Labor Code violations, common counts,
and conversion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Gerald Johnson’s attorney,
Ryan Jackman, Esq., seeks to be relieved as counsel.
            Counsel states in his amended declaration
that the attorney-client relationship has broken down to the extent that he is
unable to continue representation.  He
also states that for ethical reasons he must withdraw.  He further states that he confirmed within
the past thirty days the client’s last known address by telephone and through a
title search and online search. 
The Court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  The Court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reason why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
            The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED. The Court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Gerald
Johnson, effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed “Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council
form MC-053) upon the client.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.