  Case Number:  22TRCV03937    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LEVITA
  BUTTS, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV03937




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BERNARD
  HEATH,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 28,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Bernard Heath
Responding
Party:                  None
Demurrer to Complaint
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first cause of action for retaliatory
eviction. 
BACKGROUND
            On November 29, 2023, plaintiff
Levita Butts filed a complaint against Bernard Heath for retaliatory eviction. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant Bernard Heath demurs to
the sole cause of action for retaliatory eviction on the ground that it fails to
state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The complaint alleges that
plaintiff, who is a tenant, moved into the property at 2313 W. 111 Street,
Inglewood, years ago.  The property is
her primary residence and where plaintiff resides.  Complaint, ¶¶8-9.  Defendant rented the property to plaintiff
and is operating as a landlord.  Id., ¶2.  Defendant committed acts consisting of (a)
wrongfully interfering with plaintiff’s quiet use and enjoyment of the property
by facilitating a fraudulent scheme designed to deprive plaintiff of right to
be free from retaliatory eviction and (b) using the Section 8 rules and system
in an attempt to evict tenant after tenant complained of the property’s
habitability.  Id., ¶10.  In around July 2022, plaintiff contacted
defendant and informed him of problems with the plumbing in the upstairs
bathroom and water leaking from a light fixture in the living room.  Defendant was informed that the upstairs
bathroom was leaking through the ceiling and walls and leaking to the
downstairs.  Id., ¶11.
The complaint further alleges that
defendant sent someone out to fix the problem and the company eventually opened
up the walls and turned the water off and left and did not return for a number
of days.  Id., ¶12.  The property was tested for mold because of
the water damage.  Id., ¶13.  Defendant found that the water leaking from
the light fixture in the living room was caused by a faulty roof, which needed
replacement.  Although aware of
plaintiff’s financial difficulties, defendant/owner stated that plaintiff would
have to pay to repair the roof or move. 
Plaintiff had never agreed to pay for any repairs and the lease does not
call for plaintiff to pay for repairs. 
Id., ¶14.  Defendant then gave
notice to Section 8 that he would no longer accept Section 8, which effectively
forces/evicts plaintiff from her home in violation of the retaliatory eviction
statute.  Id., ¶15.  Defendant then agreed to rescind his request
to Section 8 to evict plaintiff and dismissed the initial suit without
prejudice.  “Owner is back again trying
to evict [plaintiff] claiming he has a relative that now needs [the]
apartment.”  Id., ¶16.
First cause of action for
retaliatory eviction
The complaint alleges that in a
letter to the Housing Authority in September 2022, defendant informed Section 8
that defendant would no longer accept plaintiff’s Section 8 voucher.  Id., ¶18. 
Defendant’s actions or sudden refusal to accept Section 8 is his way of
effectively evicting plaintiff because defendant knows that plaintiff is unable
to afford to pay the rent for the property without Section 8.  Id., ¶19. 
Plaintiff is in danger of losing her Section 8 voucher if defendant does
not retract his refusal to accept her Section 8 voucher or plaintiff has to
move from her home using the Section 8 rules. 
Id., ¶20. 
            The complaint requests that the
Court issue a declaration restraining defendant from effectively evicting
plaintiff and order that defendant must continue to accept Section 8 or the
amount plaintiff pays as her portion of the rent for the property.
Civil Code §1942.5 states, in
relevant part:  “(a) If the lessor
retaliates against the lessee because of the exercise by the lessee of his or
her rights under this chapter or because of his complaint to an appropriate
agency as to tenantability of a dwelling, and if the lessee of a dwelling is
not in default as to the payment of his or her rent, the lessor may not recover
possession of a dwelling in any action or proceeding, cause the lessee to quit
involuntarily, increase the rent, or decrease any services within 180 days of
any of the following: 
            (1) After the date upon which the
lessee, in good faith, has given notice pursuant to Section 1942, has provided
notice of a suspected bed bug infestation, or has made an oral complaint to the
lessor regarding tenantability. 
            (2) After the date upon which the
lessee, in good faith, has filed a written complaint, or an oral complaint
which is registered or otherwise recorded in writing, with an appropriate
agency, of which the lessor has notice, for the purpose of obtaining correction
of a condition relating to tenantability. 
            (3) After the date of an inspection
or issuance of a citation, resulting from a complaint described in paragraph
(2) of which the lessor did not have notice. 
            (4) After the filing of appropriate
documents commencing a judicial or arbitration proceeding involving the issue
of tenantability. 
            (5) After entry of judgment or the
signing of an arbitration award, if any, when in the judicial proceeding or
arbitration the issue of tenantability is determined adversely to the lessor. 
In each instance, the 180-day
period shall run from the latest applicable date referred to in paragraphs (1)
to (5), inclusive.
. . . .
(f) This section does not limit in
any way the exercise by the lessor of the lessor’s rights under any lease or
agreement or any law pertaining to the hiring of property or the lessor’s right
to do any of the acts described in subdivision (a) or (d) for any lawful cause.
. . .
(g) Notwithstanding subdivisions
(a) to (f), inclusive, a lessor may recover possession of a dwelling and do any
of the other acts described in subdivision (a) within the period or periods
prescribed therein, or within subdivision (d), if the notice of termination,
rent increase, or other act, and any pleading or statement of issues in an
arbitration, if any, states the ground upon which the lessor, in good faith,
seeks to recover possession, increase rent, or do any of the other acts
described in subdivision (a) or (d). . . .”
            Defendant argues that common law
retaliation does not apply.  See Banuelos
v. LA Investment, LLC (2013) 219 Cal. App. 4th 323, 328
(citation omitted).  Further, defendant
argues, there is no valid cause of action under Civil Code §1942.5 because “the
180 days has long past since plaintiff complained about plumbing problems in
July of 2022.”  Also, defendant contends,
a notice to terminate Section 8 “could never be considered retaliation because
it changes nothing in the legal relationship between lessor and lessee” as
plaintiff’s rent and services stay the same. 
Whether plaintiff can afford the full rent is irrelevant to whether the
act is retaliatory.  Moreover, defendant
argues, a no-fault eviction cannot qualify as retaliation if defendant has a
relative who genuinely intends to occupy the property.  
            There is no opposition by Plaintiff.
            The Court finds that the allegations
are insufficient to constitute a cause of action for retaliatory eviction
because defendant’s alleged conduct was not within 180 days of plaintiff
complaining about the plumbing. 
Plaintiff alleges that in July 2022 she contacted defendant and informed
him of problems with the plumbing (“made an oral complaint,” see Civil Code §1942.5);
in September 2022, defendant informed the Housing Authority that he would no
longer accept plaintiff’s Section 8 voucher; but then defendant agreed to
rescind this request to Section 8. 
Plaintiff then alleges that “[n]ow Owner is back again trying to evict
me claiming he has a relative that now needs my apartment.”  As alleged, defendant’s purported conduct in
“trying to evict” plaintiff is beyond the 180 days.  Further, the allegations are insufficient
that defendant is not acting in good faith by “claiming he has a relative that
now needs” plaintiff’s apartment.  See
Civil Code §1942.5(g).
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND.
ORDER

1.      The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the sole cause of action for retaliatory
eviction.
2.      The Court observes that the
Complaint fails to include the plaintiff’s attorney’s State Bar Number as
mandated by Rule of Court 2.111. 
Plaintiff shall include that information in all subsequent filings.
3.      The Court also notes that Plaintiff’s
counsel failed to appear at the May 6, 2024 Case Management Conference failed
to file a Case Management Conference Statement, and failed to comply with the
obligations associated with that hearing. 
Counsel failed to file a any response to the demurrer.  Counsel is admonished by the Court that the
Court expects counsel to fully comply with the obligations of a party to a
civil action and to fully participate in the proceedings in this action.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.