 Case Number:  23TRCV00066    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ZULA
  TUCKER LIVING TRUST, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00066




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 28,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant County of Los Angeles
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Fred Tucker, trustee of Zula Tucker Living
Trust
Demurrer
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers and supplemental briefing.  The Court had continued the hearing to allow plaintiff
to file a supplemental brief as to how he could amend.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
            On January 9, 2023, plaintiff Zula
Tucker Living Trust, Fred Tucker, trustee (self-represented) filed a complaint
against County of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles Board of Supervisor, and
County of Los Angeles Tax Assessor for breach of contract. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant County of Los Angeles
demurs to the first cause of action for breach of contract on the grounds that
it fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action, including
that plaintiff failed to allege exhaustion of the statutorily prescribed
administrative remedy or payment of taxes due prior to filing the action, is
uncertain, and that there is an adequate remedy at law in a tax refund action.
The complaint alleges that Proposition
13 requires assessment of each taxable property based on its fair market value
and limits a property owner’s general levy tax to 1% of the assessed
value.  On February 27, 2017, defendants
breached the agreement by illegally assessing and/or levying on the property
located at 1232 Via Landeta, Palos Verdes Estates, in disregard of Proposition
58 [parent to child exclusion] and Rev. & Tax Code §62(a)(1)(2)(b).  Plaintiff suffered damages legally caused by
defendants’ breach of the agreement as follows: 
property tax increase in the amount of over $10,000.  Complaint, ¶¶BC-1-BC-4. 
            Exhaustion
of administrative remedy
Defendant County argues that the
filing of the complaint is procedurally improper because plaintiff has failed
to allege that he exhausted the administrative remedy under the Revenue &
Tax Code.  
The Legislature has established a
three-step process in the Revenue & Tax Code for reducing tax assessments
and for handling challenges and refund requests:  the first step is the filing of an
application for assessment reduction under Rev. & Tax Code §1603; the
second step, which occurs after payment of the tax, is the filing of a timely
administrative refund claim under Rev. & Tax Code §5097(a); the third step
is the process of filing an action in superior court under Rev. & Tax Code §5140,
which provides that a person who paid the property tax may bring an action in
superior court “against a county . . . to recover a tax which the board of
supervisors of the county . . . has refused to refund on a claim filed pursuant
to Article 1 (commencing with Section 5096) of this chapter.”  A court action may not “be commenced or
maintained . . . unless a claim for refund has first been filed pursuant to
Article 1 (commencing with Section 5096).” Rev. & Tax Code §5142(a).  See also Williams & Fickett v. County
of Fresno (2017) 2 Cal. 5th 1258, 1271-73 (reiterating the
requirement that a party follow the steps above before filing suit.).  
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient because plaintiff has not alleged that he
exhausted his administrative remedy under the Rev. & Tax Code and is thus
barred from filing a complaint.  The
Court notes though that in the opposition, plaintiff asserts that on November
28, 2018, he filed an assessment appeal application, attaching a copy.
            First
cause of action for breach of contract 
Defendant contends that the
Legislature had determined that an action for refund filed in superior court is
the sole legal remedy for illegally assessed property taxes pursuant to Rev.
& Tax Code §5140.  Further, defendant
argues, Proposition 13, a constitutional provision, is not a contract that the
County is capable of breaching. 
Defendant also argues that Rev. & Tax Code §4807 prohibits a cause
of action for breach of contract.  That
section states:  “No injunction or writ
of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action,
or proceeding in any court against any county, municipality, or district, or
any officer thereof, to prevent or enjoin the collection of property taxes
sought to be collected.”
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the allegations are sufficient, explaining that in 2015, he amended the
Zula Tucker Living Trust and transferred 99% of the interest in the property to
Tucker PHP, Inc., a nonprofit owned by Fred Tucker, and then on June 14, 2017,
Tucker PHP, Inc. transferred the property back to Zula Tucker Living Trust, and
that on May 10, 2018, plaintiff received a Notice of Assessed Value Change
(because of change of ownership).  He
then filed an Assessment Appeal Application on November 28, 2018 and received
notice of a hearing date for March 12, 2019. 
At the hearing, plaintiff asserts, the hearing officer told him that the
issue was an ownership issue and to go to the Office of the Assessor to explain
the problem.  He attended another hearing
on May 16, 2019, and was told again to go to the Office of the Assessor.  He received notice of a hearing date for
April 15, 2020, and then notices of postponement.  He states that his application was denied on
January 20, 2022.
In reply, defendant argues that the
opposition does not show why the transfer of his property by grant deed was not
a change of ownership.  Further,
defendant argues, any amended complaint to assert a claim for tax refund would
be untimely because under Rev. & Tax Code §5141, a taxpayer must bring a
refund action within six months of the Board’s rejection of the taxpayer’s
claim.  Defendant explains that if the
Assessment Appeal Application requests that if be treated as a claim for
refund, the Appeals Board’s decision constitutes the rejection of the claim
under section 5141(c), and that plaintiff’s application made that election,
referring to plaintiff’s opposition, at Exh. H.
In a supplement to the opposition,
plaintiff contends that the complaint is being brought under Rev. & Tax Code
§5148 and that the complaint is well within the four-year statute of
limitations of when the Board denied plaintiff’s “change of ownership” claim on
January 20, 2022 (see Notice of Board Action mailed on February 4, 2022).  Plaintiff also argues that the transfer of
the property in 2017 into a corporation owned by Fred Tucker and then
transferred back to the trust was not a change of ownership.
In response, defendant reiterates that
the applicable section for a tax refund action is Rev. & Tax Code §5140,
and that Rev. & Tax Code §5148 is not applicable because it applies to
assessment of public utility property by a State agency.  Defendant reiterates its argument that the
complaint is untimely.
In plaintiff’s further supplement,
plaintiff disagrees that that Rev. & Tax Code §5141 requires that any
action under section 5140 be brought within six months.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to state a cause of action for “breach of
contract” for the reasons argued by defendant. 
Even if the Court were to consider a claim under Rev. & Tax Code
§5140, which both parties agree is the applicable section for an action for a
tax refund, leave to amend would be futile because plaintiff asserts that the
Board denied his application for a refund on January 20, 2022, and the
complaint was not filed until January 9, 2023. 
Rev. & Tax Code §5141 states, in part, that “(a) An action brought
under this article, except an action brought under Section 5148, shall be
commenced within six months from and after the date that the board of
supervisors or city council rejects a claim for refund in whole or in part.”  See also Schoenberg v. County of Los
Angeles Assessment Appeals Bd. (2009) 179 Cal. App. 4th 1347,
1355 (“Moreover, [the plaintiff’s] belated amendment adding a claim for a tax
refund and adding the County as a party is unavailing because it was too late
to do so.  His action is barred by the
six-month statute of limitations,” citing to Rev. & Tax. Code §5141).  Thus, the complaint is time-barred as the
action for refund was brought more than six months after the Assessment Appeals
Board issued its decision.
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
ORDER
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of ruling.