 Case Number:  21STCV25794    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JACK SHULKEY, Plaintiff(s), vs.  JANE LOREG, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 21STCV25794  [TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA OF NON-PARTY  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 8, 2024  Plaintiff Jack Shulkey (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Jane Loreg (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle incident. Defendant seeks the production of business records from VA Long Beach Healthcare System (“VA Long Beach”). Plaintiff testified he received treatment at VA Long Beach for injuries arising from the incident. Defendant served VA Long Beach through Defendant’s subpoena vendor, seeking:  “[Any and all documents and medical records pertaining to the examination, care, diagnosis, and treatment of the patient, including but not limited to all office, emergency room, inpatient and outpatient charts and records, nurses' and doctors' notes, radiological reports, color photographs or laser colored copies of photographs, physical therapy and rehabilitation records including all descriptions of exercises prescribed; any and all records regarding prescriptions, including the type of medication, date prescription was filled, doctor who wrote the prescription, instructions on taking the medication, and dosage; and any other information available regarding the prescription(s); sign-in sheets, and documentation which indicate date(s) and time(s) of patients' appointments. Records from 2006 - Present.” (Mot. Exh. B.)  Defendant contends its subpoena vendor advised defense counsel that the custodian of records for VA Long Beach refused to comply with the subpoena without an authorization form signed by Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to defense counsel’s request for the signed authorization. Therefore, Defendant seeks an order compelling VA Long Beach to comply with the deposition subpoena for Plaintiff’s medical records and for VA Long Beach to pay monetary sanctions.  The motion was initially filed on December 7, 2023, and denied without prejudice on March 1, 2024 on the grounds that Defendant failed to personally serve the moving papers to the non-party in which she seeks compliance. (Min. Order, March 1, 2024.) Defendant re-filed the motion, and provides proof of personal service on VA Long Beach. (Proof of Service, April 26, 2024.) However, the timing of the service is at issue. The proof of service evinces that the instant motion was personally served on April 24, 2024. Pursuant to CCP §1005, “all moving and supporting papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing.” (CCP §1005 (b).) The hearing is set for May 8, 2024. Counting backwards from the date of the hearing, 16 court days prior to the hearing falls on April 16, 2024. The instant motion, personally served on April 24, 2024, fails to provide the proper statutory notice in compliance with CCP §1005.  Accordingly, the Court is unable to proceed on the merits of this renewed motion until service is properly effectuated. (California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346; CCP §1005(b).) The Court therefore continues the hearing on this Motion To Compel Compliance With Deposition Subpoena For Production of Business Records ____________________. Defendant must provide VA Long Beach proper notice of the continued hearing date.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 7th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   