 Case Number:  23STCV11578    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



M.M.
 
        
  vs.
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV11578 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: July 18, 2024 



 
Defendant’s
motion for leave to amend is GRANTED.  
 
            On
5/22/2023, Plaintiff M.M (Plaintiff) filed suit against Los Angeles Unified
School District (Defendant or LAUSD), alleging: (1) negligence; (2) negligence;
(3) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; and (4) negligent hiring,
retention, and supervision. 
 
            On
3/18/2024, Defendant moved for leave to amend its answer.
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
seeks leave to amend to add an affirmative defense under Education Code section
44808.
 
Education
Code section 44808 states in full: 
 
Notwithstanding
any other provision of this code, no school district, city or county
board of education, county superintendent of schools, or any officer or
employee of such district or board shall be responsible or in any way liable
for the conduct or safety of any pupil of the public schools at any time when
such pupil is not on school property, unless such district, board, or
person has undertaken to provide transportation for such pupil to and from the
school premises, has undertaken a school-sponsored activity off the premises of
such school, has otherwise specifically assumed such responsibility or
liability or has failed to exercise reasonable care under the circumstances. In
the event of such a specific undertaking, the district, board, or person shall
be liable or responsible for the conduct or safety of any pupil only while such
pupil is or should be under the immediate and direct supervision of an employee
of such district or board. 
 
(Ed. Code §
44808 [emphasis added].)
 
Defendant
contends that it was only at Plaintiff’s deposition on 2/8/2024, after it had
filed its answer, that it learned that Plaintiff contends that he was abused
only off campus. As such, Defendant argues that it was not aware of the facts
supporting this affirmative defense at the time the answer was filed. 
 
The
policy favoring leave to amend is so strong that it is an abuse of discretion
to deny an amendment unless the adverse party can show meaningful prejudice.
(Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.)
 
Here,
no trial date has been set. As such, Plaintiff has plenty of time to prepare
for trial, and Defendant has raised
the issue of amending its Answer within a reasonable period of time.
Accordingly, the Court finds no meaningful prejudice would result by granting
Defendant leave to amend. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for leave to amend is granted.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 