  Case Number:  23STCV10071    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



AMERICAN
  CONTRACTORS INDEMNITY COMPANY 
 
        
  vs.
 
P^2MG, LLC, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV10071 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: July 18, 2024 



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  
 
            On
5/4/2023, Plaintiff American Contractors Indemnity Company (ACIC) filed suit
against P^2MG, LLC dba P2MG, LLC, Michael E. Nelson, and Bakeyah S. Nelson,
alleging: (1) specific performance; (2) breach of contract; (3) express
indemnity; and (4) statutory reimbursement. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication, on the Complaint.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiff’s
submitted Objections are sustained. 
 
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the undisputed material facts establish each of the necessary
elements for breach of contract of the Indemnity Agreement. Plaintiff argues
that this, in turn, shows their entitlement to express indemnity, statutory
reimbursement, and specific performance. 
 
Under California
law, the elements necessary to establish a valid cause of action for breach of
an indemnity agreement are: (1) existence of an indemnity agreement; (2)
performance under the indemnity agreement; (3) breach of the indemnity
agreement; and (4) resulting damage. (Reichert v. General Ins. Co. of
America (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830; Four Star Electric, Inc. v. F & H
Construction (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1379 [“[A]n indemnitee seeking to
recover on an agreement for indemnification must allege the parties’
contractual relationship, the indemnitee's performance of that portion of the
contract which gives rise to the indemnification claim, the facts showing a
loss within the meaning of the parties’ indemnification agreement, and the
amount of damages sustained.”].)
 
In support of
the first element, Plaintiff submitted evidence that:
 
-         
Indemnitors do not dispute the fact
that an indemnity agreement exists between them and ACIC. (UMF 1-3.) The
express terms of the Indemnity Agreement are the measure of ACIC’s right of
recovery in this action.
 
-         
By executing the Indemnity Agreement,
Indemnitors agree, jointly and severally, to indemnity and hold ACIC harmless
from losses, costs, damages, attorneys’ fees and expenses, investigative fees,
consultants’ fees, and “any and all other types of losses, costs, or expenses
of whatsoever kind or nature” sustained or incurred by ACIC “by reason of or in
any manner in consequence of, no matter how remotely,” including but not
limited to, with: 
 
(1) ACIC’s execution or procurement of the Bonds; 
 
(2) Indemnitors’ failure to comply with the terms of the
Indemnity Agreement; 
 
(3) ACIC’s enforcement of the Indemnity Agreement; 
 
(4) ACIC’s investigation of its alleged obligations and
liabilities under the Bonds; 
 
(5) ACIC’s attempt to obtain a release or reduction of its
liability or alleged liability under the Bonds; 
 
(6) ACIC’s prosecution or defense of any action or claim of
whatsoever kind or nature in connection in connection with the Bonds or
Contract; and 
 
(7) ACIC’s attempt to determine, discharge or mitigate its
loss or exposure to loss in connection with the Bonds or Contract, or to
enforce any of its rights pursuant to the Indemnity Agreement. 
 
(UMF 85.)
 
-         
The Indemnity Agreement further
provides that in the event of “any payment of any kind” by ACIC, Indemnitors
agree that their liability extends to and includes, and ACIC shall be entitled
to charge and recover, any and all disbursements made by ACIC in “Good Faith”
under the belief that:
 
(1)  any
Principal or Indemnitor is or has been in default under or pursuant to this
Agreement; or
 
(2)  the
Surety was or might be liable to pay the claims asserted or the sums paid,
whether or not such liability actually existed; or 
 
(3)  such
payments were or are necessary or expedient, in the Surety’s sole and absolute
discretion, to protect any of the Surety’s rights or interest or to avoid or
lessen the Surety’s liability or alleged liability, whether or not such
liability, necessity or expediency actually existed … 
 
(UMF
86.)
 
-         
Moreover, Indemnitors agreed, jointly
and severally, that ACIC had the sole and absolute right to adjust, settle,
defend, and compromise any claim in connection with the Bonds. (UMF 87.)
 
-         
If Indemnitors desire that ACIC
“consider adjusting, settling, prosecuting, defending, compromising,
litigating, protesting, or appealing any claim, demand, suit, award,
assessment, or judgment” against Indemnitors, Indemnitors shall:
 
A.   
Give written notice to the Surety to
this effect by certified or registered mail; and
 
B.   
Simultaneously therewith, deposit with
the Surety cash, securities or other collateral, in form and amount acceptable
to the Surety in its sole and absolute discretion, to completely cover the
Surety’s exposure or perceived exposure to any loss, cost or expense for which
the Surety is entitled to exoneration, indemnification or reimbursement
pursuant to this Agreement.
 
(UMF
87.) 
 
-         
Indemnitors also agreed that in the
event of any payment by ACIC, “an itemized statement of the amount of such payment
sworn to by any officer or authorized representative of the [ACIC], or any
voucher or vouchers, invoices or other evidence of such payment shall be prima
facie evidence of the fact and the amount of such payment.” (UMF 88.)
 
In support of
the second element (i.e., Plaintiff’s performance), Plaintiff submitted
evidence that:
 
- The terms
of the Indemnity Agreement provide that in consideration of the obligations
undertaken therein by Indemnitors, ACIC may execute bonds on behalf of the
Indemnitors. (UMF 1-4.)
 
- ACIC issued
the Bonds for P2MG, one of the Indemnitors, exposing itself to potential loss
of $638,000.00 on both the Performance Bond and Payment Bond. (UMF 5.)
 
In
support of the third element (i.e., Defendants’ breach), Plaintiff submitted evidence
that:
 
-         
LAUSD terminated P2MG’s right to
proceed on the Project (UMF 10) and issued a Bond Claim to ACIC – demanding
that ACIC perform its obligations under the Performance Bond (UMF 11; see UMF
91 [an “Event of Default” includes “5. The declaration by any Bond obligee or
project owner that any Principal is in default under the Contract, irrespective
of whether or not such Principal is actually in default under such Contract”].)
 
-         
The Indemnity Agreement allows ACIC, in
“its sole and absolute discretion” to take possession of P2MG’s work under the
contract with LAUSD for the Project, and “at the cost and expense” Indemnitors,
“to complete or to arrange for the completion” of the work. (UMF 90.)
 
-         
Furthermore, Indemnitors “shall
promptly, upon demand, pay to the Surety all costs, losses and expenses
incurred” by ACIC pursuant to the Indemnity Agreement. (UMF 90.) Indemnitors
have admittedly not indemnified ACIC or held ACIC harmless for its losses
incurred under the Performance Bond. (UMF 74, 83.)
 
-         
ACIC also received Payment Bond claims
from vendors retained by P2MG who sought payments owed by P2MG for their
services on the Project. (UMF 23-69.)
 
-         
After providing notice to P2MG of the
claims and investigating, ACIC issued payments in connection with claims under
the Payment Bond. (UMF 23-69.)
 
-         
However, Indemnitors have admittedly
not indemnified ACIC or held ACIC harmless for its losses incurred under the
Payment Bond. (UMF 74, 83.); see UMF 91 [an “Event of Default” includes “12.
Any failure by any Principal or Indemnitor to pay or discharge, when due or as
demanded by the Surety, any indebtedness of any Principal to the Surety or to
any obligee, or to any subcontractor, supplier, laborer or materialman or any
other claimant on any Bonded Contract or under any Bond”].)
 
-         
Indemnitors failed to provide written
notice by certified or registered mail of their desire to protest any bond
claims and also failed to post collateral in connection with any of the claims
under the Bonds or in response to ACIC’s demand for collateral. (UMF 73, 75,
76.)
 
Plaintiff’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that Defendants breached the Indemnity
agreement. Accordingly, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to disclose a triable
issue of material fact.
 
In
opposition, Defendants do not dispute entering into the Indemnity Agreement,
but argue that Plaintiff “breached its obligations to review and pay the
third-party bond claims in good faith, in violation of its obligations under
section III of the bond contract.” (Opp., 4: 27-5:2.) 
 
In
support, Defendants submitted evidence that:
 
-         
They substantially performed the
construction contract with LAUSD, and were issued substantial completion
certificates and final punch list issued by LAUSD. (RSS No. 74.) 
 
-         
ACIC relied on an outdated punch list
in evaluating Defendants’ performance. 
 
-         
ACIC paid the full contract sum to the
third parties’ claimants by ignoring evidence of payments by P2MG of the said
claims less the 5% retainage amount. (SS 59.) 
 
-         
ACIC claimed to have investigated the
said contract in the absence of representatives of P2MG and LAUSD.
 
However, as
noted by Plaintiff in reply, Defendants’ evidence does not always support the
proposition it is submitted to establish. For example, Defendants
 
contend that
Partner used an “outdated punch list,” but Indemnitors have not presented any
evidence that Partner used an “outdated punch list.” In fact, ACIC’s Exhibit 24
– Partners’ “Sutter Middle School Substantial Completion Punch List Notes”
reference review of the “the punch list dated 4/18/19” which is a more current
version than the punch list attached as Defendants’ Exhibit L, which is dated
February 28, 2019. Moreover, while Mr. Nelson references different punch list
versions throughout his declaration, he admits that P2MG received the punch
list dated April 18, 2019 in Paragraph 46 of his declaration – noting “P2MG
received a punch-list dated 4/18/2019 and provided a completed list with
pictures illustrating items to be completed.”
 
            (Reply,
9: 2-10.)
 
            Similarly,
while Defendants argue that Plaintiff paid for work outside the scope of the
contract with P2MG’s with LAUSD, they do not submit any evidence which actually
establishes this, and Mr. Nelson admits in his declaration that the scope of
the completion contract with RCCI dba Ramirez Company is unknown to P2MG.
(Nelson Decl., ¶ 102.)
 
            Plaintiff
submitted evidence via Mr. Ching’s declaration which supports a reasonable
inference that that he investigated each claim, obtained counsel Lanak &
Hanna to assist in investigating and evaluating the Bond claims, hired Partner
to conduct an independent investigation of the Performance Bond claim, and
concluded – based upon the investigation and evaluation of the at-issue Bond
claims – that ACIC had an obligation and it was necessary and expedient to
satisfy the claims. Defendants’ evidence, in turn, is based on conjecture and
conclusory assertions unsupported by evidence which cannot support a reasonable
inference of either non-performance by Plaintiff or lack of good faith.  
 
            Moreover,
Defendants do not submit any evidence that, despite the terms of the Indemnity
Agreement, they ever provided written notice by certified or registered mail of
their desire to protest any bond claims or that they posted collateral in
connection with any of the claims under the Bonds or in response to Plaintiff’s
demand for collateral. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment is granted.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 