 Case Number:  24STCV05062    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



VIG PRIVATE LENDING
  
        
  vs.
 
ILAN KENIG 

 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV05062   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 18, 2024




 
Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
On 2/29/2024,
Plaintiff Vig Private Lending, Inc (Plaintiff) filed an unlawful detainer
action against Defendant Ilan Kenig. On 4/24/2024, Plaintiff filed a first
amended unlawful detainer complaint. (FAC) against Ilan and Avivit Kenig. 
 
On 6/12/2024,
Defendant Avivit Kenig demurred to Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
Avivit Kenig argues that Plaintiff has failed to state a claim for unlawful
detainer against her because she is not referenced in the FAC at all. Defendant
argues that the only allegations stated with any level of specificity are those
against another Defendant (Ilan Kenig).
 
            After
review, the Court disagrees. 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges:
 
Plaintiff is
informed and believes that all other Defendants named are not tenants. To the
extent that any occupants are tenants, occupants have been requested, in
writing and orally to provide the terms of their tenancy. Occupants refused to
comply with these requests. Occupants were then served a Three Day Notice to
provide the terms of their lease agreement or to execute a new lease. Occupants
have refused or failed to comply with the notice, and as such have forfeited
any such rental agreement or right to tenancy.
 
The notice to
quit has since expired but Defendants have failed and refused to deliver up
possession of the Premises.
 
Defendants
continue in possession of the Premises without permission or consent of
Plaintiff, and contrary to the notice to quit.
 
            (FAC
¶¶ 8-10.)
 
            As
such, Plaintiff clearly alleges that Defendant Avivit Kenig is not a tenant,
but an occupant of the Premises, and has refused to deliver up possession of
the Premises. This is sufficient to put Avivit Kenig on notice of the claims
against her. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 