  Case Number:  22STCV32477    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
SINANIAN
  DEVELOPMENT, INC.


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
22STCV32477




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




PRISM HOSPITALITY,
  INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: March 21,
2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Motion to Set Aside
Default and Default Judgment 
Moving Party:            Defendants Prism Hospitality, Inc.
and Maanbir Punia
Responding Party:   Plaintiff Sinanian Development, Inc. 
 
T/R:     Defendants’ Motion to Set Aside Default and
Default Judgment is DENIED.  
 
DEFENDANTS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
            The Court considers the moving
papers, opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
 On December 4, 2019, Plaintiff
contracted with Defendant Prism Hospitality, Inc. for Prism to design, procure,
and install the furniture, fixtures, and equipment (“FF&E”) for the hotel
Plaintiff was building in Glendale, CA.  Plaintiff
alleges Defendant Maanbir Punia was the owner of Prism.  Plaintiff alleges Prism breached the contract
by failing to obtain the FF&E as promised.
 
Plaintiff sued on October 4, 2022, alleging breach of written contract
and fraud.  On December 21, 2022, the
Court entered default against Defendant Prism Hospitality, Inc.  On January 10, 2023, the Court entered
default against Maanbir Punia.  On May
25, 2023, the Court entered default judgment against Prism Hospitality, Inc.
and Maanbir Punia in the amount of $542,461.85. 

 
ANALYSIS
 
            “When service of a
summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in
the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the
default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.”  (CCP §473.5(a).)  “Section 473.5 provides relief from default
or default judgment to those defendants who, despite proper service, never
received ‘actual notice’ of the lawsuit in time to defend against it. (See §
473.5, subd. (a).) To get such relief, the defaulted defendant must submit an
affidavit showing the lack of actual notice was not due to its avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect.”  (Luxury
Asset Lending, LLC v. Philadelphia Television Network, Inc. (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 894, 908.)  
 
            Defendants move for
relief from the default and default judgment on the grounds that they never
received actual notice of the Request for Entry of Default or Request for Entry
of Default Judgment.  Defendants argue
the first time they realized there was a default judgment against them was on September
12, 2023, when Punia was served with a notice to appear for a judgment debtor
exam.
 
            Defendant Punia concedes
he was served with the complaint on December 2, 2022.  Defendants argue they were communicating with
Plaintiff thereafter regarding the case, production issues and delays due to
the COVID pandemic.  
 
            Defendant Punia also argues
the fraud claim against him is insufficient, as the specific fraudulent acts
are not alleged, and the fraud claim is identical to the breach of contract
claim.  Defendant Punia argues he has a
meritorious defense to the fraud claim and he was lulled into believing that
Plaintiff was not actively litigating the action, since the papers were served
at the wrong address and Defendants never received copies of a Request for
Entry of Default or Request for Entry of Default Judgment.  
 
            Plaintiff argues CCP §473.5 does not
apply, because Defendants concede that they had actual notice of the lawsuit
and were served with the summons and complaint in time to defend.  Prism was served with the summons and
complaint on November 17, 2022; Punia was served on December 2, 2022.  Plaintiff argues that proper service is not
contested.  
 
            Plaintiff also contends it served
Defendants with the Requests for Entry of Default and Default Judgment at the
Defendants’ last known address. 
 
            CCP §473.5 does not apply here.  It allows for relief where service of the
complaint and summons fails to give actual notice of the action to the
defendant.  Defendants do not argue lack
of actual notice.  
 
            A request for equitable relief based on
extrinsic fraud or mistake may be brought at any time, so long as the party
acted diligently in seeking relief.  (Rappleyea
v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 982.) 
“A party seeking relief under the court's equitable powers must satisfy
the elements of a “stringent three-pronged test”: (1) a satisfactory excuse for
not presenting a defense, (2) a meritorious defense, and (3) diligence in
seeking to set aside the default.”  (Kramer
v. Traditional Escrow, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 13, 29.)  
 
            “The court's ability to grant relief
under its inherent power is narrower than its ability to grant relief under
section 473, subdivision (b).  This is
especially true after a default judgment has been entered.  A party who seeks to set aside a default
judgment pursuant to the court's equity power must make a substantially
stronger showing of the excusable nature of his or her neglect than is
necessary to obtain relief under section 473.” 
(Id. (trial court erred in finding extrinsic mistake and
diligence in seeking relief where defendants undisputedly had notice of the
action, evidence established that defendants’ lack of notice was due to their
own negligence and record established that plaintiff diligently attempted to
contact and serve defendants with documents throughout the litigation).)  
 
            Defendants fail to demonstrate
extrinsic mistake sufficient to justify equitable relief.  Defendants admit that they were properly
served with the complaint and had actual notice of the lawsuit.  Defendant Punia’s testimony regarding the
parties’ discussions after service do not support a finding that he reasonably
believed Plaintiff was not litigating. 
(Motion, Punia Dec., ¶2.)  Punia
testifies the parties had “ongoing communications…about supply chain/product
delays…”  (Id.)  Nothing in these discussions would reasonably
lead Punia to believe Plaintiff was not pursuing the lawsuit.  
 
            Defendants also admit that they
resided at 36 Blue Summit in Irvine, CA in 2022 through January 18, 2023.  Plaintiff served the request for entry of
default at the Blue Summit address. Defendants were living at the Blue Summit
address at that time.  
 
            Default was entered against Prism
more than a year ago, on December 21, 2022, and against Punia on January 10,
2023.  Default judgment was entered on May
25, 2023.  The motion to set aside
default and default judgment was not filed until February 15, 2024.  Even if the Court accepted Defendants’ claim
of ignorance, Defendants admit receiving notice of the default judgment against
them on September 12, 2023.  (Motion,
3:7-11; Punia Dec., ¶¶12-13.)  Defendants
waited five months before filing this motion. 
Defendants fail to demonstrate reasonable diligence in seeking to set
aside the default and default judgment.  


 