 Case Number:  23STCV30964    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Michael Binns, et
  al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCV30964




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Senator 2015 LP, et
  al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: March
21, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Demurrer with Motion
to Strike 
Moving Party:            Defendants Senator 2015, LP and SRHT
Property Management  
Responding Party:   Plaintiffs Michael Binns, Yomi Vincent, Darren
Boyce, James Perkins, Crystalee Horlacher, Carroll Mercadel, Andra Stevens,
Shirlemadeline Bailey, Earl Hammons, Henry Duncan, Rahman Smith, Paul Harway,
Ralph Locurcio, Fred Schoenahl, Jose Leon, David Valdevia, Ashley Brooks, Audry
Monroy, Fushchia Hayes, David Watson, Enrique Velez, Cordell Marshall, Richard
Walker, Paula Bilson, Lorissa Pugh, Anthony Jeffries, Victor Pantoja and Gerald
Pierce
 
T/R:     Defendants’ Demurrer is OVERRULED.  Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED.  
 
DEFENDANTS TO PROVIDE NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
            The Court considers the moving
papers, late-filed opposition,[1] and
reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs are the tenants in a building owned and managed by
Defendants.  Plaintiffs allege their
units suffered from multiple defects that rendered them dangerous and
uninhabitable, including inadequate weather protection, inadequate plumbing,
dampness and mold, inadequate sanitation, lack of heating and ventilation,
vermin infestation, structural hazards, inadequate wiring, and inadequate
mechanical equipment.  
 
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiffs sued Defendants Senator 2015 LP and
SRHT Property Management Company, alleging (1) breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment/warranty of habitability; (2) tortious breach of the implied warranty
of habitability; (3) negligence; (4) violation of Civil Code §1942.4; (5)
violation of unfair business practices; and (6) tenant harassment. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.   Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or
from judicially noticeable matters. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.)  Concerning the legal
sufficiency of a pleading, the sole issue on demurrer is whether the facts
pleaded, if true, state a valid cause of action – i.e., if the complaint pleads
facts that would entitle the plaintiff to relief.  (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 339.)
 
            A general demurrer
admits the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the
challenged pleading, regardless of possible difficulties of proof.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)  Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.  (Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)  Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to
allegations expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by
the exhibits to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be
taken.  (Vance v. Villa Park
Mobilehome Estates (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)  A general demurrer does not admit
contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a
court may take judicial notice.  (Blank,
supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)
 
            Defendants demur to the
first cause of action for breach of contract and the fifth cause of action for unfair
business practices.  Defendants argue the
first cause of action for breach of contract fails because Plaintiff fails to
allege the terms of the lease agreement, the specific term of the lease
agreement breached and when it was breached. 
Defendants argue that without such information, they cannot tell if the
action is barred by the statute of limitations. 

 
            Defendants argue the
first cause of action also is uncertain, because it attempts to allege three
separate causes of action in one. 
Defendants argue they cannot determine the nature of the allegations
against them.  
 
            The elements for a
breach of contract cause of action are: (1) the existence of a contract; (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach;
and (4) resulting damages.  (Reichert
v. General Ins. Co. (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830.)  A written contract may be pleaded either word
for word or generally “according to its legal intendment and effect” (e.g.,
“Defendant agreed to sell the described property to Plaintiff for $100,000”).  (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198–199.)  
 
            “In addition to asserting a breach
of the habitability warranty as a defense to an unlawful detainer action, a
tenant may bring suit against the landlord for damages resulting from such
breach.  The elements of such an
affirmative claim are the existence of a material defective condition affecting
the premises' habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition within a
reasonable time after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the landlord was
given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting damages.”  (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1296-1297 (warranty of habitability implied by
common law into every residential lease in California.)
 
            Plaintiffs’ allegations sufficiently
allege the elements of breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of
quiet enjoyment, and breach of the warranty of habitability.  Each of these claims is essentially a breach
of contract claim. Plaintiffs allege the dates on which they entered into
written lease agreements with Defendants (Complaint, ¶¶10-37).  Plaintiffs allege in detail the nature of the
alleged breaches of the covenant of quiet enjoyment and warranty of
habitability.  (Complaint, ¶¶42-54.)  Plaintiffs also allege that they each
suffered personal injury, property damage, mental and emotional distress,
excessive rent payments and other damages at the premises.  (Complaint, ¶58.)  No further allegations of damage are
necessary.
 
            Plaintiffs are not required to
allege the date of breach. “Where a complaint does not reveal on its face that
it is barred by the statute of limitations, a plaintiff has no obligation to
plead around the defense.”  (JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. v. Ward (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 678, 688.)  
 
            Defendants also argue that
Plaintiffs’ combining three causes of action into one renders the complaint
uncertain.  Defendants did not include
CCP §430.10(f) in their notice of demurrer; in any event, combining all three
claims in the caption of the first cause of action does not make the claim
uncertain.  As discussed above, these are
all in essence breach of contract claims. 
Defendants will be able to reasonably respond to the allegations.  (Khoury v. O’Maly (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616 (demurrer based on uncertainty will only be sustained
where complaint is so poorly drafted that defendant cannot reasonably respond).)  
 
            Defendants
argue the fifth cause of action for violation of Business and Professions Code
§17200 fails because Plaintiffs’ allegations are devoid of any facts and merely
reference statutes allegedly violated by Defendants.  Defendants argue Plaintiffs fail to allege
any basis for standing or causation under section 17200 on behalf of the
twenty-eight individual plaintiffs. 
Defendants argue only nine plaintiffs allegedly suffered actual injury, and
there are no allegations of injury as to the remaining nineteen.
 
“‘Unlawful business
activity' proscribed under section 17200 includes anything that can properly be
called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.” (Farmers
Ins. Exchange v. Supr. Ct. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.)  An action under B&PC 17200 based on an
unlawful business practice “borrows violations of other laws and treats these
violations, when committed pursuant to business activity, as unlawful practices
independently actionable under section 17200 et seq. and subject to the distinct
remedies provided thereunder.”  (Id.)
 
            Plaintiffs allege code and statutory
violations allegedly committed in managing the subject property.  (Complaint, ¶¶70-75.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants are “slum
lords,” who lease out premises that suffer from serious habitability issues and
legal violations.  (Id. at
¶¶73-75) Plaintiffs allege Defendants collected rent despite failing to
remediate the habitability issues. 
Plaintiffs seek restitution based on overpayment of rent for lease of
uninhabitable premises.  (Complaint,
¶76.)  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a
claim for Bus. & Prof. C. §17200 based on Defendants’ unfair and illegal
business practices.  
 
B.   Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages 
 
            “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”  (CC §3294(a).)
 
            Defendants move to strike the claim
for punitive damages asserted in connection with the second cause of action for
tortious breach of the implied warranty of habitability and fourth cause of
action for violation of Civil Code §1942.4. 
Defendants argue that no facts are alleged that would support a finding
of malice, oppression, or fraud. 
Defendants argue the facts alleged merely support a finding that they
knew of violations and delayed in fixing them.
 
Plaintiffs have pleaded
grounds for punitive damages based on the “conscious disregard” prong of
“malice” under CC §3294(c)(1), “despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.”  
 
            Plaintiffs allege egregious
habitability violations that repeatedly were brought to Defendants’ attention
by Plaintiffs and government agencies. 
(Complaint, ¶¶42, 44-45.)  The
substandard maintenance of the subject property allegedly was a widespread
business practice of Defendants, involving multiple properties.  (Complaint, ¶40.)  Defendants allegedly willfully refused to
attend to the issues plaguing the property, exposing Plaintiffs to dangerous,
uninhabitable conditions.  These
allegations are sufficient to plead malice under Civil Code §3294 and Civil
Code §1942.5(h)(2), which incorporates the requirement of malice, fraud or
oppression in Civil Code §3294.
 


