  Case Number:  21STCV40954    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
November 8, 2021, Plaintiff Maria I. Rojas (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Bre Encino Owner LLC (“Bre Owner”), Bre Imagination Pooled
Retail II LLC (“Bre Retail”), The Whiting-Turner Contracting Company
(“Whiting”), and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
April 6, 2022, Whiting filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Roes 1-100 for implied indemnity, contribution, and
declaratory relief. 
On
July 29, 2024, the Court granted Whiting’s motion for a good faith settlement
determination.  On December 23, 2024, the
Court dismissed Whiting’s cross-complaint with prejudice at Whiting’s request. 
On
April 27, 2022, Bre Owner and Bre Retail filed an answer. 
On
January 26, 2023, Bre Owner and Bre Retail (“Bre Entities”) filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Allied Universal Risk Advisory and
Consulting Services, Inc., Andrew International, Inc., and Roes 1- 25 for
equitable indemnity, equitable apportionment, contribution, express indemnity,
and declaratory relief. 
On
March 8, 2023, Bre Entities amended the cross-complaint to include Cross-Defendant
Universal Protection Service, LP, as Roe 1.  On April 14, 2023, Cross-Defendant
Universal Protection Service, LP dba Allied Universal Security Services
(erroneously sued as Allied Universal Risk Advisory and Consulting Services,
Inc. and Andrew International, Inc.) (“Allied”) filed an answer. 
On
October 21, 2024, the Court granted Allied’s motion for summary adjudication of
the claims for equitable indemnity, equitable apportionment, contribution, and
declaratory relief contained in Bre Entities’ cross-complaint. The Court denied
Allied’s motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication of the claim for express indemnity contained in Bre Entities’
cross-complaint. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 18, 2025. 
B.   This motion 
On
November 20, 2024, Allied filed a motion to sever the Bre Entities’ cross-complaint
from Plaintiff’s case.  The motion was
set for hearing on January 6, 2025.  On
December 20, 2024, the Bre Entities filed an opposition.  On December 27, 2024, Allied filed a reply. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Allied
asks the Court to sever the Bre Entities’ cross-complaint from Plaintiff’s
case.   The Bre Entities ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (b), provides: 
“The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,
subd. (b).) 
          “Granting or denying of a motion for separate trials lies within
the trial court’s sound discretion . . . .” 
(L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before
Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 12:424, pp. 12(l)-83 to 12(l)-84.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s complaint 
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges the following: 
On
December 17, 2019, at 17401 Ventura Boulevard in Encino, California, Defendants
Bre Entities, Whiting, and Does 1-50 negligently directed, instructed, and or
allowed Plaintiff to walk down an escalator which Defendants, by their
negligent acts or omissions, caused and or knew to be stopped. The stopped
escalator constituted a dangerous condition because the steps were not uniform,
were uneven, and did not comply with California law, creating a fall hazard.
The steps posed an unreasonable risk of harm to the elderly Plaintiff.  As a
result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff was injured. 
B.   The Bre Entities’ cross-complaint 
The Bre
Entities’ cross-complaint includes the following allegations: 
On
or about January 14, 2017, the Bre Entities, through their property management
company, ShopCore Properties TRS Management LLC (“ShopCore”), entered into a
written On-Site Services Agreement with Cross-Defendants Allied, Andrew
International, Inc., and Roes 1-25 (“Cross-Defendants”) for security services
at 17401 Ventura Boulevard in Encino, California (“the premises”). 
Paragraph
1 of the Agreement provided, “Contractor shall provide those services to
certain real property . . . during those specified times . . . set forth on
Exhibit ‘A’ ” of the On-Site Services Agreement. 
Paragraph
2 of the On-Site Services Agreement states, “Any services not included in this
Agreement shall be performed by Contractor only when required by Owner in
writing.” 
On
or around May 21, 2018, the Senior Property Manager for the premises issued a
memorandum to Cross-Defendants which specified “the Encino officer will be
responsible for turning off . . . the single escalator (located in the center
of the courtyard) . . . daily at 2000 hours.”  However, on the day of the Incident,
Cross-Defendants, through their agents and/or employees, turned off the
escalator prematurely, causing the Incident. 
The
On-Site Services Agreement also expressly and/or impliedly provided Cross
Defendants were to defend, indemnify, and hold the Bre Entities harmless from
and against all loss, cost, expense, and liability (including the Bre Entities’
cost of defending against the foregoing, with such costs to include reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs) resulting or occurring by reason of
Cross-Defendants’ negligence. 
On
or about December 7, 2022, the Bre Entities issued a tender of defense request
to Cross-Defendants asserting the Bre Entities were entitled to be provided
with a defense by Cross-Defendants in Plaintiff’s case.  Cross-Defendants never responded to the Bre
Entities’ request for a defense. 
The
Bre Entities performed all conditions, covenants, and promises required by them
to be performed in accordance with the terms and conditions of its On-Site
Services Agreement with Cross-Defendant, except to the extent that the Bre
Entities were excused from or prevented from performing the aforementioned
conditions, covenants, and promises by the acts and/or omissions of Cross-Defendants. 
The
Bre Entities are informed and believe and thereupon allege Cross-Defendants
materially breached the On-Site Services Agreement by refusing and/or failing
to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Bre Entities in the Plaintiff’s
action, including a refusal and/or failure to defend and indemnify the Bre
Entities from and against any and all claims, debts, damages, judgments,
awards, losses, liabilities, interest, attorney’s fees, costs and expense of
any kind at any time arising out of or in any way connected with the Incident. 
C.   Allied’s motion for separate trials 
Allied
moves for separate trials of Plaintiff’s complaint against the Bre Entities, on
the one hand, and the Bre Entities’ cross-complaint against Allied, on the
other hand.  Allied asserts that trying
the Bre Entities’ cross-complaint against Allied at the same time as Plaintiff’s
complaint against the Bre Entities will prejudice Allied because the Bre
Entities’ express indemnity claim against Allied does not accrue until after
the Bre Entities pay a judgment to Plaintiff. 
In
addition, Allied asserts, the On-Site Services Agreement provides that Allied
is liable for its negligence except to the extent Plaintiff’s injury was
caused directly or indirectly by the Bre Entities’ negligent acts or omissions.  (Motion p. 10, citing On-Site Service
Agreement, p. 2, para 6ii, Exh. 4.)  As a
result, Allied argues, while “Allied may have to introduce evidence and argue
the negligent acts or omissions of [the Bre Entities]” to defend the
cross-complaint, in Plaintiff’s case Allied can avoid indemnity altogether if the
Bre Entities are not liable.  (Motion p.
10.)  Allied contends that it “should not
be put in the position of being forced to help plaintiff to obtain a judgment
against [the Bre Entities] for which it might be liable.”  (Motion p. 10.)  Inconsistent arguments, Allied observes,
would confuse the jury. 
Allied
also argues that trying the two matters together would be inefficient and
inconvenient because the matters involve different issues.  While the Bre Entities’ cross-complaint
against Allied “requires interpretation of contractual language in an On-Site
Service Agreement between cross-complainants and cross-defendant, determination
of the intent of the parties, and public policy considerations,” Plaintiff’s
complaint against the Bre Entities involves “the simple facts of
plaintiff’s personal injury case.” 
(Motion p. 4.) 
D.   The Bre Entities’ opposition 
In
opposition, the Bre Entities argue that Plaintiff’s complaint against the Bre Entities,
on the one hand, and the Bre Entities’ cross-complaint against Allied, on the
other hand, involve overlapping liability issues which are most efficiently
tried together.  While Plaintiff alleges in
her complaint that the Bre Entities are responsible for her injuries (because
they allowed Plaintiff to walk down a stopped escalator), the Bre Entities
allege in their cross-complaint that Allied is responsible for Plaintiff’s
injuries (because they prematurely turned the escalator off).   The Bre
Entities argue that “the allocation of fault between [the Bre Entities] and
Allied is integral to determining liability and damages.”  (Opposition p. 8.)  Inconsistent verdicts may result if the matters
are tried separately.  (Opposition p. 9.) 
The
Bre Entities also argue that their indemnity claim is not premature because
Civil Code section 2778 provides in part: “The person indemnifying is bound, on
request of the person indemnified, to defend actions or proceedings brought
against the latter in respect to the matters embraced by the indemnity, but the
person indemnified has the right to conduct such defenses, if he chooses to do
so . . . .”  (Civ. Code, § 2778, para.
4.) 
E.   Analysis 
Allied
contends that it would suffer prejudice if the complaint and cross-complaint
are tried together because it would be forced to argue inconsistent positions,
confusing the jury.  According to Allied,
to defend the Bre Entities’ cross-complaint, Allied would have to show that the
Bre Entities’ negligence caused Plaintiff’s injuries, a showing "contrary to Allied’s interest
on plaintiff’s complaint where Allied can avoid indemnity if Bre Encino is not
liable.”  (Reply p. 6.) 
Allied
does not explain why, if the complaint and cross-complaint are tried together, Allied
cannot take the consistent position that neither Allied nor the Bre Entities were
negligent.  The Court concludes that trying the matters together would not “force[ ] [Allied]
into contradictory arguments.”  (See State
Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1956) 47 Cal.2d 428, 431.) 
The
Court finds that separate trials would not be conducive to expedition and economy because the issue of liability for Plaintiff’s injuries is central to both Plaintiff’s
complaint and the Bre Entities’ cross-complaint.  The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Cross-Defendant Universal Protection Service, LP dba Allied
Universal Security Services's motion to sever
the cross-complaint filed by Cross-Defendants
Bre Encino Owner LLC and Bre Imagination Pooled
Retail II LLC from Plaintiff Maria I.
Rojas’s case. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.