 Case Number:  22STCV11188    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 1, 2022, Angela Phung (“Plaintiff”), by and
through her guardian ad litem Van Nguyen, filed this action against Defendants
Los Angeles Unified School District (“the District”) and Does 1-50 for
negligence (Gov. Code, §§ 815.2, subd. (a), 820, subd. (a)), negligent
supervision of students (Gov. Code, § 815.2, subd. (a)), and negligent hiring,
supervision, or retention of employees (Gov. Code, §§ 815.2, subd. (a), 820,
subd. (a)). 
On
April 5, 2022, the Court appointed Van Nguyen to act as Plaintiff’s guardian ad
litem. 
On
June 22, 2022, the District filed an answer. 
On
December 2, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Veronica
Guinez (“Guinez”) as Doe 1.  On December
5, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Austyn Chade
(“Chade”) as Doe 2. 
On
January 23, 2023, Guinez, representing herself, filed an answer in her
individual capacity and purporting to act as guardian ad litem for Chade. 
On
November 14, 2023, Plaintiff, by and through her guardian ad litem Van Nguyen,
filed a first amended complaint against the District, Guinez, Chade, and Does 3-50
for negligence (Gov. Code, §§ 815.2, subd. (a), 820, subd. (a)), negligent
supervision of students (Gov. Code, § 815.2, subd. (a)), negligent hiring, training,
supervision, or retention of employees (Gov. Code, §§ 815.2, subd. (a), 820,
subd. (a)), intentional infliction of emotional distress, and assault and battery. 
On
December 18, 2023, the District filed an answer to the first amended complaint. 
On
May 17, 2024, the District filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication.  The motion was set
for hearing on December 12, 2024.  On
November 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On December 6, 2024, the District filed a
reply.  The Court continued the hearing
to January 6, 2025. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 25, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
The
District asks the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication of Plaintiff's first amended complaint.
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
THE DISTRICT’S EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
          Sustained: All 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.
     Summary judgment and summary
adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (f)(1).) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Public entity liability 
Government
Code section 815.2 provides: 
“(a) A public entity is liable for injury proximately
caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the
scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section,
have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal
representative. 
“(b) Except as otherwise provided by statute, a public
entity is not liable for an injury resulting from an act or omission of an
employee of the public entity where the employee is immune from liability.” 
(Gov. Code, § 815.2.) 
          Government Code section 820 provides: 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided by statute
(including Section 820.2), a public employee is liable for injury caused by his
act or omission to the same extent as a private person. 
“(b) The liability of a public employee established by
this part (commencing with Section 814) is subject to any defenses that would
be available to the public employee if he were a private person.” 
(Gov. Code, § 820.)  
C.   Negligence 
“To
establish a cause of action for negligence, the plaintiff must show that the ‘defendant
had a duty to use due care, that he breached that duty, and that the breach was
the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.’ ”  (Brown v. USA Taekwondo
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 201, 213 (Brown).) 
“Recovery for negligence depends as a threshold matter on the existence
of a legal duty of care.”  (Ibid.) 
“In
a case involving harm caused by a third party, a person may have an affirmative
duty to protect the victim of another’s harm if that person is in what the law
calls a ‘special relationship’ with either the victim or the person who created
the harm.”   (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p.
215.)  “A special relationship between the defendant
and the victim is one that ‘gives the victim a right to expect’ protection from
the defendant, while a special relationship between the defendant and the
dangerous third party is one that ‘entails an ability to control [the third
party’s] conduct.’ ” (Id. at p. 216, quoting Regents of University of California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 619.)  “Relationships between parents and children,
colleges and students, employers and employees, common carriers and passengers,
and innkeepers and guests, are all examples of special relationships that give
rise to an affirmative duty to protect.” (Ibid.)  “The existence of such a special relationship
puts the defendant in a unique position to protect the plaintiff from injury.
The law requires the defendant to use this position accordingly.” (Ibid.) 
However,
“even when two parties may be in a special relationship, the unforeseeability
of the kind of harm suffered by the plaintiff or other policy factors may
counsel against establishing an affirmative duty for one party to protect the
other.”  (Brown, supra, 11
Cal.5th at p. 219 (discussing Rowland [1]
factors).)  For example, “a court might conclude that duty should
not be imposed because . . . the type of harm the plaintiff suffered was
unforeseeable, or because there was no moral blameworthiness associated with
the defendant’s conduct, notwithstanding the defendant’s special relationship
to the plaintiff. Put differently, even when a special relationship gives rise
to an affirmative duty to protect, a court must still consider whether the
policy considerations set out in Rowland warrant a departure from that
duty in the relevant category of cases.” 
(Id. at p. 222.)   
DISCUSSION 
A.   The first amended complaint 
The first
amended complaint includes the following allegations: 
Beginning
on or about August of 2021, Austyn Chade, a student at Castelar Elementary School
(“Castelar”), harassed, bullied, and brutalized Plaintiff, also a Castelar
student, while they were on Castelar’s campus.  Plaintiff complained about the harassment to a
Castelar teacher on several occasions from August 2021 through October 7, 2021.
 Plaintiff and her father, Van Nguyen,
sought the help of the school’s teachers and employees and demanded something
be done to stop Chade’s bullying, harassing and violent behavior.  The school’s administration took no action to prevent
Chade from brutalizing Plaintiff and ignored Plaintiff’s pleas for help. 
On
or about October 7, 2021, Chade attacked Plaintiff, knocked Plaintiff to the
ground, and stepped on her.  Castelar’s
health care personnel failed to appropriately respond to Plaintiff’s injuries.  Plaintiff remained at school the remainder of
the school day. 
An
ambulance later transported Plaintiff to the hospital where she received
emergency medical treatments and was diagnosed with a broken arm. 
Castelar
staff failed to supervise Chade. 
Castelar employees knew about the ongoing bullying but failed to
initiate a safety plan to stop Chade’s harassment and bullying. 
Plaintiff
asserts (1) a first cause of action for negligence against the District and
Does 3-50, (2) a second cause of action for negligent supervision of students
under Government Code section 815.2, subdivision (a), against the District and
Does 1-50, and (3) a third cause of action for negligent hiring, training,
retention, and supervision against the District and 1-50.  (Plaintiff asserts separate claims against
Chade and Guinez.) 
B.   Undisputed facts 
Plaintiff’s
mother, Van Nguyen (“Nguyen”), communicated with Plaintiff’s teacher Yong “Wendy” Huang (“Huang”), a District employee, about
Chade on three occasions prior to October 7, 2021.  Nguyen communicated two of those complaints by
exchanging texts with Huang.  On August
27, 2021, Nguyen sent a text communication to Huang complaining that a boy had
splashed water on Plaintiff's shirt.  On September 20, 2021, Nguyen sent a text
communication to Huang stating that Plaintiff had complained that a boy had
stepped on her feet, pulled her shirt, thrown a ball at her face, said a bad
word about her, and splashed water on her body. 
One
day in September of 2021, Nguyen approached Huang and spoke to her for less
than five minutes regarding her concerns about Chade.  Nguyen told Huang that Plaintiff had a
problem with Chade.  Nguyen asked Huang
to keep an eye on Plaintiff and separate Plaintiff from Chade to avoid bullying
at school.  Huang responded that she would
monitor the students. 
Nguyen
did not address her concerns about Chade to any of the District’s other
employees prior to October 7, 2021.   
Nguyen
did not see Chade attack Plaintiff.  Nguyen
is not aware of any witnesses, other than Plaintiff, who can testify that they
saw Chade attack Plaintiff.  Plaintiff is
not aware of any individual who witnessed the alleged October 7, 2021 incident
other than Chade and Plaintiff. 
Chade
and his mother Guinez are Spanish-speaking Chilean immigrants who moved to the
United States in 2021.  During his early
years in Chile, Chade was exposed to violent events that deeply traumatized
him.  After arriving in the United States, Chade experienced a number of issues
adjusting to his new country. 
Guinez
was aware that Chade hit other children at school due to impulse control issues
but she did not know Chade harmed Plaintiff. 
District
employee Gabriela Ramirez (“Ramirez”) was assigned to shadow Chade during the
school day to accommodate his needs and to ensure his safety and the safety of
other students.  Ramirez would escort Chade
to the main office at the start of each lunch break and escort him back to his
class at the end of each lunch break. 
During
the lunch break on October 7, 2021, Ramirez found Plaintiff on the school yard
crying. 
On
October 8, 2021, Nguyen filed a police report alleging that Chade had attacked
Plaintiff.  On October 11, 2021, Plaintiff's counsel sent
email correspondence to District employees contending that Chade had physically
attacked Plaintiff on October 7, 2021 and demanding that they preserve any
evidence relating to the alleged incident. 
C.   The District's motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication 
The
District concedes that it had a special relationship with Plaintiff, giving
rise to a duty to protect Plaintiff.  The
District contends, however, that this duty was limited because the District took
measures to protect Plaintiff against the risk of foreseeable harm from other
students.  These measures included (1) Huang admonishing Chade or agreeing to more closely supervise the children and (2) the District assigning Ramirez to escort Chade to the
main office at the start of each lunch break and escorting him back to his class
at the end of each lunch break. 
The
District argues that these actions satisfied its duty to protect Plaintiff,
even assuming Chade attacked Plaintiff on October 7, 2021.  According to the District, “No additional
measures were warranted because Defendant's employees had no reason to believe
that on October 7, 2021 Austyn Chade posed an imminent risk of harm to
Plaintiff.”  (Motion p. 14.)  The District asserts that Nguyen's communications to Huang about her concerns about Chade "cannot reasonably be interpreted as conveying a warning of imminent threat of serious bodily injury to Plaintiff."  (Motion p. 14.) Whether the concerns which Nguyen communicated to Huang about Chade's repeated instances of misconduct toward Plaintiff put the District on notice that Plaintiff was at risk of further mistreatment by Chade is a question of fact. It is undisputed, however, that the District attempted to put a safety plan in place in which District employees supervised Chade during lunch in the school's main office.  Plaintiff argues that the District did not adequately implement this plan.  Plaintiff cites District employees' deposition testimony that Chade sometimes left the school’s office during lunch without permission.  (See Exh. D., Gardella dec., pp. 21-23; exh. G to Gardella dec., p. 25; exh. H to Gardella dec., pp. 39-41.)  At their depositions, the District’s employees could not say if Chade remained in the school’s office during the entire lunch period on October 7, 2021.  The District  therefore has not carried its initial burden on this issue for purposes of summary judgment and summary adjudication.  Even assuming that the District's evidence that it attempted to implement a safety plan carried the District's initial burden on summary judgment and summary adjudication, Plaintiff's evidence raises a reasonable inference that the District's employees did not enforce the plan, creating a triable issue of fact on this issue.
The
District also argues that “Plaintiff has produced no evidence that she was
actually attacked by another student.” 
(Motion p. 16.)  In response, Plaintiff cites her deposition testimony that "The boy did it" (exh. B, p. 10), referring to how she hurt her arm.  She also testified: “He (unintelligible) me and first
he step on my hand.”  (Exh. B, pp. 10-11.)  Asked if the boy hurt her arm, Plaintiff
answer, “Yeah, he stepped on my arm.” 
(Exh. B, p. 11.)  She testified
that he followed her, pushed her to the ground, and then stepped on her.  (Exh. B, p. 11.) While Plaintiff, a young child, did not identify the "boy" at her deposition, the District has failed to show that Plaintiff will be unable to present evidence at trial that Chade was the student who attacked her on October 7, 2021.
 Having
reviewed the evidence and the inferences reasonably drawn from it in the light
most favorable to Plaintiff (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843,)
the Court finds that the District has failed to carry its initial burden on
summary judgment or summary adjudication. 
The District has not shown that, as a matter of law, it implemented
adequate measures to protect Plaintiff from Chade or that its protective
measures rendered Chade’s attack unforeseeable in light of Nguyen's communications to Huang about Chade.  Even if the District's evidence that it attempted to implement a safety plan carried the District's initial burden on summary judgment and summary adjudication, Plaintiff's evidence raises a reasonable inference that the District's employees did not enforce the plan, creating a triable issue of fact on this issue.  The District also has not shown that Plaintiff cannot present evidence
supporting her claim that Chade physically attacked her on October 7, 2021.The Court denies the motion.
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s motion for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of Plaintiff Angela Phung’s
first amended complaint. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.


