 Case Number:  22STCV21791    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 6, 2022, Plaintiffs Abner Blanco Ramirez (“Ramirez”) and Rene Zarate filed
this action against Defendants T&T Express Company, Inc., Juan Carlos Lopez
(“Lopez”), Ed Martinez dba Carrera Hauling (“Martinez”), and Does 1-50 for
motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
August 15, 2022, Lopez and Martinez filed an answer. 
On
October 7, 2024, Lopez and Martinez (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion to
compel Ramirez’s deposition.  The motion
was set for hearing on December 3, 2024. 
On November 18, 2024, Ramirez filed an opposition.  On November 22, 2024, Moving Defendants filed
a reply.  The Court continued the hearing
to January 6, 2025. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 9, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court to compel Ramirez to attend a deposition. 
Ramirez asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
*
* *
 “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g)(1).) 
DISCUSSION 
Moving
Defendants have presented evidence that they served deposition notices setting
Ramirez’s deposition on October 18, 2023, February 6, 2024, and April 25, 2024.  (Exh. A.) 
But Moving Defendants do not state whether Ramirez failed to attend
these depositions without serving a valid objection, whether Moving Defendants
agreed to reschedule the depositions at the request of Ramirez’s counsel, or
whether the depositions did not take place for other reasons.
In an exhibit attached to his declaration, Moving Defendants’ counsel asserts that his office took a certificate
of non-appearance.  (Exh. F.)  However, the moving papers do not include a
copy of the certificate or explain when or why it was issued.  Moving Defendants’ counsel also asserts that (1)
Plaintiffs’ counsel withdrew two previously-offered deposition dates (March 21
and 22, 2024) and (2) Plaintiffs’ counsel “has not provided a meaningful
response to Defendants’ requests for Plaintiffs’ depositions or otherwise
acknowledged the need to meet and confer over trial and discovery.”  (Powers dec. ¶¶ 8, 11.) 
In
his opposition, Plaintiff states that he has “no general objection” to being
deposed but his counsel’s calendar is “quite impacted, making it difficult to
clear dates” for a deposition. 
(Opposition p. 2.) 
The
Court concludes that Moving Defendants have not satisfied the requirements of
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 because they have not shown that
Ramirez failed to appear for a noticed deposition without having served a valid
objection. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES without prejudice the motion filed by
Defendants Juan Carlos Lopez and Ed Martinez dba Carrera Hauling to compel
Plaintiff Abner Blanco Ramirez to attend a deposition. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file a proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.