 Case Number:  22STCV06066    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 19, 2024                TRIAL DATE: February
4, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Scott Norlund, et al. v. Ken Sampson, et
al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV06066            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants/Cross Complainants Ken Sampson; Dey Sampson,
and The Boardroom MDR, LLC.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Scott Norlund and Kathryn Kavanagh.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/17/22: Complaint filed. 
·        
08/15/23: Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, and conversion.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants misappropriated funds intended for the
purchase of a 2008 Sea Ray 44 Sundancer boat. 
 
Defendants and Cross-Complainants
move for summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of all
causes of action. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendants’ alternative Motion for
Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
//
 
//
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for Summary
Judgment
 
            Defendants move for summary
judgment. As Defendants are not entitled to summary adjudication of any cause
of action, Defendants’ Motion is DENIED. 
 
Motion for Summary
Adjudication
 
            Defendants move in the alternative
for summary adjudication of all causes of action. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
//
Evidentiary
Objections to Declaration of Jonathan Vogel
 
            Plaintiffs object to portions of the
Declaration of Jonathan Vogel in support of the motion as lacking foundation
and constituting improper legal conclusions. Although Defendants’ moving papers
reference such a document, and Plaintiffs’ objection indicates that they have
received it, no such declaration is included in the moving papers filed with
the Court. The Court therefore declines to rule on this objection as the
evidence to which it pertains is not before the Court.
 
Evidentiary
Objections to Declaration of Zachary Barbour 
 
            Plaintiffs also object to portions
of the Declaration of Zachary Barbour in support of the motion. The Court rules
on these objections as follows:
 
            Objection No. 1: OVERRULED.
While a bare statement of personal knowledge does not establish that personal
knowledge is possessed (Snider v. Snider (1962) 200 Cal.App.2d 741, 754),
that deficiency does not render the statement itself objectionable. Plaintiffs’
objections therefore go to weight, not admissibility. 
 
            Objection Nos. 2-4: SUSTAINED
for lack of foundation and personal knowledge. (Evid. Code §§ 403; 702.)  The declaration does not establish how the
declarant gained knowledge of these facts. A bare statement of personal
knowledge does not suffice. (Snider v. Snider (1962) 200 Cal.App.2d 741,
754.) 
 
            Objection No. 5: SUSTAINED
for lack of foundation and personal knowledge. (Evid. Code §§ 403; 702.)  The statement that the declarant, as trustee,
received funds is a conclusion, not a fact. The statement that the declarant
and Dey Sampson “mutually agreed” that the balance had been paid off is
likewise a conclusion, not a statement of fact.
 
            Objection No. 6: SUSTAINED
for lack of foundation. (Evid. Code § 403.) 
The statement that “the ZB Family Trust received a total of $217,800” is
a conclusion without supporting facts. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections to Declaration of Kenneth Sampson
 
Plaintiffs also object to portions of the Declaration of Kenneth Sampson
in support of the motion. The Court rules on these objections as follows:
 
            Objection No. 1: SUSTAINED
for lack of foundation. (Evid. Code § 403.) 
A statement that the declarant has “continuously made payments toward
the principal toward the purchase” of the boat is a conclusion, not a statement
of the facts giving rise to that conclusion. 
 
            Objection No. 2: SUSTAINED
for lack of personal knowledge as to whether Plaintiffs made payments. (Evid.
Code § 702.) The declaration does not demonstrate how the declarant possesses
knowledge of that fact. Also SUSTAINED for lack of foundation as to the
remainder of the paragraph. (Evid. Code § 403.) The assertion that the
reminders and final demands were “pursuant to the partnership agreement” is a
conclusion devoid of the facts giving rise to that conclusion.
 
            Objection Nos. 3-10: SUSTAINED
for lack of personal knowledge. (Evid. Code § 702.) These statements are
conclusions, not evidentiary facts. 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants move for summary
adjudication of all five causes of action asserted against them in the
Complaint. However, Defendants’ motion is premised entirely conclusory
declarations by Kenneth Sampson and Zachary Barbour offering statements without
foundation, and on a lengthy set of exhibits unaccompanied by any
authentication. As addressed above in the Court’s ruling on Plaintiffs’
objections, bare conclusions are not admissible evidence. (Hayman v. Block
(1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 638-39.) Unauthenticated exhibits are similarly
inadmissible. (Evid. Code §§ 1400-1401.) As these deficiencies eclipse the
entirety of Defendants’ evidentiary support for their motion, Defendants are
left with no evidence with which to demonstrate that Plaintiffs’ claims lack
merit with respect to any cause of action. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendants’ alternative Motion for
Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: December 19, 2024                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 