 Case Number:  23STCV03260    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  47 The Court has reviewed Defendant and Third Party Plaintiff
Quantum Corporation’s ex parte to continue the trial for 60 days to the week of
May 5, 2025 and to extend all relevant deadlines.  The primary
justification for the relief sought is the motion for judgment on the pleadings
filed by Third-Party Defendant Larkin Benefit Administrators and set for
hearing on January 3, 2025.  Quantum speculates that the Court’s ruling on
that motion may require time for the filing of amended pleadings and further
motions practice to challenge Quantum’s amended pleadings.  Rather than
continue the trial now based on these potential developments, however, it seems
prudent to continue the hearing on the ex parte application to the same date
and time as the motion hearing, when the Court will know more about what
further pleading disputes are in the offing.   
 
Quantum also raises concerns that it will not be able to
secure necessary documents for the defense medical examination it wants to
conduct and to compel production of Plaintiff’s credit card statements in
advance of trial.  On the current trajectory, Quantum estimates it will
not be able to schedule the examination or obtain the statements until four or
five weeks before the scheduled trial date of March 3, 2025.  
 
While Judge Beaudet may have a different take on the best
schedule for her courtroom and this case, this judge finds that Quantum has not
demonstrated exigent circumstances justifying ex parte relief while Department
50 is dark for the holidays.  
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the immediate relief sought
and continues the hearing on the ex parte application to January 3, 2025 at
2:00 p.m. in Department 50 to be argued before Judge Beaudet along with the
motion for judgment on the pleadings that is the impetus for Quantum’s quest
for a continuance. 
 
The Court is engaged in jury trial in Department 47 and,
thus, will not call the ex parte application for hearing.  The moving
party is to give notice of the Court’s ruling.