 Case Number:  23VECV02140    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  T LODIN V BRUGETTI
23VECV02140
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Tarzana Health Systems, LLC and
Peter Brugetti’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first and second causes of action, and SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the third cause of action.  Leave to amend is limited to curing the
defects in the pleading identified and not to add new causes of action.
Introduction 
Defendants Tarzana Health
Systems, LLC (THS) and  Peter Brugetti
(Brugetti) (collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiff Sharon Lodin’s
(Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
The demurrer placed into issue the first cause of action (COA) for
negligence, the second COA for premise liability, and the third COA for strict
liability.  
Discussion  
Specifically to the third COA for
strict liability per Civil Code section 3342, Plaintiff failed to plead
supportive facts to show that Defendants were the owners of the dogs.  Defendants asserted that Plaintiff expressly
pleaded facts showing that a homeless person owned the dogs.   Plaintiff submitted on this argument against
the third COA.  
The demurrer to the third COA is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
Defendants argued that the
element of duty owed is insufficiently supported with fact pleading as to the
first and second COAs.  Defendants argued
that there is no fact pleading to allege Defendants’ ownership, control,
maintenance, or inspection of the dogs, or the property upon which Plaintiff
was bitten because Plaintiff alleged that she was attacked while she “was
walking her dog on Shirley Ave.” (FAC par. GN-1 and Prem.L-1.)  However, the two cited paragraphs also
alleged that Plaintiff was attacked “on the property located at 19500 Ventura
Blvd., Tarzana, CA. 91356.  (Subject
Premise.)  Further, Plaintiff alleged
that the dogs “were staying in the U.S. Bank parking lot located at 19500
Ventura Blvd.”  At minimum, the two
allegations as to the location of the attack are conflicting and
uncertain.  It is uncertain if Plaintiff
was attacked while on the Subject Premise or while on Shirley Ave.    For this pleading defect, the allegation of
ownership, control, maintenance, or inspection of the property at issue is
insufficiently pled.  
Defendants argued that there are
no facts pled to allege that Defendants had any knowledge of the dogs’
dangerous propensities.  Defendant argued
that Plaintiff’s only allegation of knowledge of the dogs’ dangerous propensities
is conclusory.  (FAC, Att. 1, p.1, par.
4.)  Preliminarily, it is noted that the
FAC’s Attachment 1 is only attributed to the third COA, which is no longer at
issue, as stated above.  Plaintiff used
the Judicial Council Forms for general negligence and premise liability.  Neither of the two form-pleadings include any
allegation as to knowledge.  Further,
Plaintiff’s additional fact pleading also lacked any allegation as to the
element of knowledge.  Knowledge can be
either actual or constructive.  Although
negligence-based COAs can be pled in general, the pleading must plead some
facts to support the element of knowledge, whether it be actual or
constructive.  Without any allegation of
knowledge, there is insufficient facts pled to support the element of duty of
care.
The demurrer to the first and
second COAs is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 

IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.