  Case Number:  22VECV00513    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  T MULLEN V BOSWELL
22VECV00513
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant and Cross-Complainant Boswell
Construction Inc.’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.   Defendant and Cross-Complainant Boswell Construction
Inc. is ordered to file the Proposed Cross-Complaint forthwith.Objection to evidence: Overruled.
Introduction 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Boswell Construction Inc. (Defendant) moved for leave to file a Cross-Complaint
against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant K.G. Mullen, Inc. (Plaintiff.)  
Discussion  
Defendant requested to file the
Proposed Cross-Complaint on the grounds that the owner of the house notified of
leaks occurring in the house in February or March 2023.  Defendant was not aware of the leaks until
after Defendant’s answer was filed in August 2022.  Upon investigation into the owner’s
complaints, Defendant discovered that the leaks were caused by defects in the
work performed by Plaintiff.  Defendant’s
motion filed on September 13, 2023 met its burden to show the discovery of new
evidence not in existence at the time the answer was filed and good faith in
seeking this relief.  Because the claims
are related to the claims in Plaintiff’s complaint, the Proposed
Cross-Complaint is seen to be compulsory. 

Plaintiff argued that Defendant
filed the motion to cause delay, harassment, and obstruction of the trial.  Plaintiff asserted that there was a delay in
requesting a stipulation to file a cross-complaint until July 17, 2023.  (Gary Kurtz Decl. par. 2.)  Plaintiff disputed Defendant’s contention
that it took between March 2023 and July 2023 to discover the cause of the
leaks.  Although some delay occurred
between discovery of the cause of the new leaks and raising the request to file
the Cross-Complaint, the Court does not find that the delay was unreasonable or
caused harassment/obstruction.  Further,
Plaintiff claimed that Defendant concealed their intent to file the
cross-complaint when the parties stipulated to a trial continuance on March 3,
2023.  However, the contention of
concealment assumes that the owner’s complaints of leaks also presented facts
as to the cause of the leaks.  Defendant
provided that the cause of the new leaks was discovered after an investigation
was conducted and the investigation is still ongoing.  (Jon Mut Decl. par. 7.)  The Court does not find that the instant
motion is based upon a tactic to delay, harass, or obstruct.
Plaintiff argued that the motion
is not brought in good faith.  Plaintiff
argued that Defendant had knowledge of the leaks prior to the filing of the
instant action and provided that Defendant acted in bad faith because of a
delay in raising the issue.  (Alfredo
Chavez Decl. par. 9.)   However,
Defendant explained that the instant leaks are not the same as leaks that
allegedly occurred in 2019/2020 and prior to the action being filed.  Defendant asserted that the leaks were
discovered when the new owner made complaints. 
The Court does not find that the motion was brought in bad faith because
Plaintiff’s argument is either a mischaracterization of the claims alleged in
the Proposed Cross-Complaint or disputes as to the veracity of the underlying
facts supporting the Cross-Complaint are not proper for a motion for leave to
file a cross-complaint.  Issues over
factual disputes are to be addressed after the Proposed Cross-Complaint is
filed.
Plaintiff further argued that
granting the motion will cause prejudice because the Court previously stated
that no further continuances of trial would be allowed.  Plaintiff asserted that they will not have
enough time to defend against the Cross-Complaint.  Whether prejudice is caused by the current
January 16, 2024 trial date remains to be seen and can be reviewed. Prejudice
is not seen as of yet. Plaintiff’s arguments to oppose the motion are
unpersuasive.  The court will discuss the
trial date with the parties.
The motion for leave to file the
Proposed Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.