 Case Number:  21STCV04291    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendants’ Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff Maria
Serafin 
 
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
On February 3, 2021, Fatima Adauta
and Maria Serafin filed a complaint against David Redlus and Deanna Redlus
(collectively "Defendants”) for negligence arising out of an automobile
accident occurring on February 22, 2019.
 
On January 11, 2023, default was
entered against Defendants. Defendants filed their answer on March 17, 2023. On
April 24, 2023, a stipulation was filed setting aside default against
Defendants.
 
As it relates to the matter before
the Court and set for hearing on June 26, Defendants initially noticed the
deposition of Plaintiff Maria Serafin (“Plaintiff”) for October 5, 2023.  (Messina Decl., ¶ 4.)  The deposition was taken off calendar at the
request of Plaintiff’s counsel.  (Id., ¶
5.)  Counsel corresponded regarding the
scheduling of the deposition, and Plaintiff indicated that she was available on
March 27.  (Id., ¶¶ 6-9.)  Defendants then noticed Plaintiff’s
deposition for that date.  (Id., ¶ 10.)
 
Plaintiff did not serve any objection
to the deposition notice and did not appear for the deposition as noticed.  (Id., ¶¶ 11-16.)  Defendants followed up with Plaintiff to
inquire about the non-appearance, but no response was received.  (Id., ¶¶ 17-19.)
 
On April 5, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to compel
the deposition of Plaintiff. The hearing was initially scheduled for June 17
and was continued, on the Court’s own motion, to June 26.
 
No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery … by taking in
California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the
action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the requirements for
(among other things) what must be included in a deposition notice, when and
where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice must be
served. 
“The service of a deposition notice … is
effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as
well as to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing for inspection and copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd.
(a).)
Section 2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any
party to serve a written objection at least three days before the deposition if
the party contends that a deposition notice does not comply with the provisions
of sections 2025.210 through 2025.280.
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under
Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for¿inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.450, subd. (a).)  Any such motion to compel must show good
cause for the production of documents and, when a deponent has failed to
appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Id.,
subd. (b).) 
When a motion to compel is granted, “the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Id., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section
2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to
include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the
discovery process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of
“the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Discussion
Defendants’
counsel declares that Defendants properly noticed Plaintiff’s deposition, that
Plaintiff did not object or appear, and that Defendants inquired about the
non-appearance but received no response. 
(Mesina Decl., ¶¶ 7-17.) Although the declaration references numerous
exhibits (lettered A through I), including an Exhibit E (the deposition notice)
and Exhibit I (the inquiry about the non-appearance), no such exhibits appear
in the court file, whether attached to the declaration or otherwise.
 
Absent
the exhibits, the Court must deny this motion, without prejudice, for failure of
proof.  Defendants have a right to take
Plaintiff’s deposition under the Civil Discovery Act, but to obtain a court
order for the deposition, Defendants must make an adequate showing, with
supporting evidence, in the motion.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
DENIES Defendants’ motion to compel the deposition of Plaintiff without
prejudice. 
 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.
 