 Case Number:  23STCV07907    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint of Defendant
Linda McLean.
 
Tentative
 
The hearing on the motion is CONTINUED.
 
Background
On April 10, 2023, Calvin Haugen (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Rochelle Linnetz (“Linnetz”), Linda McLean (“McLean”), and
Does 1 through 50 for common law negligence and statutory liability under Civil
Code section 3342 arising out of a dog bite incident occurring on April 14,
2021.  Plaintiff alleges that Linnetz
owned the dog that bit him and that McLean owned the property on which the incident
occurred.
 
Linnetz filed her answer on February 23, 2024.  Linnetz is representing herself, in pro per.
 
McLean filed her answer on February 27, 2024.
 
On April 2, 2024, McLean filed this motion for leave to
file a cross-complaint against Linnetz. 
 
No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
The Code of Civil Procedure distinguishes
between compulsory and permissive cross-complaints.  
A compulsory cross-complaint, under Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.30, is one that asserts (1) a “related cause of
action”; (2) that a party against whom a “complaint” has been filed and served
has against the “plaintiff”; and (3) that exists as of the time the answer to
the “complaint” is served.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  
As used in section 426.30, a “related cause
of action” is defined as “a cause of action which arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)  “Complaint” is defined to include a
cross-complaint, and “Plaintiff” is defined as “a person who files a complaint
or cross-complaint.”  (Id., subds.
(a) & (b).)  
Subject to the exceptions set forth by
statute, if a party fails to assert fails to assert a related cause of action against
the plaintiff that exists as of the time the party answers the complaint, “such
party may not thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the
related cause of action not pleaded.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)
A permissive
cross-complaint, in contrast, is much broader. 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 428.10, in a permissive
cross-complaint a party may assert an unrelated cause of action “against any of
the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd. (a).)  Alternatively, in a permissive
cross-complaint a party may assert a “cause
of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not
such a person is already party to the action, if the cause of action asserted
in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or
series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2)
asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the
subject of the cause brought against him.” (Id., subd. (b).)  Cross-complaints for contribution or
indemnity against co-defendants generally fall within the definition of a
permissive cross-complaint in section 428.10.
A party
must file a compulsory cross-complaint at the same time as (or before) the
answer to the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  If a party
fails to do so, and then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the
court “after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may
be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint,
to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good
faith.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 426.50.)  The “good faith”
standard must “be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”  (Ibid.)
A party must file a permissive
cross-complaint before the court has set a date for trial, or, if the causes of
action in the cross-complaint are asserted against “any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her,” at or before the
party files the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subds. (a) &
(b).)  If a party fails to do so, and
then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court may grant
leave “in the interests of justice.” (Id., subd. (c).)
Discussion
McLean contends good causes exist for leave
to file a cross-complaint against co-Defendant Linnetz for contribution,
indemnity, and declaratory relief. 
The proposed cross-complaint arises out of
the same set of facts as Plaintiff’s complaint. 
Nonetheless, the Court cannot grant the motion at this time because of a
procedural reason: Linnetz has answered the complaint and appeared in this action,
but she was not served with this motion.
Accordingly, the hearing is continued for
approximately 30 days so that McLean may serve Linnetz and Linnetz may have the
opportunity to be heard.
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the Court CONTINUES the hearing on Defendant
McLean’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint for approximately 30 days.
 
Moving
party to give notice.