  Case Number:  24TRCV01774    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CAPEFLOW
  FUNDING GROUP MANAGERS, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01774




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
PIPELINE
  HEALTH SYSTEM, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October
7, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Avanti
Hospitals, LLC, CPH Hospital Management, LLC, CHHP Holdings, II, ELADH, L.P.,
and Gardena Hospital, L.P. 
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Capeflow Funding Group Managers, LLC
Motion
to Compel Arbitration
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The case is stayed.
BACKGROUND
            On May 24, 2024, plaintiff Capeflow
Funding Group Managers, LLC filed a complaint for breach of contract, quantum
meruit (reasonable value), money due on open book account, and account stated against
Pipeline Health System, LLC (first through fourth causes of action), CPH
Hospital Management, LLC dba Coast Plaza Hospital (fifth through eighth causes
of action), CHHP Holdings II, LLC dba Community Hospital of Huntington Park
(ninth through twelfth causes of action), ELADH, L.P. dba East Los Angeles
Doctors Hospital (thirteenth through sixteenth causes of action), and Gardena
Hospital, L.P. dba Memorial Hospital of Gardena (seventeenth through twentieth
causes of action).
            On August 21, 2024, plaintiff filed
an amendment changing the name of defendant Pipeline Health System, LLC to
Avanti Hospitals, LLC dba Pipeline of Los Angeles.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . .
with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .
with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention
or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the
parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action . . .
pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”  
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Avanti Hospitals, LLC, CPH Hospital Management, LLC, CHHP Holdings, II, ELADH,
L.P., and Gardena Hospital, L.P. request an order compelling plaintiff to
binding arbitration.
            The
complaint alleges that on March 3, 2017, Paramount Care Staffing, LLC and
plaintiff entered into a Factoring and Security Agreement (“FSA”), whereby
plaintiff would purchase certain of Paramount’s invoices and acquire, inter
alia, the right to payment on those invoices. 
Complaint, ¶11.  In connection
with each purchase, plaintiff would send a Notice of Assignment (“NOA”) of the
Paramount invoices to the account debtor responsible for payment of the
invoices.  The NOA required the account
debtor to make all payments from the date of the assignment to plaintiff and no
one else, including Paramount.  Section
9-406 of the Uniform Commercial Code states that any payment by account debtor
after receipt of the NOA to anyone other than plaintiff does not relieve an
account debtor of its obligation to make payments in full of all invoices to
plaintiff.  Id., ¶12.  Pipeline had a network of several
hospitals.  Over time, a large number of
Paramount’s invoices to various hospitals within the network of Pipeline were
purchased by and/or assigned to plaintiff in connection therewith.  Id., ¶13.
            Under
the first cause of action for breach of contract (which is similar to the
fifth, ninth, thirteenth, and seventeenth causes of action) against Pipeline/Avanti,
the complaint alleges that on August 9, 2023, [defendant Avanti] was served
with a Notice of Assignment (“NOA”) of Paramount invoices sold to
plaintiff.  The NOA required defendant to
make all future payments directly to plaintiff and no one else, including
Paramount.  The Paramount invoices were
for services supplied to four different hospitals, all subsidiaries of [Avanti]
and all within the [Avanti] network. 
[Avanti] agreed to be responsible for payment, in addition to the four
hospitals.  Id., ¶15.  Under the [Avanti] NOA, [Avanti] made an
enforceable agreement not to assert defenses or claims against payment to
plaintiff pursuant to Section 9-404 of the UCC. 
Id., ¶16.  Pursuant to the
[Avanti] NOA, the payee and payment location could have only been modified by a
writing issued by plaintiff to [Avanti]. 
Id., ¶17.  Plaintiff performed all
of the terms and conditions on its part to be performed under the terms of the
FSA, [Avanti] NOA, and invoices.  Id.,
¶18.  Despite requests for payment of the
outstanding invoices by plaintiff to [Avanti], beginning in October 2023,
[Avanti] agreed to pay or cause to be paid the outstanding invoice amounts to
plaintiff.  The FSA empowers plaintiff to
undertake all reasonable legal actions to effectuate recovery of unpaid
invoices both in its own name and/or on behalf of Paramount.  On January 18, 2024, plaintiff made written
demand on [Avanti] for payment.  [Avanti]
has refused and failed to make payment. 
Id., ¶19.
            Existence of an agreement to
arbitrate
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Defendants explain that in October
2022, Paramount Care Staffing, LLC entered into a written Staffing Agreement
with defendant Avanti Hospital, LLC pursuant to which Paramount agreed to
provide staffing services at various hospitals owned and operated by Avanti.  Defendants assert that the Staffing Agreement
expressly provides that all disputes or controversies arising under, out of, or
in connection with the Staffing Agreement, must be arbitrated.  The arbitration provision states:  “Any dispute or controversy arising under,
out of or in connection with, or in relation to this Agreement, or any
amendment hereof, or the breach hereof, including the determination of the
scope or applicability of this agreement to arbitrate, shall be determined and
settled by arbitration in Los Angeles County, California” administered by JAMS,
and any award shall be ‘final and binding.’” 
Defendants further assert that the Staffing Agreement states that “[a]ny
assignees, successors or holders of [Paramount] interest under this Agreement
shall be bound by the terms of this Agreement in full.”  Defendants contend that Paramount’s invoices
were “purchased by and/or assigned” to plaintiff as the complaint alleges.  Defendants argue that the arbitration
provision in the Staffing Agreement can be enforced against non-signatory
plaintiff because plaintiff’s claims are intertwined with the Staffing
Agreement, which contains the arbitration provision and because plaintiff steps
into Paramount’s shoes.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that defendants did not timely raise such defense, pointing to the answer,
which does not assert an affirmative defense as to arbitration.  Plaintiff also argues that Section 9-406 of
the UCC states that any payment by account debtor after receipt of the NOA to
anyone other than plaintiff does not relieve an account debtor of its
obligation to make payment in full of all invoices to plaintiff.  Plaintiff contends that defendants waived any
right to arbitrate by agreeing not to assert arbitration as a defense under
Comm. Code §9404(a), which states that an account debtor can make “an
enforceable agreement not to assert defenses or claims” against an assignee
that it would have against the assignor.” 
Plaintiff also asserts that by their conduct in performing under the
NOAs and thereby accepting the terms of the NOAs, defendants modified the
Staffing Agreement and the defenses available to them.  Plaintiff contends that defendants made no objection
to the NOAs.  Moreover, plaintiff argues,
as to whether it stepped into the shoes of Paramount, that is not the
issue.  Rather, the issue is whether
defendants made a contractual agreement with non-party plaintiff after receipt
of the NOAs so as not to assert defenses available to Paramount.  
In reply, defendants reiterate
their arguments that plaintiff is bound by the arbitration provision because
Avanti did not waive its right to arbitration. 
Defendants argue that Avanti did not unreasonably delay in seeking
arbitration; it did not act in any manner inconsistent with a desire to
arbitrate; and answering the complaint does not per se waive a defendant’s right
to arbitration.  Defendants also assert
that Avanti has no record of countersigning the NOAs.  Defendants further assert that plaintiff does
not provide any authority that in the context of a factor agreement/assignment,
arbitration is a defense that can be waived. 
Defendants assert that although plaintiff points to a series of emails
between Avanti’s accounts payable department and plaintiff wherein plaintiff
directs the accounts payable department to remit payment to plaintiff, that is
insufficient to show clear and convincing evidence that Avanti knowingly waived
its right to arbitration.  Defendants
also argue that Avanti did not agree to modify the arbitration provision in the
Staffing Agreement as there was no prior consent sought or provided by Avanti
to the assignment/transfer as required under the Staffing Agreement.  Defendants further point out that the
Staffing Agreement states that it “may not be amended or modified except by
mutual written agreement” between the parties to the Staffing Agreement, and a
notice sent by plaintiff to Avanti does not serve to modify the terms of the
Staffing Agreement.  Moreover, defendants
argue, even if the NOAs were meant to modify the Staffing Agreement, they were
not properly served as they were alleged to be emailed, and the Staffing
Agreement requires delivery personally by certified or registered mail or by
overnight courier.
The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that an enforceable arbitration
provision exists between plaintiff (as an assignee) and defendants as contained
in the Staffing Agreement.  
Commercial Code §9404 states:  “(a) Unless an account debtor has made an
enforceable agreement not to assert defenses or claims, and subject to
subdivisions (b) to (e), inclusive, the rights of an assignee are subject to
both of the following:
(1) All terms of the agreement
between the account debtor and assignor and any defense or claim in recoupment
arising from the transaction that gave rise to the contract.
(2) Any other defense or claim of
the account debtor against the assignor which accrues before the account debtor
receives a notification of the assignment signed by the assignor or the
assignee.
(b) Subject to subdivision (c) and
except as otherwise provided in subdivision (d), the claim of an account debtor
against an assignor may be asserted against an assignee under subdivision (a)
only to reduce the amount the account debtor owes. . . .”
First, and most importantly, an
agreement to arbitrate is not a “claim or defense.”  It is merely the forum chosen by the parties where
they shall assert their claims or defenses. 
Therefore the argument asserting a waiver of a claim or defense fails as
it simply is not applicable.
Further, Plaintiff has not shown an
enforceable agreement not to assert defenses or claims or waiver.  “To establish waiver under generally
applicable contract law, the party opposing enforcement of a contractual
agreement must prove by clear and convincing evidence that the waiving party
knew of the contractual right and intentionally relinquished or abandoned it. .
. . Its intentional relinquishment or abandonment of the right may be proved by
evidence of words expressing an intent to relinquish the right or of conduct
that is so inconsistent with an intent to enforce the contractual right as to
lead a reasonable fact finder to conclude that the party had abandoned it.”  Quach v. California Commerce Club, Inc.
(2024) 16 Cal. 5th 562, 584 (citations omitted).  Plaintiff has not shown an NOA signed by
Avanti.  Further, there is a question as
to whether the NOAs are enforceable or that they amended the Staffing
Agreement.  As defendants argue,
plaintiff has not shown that the NOAs were served as set forth in the Staffing
Agreement; there was no agreement by the parties to the Staffing Agreement to an
assignment; and the NOAs were not signed. 
Simply put, plaintiff has not met its burden to show an intentional
relinquishment of the right to arbitration or an abandonment of such right.
The motion is thus GRANTED. 
ORDER
            The
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
The case is stayed.
Defendants are ordered to
give notice of ruling. 