  Case Number:  20STCV45208    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  S25 Plaintiff Jack Brown’s Motion for Leave to Depose Defendant Michael D. Drobot in Prison pursuant to Pen. Code, § 2623The Court grants Plaintiff Jack Brown’s Motion for Leave to Depose Defendant Michael D. Drobot in Prison pursuant to Pen. Code, § 2623 and signs Plaintiff’s Proposed Order.Plaintiff Jack Brown’s Motion for Order Permitting Discovery Defendant Philip Sobol, MD’s Financial ConditionTentative Ruling“[B]efore a court may enter an order permitting discovery of a defendant’s financial condition, it must (1) weigh the evidence submitted in favor of and in opposition to motion for discovery, and (2) make a finding that it is very likely the plaintiff will prevail on his claim for punitive damages.” (Jabro, supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at 758.) There are disputed facts and potentially conflicting testimony, thus, the jury will ultimately determine Defendant Sobol’s liability, if any. However, for purposes for this motion, after weighting the evidence presented in the supporting and opposing affidavits presented and based upon the facts put forth by Plaintiff, Plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that he will prevail on the punitive damage claim pursuant to Section 3294. Specifically, there is evidence that Defendant Sobol ordered X-rays, CT and MRI scans of Plaintiff’s lumbar spine. Based on the radiologist’s report Defendant Sobol allegedly “knew” Plaintiff did not need spinal surgery but still referred Plaintiff to Dr. Capen of Pacific Hospital. (Green Decl., Ex. M.) Moreover, there is evidence that Defendant Sobol signed a plea agreement admitting to conspiring with Defendant Drobot and others working for Pacific Hospital, receiving monetary kickbacks in exchange for referring patients to Pacific Hospital for surgical services paid for by the California Worker’s Compensation System. (Green Decl., Ex. L, p. 13.) Although Defendant Sobol points to Plaintiff’s deposition to argue that Defendant Sobol played no other role aside from referring Plaintiff to Dr. Capen and Pacific Hospital, Plaintiff clarifies in each response that he is only answering to the best of his knowledge; Plaintiff’s testimony does not speak to what was going on behind the scenes between Defendant Sobol, Dr. Capen, Pacific Hospital and other co-conspirators as to Plaintiff’s referral to Dr. Capen of Pacific Hospital.If the matter proceeds to trial, the Court is inclined to bifurcate the punitive damage phase of this case. Evidence of Defendant Sobel’s financial condition cannot be considered unless the jury finds that Defendant Sobel acted with oppression, fraud, or malice in accordance with Civil Code section 3294.Accordingly, the instant motion is GRANTED subject to a protective order limiting disclosure of the evidence obtained solely to opposing counsel and solely for the purposes of this lawsuit. (Richards v. Superior Court (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 265, 272; Moskowitz v. Sup. Ct. (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 313, 318.) Defendant is order to comply by November 12, 2024.