 Case Number:  24LBCV01037    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  S25 Procedural BackgroundOn May 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants The Money Source, Inc. (“Money Source”), Insource West Properties (“Insource”), ZBA Law (“ZBS”) and Does 1 to 10, alleging the following causes of action:1. Breach of Contract2. Emotional Distress3. Violation of Bus. Prof Code 172004. Unlawful Foreclosure5. Negligent Denial of Loan Modification6. Violation of California Homeowner’s Bill of Rights7. Foreclosure Fraud8. Theft by False PretensePlaintiff alleges that in or about June 2018, Plaintiff and Defendant Money Source entered into a written agreement (“Contract”) for Defendant Money Source to service a mortgage loan to Plaintiff’s property at 2711 E. Monroe Street Carson, CA 90810 (“property”) and in January 2022, Plaintiff was informed that Academy Home Service (“Academy”) was the new servicer of the loan. (Compl., ¶ 9.) While payments were made to Academy, Plaintiff received two modifications packages from Defendant Money Source on different dates; the first modification package was rejected by Defendant Money Source and the second modification package was completed and submitted to Defendant Money Source but Defendant Money Source stating the second modification package was submitted too late. (Compl., ¶¶ 10-11.) Plaintiff then alleges that in June or July Defendant Money Source informed Plaintiff by phone that the second modification will be contingent on a $12,000.00 payment to Academy and Academy would give information regarding the remittance/payment of the said amount; Plaintiff made the $12,000.00 payment. (Compl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff asserts that all payments made to Defendant Money Source and Academy were involved in a scam and that while Plaintiff was making monthly payments, Defendant Money Source was in the process of instituting foreclosure proceedings. (Ibid.) Plaintiff further states that the initial foreclosure sale was suspended because the property was not in default but then the foreclosure sale resumed for a second time. (Compl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff then alleges that Defendants Money Source and ZBS sold the property to Defendant Insource in December 2022 despite stating the sale would be illegal because it did not meet the foreclosure requirements. (Compl., ¶ 14.) Defendant Insource claimed it would not buy the property but then purchased the property and evicted Plaintiff and Plaintiff later learned Defendants Money Source and Insource are the same but trading under different names. (Compl., ¶ 15.)On August 1, 2024, Defendant Insource filed the instant demurrer to the complaint. On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer. On September 5, 2024, Defendant Insource filed a reply.Legal StandardA demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading. It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however improbable they may be. A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)Meet and ConferThe requirements are satisfied. (Meleski Decl., ¶¶ 4-5; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)Request for Judicial NoticeDefendant Insource’s Request for Judicial Notice of Exhibits 1-11 is granted pursuant to Evidence Code, §§ 452, subds. (d) & (h), and 453.RulingDefendant Insource demurs, per Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, to the 2nd, 3rd and 6th causes of action on the ground that each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to state a claim upon which relief can be granted against Defendant Insource.Plaintiff’s StandingDefendant Insource maintains that Plaintiff, as an individual, was not the owner of the Subject Property, at the time of the foreclosure and thereby has no standing to bring any claims against Defendant Insource. (Code Civ. Proc., § 367, RJN Ex. 3 at p. 3 [Mohamed Aboselim quitclaiming the Subject Property’s deed to Mohamed Aboselim, as trustee ofMohamed Aboselim’s Living Trust].) The Court will allow Plaintiff to amend the complaint to include allegations, if possible, to overcome the issue regarding Plaintiff's ability to bring this action against Defendant Insource.2nd Cause of Action – Infliction of Emotional DistressIIED occurs under conditions where there is: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.) A defendant's conduct is “outrageous” when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. And the defendant's conduct must be intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result. (Ibid.)The Court finds that the complaint fails to state sufficient facts as to an IIED cause of action. The complaint lacks details regarding severe emotional distress caused by Defendant Insource upon Plaintiff. (See Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048, 1057.) The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the 2nd cause of action.3rd Cause of Action – Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200A cause of action for Violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200 et seq. requires the pleading of the following elements: (1) Defendant has engaged in any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice, including unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising; (2) Plaintiff's right to restitution, if any, and (3) Plaintiff's right to injunctive relief, if any.To state a claim, there must be allegations showing unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business acts or practices. (Paulus v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 659, 676-677.) Since the cause of action is based on statute, pleadings must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation, including the particular section of the statute violated and the particular facts showing that the statute was violated. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)Plaintiff fails to specifically identify the law that Defendant Insource allegedly violated and “state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury, supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at p. 619.) Also, Plaintiff fails to state how Defendant Insource’s act of buying a previously foreclosed property from the owner was unfair or fraudulent. Moreover, causation has also not been sufficiently alleged. The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the 3rd cause of action.6th Cause of Action – Violation of California Homeowner’s Bill of Rights“[B]y its terms, the HBOR creates liability only for material violations that have not been remedied before the foreclosure sale is recorded. A material violation is one that affected the borrower's loan obligations, disrupted the borrower's loan-modification process, or otherwise harmed the borrower.” (Billesbach v. Specialized Loan Servicing LLC (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 830, 837.)HBOR does not apply to subsequent purchasers of foreclosed properties, nor does it provide a provision allowing for a punitive damages award. (See Civ. Code, § 2924.12, subd. (b).) As pled, Plaintiff’s claim fails, however, the court will give Plaintiff leave to amend his complaint to possibly cure these defects.Plaintiff is given 30 days leave to amend his complaint from the date of this order.