  Case Number:  22STCV22286    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  76             Plaintiff alleges that has was
subjected to racial harassment and wage and hour violations.
Defendant Arius, Inc. moves for
leave to file a Cross-Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING           
The hearing on Defendant Arius, Inc.’s motion for leave to file a Cross-Complaint is
CONTINUED to February 19, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. Defendant is to file a supplemental
declaration as directed by the Court by February 3, 2024, with a supplemental
opposition due February 12, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Motion For Leave
To File Cross-Complaint
Defendant Arius, Inc. moves for
leave to file a Cross-Complaint. Defendant filed an answer on February 6, 2024.
Civ. Proc. Code, § 428.50 provides:
(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint
against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against
him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or
cross-complaint.
 
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be
filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.
 
(c) A party shall obtain leave of
court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time
specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave
may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action. 
(Civ. Proc. Code, §
428.50(a)-(c)[bold emphasis added].) 
Civ. Proc. Code § 426.50 provides:
A party who fails to plead a cause of action
subject to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight,
inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for
leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause
at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the
adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties,
leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such
cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.)
            Leave to
file a cross-complaint may be granted in the interest of justice at any time
during the action. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 428.50(c). 
            “A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the
action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated
where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors
such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are
insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.”
(Silver Orgs. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99 [bold emphasis
and underlining added].)
Plaintiff argues
that the Cross-Complaint is only being asserted now to delay trial and to gain
settlement leverage, and discovery and law and motion will have to be conducted
as to the Cross-Complaint.
            Here, Defendant has not adequately explained
why the request to file a Cross-Complaint is only being made now. Defendant’s
counsel makes the conclusory statement that the facts giving rise to the causes
of action alleged in the Cross-Complaint were recently discovered during the
discovery process in this action. However, there is no explanation as to what
facts were discovered and why they were not already known prior to discovery. This
will bear upon whether Defendant’s delay in seeking leave to file a
Cross-Complaint—filing this motion on October 28, 2024 after the answer was
filed on February 6, 2024—was in bad faith.
            As such, the hearing on the motion
for leave to file a Cross-Complaint is CONTINUED to February 19, 2024 at 8:30
a..m. Defendant is to file a supplemental declaration by February 3, 2024, with
a supplemental opposition due February 12, 2024.