 Case Number:  24STCV09164    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  76             Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant has failed to repair the subject vehicle to conform to applicable
warranties and concealed the existence of a Transmission Defect.
            Defendant
General Motors LLC. demurs to the First Amended Complaint and moves to strike portions
thereof.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant General Motors LLC’s demurrer to the
First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the fifth cause of
action. 
The motion to strike is GRANTED with leave to
amend as the request for punitive damages at the Prayer for Relief, ¶ g at
16:4. 
Plaintiff is given 30 days’ leave
to amend. 
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
            The
Declaration of Greg Gruszecki reflects that Defendant satisfied the meet and confer
requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41.
Discussion
            Defendant
General Motors LLC. demurs to the First Amended Complaint as follows:
1.         Fifth
Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment).
            A..       Re: Failure To Plead With Requisite Specificity.
 
Defendant argues that the fraud claim
is insufficiently pled.
 
Fraud causes of action must be pled
with specificity. (Hills Transportation Co.
v. Southwest Forest Ind., Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.) The complaint must allege facts as
to “‘how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’”
(Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d
59, 73.) “The requirement of specificity in a fraud action against a corporation
requires the plaintiff to allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly
fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they
said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Citations omitted.)” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) 

 
 Less specificity
is required to plead fraud by concealment. 
(Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1199.) However, “[i]f a fraud claim is based upon failure to disclose, and ‘the duty to
disclose arises from the making of representations that were misleading or false,
then those allegations should be described.’ (Citation omitted.)” (Morgan
v. AT&T Wireless Services, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1235, 1262.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges as follows:
 
67. Plaintiff is a reasonable consumer who interacted
with sales representatives, considered Defendant GM’s advertisement, and/or other
marketing materials concerning GM Vehicles prior to purchasing Subject Vehicle.
Had Defendant GM and its dealership(s) revealed the Transmission Defect in these
disclosures, Plaintiff would have been aware of it and would not have purchased
Subject Vehicle. For example, Defendant GM marketed and sold its new 8- speed automatic
transmissions as having “world-class performance” rivaling top performance vehicles,
lightning-fast and smooth shifting, along with improved fuel efficiency, among other
representations. Defendant GM’s own press release dated January 13, 2014, introduced
the new speed transmission as being “tuned for world-class shift-response times,”
and “deliver[ing] shift performance that rivals the dual-clutch/semi-automatic transmissions
found in many supercars – but with the smoothness and refinement that comes with
a conventional automatic fitted with a 
torque converter.”
 
     (1AC, ¶ 67.)
 
Plaintiff does not allege that she was
exposed to Defendant’s marketing materials and exactly what statements were made
in the materials upon which Plaintiff relied in making her purchase decision. Plaintiff
must allege statements which would constitute, at the very least, half-truths if
not outright misrepresentations as to the subject vehicle, and actual reliance upon
such statements.
 
            Civil Code §
1710(3)(deceit is defined to include “[t]he
suppression of a fact, by one who is bound to disclose it, or who gives information of other facts which
are likely to mislead for want of communication of that fact. . . .”)(bold emphasis
added). 
 In a misleading half-truth
situation, where the defendant undertakes to provide some information, the defendant
is “obliged to disclose all other facts which ‘materially qualify’ the limited facts
disclosed. (Citations omitted.)” (Randi W.
v. Muroc Joint Unified School Dist. (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1066, 1082.)
 
[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment are: “
‘(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant
must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud
the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5)
as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have
sustained damage. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) 
 
(Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830,
850.)
 
To the extent that the court in Dhital
v. Nissan N. Am. Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844 held that less
specific allegations were sufficient at the pleading stage, the California Supreme
Court has recently reiterated that the specificity requirement applies to fraudulent
concealment claims:
 
As an additional point, Robinson
emphasized California’s pleading requirement that fraud must be alleged with specificity.
The requirement provides an important safeguard against the risk of tort recovery
for fraud in every case involving conduct occurring during a contractual relationship.
(Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 993.) When affirmative misrepresentation
fraud is alleged, “‘“This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts
which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.”‘” (Ibid.; see Hills Trans. Co. v. Southwest Forest Industries,
Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707 [72 Cal. Rptr. 441].) Uber argues that,
because a fraudulent concealment claim “concerns a defendant’s alleged failure to
speak,” the pleading standard is necessarily more relaxed, thus weakening this safeguard.
Not so.
California courts apply the same specificity
standard to evaluate the factual underpinnings of a fraudulent concealment claim
at the pleading stage, even though the focus of inquiry shifts to the unique elements
of the claim. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 347 [134 Cal.
Rptr. 375, 556 P.2d 737]; Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
230, 248 [129 Cal. Rptr. 3d 874]; Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
1462, 1472 [169 Cal. Rptr. 3d 619].) For instance, in a case such as this, the court
must determine whether the plaintiff has alleged a sufficient factual basis for
establishing a duty of disclosure on the part of the defendant independent of the
parties’ contract. If the duty allegedly arose by virtue of the parties’ relationship
and the defendant’s exclusive knowledge or access to certain facts, as Rattagan
has alleged here, the complaint must also include specific allegations establishing
all the required elements, including (1) the content of the omitted facts, (2) the
defendant’s awareness of the materiality of those facts, (3) the inaccessibility
of the facts to the plaintiff, (4) the [*44]  general point at which the omitted facts should
or could have been revealed, and (5) justifiable and actual reliance, either
through action or forbearance, based on the defendant’s omission. “[M]ere conclusionary
allegations that the omissions were intentional and for the purpose of defrauding
and deceiving plaintiff[] … are insufficient for the foregoing purposes.” (Goodman,
at p. 347.)
(Rattagan v. Uber Technologies,
Inc. (2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, 43-44 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
            This ground
for demurrer is persuasive.
 
            The demurrer
to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
            B.        Re: No Transactional Relationship Giving
Rise To A Duty To Disclose.
 
            Defendant
argues that no transactional relationship between GM and Plaintiff is alleged which
gives rise to a duty to disclose.
 
“There are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may
constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship
with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant
had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations
but also suppresses some material facts. [Citation.]’ “ (Citations omitted.) Where,
as here, there is no fiduciary relationship, the duty to disclose generally presupposes
a relationship grounded in “some sort of transaction between the parties. [Citations.]
Thus, a duty to disclose may arise from the relationship between seller and buyer,
employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into
any kind of contractual agreement. [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.)
 
(OCM Principal
Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th
835, 859 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            Thus,
if Plaintiff could have specifically plead the misrepresentations to which she was
exposed in promotional materials, the fact that Defendant had exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to Plaintiff and which Defendant actively concealed
from Plaintiff would give rise to a duty to disclose in the promotional materials.
However, as discussed above, Plaintiff did not meet this pleading standard. So this
ground for demurrer is persuasive based upon the present allegations.
 
            The relationship
between the manufacturer of medical devices in Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017)
7 Cal.App.5th 276, cited by Defendant for the proposition that there is an insufficient
transactional relationship, is different than the relationship between a car manufacturer
and a car buyer. In Bigler-Engler, the evidence did not show that the manufacturer
directly advertised its products to consumers, nor that it derived any monetary
benefit directly from the consumer’s rental of the medical device. (Id. at
314.) 
 
Motion To Strike
 
Meet and Confer
 
            The
Declaration of Greg Gruszecki reflects that Defendant satisfied the meet and confer
requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 435.5.
 
Discussion
Defendant moves to strike the following portions of
Plaintiff’s 1AC.
u        Prayer for Relief, ¶ g at 16:4 (punitive
damages): GRANTED with leave to amend.
            For
the reasons discussed above re: the demurer, Plaintiff has not sufficiently pled
fraud with specificity.
 
            Moreover,
although it appears that punitive damages are available as to the Song-Beverly Act
claims (Johnson v. Ford Motor Co. (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 137, 141, 143), so long as they are not awarded for the same acts
for which a civil penalty is recovered (Troensegaard v. Silvercrest Indus.
(1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 218, 228.), Plaintiff has not pled malice, oppression
or fraud[1]
in connection with the Song-Beverly Act violations. 
 
“The Johnsons
sued Ford and Decker for intentional and negligent misrepresentation and concealment,
violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act (Civ. Code, §§ 1790–1795.7) (Lemon Law), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act
(Civ. Code, §§ 1750–1784), the unfair competition law (Bus. & Prof. Code, §§
17200–17210), and the prohibition on false or misleading advertising (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17500). Plaintiffs settled with Decker prior to trial and, after the
jury verdict, voluntarily dismissed their unfair competition and false advertising
causes of action against Ford.” (Johnson, supra, 35 Cal.4th at pp. 1197–1198, fn. omitted.)
 
. . .
The jury awarded
plaintiffs $ 17,811.60 in compensatory damages and punitive damages of $ 10 million.
The Supreme Court summarized our disposition of defendant’s appeal: “The Court of
Appeal found substantial evidence not only that Ford had fraudulently concealed
material facts from the Johnsons by failing
to provide them the warranty buyback notice required under section 1793.24,
but also that punitive damages against the
corporation were justified because ‘defendant’s entire customer response program
was structured precisely to short-circuit lemon law claims whenever defendant plausibly
could,’ by restrictively interpreting state lemon laws and ignoring the possibility
of nonpresumptive lemons.” (Johnson, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1200.)
In conducting our de novo review of the
punitive damages for constitutional excessiveness, however, we modified the $ 10
million judgment, concluding that punitive damages of $ 53,435 (three times the
compensatory damages) was the maximum award permitted under the due process clause
of the federal Constitution. 
(Johnson v. Ford Motor Co. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
137, 141, 143 [bold emphasis added].)
As we stated
in our earlier opinion in this case, the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is the
most comparable statutory regulation of the kind of conduct involved in this case.
Song-Beverly provides for a civil penalty equal to twice the compensatory damages
award when the defendant has committed a “willful” violation of the act. Here, however,
the jury found, in essence, that defendant intentionally concealed information with
the intent to defraud plaintiffs.
Thus, on the one hand, the statutory scheme does not (with its double damages penalty)
“tend to support the present award of [$ 10 million] in punitive damages, a sum
[560] times the financial harm defendant’s fraud caused plaintiff.” (Simon, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1184
[in Simon the bracketed amounts were
$ 1.7 million and 340 times the compensatory damages, respectively].) On the other hand, the present intentional conduct (based, as
it was, on formal company-wide practices and policies) was  [*149] 
significantly more egregious than
the minimum “willful” conduct sufficient to support a Song-Beverly civil penalty.
Accordingly, in our view, the comparison with Song-Beverly does not begin to justify
the $ 10 million punitive
damages award,
but neither does Song-Beverly represent a legislative
determination that punitive
damages for
the intentional conduct before us must be limited to the lower end of the ordinary
range of such damages.
. . .  
We conclude
that punitive damages of $ 175,000, or just less than 10 times the compensatory
award, will sufficiently vindicate California’s “legitimate interests in punishing
unlawful conduct and deterring its repetition.” (BMW, supra, 517 U.S. at p. 568.) 
(Johnson, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at 148-149,
150 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
            It
also appears that punitive damages and a civil penalty cannot be recovered for the
same acts, i.e., double recovery is not permitted, and Plaintiffs may eventually
be found to have waived punitive damages:
 
We are of the opinion that had the Legislature, by Civil Code sections 3294
(permitting punitive damages)
and 1794 (permitting a civil penalty),
intended a double recovery of punitive and penal damages for the same willful, oppressive,
malicious, and oppressive acts, it would in some appropriate manner have said so.
And we believe that by seeking a “civil penalty” and also attorney’s fees and all
reasonable expenses as allowed by Civil Code section 1794, plaintiff had in effect
elected to waive punitive damages under section 3294.


(Troensegaard v. Silvercrest Indus. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d
218, 228.)


