  Case Number:  21STCV16419    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  P Plaintiff’s  Motion to Tax Costs   Moving  Party: Defendant Titan  Wheel Corporation               Responding Party: Plaintiffs Pedro Chavarin and  Maria Chavarin; Plaintiffs Luz Santoyo et al.   RULING   The court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Plaintiffs’ motions to tax  costs are GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   On April 30, 2021, Plaintiffs Pedro Chavarin et al. filed a complaint  against Taylor Machine Works Inc. (“Taylor”); Cal-Lift, Inc. (“Cal-Lift”);  Titan International Inc. (“Titan”); OTR Wheel Engineering Inc. (“OTR”); Rimex  USA; Global Mining Products, Inc.; Pacific Maritime Association (“PMA”);  American President Lines (“APL”); CMA/CGM; EQT Infrastructure III (“EQT”); P5  Infrastructure LLC (“P5”); and Does 1-100 alleging causes of action for strict  products liability; negligence; and loss of consortium.   On May 11, 2021, Plaintiffs Luz Santoyo Castillo et al. filed a complaint  against Taylor; Cal-Lift; Titan; OTR; Bridgestone America, Inc.; PMA; CMA/CGM;  EQT; P5; Crane Certification Services, Inc.; Parkhouse Tire Inc.; and DOES  1-100 alleging causes of action for strict products liability; negligence –  wrongful death; negligence – survival action; survival action; and loss of  consortium.   On April 2, 2024 and April 4, 2024, Titan filed motions for summary  judgment against Chavarin et al. and Santoyo et al. On August 26, 2024, the  court ruled in Titan’s favor for both motions for summary judgment.   On October 21, 2024, Chavarin et al. and Santoyo et al. filed a notice of  appeal.    On October 28, 2024, the Chavarin Plaintiffs filed a motion to tax costs.  Titan filed an opposition on November 15, 2024. The Chavarin Plaintiffs filed a  reply on November 21, 2024.   On October 30, 2024, the Santoyo Plaintiffs filed a motion to tax costs.  Titan filed an opposition on November 15, 2024.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND   On May 15,  2019, a shipping container top-handler’s front right wheel exploded, killing  Jose Santoyo and injuring Pedro Chavarin. (Chavarin Complaint, ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs  alleged that the explosion was caused by defective design and manufacturing.  (Chavarin Complaint, ¶ 3.) The right wheel and its components were manufactured  by Titan. (Chavarin Complaint, ¶ 4.)   Titan  filed motions for summary judgment against the Chavarin and Santoyo Plaintiffs.  Titan prevailed in both motions.   The  Santoyo Plaintiffs, Pedro Chavarin, and Maria Chavarin (collectively,  “Plaintiffs”) now seek to strike several costs from the memorandums, as they  were not necessary to the litigation or duplicative charges.              LEGAL STANDARD             “Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is  entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or  proceeding.  This means that the prevailing party is entitled to all of  his costs unless another statute provides otherwise.  Absent such  statutory authority, the court has no discretion to deny costs to the  prevailing party.”  (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111,  128-129 (citations and internal quotations omitted); see also Code of Civ.  Proc. § 1032, subd. (b).)     Allowable costs under Code of Civil Procedure§1033.5 must be reasonably  necessary to the conduct of the litigation, rather than merely convenient or  beneficial to its preparation, and must be reasonable in amount. An item not  specifically allowable under §1033.5(a) nor prohibited under subdivision (b)  may nevertheless be recoverable in the discretion of the court if they meet the  above requirements (i.e., reasonably necessary and reasonable in amount). If  the items appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is  on the party seeking to tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or  necessary. (Ladas v. California State Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19  Cal.App.4th 761, 773-774.) Whereas, if the items are properly objected to, they  are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as  costs. (Id.) Whether a cost item was reasonably necessary to the  litigation presents a question of fact for the trial court and its decision is  reviewed for abuse of discretion.  (Id.)  However, because the right to  costs is governed strictly by statute, a court has no discretion to award costs  not statutorily authorized. (Id.)   DISCUSSION               Moving Parties’ Argument   Plaintiffs argue that their motions should be granted as Titan seeks  double recovery. Further, Titan seeks to recover some costs which are  unreasonable or unrecoverable under Code Civ. Proc. section 1033.5.   Opposing Party’s Argument   Titan argues that the Plaintiffs jointly prosecuted the case against  Titan, and thus the costs should be awarded jointly and severally against  Plaintiffs. Further, all of the costs Titan seeks to recover were reasonably  necessary to the litigation.   Reply Argument   The Chavarin Plaintiffs argue that the filing of an appeal stays  proceedings, such as the instant one. Thus, the court should not rule on this  motion until the appeal concludes. Further, apportionment is appropriate  because the Chavarin and Santoyo Plaintiffs have separate lawsuits, separate  counsel, and separate cost bills.   Merits of the Motion   A.  Stay of Proceedings   A motion to tax costs filed after the entry of a final judgment is a  “’matter embraced in the action and not affected by the order appealed from.’”  (Hennessy v. Superior Court of California in and for City and County of San  Francisco et al. (1924) 194 Cal. 368, 372.)    Thus, the trial court may hear a motion to tax costs even after an appeal  has been filed in the underlying matter.   B.  Apportionment of Fees   Plaintiffs object to many of the requested costs on the grounds that  Titan will receive double recovery, as it failed to divide shared expenses  between the two sets of Plaintiffs. Titan argues in opposition that it was not  required to apportion fees and that it may seek costs jointly and severally  from Plaintiffs as they jointly litigated the cases on identical theories of  liability. In support, Titan cites to Acosta v. SI Corp., (2005) 129  Cal.App.4th 1370, 1373 and argues that if any Plaintiff pays more than they are  liable for, they may seek contribution. Further, Titan is at risk of losing  half of its incurred expenses if one set of Plaintiffs abandon their appeal. In  reply, Plaintiffs note that the facts of Acosta are too dissimilar to be  instructive. In Acosta, the court allowed a prevailing defendant to  collect costs jointly and severally from 101 plaintiffs that were represented  by the same counsel and pursued a joint theory of liability, despite the fact  that their individual damages differed. (Id. at p. 1376.) Here, the  Santoyo and Chavarin Plaintiffs were represented by separate counsel in  separate lawsuits. Though the cases are related, they were never consolidated.  Further, Titan’s argument that it might lose one-half of its costs is merely  hypothetical and should only be addressed after the conclusion of both appeals.   The court agrees with Plaintiffs. Though these cases were similar, the  Plaintiffs retained separate counsel and did not jointly prosecute the actions.  Thus, apportionment of costs among the Plaintiffs is proper.   The court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motions to tax any duplicative costs by 50%,  including deposition fees, travel and lodging expenses, court reporter fees,  and interpreter fees.    C.  Item 2 – Jury Fees   Plaintiffs seek to strike $150.00 from the memorandum of costs, as the  case never went to a jury trial. Further, Titan can seek reimbursement for the  jury fees paid, and it would be unreasonable to allow Titan to recover the fees  from Plaintiffs. Titan argues that it would not be entitled to a refund, so it  must be allowed to recover the fee from Plaintiffs.   The court has held that a non-refundable jury fee is a recoverable  expense under Code Civ. Proc. section 1033.5, subd. (a)(1), even when the case  ends in summary judgment. (Naser v. Lakeridge Athletic Club (2014) 277  Cal.App.4th 571, 576.)   Thus, the court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion to tax the jury fees.   D.  Item 4 – Deposition Costs   1.  Deposition of Michael Anthony  Podue   Plaintiffs seek to strike the cost of this deposition, as it was taken  after summary judgment was granted and not necessary to the litigation. Titan  does not dispute this.   Accordingly, the court finds that Podue’s deposition was not necessary to  the litigation and GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to tax both memorandums of costs  by $1,265.55.   2.  Depositions of Mark Jurisic,  Curtis Shaw, Duane Brazil, Mathew Hillyer, Jeffrey Brown Vol.       1-2, Dante Cupello, Matthew  Dickenson, Pedro Chavarin Vol.1-2, Mark Rankin, Leonard       Hensel, Lee Hamre, Thomas  Vadnais, Jeffrey Olsen, and Pedro Ramos   Plaintiffs seek to tax these costs as Titan seeks double recovery.  Plaintiffs argue that the total costs of the depositions, $32,950.06, should be  split evenly between the sets of Plaintiffs. Thus, each memorandum of costs  should be taxed by $16,475.03 to prevent Titan from obtaining a double  recovery.   The court agrees and GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motions to tax each memorandum by  $16,475.03.   E.  Item 13 – Interpreter Fees   Titan requests $1,410.00 in interpreter fees. Plaintiffs seek to tax half  of the requested amount, as there is no basis for awarding the costs jointly  and severally against Plaintiff.   As discussed above, the court finds that the Plaintiffs did not jointly  prosecute the case and GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to tax this cost by $705.00 in  each memorandum of costs.   F.  Item 16 – Other Costs   1.  Court  Reporter Fees   Plaintiffs seek to strike this cost entirely as the  court did not order a court reporter. Thus, the fee was not necessary to the  litigation. Titan argues in opposition that a record of the proceeding was  necessary in the event that Plaintiffs filed an appeal, as they have done.   Court reporter fees are a recoverable expense under  Code Civ. Proc. section 1033.5. Thus, the court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion to strike  the court reporter fee. Titan is entitled to recover $1,745.00 for the court  report fees.   G.  Miscellaneous   1.  Travel and Lodging Costs   Plaintiffs seek to strike Titan’s travel costs incurred in connection  with the depositions of Thomas Vadnais and Mark Rankin, as remote depositions  were available. Thus, Titan’s counsel was not required to travel for these  depositions and should not be able to recover these costs. Titan argues in  opposition that its witnesses were not required to attend a remote deposition  without the physical presence of their counsel. In support, Titan cites to Segal  v. Asics America Corporation (2020) 264 Cal.Rptr.3d 161, which held that a  trial court did not abuse its discretion by refusing to tax a defendant’s  travel expenses because the deposition involved complex issues. Here, the court  finds that complexity of the issues necessitated counsel’s physical presence to  prepare Titan’s witnesses.    Code Civ. Proc.  section 1033.5 provides that travel expenses to attend depositions are  recoverable. The statute does not impose restrictions based on the availability  of remote depositions.   Accordingly, the court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motions to strike travel and lodging  costs. Titan is entitled to recover $2,159.24 for such costs.   H.  Undisputed Fees   1.  Investigative Expenses   Plaintiffs object to Titan’s investigative expenses in the amount of $1,527.65  as such fees are expressly unrecoverable. Titan concedes that they may be  taxed.   Thus, the court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to tax each memorandum of costs  by $1,527.65   2.  Photocopying Charges   Plaintiffs object to these costs as they are expressly unrecoverable  under Code Civ. Proc. section 1033.5, subd. (b)(3). Titan concedes that they  may be taxed.   Thus, the court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to tax each memorandum of costs  by $29.71.   3.  Service of Process   The Chavarin Plaintiffs object to $413.66 in subpoena fees, as two of the  invoices are for records that are unrelated to their case. The Santoyo  Plaintiffs object to $413.66 in subpoena fees on the same grounds. Titan  concedes that $413.66 should be stricken from each memorandum.   Accordingly, the court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motions to tax each memorandum  by $413.66.   4.  Attorneys’ Meals   Plaintiffs object to Titan’s costs for attorney meal expenses in the  amount of $345.63 as meals are not expressly allowed under Code Civ. Proc.  section 1033.5. Titan concedes that these expenses may be taxed.   Accordingly, the court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motions to tax each memorandum  by $345.63.   5.  Miscellaneous Conference Room   Plaintiffs object to Titan’s conference room fee, totaling $675.00, incurred  during the deposition of Thomas H. Vadnais as the conference room was not  necessary to the litigation, only convenient or beneficial. Titan concedes that  this expense may be taxed.   Accordingly, the court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to tax each memorandum  by $675.00.   CONCLUSION   Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motions are GRANTED in part and  DENIED in part.   Prevailing party on motion is ordered to give notice of ruling.