 Case Number:  24TRCV02378    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  P Motion  to Strike Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. Section 425.16   Moving  Parties: Defendants  Minh Tri Van Nguyen et al.       Responding Party: Plaintiff Janna Pharmacy   RULING   The court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendants’ special motion  to strike is DENIED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff Janna Pharmacy d/b/a Apotheco (“Plaintiff”)  filed a complaint against Defendants Minh Tri Van Nguyen (“Nguyen”); Envy  Pharmacy (“Envy”); MTN Pharmacists (“MTN”); Tien Minh Vo (“Vo”); and DOES  1-100, inclusive (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for (1)  Breach of Contract; (2) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic  Advantage; (3) Conversion; (4) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets; (5) Breach of  Fiduciary Duty; (6) Unfair Competition; and (7) Declaratory Relief.   On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”)  against the same Defendants, alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of  Contract; (2) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; (3)  Conversion; (4) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets; (5) Breach of Fiduciary  Duty; (6) Violations of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, 18 U.S.C. § 1030(A);  (7) Violations of the Unauthorized Access to Computers Act, Cal. Penal Code §  502(C); (8) Unfair Competition; and (9) Declaratory Relief.   On October 31, 2024, Defendants filed a special motion to strike the FAC.  Plaintiff filed an opposition on November 18, 2024. Defendants filed a reply on  November 22, 2024.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND   On July  17, 2023, Nguyen was promoted to Plaintiff’s pharmacist-in-charge. (FAC, ¶ 16.)  By statute, Nguyen was responsible for ensuring the pharmacy’s compliance with state  and federal laws. (FAC, ¶ 17.) Among such laws were the federal Health  Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”) and California’s  Confidentiality of Medical Information Act (“CMIA”). (FAC, ¶ 19.) Likewise,  Nguyen’s employment letter required him to ensure Plaintiff’s compliance with  applicable laws and “secure and appropriate handling of Apotheco information.”  (FAC, ¶ 20.)   In April  2024, Nguyen resigned from his position to pursue other opportunities. (FAC, ¶  5.) Plaintiff alleges that Nguyen intended to use stolen data to solicit  Plaintiff’s patients and set up a competing pharmacy. (FAC, ¶ 5.)   On October  27, 2023, Nguyen exported 74,000 lines of patient data (the “Data”), including  payment information, phone numbers, dates of birth, and prescriptions, to his  personal email account without permission. (FAC, ¶ 21.) The information was  contained into two unencrypted Excel sheets labeled “Fax Blast1” and “Fax  Blast2.” (FAC, ¶ 21.)   On October  12, 2023, Nguyen also emailed himself a PDF report (“Report”) from Plaintiff’s  delivery vendor, containing the names, addresses, and prescription information  of about 2,000 of Plaintiff’s patients. (FAC, ¶ 22.)   Shortly  before he resigned, Nguyen forwarded himself the names and birthdays of six  patients who were receiving a lucrative branded medication using the blind copy  (“bcc”) feature. (FAC, ¶ 23.)   Envy  received its facility license on April 15, 2024. (FAC, ¶ 28.) Nguyen resigned  from Plaintiff on April 26, 2024. (FAC, ¶ 28.)   On June 5,  2024, Plaintiff discovered the data breach and subsequently sent cease and  desist letters to Nguyen and Envy. (FAC, ¶¶ 31-32.) In the following weeks,  Defendants refused to return or destroy the stolen Data. (FAC, ¶ 36.)   Since the  data breach, Plaintiff has sent breach notification letters to over 26,000  patients. (FAC, ¶ 41.)   Defendants  now seek to strike all nine causes of action, or in the alternative, paragraphs  36-38.   LEGAL STANDARD             “Litigation of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step process. First,  the moving defendant bears the burden of establishing that the challenged  allegations or claims arise from protected activity in which the defendant has  engaged.  Second, for each claim that does arise from protected activity, the  plaintiff must show the claim has “at least ‘minimal merit.’  If the plaintiff  cannot make this showing, the court will strike the claim.” (Bonni v. St.  Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009.)    DISCUSSION               Request for Judicial Notice   Plaintiff requests judicial notice of three documents: (1) Envy’s license  found on the California Board of Pharmacy’s website; (2) the U.S. Centers for  Medicare and Medicaid Services’ National Provider Identifier Registry; and (3) MTN’s  statement of information found on the California Secretary of State’s website.   Pursuant to Evid. Code section 452, subd. (c), the  court may take judicial notice of the acts of the legislative, executive, or  judicial departments of any state. Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice are  GRANTED.   Evidentiary Objections   Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections No. 5, 16, and 17 are SUSTAINED. The  remaining objections are OVERRULED.   Moving Party’s Argument   The gravamen of Plaintiff’s FAC relates to Defendants’ refusal to  unconditionally return or destroy the Data, which is protected by the  litigation privilege. Because the FAC is based on these litigation activities,  the FAC is unripe. Further, Plaintiff cannot prove the elements of any cause of  action. Thus, Defendants’ motion should be granted in its entirety.   Opposing Party’s Argument   Defendants’ motion should be denied because it is untimely. Further,  litigation privilege does not apply because the communications between counsel,  alleged in paragraphs 36-38, are not the source of Defendants’ liability. Even  if Defendants’ conduct could be considered protected speech activity, Plaintiff  can establish that it will prevail on the merits.   Reply Argument   The Anti-SLAPP motion was timely because the FAC alleged new activity. Plaintiff  added paragraphs 36-38 to withstand demurrer and supply elements of several  causes of action, which means that such causes of action are subject to a  special motion to strike. Moreover, Plaintiff simply cannot prevail on the  merits.   Merits of the Motion   1.  Timeliness of the Motion   Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ motion is procedurally defective as it  was filed more than sixty days after the earliest complaint that contains the  cause of action. Defendants contend that the motion is timely, as their motion  primarily hinges on privileged communications between counsel, and the first  complaint did not contain any such allegations. Thus, the motion could not have  been brought any sooner.   The court agrees that the motion is timely. Plaintiff amended its  original complaint to add paragraphs 36-38, which describe communications  between the parties’ counsel. Such communications implicate the litigation  privilege and were absent in the original complaint. Thus, Defendants could not  properly bring this motion until the FAC was filed.   2.  First Prong: Protected Activity   On the first prong, “courts are to consider the elements of the  challenged claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and  consequently form the basis for liability. The defendant’s burden is to  identify what acts each challenged claim rests on and to show how those acts  are protected under a statutorily defined category of protected activity.” (Bonni,  11 Cal.5th at 1009.) “A defendant need only make a prima facie showing at this  stage.” (Ojjeh v. Brown (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 1027, 1035–1036.)    Courts may “determine whether particular acts alleged within the cause of  action supply the elements of a claim or instead are incidental  background. This approach is consistent with Baral, which reaffirmed  that ‘[a]ssertions that are ‘merely incidental’ or ‘collateral’ are not subject  to section 425.16. [Citations.] Allegations of protected activity that merely  provide context, without supporting a claim for recovery, cannot be stricken under  the anti-SLAPP statute.’” (Bonni, supra, at p. 1012, quoting Baral,  supra, 1 Cal.5th at p. 394, other citations omitted.)    Defendants argue that each of Plaintiff’s nine causes of action rely on  the allegations contained in paragraphs 36-38, which describe Defendants’  refusal to sign a declaration, defense counsel’s refusal to unconditionally  destroy or return the Data and Report, and defense counsel’s refusal to sign an  “Attorney’s Eyes Only” designation. Defendants contend that such communications  trigger subdivisions (e)(1) and (e)(2) of Code Civ. Proc. section 425.16, which  protect “any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,  executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized  by law” and “any written or oral statement made in connection with an issue  under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or  any other official proceeding authorized by law,” respectively.   While Defendants correctly assert that communications between counsel in  anticipation of litigation are protected activity under the statute, the court  must determine whether paragraphs 36-38 actually supply the elements of each  claim or are merely incidental to each cause of action. If the allegations are incidental  or merely supply context for the cause of action, they cannot be stricken.   A.  First Cause of Action for Breach  of Contract   To state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able  to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or  excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting  damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51  Cal.4th 811, 821.)   Plaintiff incorporates paragraphs 36-38 to this cause of action by  reference. However, the conduct underlying this claim is Nguyen’s failure to  abide by Plaintiff’s information security policies and comply with state and  federal privacy laws, in violation of his employment letter.   Thus, the communications between counsel, though incorporated by  reference, are not used to supply any element of a breach of contract cause of  action. Accordingly, Defendants have failed to establish that this cause of  action is based on protected activity, and the burden does not shift to  Plaintiff to establish the second prong.   B.  Second Cause of Action for  Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage   The elements of a claim for intentional interference with prospective  economic advantage include “(1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff  and some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff;  (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional or negligent  acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4)  actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff  proximately caused by the acts of the defendant.” (Crown Imports, LLC v.  Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404, citations, brackets, and  quotation marks omitted.) Further, “the alleged interference must have been  wrongful by some measure beyond the fact of the interference itself. For an act  to be sufficiently independently wrongful, it must be unlawful, that is, it is  proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other  determinable legal standard.” (Ibid., citation, ellipsis, and quotation  marks omitted.)    Similarly, Plaintiff incorporates paragraphs 36-38 by reference. However,  the source of Defendants’ liability is Nguyen’s use of the Data and Report to  solicit clients for the other Defendants, which interfered with Plaintiff’s  economic relationships with its clients. Further, because Nguyen sent the Data  and Report to an unencrypted email address, violating state and federal privacy  laws, Plaintiff’s business suffered harm.    Thus, the communications between counsel do not supply any element of  this cause of action. Accordingly, Defendants have failed to establish that  this cause of action is based on protected activity, and the burden does not  shift to Plaintiff to establish the second prong.   C.  Third Cause of Action for  Conversion   “Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of  another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership  or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a  wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v.  Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)    Here, Plaintiff’s conversion cause of action does partially rely on allegations  that “Defendants took and have refused Plaintiff’s demand for repossession of  property belong to Plaintiff” and “Defendants are wrongfully holding and  refusing to return Plaintiff’s Data…”    Thus, the allegations in paragraphs 36-38 are not merely incidental to  this cause of action. Accordingly, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to establish  that it can prevail on the merits.   D.  Fourth Cause of Action for Misappropriation  of Trade Secrets   “Under the [California Uniform Trade Secrets Act], a prima facie claim  for misappropriation of trade secrets requires the plaintiff to demonstrate:  (1) the plaintiff owned a trade secret, (2) the defendant acquired, disclosed,  or used the plaintiff’s trade secret through improper means, and (3) the  defendant’s actions damaged the plaintiff.” (Sargent Fletcher, Inc. v. Able  Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1658, 1665; see also Civ. Code, § 3426.1)  “‘Trade secret’ means information, including a formula, pattern, compilation,  program, device, method, technique, or process, that: [¶] (1) Derives  independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known  to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value from its  disclosure or use; and [¶] (2) Is the subject of efforts that are reasonable  under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.” (Civ. Code, § 3426., subd.  (d).) “‘Improper means’ includes theft, bribery, misrepresentation, breach or  inducement of a breach of a duty to maintain secrecy, or espionage through  electronic or other means.” (Civ. Code, § 3426.1, subd. (a).)     Plaintiff alleges that it was the owner of two trade secrets: the Data  and Report. Without authorization and in violation of his employment letter,  Nguyen accessed the Data and Report to use the information contained therein to  solicit customers for his new employers.   Thus, the communications between counsel were merely incidental to this  cause of action, as they do not supply any of the elements. Defendants have not  met their initial burden, and Plaintiff is not required to show a probability  of succeeding on the merits.   E.  Fifth Cause of Action for Breach  of Fiduciary Duty   “The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the  existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)   Plaintiff argues that as its PIC, Nguyen owed Plaintiff a fiduciary duty  to ensure compliance with state and federal laws. Nguyen breached this  obligation by emailing himself client’s personal information without permission,  which necessitated the sending of data breach notifications to the 26,000  affected patients.   Thus, the communications between counsel are not the source of liability  and are merely incidental to this cause of action. Defendants have failed to establish  that this cause of action is based on protected activity, and the burden does  not shift to Plaintiff.   F.  Sixth Cause of Action for Violations  of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, 18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)   The statute provides that “[w]hoever… intentionally accesses a computer  without authorization or exceeds authorized access, and thereby obtains…  information from any protected computer… shall be punished as provided in  subsection (c) of this section.” (18 U.S.C. §1030, subd. (a)(2).) “[T]he term  ‘protected computer’ means a computer… which is used in or affecting interstate  or foreign commerce or communication, including a computer located outside the  United States that is used in a manner that affects interstate or foreign  commerce or communication of the United States…” (18 U.S.C. §1030, subd. (e)(2)(B).)   “Any person who suffers damage or loss by reason of a violation of this  section may maintain a civil action against the violator to obtain compensatory  damages and injunctive relief or other equitable relief. A civil action for a  violation of this section may be brought only if the conduct involves [one] of  the factors set forth in subclauses (I), (II), (III), (IV), or (V) of  subsection (c)(4)(A)(i). Damages for a violation involving only conduct  described in subsection (c)(4)(A)(i)(I) are limited to economic damages.” (18  U.S.C. §1030, subd. (g).) 18 U.S.C. §1030(c)(4)(A)(i)(I) provides, in pertinent  part, as follows: “loss to [one] or more persons during any [one]-year period…  aggregating at least $5,000 in value…”   Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action arises from Nguyen’s unauthorized access  to and removal of client’s personal information from Plaintiff’s computer  systems. Paragraphs 36-38, though incorporated by reference, do not supply the elements  of this claim. Rather, they provide additional context that Defendants are  still in possession of the Data and Report, information that they obtained  through unauthorized access to Plaintiff’s computer systems.   Accordingly, Defendants have failed to meet their initial burden, and the  burden does not shift to Plaintiff.   G.  Seventh Cause of Action for  Violation of the Unauthorized Access to Computers Act, Cal. Penal Code § 502(c)   The statute makes certain conduct involving unauthorized access to and  modification of computer data a public offense. Under the statute, it is a  felony to access, alter, delete, or otherwise use data accessed knowingly and  without permission from a computer, computer system, or computer network, as  part of a scheme to defraud, deceive, or extort. (Penal Code § 502, subds.  (c)-(d).) An individual who suffers damages as a result a violation of the  CDAFA may bring a civil action against the violator for compensatory damages,  equitable relief, and recovery of reasonable attorney’s fees. (Penal Code §  502, subd. (e)(1)-(2).)   Plaintiff alleges that Nguyen accessed Plaintiff’s computer systems to  obtain large volumes of patient information, which he removed from Plaintiff’s  systems without permission. Consequently, Plaintiff incurred damages because it  had to undertake breach notification procedures.   Thus, the communications between counsel are merely incidental to this  cause of action. Defendants have failed to meet their initial burden, and the  burden does not shift to Plaintiff.   H.  Eighth Cause of Action for  Unfair Business Practices   To set forth a claim for a violation of Business and Professions Code  section 17200 (“UCL”), a plaintiff must establish that the defendant was  engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and  unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A cause of action for unfair competition “is  not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.” (Cortez v.  Purolator Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.)   Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants schemed to steal Plaintiff’s  information to solicit Plaintiff’s patients and/or the prescribing physicians. To  accomplish this scheme, Nguyen violated state and federal privacy laws to send  himself the Data and Report, which he used to solicit clients away from  Plaintiff.   The communications between counsel do not supply an element of this  claim. Thus, Defendants have failed to meet their initial burden, and the  burden does not shift to Plaintiff.   I.  Ninth Cause of Action for  Declaratory Relief   “To qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its  action presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory  relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating  to the party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)  213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.)    Plaintiff asserts that a controversy has arisen between the parties  regarding whether Nguyen’s access to and use of the Data and Report were  lawful. Plaintiff asserts that Nguyen did not have its permission to send the  information to his personal email address, while Defendants assert that this  was common practice for Plaintiff’s employees.   Thus, the allegations in paragraphs 36-38 do not supply the elements of  this claim and are merely incidental to Plaintiff’s cause of action. Accordingly,  Defendants have failed to meet their initial burden, and the burden does not  shift to Plaintiff.   3.  Second Prong: Probability of  Prevailing on the Merits   Once a defendant demonstrates that protected conduct is at issue, the  plaintiff must show that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported  by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if  the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited. (See Navellier v.  Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88-89.) “Precisely because the statute (1)  permits early intervention in lawsuits alleging unmeritorious causes of action  that implicate free speech concerns, and (2) limits opportunity to conduct  discovery, the plaintiff's burden of establishing a probability of prevailing  is not high: We do not weigh credibility, nor do we evaluate the weight of the  evidence. Instead, we accept as true all evidence favorable to the plaintiff  and assess the defendant’s evidence only to determine if it defeats the  plaintiff’s submission as a matter of law. Only a cause of action that lacks  ‘even minimal merit’ constitutes SLAPP.” (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Gradient  Analytics, Inc. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 688, 699.)    The SLAPP statute’s second element--a “probability of prevailing”-- means  a “reasonable probability of prevailing, not prevailing by a preponderance of  the evidence. For this reason, a court must apply a “summary-judgment-like”  test, accepting as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff and evaluating  the defendant’s evidence only to determine whether the defendant has defeated  the plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law.”(Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West  & Epstein, LLP (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 435, 444.)   As Defendants have not met their initial burden for the first, second, or  fourth through ninth causes of action, the court will only address the merits  of the conversion cause of action.   A.  Third Cause of Action for  Conversion   In support of this cause of action, Plaintiff offers the Declaration of Jonathan  Tang (“Tang”), the Director of Operations at Apotheco Pharmacy Group, the  company that acquired Janna in 2022, and Nguyen’s supervisor. Tang declares  that, to his knowledge, other employees did not use their personal email  addresses for work-related purposes, as it would be against Apotheco’s  policies. (Tang Decl., ¶ 5.) Tang further declares that Nguyen could have  requested a work laptop, which would have allowed him to access Plaintiff’s  information from home, so there was no reason for him to email himself client  information. (Tang Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel also declares that he ran a  search of Nguyen’s Apotheco email account, and the only emails ever sent from  Nguyen’s work account to his personal account containing patients’ information were  the ones at issue in this lawsuit, undermining the assertion that Nguyen  regularly sent himself patient files as part of his job duties. (Newborn Decl.,  ¶ 9.)   In opposition, Defendants offer the Nguyen’s Declaration, in which he  states that it was common for Plaintiff’s employees to email themselves pharmacy  files. (Nguyen Decl., ¶ 4.) Nguyen declares that he only used the FaxBlast  files to update Plaintiff’s contacts on pricing details for a drug sold by  Plaintiff. (Nguyen Decl., ¶ 5.)    Defendants also argue that a conversion is only created when the plaintiff  makes a demand for repossession that is refused by the defendant. Defendants  contend that Plaintiff assented to the Defendants’ possession of the data  because it never gave Nguyen clear instructions on how to return the Data. Courts  have previously held that a demand for repossession is only necessary to  establish liability for a conversion if the defendant lawfully acquired  possession of the property with the owner’s consent. (Flennaugh v. Heinrich  (1948) 89 Cal.App.2d 214, 221.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that Nguyen’s initial  possession of the Data was unlawful, as Plaintiff did not give him permission  to export the Data. Thus, Plaintiff did not need to make a demand for  repossession to establish a conversion. Here, the conversion cause of action would  begin to accrue when Nguyen sent the data to himself without Plaintiff’s consent.   Thus, upon accepting as true all evidence offered by Plaintiff and  weighing Defendants’ evidence only to determine if it defeats Plaintiff’s  evidence as a matter of law, the court finds that Plaintiff’s evidence is  sufficient to establish that it did not give Nguyen permission to export Plaintiff’s  client data to his personal email account.   Accordingly, Plaintiff has shown a probability of success on the merits.   CONCLUSION   Based on  the foregoing, Defendants’ special motion to strike is DENIED in its entirety.   Prevailing party on motion is ordered to give notice of ruling. 