 Case Number:  22STCV05747    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
Defendants Kate Blackwood
and Home as Art, Inc. dba Deasy Penner Podley’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Defendants
Kate Blackwood and Home as Art, Inc. dba Deasy Penner Podley move for summary
judgment of this action by plaintiffs David Williamson and Magdalena
Williamson.
Legal
Standard
Summary
judgment should be granted where no triable issues of fact exist and the moving
party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c); Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th
733, 741.)  Courts use a three-step
analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine
whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
A defendant “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action
has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  If the defendant meets its burden of showing
plaintiff cannot establish one element of the cause of action, the plaintiff
“need only present evidence
establishing a triable issue on the specific element the [defendant]
challenges.”  (Swanson v. Morongo Unified
School Dist. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 968.)  
Summary of Allegations
            Plaintiffs’ claims
against defendants arise from a sale of real property.  Plaintiffs hired defendants to represent them
as real estate brokers in selling a residence in Los Angeles.  (FAC, ¶¶ 10-16.)  In April 2019, plaintiffs sold the property
to non-party Jason F. Brown.  (¶¶ 19-28.)  
Plaintiffs allege, “In preparing the necessary paperwork to execute the
sale of the Property between Plaintiffs and the Buyer, however, Defendants
failed to obtain all signatures necessary to complete the sale in its intended totality.  Specifically, Defendants failed to follow up
with the Buyer to get a required signature on the Request for Repair No. 1 form
(‘RR1’), which included an attached Contingency Removal form (‘CR’).”  (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
They further allege, “The omitted signature was to be provided” when
removing the buyer’s “physical inspection contingencies” and a “release that
was listed above the provision on the RR1 Form.”  (¶ 23.)   
Plaintiffs allege Brown later “discovered structural damage within the
Property and has come after Plaintiffs seeking to recover damages.”  (FAC, ¶ 27.) 
Plaintiffs allege, “Such damages would have otherwise specifically been
waived, should Defendants have obtained the missing signature.  Plaintiffs are therefore now suffering damages
of their own, given the mistakes of Defendants.”  (¶ 28.) 
Defendants’ “fail[ure] to obtain all the signatures necessary” allegedly
“opened Plaintiffs up to liability that they believed they were protected from,
and otherwise should have been protected from, under the RR1 and CR.”  (¶ 30.)
Based on these factual allegations, plaintiffs assert three causes of
action: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, and (3)
professional negligence.          
Evidentiary Objections
            Defendants object to
paragraphs 8, 9, 13, 14, 15, and 17 of David Williamson’s declaration.  The objections to paragraphs 15 and 17 are sustained.  The objections to paragraphs 8, 9, 13, and 14
are overruled.
Discussion
            Defendants argue
plaintiffs cannot establish an element common to all three causes of action: proximate
cause.  Proximate cause requires both
“cause in fact” and “legal cause.”  (State
Dept. of State Hospitals v. Superior Court (2015) 61 Cal.4th 339,
352-353.)  “ ‘ “An act is a cause in fact
if it is a necessary antecedent of an event.” ’ ”  (Id. at p. 352.)  Legal cause concerns “ ‘ “ ‘the various
considerations of policy that limit an actor’s responsibility for the
consequences of his conduct.’ ” ’ ”  (Id.
at p. 353.)  “ ‘ “[C]ausation ... is
ordinarily a question of fact which cannot be resolved by summary
judgment.  The issue of causation may be
decided as a question of law only if, under undisputed facts, there is no room
for a reasonable difference of opinion.” ’ ” 
(Kaney v. Custance (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 201, 212.)
Plaintiffs’ claims rely on the allegation that defendants failed to ensure
the buyer, Brown, signed a release of liability.  The release provision in the “Request for
Repair No. 1” provides, “Buyer releases Seller and Brokers from any loss,
liability, expense, claim or cause of action regarding the disclosed condition
of the Property.”  (FAC, Ex. B, p. 1.)  Brown did not sign on the line under the
following text: “If Seller agrees to all of Buyer’s request, Buyer hereby
removes the physical inspection contingencies and those identified on the
attached CR form signed by Buyer and agrees to the above Release.”  (Ibid., italics added.)  
Defendants contend signing this release would not have released the
claims Brown asserts against plaintiffs. 
If so, not having Brown sign the release could not have caused any
damage to plaintiffs.  “[C]onduct is not
a substantial factor in causing harm if the same harm would have occurred
without that conduct.”  (Yanez v.
Plummer (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 180, 187.)  The issue depends primarily on whether Brown’s
arbitration demand against plaintiffs asserts “any loss, liability, expense,
claim or cause of action regarding the disclosed condition of the
Property.”  (FAC, Ex. B, p. 1.)  
The “disclosed condition of the Property” in connection with the Request
for Repair includes the disclosures made in the Seller Property
Questionnaire.  (Motion, Ex. 4.)  The questionnaire asks plaintiffs whether
they are “aware of” numerous issues.  (Id.,
pp. 1-4.)  Plaintiffs answered “Yes” to
several questions.  
For “B. Repairs and Alterations,” plaintiffs stated they were aware of: “Any
alterations, modifications, replacements, improvements, remodeling or material
repairs on the Property”, “Ongoing or recurring maintenance on the Property”,
“Any part of the Property being painted within the past 12 months”, and
“Whether the Property was built before 1978.” 
(Motion, Ex. 4, p. 2.)  In the
“Explanation” section, plaintiffs wrote, “French doors installed in first floor
bedroom, engineered hardwood flooring installed throughout, footing replaced on
most of extended room, house painted interior & exterior, garage painted,
new drywall most area.”  (Ibid.)
For “C. Structural, Systems, and Appliances,” plaintiffs stated they were
aware of “Defects in any of the following, (including past defects that have
been repaired): heating, air conditioning, electrical, plumbing (including the
presence of polybutylene pipes), water, sewer, waste disposal or septic system,
sump pumps, well, roof, gutters, chimney, fireplace, foundation, crawl space,
attic, soil, grading, drainage, retaining walls, interior or exterior doors,
windows, walls, ceilings, floors or appliances.”  (Motion, Ex. 4, p. 2.)  They also stated they were aware of “an
alternative septic system on or serving the Property.”  (Ibid.)  In the “Explanation” section, plaintiffs
wrote, “AC/exhaust vent installed, sewage line/pipe replaced where exposed by
removal of walls or floor. 
Decommissioned septic tank on property from when area was on septic in
past.”  (Ibid.)
For “E. Water-Related and Mold Issues,” plaintiffs stated they were aware
of “Water intrusion into any part of any physical structure on the Property;
leaks from or in any appliance, pipe, slab or roof; standing water, drainage,
flooding, underground water, moisture, water-related soil settling or slippage,
on or affecting the Property.”  (Motion,
Ex. 4, p. 2.)  In the “Explanation”
section, plaintiffs wrote, “Leaky washer and moisture intrusion in laundry
room.  Removed/replaced drywall and
washing machine/dryer.  Installed
moisture barrier.  Est. completion
4/20/19.”  (Ibid.)
Finally, for “M. Other,” plaintiffs disclosed they were aware of “Reports,
inspections, disclosures, warranties, maintenance recommendations, estimates, studies,
surveys or other documents, pertaining to (i) the condition or repair of the
Property or any improvement on this Property in the past, now or proposed; or
(ii) easements, encroachments or boundary disputes affecting the Property
whether oral or in writing and whether or not provided to the Seller.”  (Motion, Ex. 4, p. 4.)  In the “Explanation” section, plaintiffs
wrote, “Moisture intrusion in laundry room.” 
(Ibid.)
These items disclosed in the Seller Property Questionnaire constitute the
“disclosed condition[s] of the Property” (FAC, Ex. B, p. 1) for which Brown did
not sign a release.  Defendants therefore
must show that, as a matter of law, Brown is not asserting “any loss,
liability, expense, claim or cause of action regarding” (ibid.) those
conditions.  Defendants do not meet their
burden of doing so.
In February 2022, Brown served a demand for
arbitration on plaintiffs.  (D.
Williamson Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. J, enclosure 2.) 
The demand asserts causes of action for: (1) intentional
misrepresentation (id., p. 8), (2) negligent misrepresentation (p. 9),
(3) breach of contract (pp. 9-10), and (4) fraudulent concealment (pp. 10-11).  The demand recites two of the disclosures
from the Seller Property Questionnaire discussed above.  First, it provides the explanation in section
C beginning, “AC/exhaust vent installed… .” 
(Id., ¶ 15.)  Second, it
recites the explanation in section E beginning, “Leaky washer and moisture
intrusion in laundry room… .”  (Id.,
¶ 16.)
Brown’s demand asserts claims based on numerous
purported defective conditions at the property. 
Among those, it alleges some defects connected to the disclosed
condition of the “leaky washer and moisture intrusion in [the] laundry room.”  (Motion, Ex. 4, p. 2.)  The demand alleges, “Shortly after the close
of escrow, Brown discovered cracking and evidence of water leaks in the shared
wall and ceiling area between the laundry room and kitchen on the first floor.  Brown immediately hired contractors to fix
the problem.  The contractors identified
and fixed a leak from the upper-level front deck into the shared wall area
between the kitchen and laundry room.” 
(D. Williamson Decl., Ex. J, enclosure 2, ¶ 24.)  
The demand continues: “After a few months, the
cracks and leaks reappeared.  Brown again
consulted contractors, who thought that perhaps the problem was related to root
systems from the yard putting pressure on the ceilings and shared wall between
the kitchen and laundry room.”  (D.
Williamson Decl., Ex. J, enclosure 2, ¶ 25.) 
“Another few months went by, and the cracks and leaks reappeared yet
again.  This time, the contractors
proposed more significant work on the entry way and the concrete deck, both of
which were on the second story, directly above the kitchen and laundry room.”  (Id., ¶ 26.)  “[T]he contractors opened up part of the
shared wall between the kitchen and laundry room and discovered significant
electrical work that had not been done per Code.”  (Id., ¶ 27.)
Brown’s demand also alleges a defect related to the
“French doors” plaintiffs disclosed were installed in section B of the Seller
Property Questionnaire.  Brown alleges, “[T]he
French doors on the first level would not close or lock properly, and cracks began
to appear throughout the first level.” 
(D. Williamson Decl., Ex. J, enclosure 2, ¶ 29.)  
Defendants argue, “[T]he Release would have only prevented Mr. Brown from
seeking damages for the disclosed condition of the Subject
Property,” and “[n]one of the disclosed conditions … all of which are contained
in the disclosures attached hereto as Exhibits 3-8, include any reference to
the structural damage discovered by Mr. Brown after the close of escrow.”  (Memo, pp. 7-8.)  But the disclosed conditions included the
moisture intrusion in the laundry room and the installation of French
doors.  Brown’s demand for arbitration alleges
claims based, in part, on those conditions. 
Based on this record, a reasonable trier of fact could conclude
defendants’ failure to obtain Brown’s signature on the release proximately
caused damages to plaintiffs.  
In their reply, defendants argue plaintiffs cannot rely on Brown’s demand
for arbitration because doing so improperly expands the scope of their claims
beyond what they alleged in the pleadings. 
The first amended complaint alleges defendants breached their duties
because failing to have Brown sign the release exposed plaintiff to
liability.  (FAC, ¶¶ 21-27.)  The basis of this action is that the alleged
“error has opened Plaintiffs up to liability that they believed they were
protected from, and otherwise should have been protected from, under the RR1
and CR.”  (¶ 30.)  Brown’s demand for arbitration is evidence
supporting that allegation.  It constitutes
the liability plaintiffs allege they should have been protected from.  The demand for arbitration falls squarely
within the scope of the first amended complaint.
Disposition
            Defendants
Kate Blackwood and Home as Art, Inc. dba Deasy Penner Podley’s motion for
summary judgment is denied.