  Case Number:  21STCV33519    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
 
HEARING DATE:                 June 25, 2024 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  21STCV33519
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Tony Talbert v. New
Image Dental, et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants,
Marina Adams, D.D.S. and Marina Adams, DDS, a professional dental corporation
dba New Image Dental
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Tony Talbert (No Opposition) 
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        December
16, 2024
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Continue
Trial  
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.  Trial to be continued to January 21 or 27,
with FSC approximately 10 days before also to be continued.
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
 
On
September 10, 2021, plaintiff Tony Talbert filed a complaint against
Defendants, Marina Adams, DDA, a Professional Dental Corporation dba New Image
Dental; Marina Adams, DDC, Jay Layson, DDS, Rachal Liverman, DDS, Ahmed
Mataria, DDS, and DOES 1 through 30. On March 23, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for:  (1)
dental malpractice, (2) lack of informed consent, (3) battery, (4) intentional
misrepresentation, (5) negligent misrepresentation, and (6) concealment against
several defendants, including defendant Rachal Liverman, D.D.S.. 
¿ 
On November 14, 2023, this Court ruled on Marina
Adams, D.D.S.’s dispositive motion, granting summary adjudication as to the
third and sixth causes of action for battery and concealment but denying a full
summary judgment.
 
Trial
is currently set for December 16, 2024, after the parties had stipulated to
continue the trial to that date. However, Marina Adams, D.D.S., an individual
and Marina Adams, D.D.S., a professional dental corporation dba New Image
Dental seek to continue the trial date and all other trial related dates for thirty
days. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On March 23, 2024, Defendants Marina
Adams, D.D.S., an individual and Marina Adams, D.D.S., a professional dental
corporation dba New Image Dental filed this Motion to
Continue Trial. To date, no opposition has been filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
Although
continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance.  (Id.) The Court may look to
the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted:
(1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance
of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of
the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another
trial.  (See generally, Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(d)(1)-(11).)  Additionally, factors for the Court to consider include: a
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; the proximity of the trial date;
whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), (d).) 
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
Meet and
Confer
 
            Moving Defendants note that their
motion was preceded by a good faith effort to meet and confer. However, Moving
Defendants indicate that Plaintiff was not agreeable to a continuance. Despite
this, Plaintiff has not filed an opposition brief. As such, the Court notes
that the meet and confer efforts by Moving Defendants appear to represent a
good faith effort prior to the filing of this motion. 
 
Motion to
Continue Trial 
 
            Moving Defendants have brought this
motion on the grounds they note Defendant, Dr. Adams is unavailable on December
16, 2024, since Dr. Adams will be out of the country on a pre-paid vacation
starting on December 11, 2024, thus will be out of the country on the current
trial date of December 16, 2024. As such, Moving Defendants are asking for a
short trial continuance of about thirty (30) days. 
 
            Moving Defendants argue that good
cause exists to continue the trial due to the unavailability of Dr. Adams. The
Court notes that in analyzing this request in the context of California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c): (1) the request is does not come too
close to trial. In fact, this motion was filed just short of six months prior
to the scheduled date; (2) the Court does note that this trial has previously
been continued by the parties via stipulation on two separate occasions; (3) the
Court notes that a continuance request of approximately thirty (30) days weighs
in Moving Defendants’ favor; (4) as for the availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to this motion, the Court requests oral
argument -- since it is not contained in the moving papers -- as to WHEN Dr.
Adams’ tickets were purchased. The moving papers indicate that this was a
“pre-paid vacation,” however, this issue was not brought up only two months ago
when the parties stipulated to a continuance to the current trial date. Thus,
this indicates to the Court that this ticket was purchased after the trial date
was continued to the current date; (5) since Plaintiff has failed to file an
opposition brief, there is no argument that Plaintiff would suffer prejudice if
the trial date was continued; (6) lastly, this Court notes that counsel for
Moving Defendants has not indicated engagement in another trial during this
time. 
 
            As there is no opposition brief
filed, this Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT the motion pending Moving
Defendants’ response to the Court’s question about the “pre-purchased
vacation.” Moreover, the Court will allow oral argument from Plaintiff’s
counsel as to why Plaintiff would not stipulate to a continuance, but also
failed to file an opposition brief. 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Moving
Defendant’s Motion to Continue trial is¿tentatively granted. 
 
Prevailing party is ordered
to give notice.
 
 
 
 