

 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 18, 2021, Plaintiffs Joanna Martinez and Delana
Jacobs (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the complaint against Defendants
Hiram D. Webb (“Webb”) and Does 1 through 25 (collectively, “Defendants”). The
complaint alleges negligence. 
 
On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff Delana Jacobs served her
Requests for Admission, Set One to Defendant Hiram D. Webb. (De Soto Decl. at ¶
2; Exhibits “A” and “B”.) Responses were due on April 15, 2022. (De Soto Decl.
at ¶ 3.) As of the date of this motion, Defendant has failed to serve responses
to Plaintiff’s discovery. (De Soto Decl. at ¶ 4.)
 
On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff Delana Jacobs filed the instant
motion.  On May 30, 2024, an untimely opposition
was filed by Defendant. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
Plaintiff Delana Jacobs moves this Court for an order that
deems Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set One, admitted and imposes
monetary sanctions against Defendant Webb in the amount of $1,410.00.
OPPOSITION
 
None. 
 
REPLY
 
None
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Deem
RFAs Admitted
B.        Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by a written request
that any other party to the action admit the genuineness of specified
documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion relating to fact,
or application of law to fact. A request for admission may relate to a matter
that is in controversy between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.010.)
“Within 30 days after service of requests for admission, the party to whom the
requests are directed shall serve the original of the response to them on the
requesting party, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have
appeared.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.250(a).) 
 
When a party fails to serve a timely response to requests
for admission “[t]he party to whom the request was directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc § 2033.280(a).) “The requesting
party can move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).) The court shall issue this
order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in
substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2033.280(c).) “It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction . . .
on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated [the] motion.” Id. 
 
C.        Discussion
Merits
On
March 14, 2024, Plaintiff Delana Jacobs purportedly served her Requests for
Admission, Set One to Defendant Hiram D. Webb. (De Soto Decl. at ¶ 2; Exhibit A.)
Responses were due on April 15, 2024. (De Soto Decl. at ¶ 3.) As of the date of
this motion, Defendant has failed to serve responses to Plaintiff’s discovery.
(De Soto Decl. at ¶ 4.)
 
However, Plaintiff’s Exhibit A which is to show that
Plaintiff Delana Jacobs served defendant Hiram D. Webb Plaintiff Delana Jacobs
Requests for Admission, Set One is the incorrect document. Rather, Exhibit A is
Plaintiff Joanna Martinez’ Request For Admissions onto Defendant Hiram
D. Webb, Set One. Additionally, Plaintiff attached the incorrect Proof of
Service for other discovery motions and sanctions. Thus, it is unclear whether
Defendant was properly noticed.  
 
Therefore, the Motion to Deem Requests For Admission Set One
is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
Sanctions  
 
As a primary
manner, the Court notes that there is an inconsistency in the sanction amount
requested. Plaintiff first requests $1,410.00 but later requests $1,350.00.
Nevertheless, Daniel A. Soto’s declaration provides a breakdown for $1,410.00.
Therefore, it seems that the $1,350.00 request was a typographical error. 
 
Plaintiffs’
counsel seeks sanctions against Defendant Webb and his counsel of record in the
amount of $1,410.00. 
 
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the
discovery process is “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery.” Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the
discovery process includes “[m]aking or opposing, unsuccessfully and without
substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery.” “The court
may impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct” under Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2023.030(a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary
sanctions. Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc.
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.
 
However, since the Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted Set One was denied,
sanctions are not warranted.  
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
In all, the Court DENIES
WITHOUT PREJUDICE the Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted Set One. 
 
Additionally, the Court DENIES the request for sanctions. 
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
 