

 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 8, 2005, Plaintiff Ford Motor Credit Company (“Plaintiff)
filed the Complaint alleging breach of contract/warranty. 
 
On February 14, 2006, a judgment was entered in favor of
Plaintiff and against Defendants Pedro N. Espitia and Christine A Schubert aka
Christine A. Avelar in the amount of $23,473.63. 
 
On September 18, 2015, the Court entered Plaintiff's Renewal
of Judgment against Defendants Pedro N. Espitia and Christine A Schubert aka
Christine A. Avelar. 
 
On June 15, 2022, the Court entered Plaintiffs second
Renewal of Judgment against Defendant Pedro N. Espitia. Due to a clerical error
Defendant Christine A. Schubert Aka Christine A. Avelar was inadvertently
omitted from the renewal.
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
Plaintiff Ford Motor Credit Company moves to amend the June
15, 2022, Renewal of Judgment nunc pro tunc to include Defendant Christine A.
Schubert Aka Christine A. Avelar.  Due to
a clerical error Defendant Christine A. Schubert Aka Christine A. Avelar was
inadvertently omitted from the renewal.
OPPOSITION
 
None. 
 
REPLY
 
None.
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
to Amend
A.        Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure, section 187 states: “[w]hen
jurisdiction is, by the Constitution or this Code, or by any other statute,
conferred on a Court or judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it
into effect are also given; and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the
course of proceeding be not specifically pointed out by this Code or the
statute, any suitable process or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may
appear most conformable to the spirit of this code.” “Section 187 contemplates
amending a judgment by noticed motion. [Citations.] The court is not required
to hold an evidentiary hearing on a motion to amend a judgment but may rule on
the motion based solely on declarations and other written evidence.
[Citation.]” (Highland Springs Conference & Training Center v. City of
Banning (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 267, 280.) 
 
B.
       Discussion 
 
Plaintiff Ford Motor Credit Company moves to amend the June
15, 2022 Renewal of Judgment nunc pro tunc to include Defendant Christine A.
Schubert Aka Christine A. Avelar who was inadvertently omitted by clerical
error.
 
Here, Plaintiff
Ford Motor Credit Company moves to amend the June 15, 2022, Renewal of Judgment
nunc pro tunc to include Defendant Christine A. Schubert Aka Christine A.
Avelar.  Due to a clerical error
Defendant Christine A. Schubert Aka Christine A. Avelar was inadvertently
omitted from the renewal. (Reese Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)
 
Defendants have not filed an opposition. “In the
interests of justice, the ‘‘‘greatest liberality is to be encouraged’’’ in the
allowance of amendments brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
187. [Citation.]” (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Weinberg (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 1, 7.) 
 
Therefore, the Court finds that the amendment to the June
15, 2022, Renewal of Judgment to include Defendant Christine A. Schubert Aka
Christine A. Avelar is proper. 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
In all, Plaintiff’s
unopposed Motion to Amend Plaintiff’s Second Renewal of Judgment Entered on
06/15/22 Nunc Pro Tunc to Include Christine A. Schubert aka Christine A. Avelar
 is GRANTED. 
 
Counsel is
ordered to separately submit a proposed “Notice of Renewal of Judgment” within
five (5) court days.
 
Counsel for
the Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 