  Case Number:  21STCV30114    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  74 Naydina v.
Marouni et al.
Defendant Glendale Diagnostic
Imaging Network Medical Office, Inc’s Motion to Set Aside Default.
 
BACKGROUND 
             This motion arises from a Medical Malpractice
Claim.
            On
August 16, 2021, plaintiff Anastasia Naydina (Plaintiff) filed the Complaint
against defendant Payam Marouni and Does 1-25. 
Plaintiff amended the Complaint to substitute Glendale Diagnostic
Imaging Network Medical Office, Inc. (Defendant) as Doe 3.  
            Plaintiff
served defendant on August 30, 2023, via substituted service. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
¿¿            CCP
§ 473(b) provides in part:  
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . No affidavit or declaration of
merits shall be required of the moving party.  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.  The court shall, whenever relief is granted based
on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” 
 
When
a motion is made under Code of Civil Procedure Section 473, the moving party
has the initial burden to prove excusable neglect by a preponderance of
evidence. (Kendall v. Barker (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 619, 624.)  “‘It
is clearly established that ‘[a] motion for relief under section 473 is
addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court and an appellate court
will not interfere unless there is a clear showing of an abuse.’” (Burnete
v. La Casa Dana Apartments (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1262, 1266.)  “Although
a trial court has discretion to vacate the entry of a default or subsequent
judgment, this discretion may be exercised only after the party seeking relief
has shown that there is a proper ground for relief, and that the party has
raised that ground in a procedurally proper manner, within any applicable time
limits.” (Cruz v. Fagor America, Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488,
495.)  
A
mistake is a basis for relief under CCP § 473 when by reason of the mistake a
defendant failed to make a timely response. Surprise occurs when a defendant is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the defendant has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.) While not
specified in the text of section 473(b), fraud has been found to be a valid
ground for setting aside a default where it leads to a mistake by the moving
party. (See Rice v. Rice (1949) 93 Cal.App.2d 646, 651.) 
Under
CCP § 473, the moving party bears the burden of demonstrating an excusable
ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a court’s vacating a
judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 16,
23–24.) Motions brought under CCP § 473 are liberally granted, as the law
favors trial on the merits:  
Section 473 is often applied liberally where the party in
default moves promptly to seek relief, and the party opposing the motion will
not suffer prejudice if relief is granted. [Citations.] In such situations
“very slight evidence will be required to justify a court in setting aside the
default.” [Citations.] [¶] Moreover, because the law strongly favors trial and
disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved
in favor of the party seeking relief from default. [Citations.] Therefore, a
trial court order denying relief is scrutinized more carefully than an order
permitting trial on the merits. [Citations.]  
 
(Elston v. City of Turlock
(1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233–234.) 
 
DISCUSSION  
            As
a preliminary matter, the Defendant filed the Motion to Set Aside on July 26,
2024, less than six months after the Request for Entry of Judgement was entered
on March 26, 2024.  Therefore, the motion
was timely.  The Defendant also included
a copy of the proposed pleading. 
Therefore, the motion was procedurally sufficient.  
            Defendants
allege that due to “mistake, inadvertence, and/or excusable neglect” the
documents properly served on Defendant never reached the appropriate personnel
in the Defendant’s office.  Defendant
alleges that Harry Sarafin, Defendant’s administrator tasked with legal issues,
was not aware of the Complaint until July 9, 2024[1],
after receiving a call from Plaintiff’s Counsel regarding the case.  (Sarafin Decl., ¶ 3.)  Upon notice of the case, Defendant
immediately contacted Defendant’s liability insurer.  (Sarafin Decl., ¶ 3.)  Defendant’s Counsel was retained by the
liability insurer on the same day and immediately reached out to Plaintiff’s
Counsel to stipulate to set aside the default. 
(Poliquin Decl., ¶ 3.)  Defendant
has met their initial burden of showing there is a proper ground for
relief.  
            Plaintiff
opposes the motion alleging that (1) defendant failed to make a sufficient
showing for relief and (2) Defendant failed to move to set aside in a timely
and reasonable manner. 
            Plaintiff
incorrectly states that relief is only available due to attorney mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or neglect.  Under
the California Code of Civil Procedure, a timely motion to set aside default
shall be granted upon a showing of attorney mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 473.)  The court may relieve a party from default
judgement for the party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable
neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 473.)  
            Plaintiff
contends that Defendant had knowledge of the Complaint from their multiple
service attempts.  (Opp., Exhibits “A” -
“K”.)  These attempts to contact Defendant
included faxed letters, mailed service, and personal service.  Defendant appropriately points out that
Plaintiff does not include a declaration confirming the alleged facts or
authenticating the attached documents. 
Further, the existence of service, even to an agent of the Defendant,
does not negate the Defendant’s claim that the service never reached the
appropriate representative of the Defendant. 

            Plaintiff
also argued that the Motion was not timely, but as stated above, the Motion was
properly filed within six months of the Entry of Default. 
            Very
slight evidence is required for the Court to set aside default if the party
supporting the motion will not suffer prejudice.  (Elston, supra, 38 Cal.3d.
227-234.)  Therefore, the Court finds
that Defendant has sufficiently shown that its failure to participate in the
case was due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect. 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
The
court grants Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default. 
Defendant
shall give notice.


