 Case Number:  24STCV10534    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  76 Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
made misrepresentations to a court during custody hearings in order to
facilitate the kidnapping of Plaintiff’s son.
 
Defendant Tristina Cole brings an
anti-SLAPP special motion to strike as to the First Amended Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant Tristina Cole’s
anti-SLAPP special motion to strike as to the First Amended Complaint is
DENIED. 
 
Defendant is ordered to answer
the First Amended Complaint within 10 days.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Anti-SLAPP Special
Motion To Strike
 
Request For
Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff requests that the Court
take judicial notice of the following: 1. (EXHIBIT 1) Court Filed DECLARATION
OF BISHOY HANNA ATTACHING A SIGNED & NOTARIZED AFFIDAVIT OF SARAH GIANNELLA
REVEALING FRAUD UPON THE COURT BY CRYSTAL BOULTINGHOUSE, FERNANDEZ &
KARNEY, & TRISTINA COLE 2. (EXHIBIT 2) 44-page Superior Court Transcript of
the recent trial of the Domestic
Violence Restraining
Order Case that was dismissed against Bishoy Hanna. 3. (EXHIBIT 3) Deposition
Transcript of Sarah Giannella.
 
            Requests Nos. 1 – 3 are DENIED.
These are not matters of which the Court may take judicial notice pursuant to
Evid. Code, § 452.
 
Discussion
 
Defendant Tristina Cole brings an
anti-SLAPP special motion to strike as to the First Amended Complaint.
 
In ruling on a defendant’s special
motion to strike, the trial court uses a “summary-judgment-like procedure at an
early stage of the litigation.” (Varian
Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 192.)  This is a two-step process.  First, the defendant must show that the act
or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken “in furtherance of the [defendant]’s
right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16(b)(1).) Second, if the defendant carries that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16(b)(3).)  The
defendant has the burden on the first issue, and the plaintiff on the second. (Kajima Engineering & Construction, Inc.
v. City of Los Angeles (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 921, 928; Rivero v. American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees,
AFL-CIO (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 913, 919.) In making both determinations the
trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §425.16(b)(2); Equilon Enterprises, LLC v. Consumer Cause,
Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.)
 
The Defendant’s act underlying the
cause of action must itself have been in furtherance of the right of petition
or free speech. (City of Cotati v.
Cashman (2002) 29 Cal. 4th 69, 76-78.) 
The defendant’s acts are protected activity – that is, made in
furtherance of protected petition or free speech in connection with a public
issue – if they fit into one of the following categories under the section
425.16, subdivision (e) categories: (1) oral or written statements made before
a legislative, executive, judicial or any other official proceeding; (2) oral
or written statements made in connection with an issue under consideration or
review by a legislative, executive, judicial body, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law; (3) written or oral statements made in a place
open to the public or in a public forum in connection with an issue of public
interest; and (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional rights of petition or free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16(e).)
 
            If such a
showing is made, the burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show a probability of
prevailing on the claim.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16(b)(1).)  To establish a
probability of prevailing on the merits, the Plaintiff must demonstrate that
the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima
facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence
submitted by the plaintiff is credited. (Matson
v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 539, 548.) In making this
assessment it is the court’s responsibility to accept as true the evidence
favorable to the plaintiff. (HMS Capital,
Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th 204, 212.)
The Complaint needs only to establish that his or her claim has minimal merit (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th
82, 89) to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP. (Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728,
738.)
 
“For purposes of this inquiry, ‘the
trial court considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the
plaintiff and the defendant (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(2)); though the court does not
weigh the credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence,
it should grant the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant's evidence
supporting the motion defeats the plaintiff's attempt to establish evidentiary
support for the claim.’ (Citation omitted.)” (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.)
Assertions that are “merely
incidental” or “collateral” are not subject to section 425.16. (Citations omitted].) Allegations
of protected activity that merely provide context, without supporting a
claim for recovery, cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute.
(Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1
Cal.5th 376, 394 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
            A.        First Cause of Action (Intentional
Interference With Contractual Relations); Second Cause of Action (Defamation).
 
            There are
seven causes of action pled in the First Amended Complaint: (1) Quiet Title;
(2) Violation of 28 U.S. Code, § 1738A; (3) False Imprisonment of a Child; (4)
Conspiracy of False Imprisonment of a Child; (5) Fraud; (6) Malicious
Prosecution; (7) Intentional Interference with Contract. 
 
Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion “requires the court to engage in a
two-step process. First, the court decides whether the defendant has made a threshold showing that the challenged
cause of action is one arising from protected activity. The moving
defendant's burden is to demonstrate that the act or acts of which the
plaintiff complains were taken ‘in furtherance of the [defendant]'s right of
petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in
connection with a public issue,’ as defined in the statute. (§ 425.16,
subd. (b)(1).) If the court finds such a
showing has been made, it then determines whether the plaintiff has
demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Citation omitted).)
Since the trial court in this case denied LaMarche's anti-SLAPP motion on the
ground that the statute's initial, “arising from,” prong does not encompass
malicious prosecution claims, it did not reach the statute's second,
“probability of prevailing,” prong. As noted, in reversing, the Court of Appeal
ruled for defendants on both prongs.
 
(Jarrow
Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 733 [bold emphasis added].)
 
If the defendant
does not demonstrate this initial prong, the court should deny the anti-SLAPP
motion and need not address the second step. (Citations omitted.)
 
(Hylton v. Frank E. Rogozienski, Inc.
(2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1264, 1271 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            Here,
moving Defendant did not demonstrate that each of the seven causes of action
arise from an act in furtherance of this moving Defendant’s right
of petition or free speech. Defendant only makes the following conclusory
statement, without having actually demonstrated that the first prong has been
satisfied as to each of the seven causes of action.
 
Here, the first prong is satisfied
because Ms. Cole has established [a] prima facie showing that Plaintiffs seven
causes of action fall within the ambit of the anti-SLAPP statute and litigation
privilege. Specifically, Plaintiffs lawsuit wholly arises from conduct relating
to the preparation of pleadings, oral arguments, and other litigation acts in
connection with Ms. Boultinghouse's representation of Sarah in the family law
cases, and Ms. Cole's assistance in the litigation-based acts in those matters,
against Plaintiff.  
 
(Memorandum of Points and Authorities,
Page 6:1-5.) [1] 
 
            As such,
because Defendant did not meet the burden on the first prong, the Court does
not move on to the second prong.
 
            The
anti-SLAPP motion to strike is DENIED. Defendant is ordered to answer the First
Amended Complaint within 10 days.


