  Case Number:  21STCV18579    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 8/12/24                                                                   
TRIAL DATE: 9/9/24
Case #21STCV18579
 
MOTION TO
COMPEL PERSON MOST QUALIFIED DEPOSITION
 
Motion filed on 7/15/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Valeria Segoviano Hernandez
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant The Clorox Company
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
compelling the deposition of the Person(s) Most Qualified of Defendant The
Clorox Company, within 10 days, and for the production of documents and
electronic data demanded in the Notice of PMQ Deposition.  Additionally, Plaintiff requests an award of
sanctions against Clorox and its counsel of record in the amount of $5,610.00.

 
RULING: The motion is denied.  Defendant The Clorox Company’s request for
sanctions is denied.      
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of an incident that occurred on
5/25/20 at a Walmart located in Stevenson Ranch, California.  On that date at the Walmart, Plaintiff
Valeria Segoviano Hernandez  (Plaintiff)
grabbed a bottle of Clorox bleach from the top shelf.  Plaintiff claims that the cap on the bottle
was not secured causing it to spill all over her right arm causing her injury
and permanent scarring.  
 
Plaintiff’s operative Third Amended Complaint against
Defendant Walmart Inc. (Walmart) and Defendant The Clorox Company (Clorox),
filed on 1/10/24, contains causes of action for: (1) Strict Liability – Design
Defect (against Walmart, Clorox and Does 1-25), (2) Negligence – Failure to
Recall (against Clorox and Does 1-25) and (3) Negligence (against Clorox,
Walmart and Does 1-25).
 
On 1/10/24, Plaintiff served a Notice of Deposition to
the Person Most Qualified (PMQ) for Clorox. 
(Manetti Decl. ¶2, Ex.1).  On
1/17/24, Clorox produced its PMQ for deposition, subject to its responses and
objections.  (Id., Ex.2).  On 6/5/24, Plaintiff served Clorox with another
PMQ Notice of Deposition which contained new matters for examination.  (Manetti Decl. ¶3).  In response, Clorox’s counsel sent a meet and
confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel indicating that a second PMQ
Notice/Deposition is not permitted in the Code of Civil Procedure and objecting
to the substance of the four matters of examination as overbroad and not
reasonably related to the subject of the action, etc.  (Id., Ex.3).  On 6/27/24, Plaintiff filed a motion to
compel that deposition.  On 7/3/24,
Plaintiff withdrew the second PMQ Deposition Notice and served a third Notice
of Deposition of the PMQ of Clorox.  (Id.
¶4, Ex.4).  On 7/10/24, Clorox’s counsel
sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer letter and objections, again,
indicating that a second PMQ deposition is not authorized and objecting on the
grounds that the topics of examination are duplicative and seek testimony that had
already been provided on 1/17/24 in response to the 1/10/24 PMQ notice. (Id.
¶5, Ex.5).  On 7/12/24, in response to Plaintiff’s
counsel’s 7/11/24 inquiry, Clorox’s counsel confirmed that it would not be
producing a witness in response to the 7/3/24 PMQ Notice and on 7/15/24 no PMQ
witness was produced by Clorox.  (Eagan
Decl. ¶¶4-5, Ex.3, 4).
 
On 7/15/24, Plaintiff filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order compelling the deposition of the Person(s) Most Qualified of
Defendant The Clorox Company, within 10 days, and for the production of
documents and electronic data demanded in the Notice of PMQ Deposition.  Additionally, Plaintiff requests an award of
sanctions against Clorox and its counsel of record in the amount of $5,610.00.  Clorox has opposed the motion and has
requested monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff
has filed a reply to the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Without citing any authority, Plaintiff contends that “There
Is No Limit on the Number of PMQ Depositions.” 
(See Motion, p.8:19-24).  The
Court finds Plaintiff’s position to be without merit.  
 
CCP 2025.010 provides: 
 
“Any party may obtain discovery
within the scope delimited by Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 2017.010), and
subject to the restrictions set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
2019.010), by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action. The person deposed may be a
natural person, an organization such as a public or private corporation,
a partnership, an association, or a governmental agency.”  (emphasis added) 
     
CCP 2025.230 provides: 
 
“If the deponent named is not a
natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the
deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its
officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”  (emphasis added)
 
Based on the foregoing language in the statutes, the
Court finds that a party is entitled to notice one (i.e., the) oral deposition
of the person(s) most qualified to testify on behalf of an organization/corporation,
such as Clorox, on various topics and it is up to the organization to determine
whether one or more persons are most qualified to answer questions on the
topics identified in the deposition notice. 
Under Plaintiff’s reasoning, a party could notice separate and unlimited
depositions for each topic on which it seeks to question an organization possibly
resulting in multiple depositions of the same individual, if that person is the
most qualified to testify on multiple topics set forth in different PMQ
deposition notices.  Such a consequence
clearly contravenes the purpose behind CCP 2025.010 and CCP 2025.230.  As such, the Court finds that Plaintiff
improperly noticed a second deposition of Clorox’s PMQ(s) without leave of
court.  See CCP 2025.610(a)-(b).  
 
Even if Plaintiff had made this motion pursuant to CCP
2025.610(b) seeking a second deposition of Clorox’s PMQ(s), Plaintiff has
failed to show the requisite good cause for a subsequent deposition.  Contrary to Plaintiff’s assertion the nine
topics set forth in the 7/3/24 PMQ notice are substantively the same as those contained
in the 1/10/24 PMQ notice on which Clorox produced a witness on 1/17/24.  (See Opposition, p.4:1-p.5:18).  Therefore, if Plaintiff was not satisfied
with responses to any of the questions asked at the 1/17/24 deposition,
Plaintiff was required to timely move to compel further responses to such
questions under CCP 2025.480 which she has not done.  The fact that Plaintiff’s counsel may now
wish to ask additional questions on topics which are substantively the same as
the prior deposition topics does not constitute good cause for a second
deposition.   
 
Additionally, the motion is procedurally defective in
that it is not accompanied by a separate statement.  CRC 3.1345 provides that a separate statement
is required for any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the
responses to such a request.  See
CRC 3.1345(a).  A separate statement is
not required when no response has been provided to the discovery request.  CRC 3.1345(b).  Here, Clorox did provide a response (i.e.,
objections) to the discovery request/deposition notice.  (See Manetti Decl., Ex.6).  Plaintiff’s claim that a separate statement
was not required because Clorox’s objections were not valid is without merit.  (See Motion, p.8:15-18; Reply, p.8:2-13).  Plaintiff cites no authority for the
proposition that she, or her attorney, may act as the arbiter of what
constitutes a “valid” objection.  Rather,
it is for the Court to determine whether an objection to a discovery request is
valid.  The foregoing conclusion is
supported by CRC 3.1345(c)(2) and (3) which require that a separate statement
accompanying a discovery motion include “[t]he text of each response, answer,
or objection, and any further responses or answers” and “[a] statement
of the factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses, answers, or
production as to each matter in dispute.” 
As noted above, the Court finds Clorox’s objection to the 7/3/24
deposition notice on the ground that Plaintiff already served a deposition
notice for Clorox’s PMQ and Clorox produced a witness in response to same to be
valid.      
 
Clorox has failed to provide proper notice as to against
whom it seeks sanctions.  In the beginning
of the opposition, Clorox states that sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel are
warranted.  (See Opposition, p.2:7-9).  However, in the sanctions section and
conclusion of the opposition, Clorox states that sanctions are appropriate
against Plaintiff and/or her counsel and Plaintiff and her counsel, jointly and
severally.  (See Opposition, p.12:5-6,
p.12:20-23, p.13:1-3, p.13:6-7); See also CCP 2023.040.  Plaintiff also fails to specifically identify
against which of Plaintiff’s counsel sanctions are warranted (i.e., MLG, APLC,
Attorneys at Law or attorney Travis Eagan or both).  See CCP 2023.040.  Also, the Court finds the amount of sanctions
sought ($5,395.00) by Clorox to be excessive. 
Further, the Court notes that similar errors in a request for sanctions by
Clorox have been previously pointed out by the Court and Clorox’s counsel has still
failed to make a proper request.  (See
6/9/23 Minute Order).
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied. 
Clorox’s request for sanctions is denied.     
 
The Court further notes that both Plaintiff and Clorox
have failed to properly electronically bookmark the exhibits attached to the
declarations filed in support of the motion and opposition as required.  See CRC 3.1110(f)(4).  The exhibits attached to the Eagan
declaration are not bookmarked at all while only Exhibit 2 to the Manetti
declaration is electronically bookmarked. 
Counsel for both parties have repeatedly failed to comply with this
requirement despite being  warned by the
Court in prior rulings that the failure to comply with this rule in the future may
result in papers not being considered, matters being continued so that papers
may be re-submitted in compliance, and/or the imposition of sanctions.  (See 6/9/23 Minute Order; 6/5/24
Minute Order).  Once again, counsel are
warned that failure to comply with this rule may result in papers not being
considered, matters being continued and/or the imposition of sanctions.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 