  Case Number:  22AVCV00223    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a medical malpractice
case. Plaintiff Ana Salazar (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on or about April 07,
2021, she presented herself at Defendant CVS Health (“CVS”) and Garfield Beach
CVS, L.L.C., erroneously sued as CVS Pharmacy (“Garfield Beach CVS”)’s premises
located at 2006 West Avenue J, Lancaster, California to receive a COVID-19
vaccination shot and, when it was her turn to receive the vaccination, the
technician injected her with what was a used needle. Plaintiff further presents
that (1) the technician neither informed Salazar that the needle was a used
needle and took no efforts to eliminate or minimize the potential hazardous
contents that were injected into Plaintiff’s left arm; (2) the technician then
removed from a package another needle; (3) Plaintiff was not informed of the
contents of the second needle or why a second needle needed to be injected into
her left arm; (4) the technician then injected the second needle into Plaintiff’s
left arm; (5) at no time did the technician inform Plaintiff that the first
needle contained hazardous contents within the needle nor what the contents of
said needle were, make any effort to decontaminate or remove the hazardous
contents of the first needle injected into Plaintiff’s left arm, inform
Plaintiff that a second needle would be used, assist Plaintiff with cleaning or
sanitizing the area of her left arm injected two times with two separate
needles, and preserve either needle or advise Plaintiff on what occurred or
what cautionary efforts should be taken to prevent or limit contamination.
Plaintiff presents that as a result of this negligence, she was seriously
injured in health and sustained damages. Defendant Antino Rivas (“Rivas” and
with CVS and Garfield Beach CVS “Defendants”) is alleged to be an employee,
manager, supervisor, and agent of CVS and Garfield Beach CVS. 
 
On April 04, 2022, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint alleging eight causes of action for: (1) Professional
Medical Negligence (Medical Malpractice); (2) Willful Misconduct; (3) Gross
Negligence; (4) Fraudulent Concealment; (5) Lack of Informed Consent; (6) Medical
Battery; (7) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; and (8) Negligent Hiring, Training,
Supervision, and Retention. 
On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a Peremptory Challenge pursuant to Cal. Civ. Code § 170.6 against Judge
Daniel L. Alexander. The matter was reassigned at the direction of the
Supervising Judge to Judge Stephen Morgan.
 
On October 9, 2023, an Order to
Show Cause RE: Service was held. The Court inquired of counsel for Plaintiff,
Angelo Felice Campano (“Campano”).
 
On October 23, 2023, Counsel for
Defendants, Marissa A. Warran (“Warran”) filed a declaration regarding service
and a further effort to meet and confer pursuant to the requirements of Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41.
 
On February 07, 2024, Defendants
filed two Demurrers with Motion to Strike – one for CVS and Garfield Beach CVS
and another for Rivas. 
 
On April 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed two Oppositions, one to address both Demurrers, and another to address
both Motions to Strike. 
 
On April 30, 2024, Defendants
filed four Replies, two to address CVS Defendants’ Demurrer with Motion to
Strike, and two to address Rivas’ Demurrer with Motion to Strike.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Id.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank,¿supra, 39
Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the
demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿ A
general demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact
or law alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations
contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer if there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by
amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074,
1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
-----¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Standard for
Motion to Strike – The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.
§ 437.)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
-----¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Meet and Confer
Requirement¿– Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or
moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a
filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.¿ (Cal. Code Civ.¿Proc. § 430.41 and § 435.5.)¿ Defendants have filed one
declaration from counsel Merna R. Abdelmalak (“Abdelmalak”), counsel from the
same firm as Warren, stating that a meet a confer was held with Campano in
which Campano indicated that he would send a response to a previous meet and
confer letter, but no response was received. (Decl. Abdelmalak ¶¶ 2-3.) The
Court notes that one declaration for two separate motions is not standard.
However, as counsel is the same for Defendants and Plaintiff has not taken
issue with Abdelmalak’s declaration, the Court will consider the Meet and
Confer Declaration by Abdelmalak. “A determination by the court that the meet
and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain
a [demurrer/motion to strike].” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(4),
435.5(a)(4).) Accordingly, the Court addresses the Demurrers and Motions to
Strike on their merits. 
 
Judicial notice as to all
exhibits is GRANTED. 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Request for Judicial Notice
– Only one request for judicial
notice has been filed despite two Demurrers with Motions to Strike. Abdelmalak
has captioned the single request for judicial notice as “Filed and
Served Concurrently with Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint;
Defendants’ Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint; Declaration of
Merna R. Abdelmalak re C.C.P. §430.41 and §435.5; Request for Judicial Notice;
[Proposed] Orders.” (Request for Judicial Notice at header.) However,
Abdelmalak’s Declaration and the Request for Judicial Notice are filed
concurrently Rivas’ Demurrer with Motion to Strike alone according to the
Court’s electronic filing system. Plaintiff does not appear to take issue with
this fact as Plaintiff has filed oppositions on the merits as to the Demurrers
and Motions to Strike. For the purpose of the judicial economy, the Court
applies the Request for Judicial Notice to both motions. The Court cautions
Abdelmalak on her filings. 
 
Application – As an
initial matter, the Court has looked at the Demurrers and Motions to Strike.
The Demurrers are nearly identical in substance, except for the following
sentences in the Introduction section: “Further, the entire complaint against
Rivas is vague and there are no allegations as to Defendant Rivas’s conduct. As
such, the complaint is uncertain.” (See Rivas’ Demurrer 1:18-20.) Likewise, the
Motions to Strike are relatively similar. The sole difference is an additional
section in CVS and Garfield CVS’ Motion to Strike titled “PLAINTIFF HAS FAILED
TO PROPERLY ALLEGE PUNITIVE DAMAGES AGAINST A CORPORATE DEFENDANT.” (See CVS
and Garfield CVS’ Motion to Strike 6:14-8:15.) The Court will distinguish the
motions in this Statement of Decision for the purpose of clarity.
 
a.      CVS
and Garfield CVS Demurrer
 
As the Demurrers are split
between CVS and Garfield CVS, and Rivas, the Court will address CVS and
Garfield CVS together as “CVS Defendants.”
 
i.                   
PREP Act Argument
 
CVS Defendants present that
COVID-19 was considered a health emergency and the requests for judicial notice
lay out the timeline of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
CVS Defendants first argue that
the PREP Act preempts Plaintiff’s conflicting state law claim sand provides
immunity to CVS Defendants. Specifically, CVS Defendants believe that
Plaintiff’s claims are in conflict with 42 U.S.C. § 247d-6d, which reads in
relevant part: 
 
(a)  
Liability protections
 
(1) In general
Subject to the
other provisions of this section, a covered person shall be immune from suit
and liability under Federal and State law with respect to all claims for loss
caused by, arising out of, relating to, or resulting from the administration to
or the use by an individual of a covered countermeasure if a declaration under
subsection (b) has been issued with respect to such countermeasure.
 
[. . .]
 
(8) Preemption
of State law
 
During the
effective period of a declaration under subsection (b), or at any time with
respect to conduct undertaken in accordance with such declaration, no State or
political subdivision of a State may establish, enforce, or continue in effect
with respect to a covered countermeasure any provision of law or legal
requirement that—
 
(A) is different
from, or is in conflict with, any requirement applicable under this section;
and
(B) relates to
the design, development, clinical testing or investigation, formulation,
manufacture, distribution, sale, donation, purchase, marketing, promotion,
packaging, labeling, licensing, use, any other aspect of safety or efficacy, or
the prescribing, dispensing, or administration by qualified persons of the
covered countermeasure, or to any matter included in a requirement applicable
to the covered countermeasure under this section or any other provision of this
chapter, or under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [21 U.S.C. 301 et
seq.].
 
(42 U.S. Code § 247d–6d(a)(1),
(b)(8).) 
 
CVS Defendant argue that under
the plain language of this statute and the legislative history, Plaintiff’s
claims are barred because they have stemmed from recommended activities which
have liability immunity. That is, CVS Defendants present that CVS Defendants
are “covered persons” or “qualified persons” because they are “program
planners” who “ ‘supervised or administered a program with respect to the
administration, dispensing, distribution, provision, or use of a ... qualified
pandemic product or epidemic product ....’ (42 U.S.C. § 247d-6d (i)(6); 85 Fed.
Reg. 15198, 15199)” (CVS Defendants’ Demurrer 6:23-25) as Plaintiff engaged for
services with CVS Defendants to “ ‘consult with, assist and provide injection
of Covid-19 vaccination’ (Complaint page 4, Paragraph 2)” (id. at 7:1-2)
and are “a licensed health professional or other individual who is authorized
to prescribe, administer, or dispense such countermeasures under the law of the
State in which the countermeasure was prescribed, administered, or dispensed” (id.
at 7:3-5). CVS further presents that Plaintiff’s allegations involve “covered
counter measures” as COVID-19 vaccinations are quintessential covered counter
measures, CVS Defendants were engaged in recommended activities, and
Plaintiff’s claims do not fit in within the limited exception to the PREP Act
for immunity under “willful misconduct” or “act or omission.” 
 
Plaintiff’s Opposition refutes
these arguments, highlighting that the allegations do not stem from the
COVID-19 vaccination.
CVS Defendants’ Reply reiterates
that the PREP Act is applicable and that they were engaged in covered counter
measures.
 
The Court believes that CVS
Defendants’ presentation of Plaintiff’s claims in the context of the PREP Act
misstates the allegations. The underlying issue of Plaintiff’s claims is not
the COVID-19 vaccination but the alleged fact that a CVS technician injected
Plaintiff with a used needle which contained hazardous contents. (See Complaint
¶¶ 4-26.) The PREP act states, in the portion cited to by Plaintiff, the scope
is:
 
The immunity under
paragraph (1) applies to any claim for loss that has a causal relationship with
the administration to or use by an individual of a covered countermeasure,
including a causal relationship with the design, development, clinical testing
or investigation, manufacture, labeling, distribution, formulation, packaging,
marketing, promotion, sale, purchase, donation, dispensing, prescribing,
administration, licensing, or use of such countermeasure.
 
(42 U.S. Code § 247d–6d(a)(2)(B).)
 
The loss alleged by Plaintiff is
not related to “a causal relationship with the design, development, clinical
testing or investigation, manufacture, labeling, distribution, formulation,
packaging, marketing, promotion, sale, purchase, donation, dispensing,
prescribing, administration, licensing, or use of such countermeasure[,]” but
rather negligence from the CVS technician which allegedly led to hazardous
content being injected into Plaintiff. (42 U.S. Code § 247d–6d(a)(2)(B).)
 
The Court need not delve into
whether CVS Defendants constitute “qualified persons” or “covered persons,” or
engaged in “recommended activities,” or whether COVID-10 vaccinations are
considered “covered countermeasures” as the PREP Act is inapplicable to this
instant action at this time.
 
ii.                 
Second (Willful Misconduct) and Third (Gross
Negligence) Causes of Action
 
CVS Defendants next argue that Willful
Misconduct (the Second Cause of Action) and Gross Negligence (the Third Cause
of Action) are not valid causes of action. CVS Defendants cite to Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal. App.4th 518, 526 (“Berkley”); Bastion v.
County of San Luis Obispo (1988) 199 Cal. App. 3d 520, 533; Zavala v.
Regents of University of California (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 646,650; Central
Pathology Service Medical Clinic, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th
181, 213; City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747,
754; Eriksson v. Nunnink (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 826, 856; and Rosencrans
v. Dover Images, Ltd. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1082 to support their
argument. 
 
Plaintiff provides the following
arguments:
 
·        
Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th
518, 527-28 (“Berkley”) provides the elements of willful misconduct. The
Court notes that Berkley is questioned by subsequent California Court of Appeal
cases as to whether the Elder Abuse Act confers an independent private right of
action as Plaintiff does not notate this. (See Labrador v. Seattle Mortg.
Co. (N.D. Cal. 2008) 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 90698/2008 WL 4775239, 10.) This
does not affect the Court’s analysis as the question at issue for this action
is whether willful misconduct is a cause of action.
·        
Plaintiff has properly pled willful misconduct
as Plaintiff has alleged (1) the technician had actual or constructive
knowledge that he had injected Plaintiff with a used/contaminated needle; (2)
had actual or constructive knowledge that sticking a used needle in someone’s
arm can be extremely harmful, and result in danger if not examined or seeking
medical attention; (3) the technician consciously failed to warn plaintiff of
his mistake and gave her a subsequent injection; and (4) the technician let
Plaintiff leave without notifying her of what had occurred. 
·        
Gross Negligence is allowed under Jimenez v.
24 Hour Fitness USA (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 546, 555-56 (“Jimenez”). 
·        
Plaintiff has properly pled gross negligence as
(1) it is an extreme departure from what a reasonably careful person in
practice for a healthcare provider or any healthcare provider's staff to
injection a patron with a used/contaminated needle as alleged in the Complaint,
(2) at no time did the technician inform Plaintiff SALAZAR that the first
needle used contained hazardous contents within the needle nor what were the
contents of the needle, and (3) the technician and Defendants were grossly
negligent by failing to act.
·        
Jimenez holds that whether conduct
constitutes gross negligence is up to the trier of fact and this issue must be
left to the jury. 
 
CVS Defendants’ Reply reiterates
that there is no tort for Willful Misconduct or Gross Negligence and that any Willful
Misconduct action under the PREP Act is required to be filed in the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia and plead with particularity
as to each element of Plaintiffs' claim. 
 
The question in front of the
Court, as presented by CVS Defendants’ Demurrer, is not whether Plaintiff has
properly pled the Second and Third Causes of Action, but whether such causes of
actions exist. 
 
Berkley, cited by both
parties, has recognized a separate cause of action for willful misconduct. (See
Berkley, supra, 152 Cal.App.4th at 526-28.) As presented, and as
shown by case law, there is an apparent split of authority in whether willful
misconduct can be alleged as a separate cause of action from negligence.
(Compare, e.g., Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Assn. Inc. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 118, 1140 and Carlsen v. Koivumari (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th
879, 892-896.) Where there is a split of authority, trial courts have
discretion to choose between the decisions. (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Sup.
Ct. (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456.) Where there is a split of authority, “[a]s
a practical matter, a superior court ordinarily will follow an appellate
opinion emanating from its own district even though it is not bound to do so.”
(McCallum v. McCallum (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 308, 316 n.4.) Berkley
emanates from this Court’s appellate district and recognizes a separate cause
of action for willful misconduct as mentioned, ante. As such, the Court
allows the Second Cause of Action (Willful Misconduct) as a separate cause of
action.
 
As to the Third Cause of Action
(Gross Negligence), Plaintiff’s cited case, Jiminez states in relevant
part:
 
Plaintiffs responded
that under California law, there is not a distinct cause of action for gross
negligence and alleging general negligence suffices.3 
 
3 24 Hour
does not make a contrary argument on appeal. We agree with plaintiffs that
California does not recognize a distinct common law cause of action for gross
negligence apart from negligence. (City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court
(2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 779–780 [62 Cal. Rptr. 3d 527, 161 P.3d 1095] (Santa
Barbara); Continental Ins. Co. v. American Protection Industries (1987)
197 Cal.App.3d 322, 329–330 [242 Cal. Rptr. 784].) As a degree of negligence,
“[g]ross negligence is pleaded by alleging the traditional elements of
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Rosencrans v. Dover
Images, Ltd. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1082 [122 Cal. Rptr. 3d 22] (Rosencrans).)
 
(Jiminez, supra, 237
Cal.App.4th 552, fn. 3.) 
 
Plaintiff has not provided
support for the argument that California recognizes gross negligence as a
separate cause of action. Rather, Plaintiff has shown that gross negligence is
not recognized as a separate cause of action as (1) it is pled by alleging the
traditional elements of negligence, and (2) “. . .generally, it is a triable
issue of fact whether a defendant's lack of care constitutes gross negligence.”
(Id. at 555.) That is, from the pleadings which allege elements of
traditional negligence, the jury determines whether a defendant’s lack of care
constitutes gross negligence.
 
Accordingly, the Third Cause of
Action (Gross Negligence) is not a separate cause of action.
 
CVS Defendants’ Demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the Second Cause of Action (Willful Misconduct) and SUSTAINED
as to the Third Cause of Action (Gross Negligence).
 
iii.               
Fourth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Concealment)
 
CVS Defendants next present that the
Fourth Cause of Action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action for fraudulent concealment as Plaintiff has failed to plead facts that
show CVS Defendants intended to defraud Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff argues that she has met
the requirements as (1) discovery has not been completed, so CVS Defendants
have superior knowledge of who the technician is; (2) Plaintiff has alleged
that the technician failed to warn or suppressed a material fact, the
technician had a duty to disclose such information as he was a healthcare
provider at the time of the incident, the technician intentionally concealed
the material fact by sticking another needle in Plaintiff’s arm, Plaintiff was
unaware of the used needle injection until she watched the video recording
because the technician did not mention anything, and Plaintiff suffers physical
and mental harm as a result. Plaintiff presents that she has alleged that she
was in a fiduciary relationship with Defendants as she was Defendant’s patient
at the time of the incident. 
 
CVS Defendants’ argue that
Plaintiff’s allegations do not suggest that they acted with fraudulent intent
and that there are no allegations in the Complaint that approach a legally
cognizable basis for a Fraudulent Concealment claim. 
 
“[T]he elements of an action for
fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3)the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.)
 
Here, there appears to be an
issue on the face of the pleading as the pleadings state that Plaintiff is a
decedent in paragraph 42 and, as such, Defendants could not obtain informed
consent for Plaintiff and, thus, were not legally authorized to perform its
services on Plaintiff. (See Complaint ¶ 42.) In other words, for several causes
of action Plaintiff is very much alive and present while the underlying
allegations occurred; however, suddenly in the Fourth Cause of Action
(Fraudulent Concealment), Plaintiff has suddenly been deceased prior to the
underlying allegations. 
 
Thus, the deficiency within the
Fourth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Concealment) is a defect on the face of the pleading, though it has not been addressed by
either party.
 
CVS Defendants’ Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action (Fraudulent
Concealment) is SUSTAINED.
 
iv.               
Fifth
Cause of Action (Lack of Informed Consent)
 
While the notice to the CVS’ Defendants’ Demurrer presents that there is
a Demurrer as to the Fifth Cause of Action (Lack of Informed Consent) there is
no such argument. The Demurrer jumps from an argument as to the Fourth Cause of
Action (Fraudulent Concealment) to the Seventh Cause of Action (Breach of
Fiduciary Duty) (see CVS Defendants’ Motion p. 12-13) and then from the Seventh
Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty) to the Sixth Cause of Action
(Medical Battery) (see id. at p. 14). There are no more arguments after
the argument for the Sixth Cause of Action. (See id. at p. 15
[conclusion after the argument for the Sixth Cause of Action (Medical
Battery)].) 
 
On Reply, CVS Defendants’ attempt to extend their argument for the Sixth
Cause of Action (Medical Battery) to the Fifth Cause of Action (Lack of
Informed Consent). (See Reply 6:6-15.) While CVS Defendants’ may be replying to
Plaintiff’s Opposition argument, this cause of action is not at issue for this
Demurrer as no argument was presented for it within the moving papers. 
 
The Court does not make a ruling on the Fifth Cause of Action (Lack of
Informed Consent).
 
v.                 
Sixth
Cause of Action (Medical Battery)
 
As to the Sixth Cause of Action (Medical Battery), CVS Defendants
present that Plaintiff has not pled facts that point to a lack of consent as
Plaintiff consented to receiving the COVID-19 vaccination. CVS Defendants argue
that “Plaintiff does not actually contend that she received anything other than
the covid vaccination but that she doesn’t know what she received.” (CVS
Defendants Demurrer 15:17-19.) Thus, CVS Defendants believe that the facts
alleged point to Plaintiff’s consent to receive a COVID-19 vaccination which
amounts to medical negligence.
 
Plaintiff argues that she has sufficiently pled the Sixth Cause of
Action (Medical Battery) as she has alleged that (1) Defendants performed a
medical procedure substantially different to what Plaintiff consented to; (2)
Plaintiff did not consent to being injected with two needles, let alone a
used/contaminated needle; (3) because Plaintiff was injected with two needles,
one used/contaminated, she suffered the pain of two injections and mental
anguish when she learned she was injected with a used/contaminated needle; and
(4) since Defendants intentionally failed to get consent and failed to warn
Plaintiff of the contaminated needle, Defendants’ conduct was a substantial
factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm. Plaintiff presents that the doctrine of
respondent superior has been alleged and a CVS defendant (see id. at
13-14 [addressing certain defendants as CVS [“CVS is the employer of Defendants”]
and Defendant CVS]) is the employer of Defendants and all employees, including
Rivas and the technician, were acting within the scope of their employees. 
 
CVS Defendants reiterate in their Reply that Plaintiff “does not
actually contend that she received anything other than the COVID vaccination
but that she doesn’t know what she received” and that, at most, this case is
one of medical negligence. (CVS Defendants’ Reply 6:8-10.)
 
“Our high court has made it clear that battery and lack of informed
consent are separate causes of action. A claim based on lack of informed
consent – which sounds in negligence - arises when the doctor performs a
procedure without first adequately disclosing the risks and alternatives. In
contrast, a battery is an intentional tort that occurs when a doctor performs a
procedure without obtaining any consent.” (Saxena v. Goffney (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 316, 324.) “Where a doctor obtains consent of the patient to
perform one type of treatment and subsequently performs a substantially
different treatment for which consent was not obtained, there is a clear case
of battery.” (Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 239 (“Cobbs”).)
“The battery theory should be reserved for those circumstances when a doctor performs
an operation to which the patient has not consented. When the patient gives
permission to perform one type of treatment and the doctor performs another,
the requisite element of deliberate intent to deviate from the consent given is
present. However, when the patient consents to certain treatment and the doctor
performs that treatment but an undisclosed inherent complication with a low
probability occurs, no intentional deviation from the consent given appears; rather,
the doctor in obtaining consent may have failed to meet his due care duty to
disclose pertinent information. In that situation the action should be pleaded
in negligence.” (Id. at 240.)
 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants injected Plaintiff two times
without first obtaining consent – the first with a contaminated needle and the
second with a needle of unknown origin; that Plaintiff would not have agreed to
use a contaminated needle and a needle of unknown origin; that the procedure
was unnecessary, unauthorized, and harmful and done without the necessary
consent of Plaintiff; and, as a proximate result of this, Plaintiff’s earning
capacity has been impaired. (See Complaint ¶¶ 49-55.)
 
Once again, this cause of action blows hot and cold to the facts. It has
been alleged in multiple causes of action that Plaintiff went to Defendants’
premises to get a COVID-19 vaccination which, necessarily, involves injection
by a needle. That is, Plaintiff has alleged that she went to Defendants’
premises to get an injection (i.e., the COVID-19 vaccine), which infers consent
has been given to one injection, and then in this cause of action, it is
alleged no consent has been given to any injection whatsoever. The way this has
been pled leads to more questions – why does the second needle suddenly stem
from an unknown origin (Complaint ¶¶ 46-47, 52-53 [addressing second needle as
unknown origin]) when it is not alleged as such initially (Complaint ¶¶
17-18 [addressing needle as unknown content]). Further, “[q]uestions of fact
may be resolved on demurrer only when there is only one legitimate inference to
be drawn from the allegations of the complaint.” (TracFone Wireless, Inc. v.
County of Los Angeles (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1368.) The allegations
of the underlying event in the Complaint suggest only one reasonable inference
may be: that Plaintiff was injected with a used needle and then injected with a
second needle which contained the COVID-19 vaccination, the purpose of
Plaintiff’s visit. (See Complaint ¶¶ 1-26.) In that event, two conclusions
arise: (1) applying Cobbs to the facts of this case, Plaintiff consented to the injection and the
technician performed the injection but an undisclosed inherent complication
with a low probability occurs (i.e., use of a used needle) and, as such, no
intentional deviation from the consent given appears and the technician may
have failed to meet his due care duty to disclose pertinent information; and
(2) CVS Defendants assertion that they are immune from liability under the
PREP Act may apply. 
 
Thus, as to the Sixth Cause of
Action (Medical Battery), the defects
are apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.
 
The Demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action (Medical Battery) is
SUSTAINED.
 
vi.               
Seventh
Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty)
 
Finally, as to the Seventh Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty),
CVS Defendants argue that (1) the allegations do not support a claim for breach
of fiduciary duty, and (2) according to Moore v. Regents of U.C. (1990)
51 Cal.3d 120 (“Moore”), in the medical malpractice context, a
physician can be held liable for breach of fiduciary duty wherein he fails to
disclose personal interests unrelated to the patient's health, whether research
or economic, that may affect the physician's professional judgment and this
case is distinguishable. 
 
Plaintiff argues that she has
sufficiently pled the Seventh Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty) as she
has pled: (1) the existence of a fiduciary duty as Moore states that
“physician has a fiduciary duty to disclose all information material to the
patient's decision” (Moore, supra, 51 Cal.3d at 129) and Plaintiff alleged that
Defendants and Plaintiff have a “healthcare provider/patient” relationship, (2)
Defendants breached their duty by failing to disclose all information necessary
to make an informed decision as to the injections received by Plaintiff, and
(3) since Plaintiff was not informed, she suffered harm and was therefore
injured. 
 
CVS Defendants emphasize the
difference between the allegations underlying this action and those in Moore
and argue that the fiduciary duty in Moore is “ ‘a physician who is
seeking a patient's consent for a medical procedure must, in order to satisfy
his fiduciary duty and to obtain the patient's informed consent, disclose
personal interests unrelated to the patient's health, whether research or economic,
that may affect his medical judgment,’ ” the Moore holding makes it
clear that the only situation wherein breach of fiduciary duty arises in the
medical context is when a physician has a financial or fiduciary relationship
that he or she needs to inform the patient about, and, as such, a fiduciary
duty under Moore is not applicable to the factual allegations of this
action. CVS’ Defendants further argue that Plaintiff has not alleged any facts
to support any of the elements of a cause of action for Breach of Fiduciary
Duty and the facts alleged show only medical negligence. 
 
Here, the Complaint alleges that
(1) Defendants had a duty to Plaintiff via their “healthcare provider/patient”
relationship, (2) Defendants breached their duty to Plaintiff in paragraph 29
subdivisions (a) to (h); (3) by virtue of the aforesaid facts, Defendants acted
recklessly, oppressively, intentionally, despicably, and with malice; and (4)
as a proximate cause Plaintiff’s earning capacity has been greatly impaired.
(Complaint ¶¶ 55-61.)
 
The Complaint at paragraph 29
reads:
 
During the period of
their care of Plaintiff SALAZAR, Defendant CVS and Does 1 to 100 knew or should
have known that the perils posed by their failure to comply with their
standards of care to provide care which a reasonably prudent, physician,
pharmacist, or other health care provider or administrator would use, exposed
Plaintiff SALAZAR to the high probability of her injuries and exposure.
 
There are no subdivisions. 
 
The Court believes that this is
scrivener’s error and Plaintiff intended to cite to the Complaint at paragraph
30, which reads:
 
In connection with
the services to be provided, discussed supra, Defendants CVS knew or had reason
to know that injury to Plaintiff SALAZAR was a probable and likely result and with
the conscious disregard of said probable and likely result, and with certainty
of their willful misconduct, proceeded to:
 
a.      
Inject Plaintiff SALAZAR with a used contaminated
needed.
b.     
Permit blood to pour down her shoulder providing
minimal effort to remove the blood exposed on her left arm.
c.      
Failed to disclose that a used contaminated needle had
been injected into her left arm
d.     
Conceal the use of the used contaminated needle from
Plaintiff SALAZAR.
e.      
Refuse to suspend the injection procedure and inform
Plaintiff SALAZAR of what occurred.
f.       
Refused to offer Plaintiff SALAZAR any guidance on what
actions to take or avoid so as to avoid further blood contamination. 
g.     
Refuse to provide immediate medical attention so as to
eliminate or minimize the effects of the use of the used contaminated needle
h.     
Inject Plaintiff SALAZAR with a second needle failing
to obtain consent or without obtaining consent to do so.
 
These allegations discuss the First Cause of Action (Medical Negligence)
and allude to the Fourth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Concealment) and Sixth
Cause of Action (Medical Battery). The Fourth Cause of Action (Fraudulent
Concealment) and Sixth Cause of Action (Medical Battery) contain issues. As in,
any statement related to those causes of action are conclusory due to the
Court’s analysis, ante. It is unclear what cause of action the allegation “[p]ermit
blood to pour down her shoulder providing minimal effort to remove the blood
exposed on her left arm[]” deals with. As to the remainder of the allegations
that discuss the First Cause of Action (Medical Negligence), the Court provides
a further analysis. 
 
“A fiduciary relationship is ‘ “
‘any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the
parties is in duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of
the other party. Such a relation ordinarily arises where a confidence is
reposed by one person in the integrity of another, and in such a relation the
party in whom the confidence is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts or assumes
to accept the confidence, can take no advantage from his acts relating to the
interest of the other party without the latter’s knowledge or consent. . .’ ” ’
” (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29 [internal
citations omitted].) “Whether a fiduciary duty exists is generally a question
of law. Whether the defendant breached that duty towards the plaintiff is a
question of fact.” (Marzec v. Public Employees’ Retirement System (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 889, 915.) “[E]xamples of relationships that impose a fiduciary
obligation to act on behalf of and for the benefit of another are ‘a joint venture,
a partnership, or an agency.’ But, ‘[t]hose categories are merely illustrative
of fiduciary relationships in which fiduciary duties are imposed by law.’ ” (Cleveland
v. Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1339 [internal citations omitted].)
The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the
existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage proximately
caused by that breach. (Knox v. Dean (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 417, 432-433.)
 
The only case relied upon by both
parties for fiduciary duty within a medical scenario is Moore. Moore
provides, in relevant part:
 
Our analysis begins
with three well-established principles. First, “a person of adult years and in
sound mind has the right, in the exercise of control over his own body, to
determine whether or not to submit to lawful medical treatment.” (Cobbs v.
Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 242 [104 Cal. Rptr. 505, 502 P.2d 1]; cf. Schloendorff
v. New York Hospital (1914) 211 N.Y. 125 [105 N.E. 92, 93].) Second, “the
patient's consent to treatment, to be effective, must be an informed consent.”
( Cobbs v. Grant, supra, 8 Cal.3d at p. 242.) Third, in
soliciting the patient's consent, a physician has a fiduciary duty to disclose
all information material to the patient's decision. ( Id., at pp. 242,
246; see also Stafford v. Schultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 777 [270 P.2d
1]; Nelson v. Gaunt (1981) 125 Cal. App.3d 623, 635 [178 Cal. Rptr.
167]; Berkey v. Anderson (1969) 1 Cal. App.3d 790, 805 [82 Cal. Rptr.
67]; Bowman v. McPheeters (1947) 77 Cal. App.2d 795, 800 [176 P.2d
745].) 
 
These principles
lead to the following conclusions: (1) a physician must disclose personal
interests unrelated to the patient's health, whether research or economic, that
may affect the physician's professional judgment; and (2) a physician's failure
to disclose such interests may give rise to a cause of action for performing
medical procedures without informed consent or breach of fiduciary duty.
 
(Moore, supra, 51
Cal.3d 120 at 129.)
 
Moore is distinguished
from the case at hand. Here, there exist the following major issues: (1) Plaintiff
actively sought to get a COVID-19 vaccination due to the COVID-19 pandemic; (2)
based on the allegations, only one inference can be made which is that
Plaintiff consented to receiving a COVID-19 vaccination which necessarily
includes injection by needle, as discussed ante; and (3) there are no
allegations as to how CVS Defendants solicited Plaintiff and what material was
disclosed, only that the used needle was not disclosed. As to the facts
underlying Moore and this action, they are also substantially different
– here, there is no use of any part of Plaintiff, whereas in Moore,
Moore’s blood, blood serum, skin, bone marrow aspirate, and sperm was used in the
defendant physician’s research, leading to a profit for the physician. (See id.
at 126-27.) Plaintiff’s basis for the fiduciary duty is the “healthcare
provide/patient” relationship. CVS Defendants concede that they are health care
providers in their Motion to Strike. Despite this, the fiduciary duty discussed
in Moore is significantly different from that presented in this action. In
Moore, the fiduciary duty arose was determined to be (1) a fiduciary
duty to disclose facts material to the patient's consent or, alternatively, (2)
the performance of medical procedures without first having obtained the
patient's informed consent. (See Moore, supra, 51 Cal.3d at 129.) Plaintiff
focuses on the first. (See Opp to Demurrers 14:20-22.) Plaintiff’s focus
contrasts with what has been directly alleged:
 
By virtue of their
"healthcare provider/patient" relationship, Defendants CVS had a
fiduciary duty to Plaintiff SALAZAR to act with the utmost good faith and in
her best interests.
 
(Complaint ¶ 56 [emphasis
added].)
 
Based on Moore, the
alleged duty is not a fiduciary duty. Further, applying the fiduciary duty to
disclose facts material to the patient's consent, as discussed ante, there are
no allegations as to how CVS Defendants solicited Plaintiff and what material
was or needed to be disclosed, only that the used needle was not disclosed. 
 
Thus, as the fiduciary duty in Moore
is distinguished and the allegations are notably absent as to what was to be
disclosed to, there is no basis for a fiduciary relationship. As the existence
of a fiduciary relationship is in question, an element has not been properly
pled and a defect exists on the fact of the pleading. 
 
CVS’ Defendants’ Demurrer to the
Seventh Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty) is SUSTAINED.
 
vii.             
Eighth Cause of Action (Negligent Hiring,
Retention, and Supervision)
 
While the notice to the CVS’ Defendants’ Demurrer presents that there is
a Demurrer as to the Eighth Cause of Action (Negligent Hiring, Retention, and
Supervision) there is no such argument. The Demurrer jumps from an argument as
to the Fourth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Concealment) to the Seventh Cause of
Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty) (see CVS Defendants’ Motion p. 12-13) and
then from the Seventh Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty) to the Sixth
Cause of Action (Medical Battery) (see id. at p. 14). There are no more
arguments after the argument for the Sixth Cause of Action. (See id. at
p. 15 [conclusion after the argument for the Sixth Cause of Action (Medical
Battery)].) 
 
The Court does not make a ruling on the Fifth Cause of Action (Lack of
Informed Consent).
 
viii.           
CVS’ Defendants’ Demurrer Outcome
 
Accordingly, CVS Defendants’
Demurrer is SUSTAINED in part as to Third Cause of Action (Gross Negligence),
the Fourth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Concealment), the Sixth Cause of Action
(Medical Battery), and the Seventh Cause of Action; and OVERRULED in part as to
the Second Cause of Action (Willful Misconduct). 
 
The Court does not address the
Fifth Cause of Action (Lack of Informed Consent) and the Eighth Cause of Action
(Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision, and Retention) as no argument has
been brought by CVS Defendants.
 
Leave to amend is discussed, infra.

 
b.      Rivas’
Demurrer
 
As Rivas’ Demurrer is identical
to CVS Defendants’ Demurrer in substance with the exception of one sentence,
discussed ante, the Court adopts its analysis, ante, for the CVS
Defendants’ Demurrer as discussed for Rivas’ Demurrer. 
 
Likewise, Rivas’ Reply is
substantially similar and the Court need not change its analysis. The Court
addresses the difference in the Replies, infra.
 
The Court notes that Rivas’ Reply
to the Demurrer includes a section that reads:
 
Plaintiff’s entire
complaint against Defendant, Antino Rivas is based on one sentence: “Defendant
ANTINO RIVAS was, at all times relevant to the incident herein, an adult male,
living in the state of California, and employee, manager, supervisor, agent of
Defendants CVS HEALTH and CVS PHARMACY, and DOES 1 to 100.” (Complaint Page 2
Paragraph 4). None of the causes of actions actually describe anything that
Defendant Rivas did. Nor does Plaintiff argue anything related to  his actions in opposition to the Demurrer.
Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant Rivas was the one who administered the
vaccine, or that he was even working on the day of the alleged incident. As
such, Plaintiff’s entire complaint against Defendant Antino Rivas fails and the
demurrer must be sustained without leave to amend.
 
(Rivas’ Demurrer Reply 2:1-10.)
 
As the Court mentioned, ante,
the sole difference between the two Demurrers is: “Further, the entire
complaint against Rivas is vague and there are no allegations as to Defendant
Rivas’s conduct. As such, the complaint is uncertain.” (See Rivas’ Demurrer
1:18-20.) There is found in the introduction and no argument attached to these
two sentences. Rivas’ attempt to expand upon his moving papers is considered a
new argument. The salutary rule is that points raised in a reply brief for the
first time will not be considered unless good cause is shown for the failure to
present them before.” (Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d
1002, 1010.) “This rule is based on the same solid logic applied in the
appellate courts, specifically, that ‘[p]oints raised for the first time in a
reply brief will ordinarily not be considered, because such consideration would
deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter the argument.’ ” (Jay v.
Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1538 [citing American Drug Stores,
Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453; Browne v. County of
Tehama (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 704, 720, fn. 10].) As such, the Court does
not consider Rivas’ new argument submitted in the Reply brief.
 
c.       CVS
Defendants’ Motion to Strike
 
CVS Defendants seek to strike the
following:
 
·        
“Defendants have acted in conscious disregard of
the probability of Plaintiff SALAZAR undesired and unauthorized injury and
because Plaintiff was helpless to safeguard herself, Defendant CVS' failure and
refusal to communicate with Plaintiff, seek her consult into Plaintiff's health
care, and obtain his authorization was despicable and it subjected Plaintiff to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of his rights and safety. By
virtue of the foresaid, Defendant CVS have each acted with recklessness,
oppression, and malice, and their acts and omissions were despicable. By virtue
of the foresaid, punitive damages should be assessed against DEFENDANTS and
each of them, in a sum according to proof at trial” (Complaint ¶ 31);
·        
“By virtue of the foresaid, Defendants CVS and
each of them have acted with fraud and an award of general damages for
Plaintiff SALAZAR's pain and suffering under and as assessment of punitive
damages in a sum according to proof at trial, is justified and appropriate. In
addition, Defendant CVS acted despicably and with recklessness, oppression, and
malice, and punitive damages should be assessed for that reason. and each of
them, failed to do so.” (Complaint ¶ 45);
·        
“By virtue of the aforesaid, DEFENDANTS acted
despicably and with recklessness, oppression, and malice, and punitive damages
should be assessed for that reason…” (Complaint ¶ 60); and
·        
“Punitive damages as permitted by law”
(Complaint 18:13).
 
It appears that CVS Defendants
seek to strike allegations related to punitive damages. 
 
CVS Defendants present that they
are protected by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13, which requires a motion to add
a claim for exemplary damages at least nine months before trial is initially
set. 
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13 reads, in relevant part:  
 
In any action for damages arising out of the
professional negligence of a health care provider, no claim for punitive
damages shall be included in a complaint or other pleading unless the court
enters an order allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive
damages to be filed. The court may allow the filing of an amended pleading
claiming punitive damages on a motion by the party seeking the amended pleading
and on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented that the
plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294 of the Civil Code.
The court shall not grant a motion allowing the filing of an amended pleading
that includes a claim for punitive damages if the motion for such an order is
not filed within two years after the complaint or initial pleading is filed or
not less than nine months before the date the matter is first set for trial,
whichever is earlier. 
 
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13(a).)  
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13(b)
defines a health care provider:
 
For the purposes of
this section, “health care provider” means any person licensed or certified
pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 500) of the Business and
Professions Code, or licensed pursuant to the Osteopathic Initiative Act, or
the Chiropractic Initiative Act, or licensed pursuant to Chapter 2.5
(commencing with Section 1440) of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code; and
any clinic, health dispensary, or health facility, licensed pursuant to
Division 2 (commencing with Section 1200) of the Health and Safety Code.
“Health care provider” includes the legal representatives of a health care
provider.
 
 First, based on the allegations, Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 425.13(a) plainly applies to the Complaint. The Complaint alleges
that Defendants are health care providers (Complaint ¶¶ 11, 41, 56, 58) and that
the error is related to mistakes with distribution of health care (i.e., vaccines)
(Complaint ¶¶ 1-26.).
 
Next, CVS Defendants are health
care providers. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13(b); Cal. Bus. & Prof.
Code § 4050(c).) Plaintiff's damages arise out of CVS Defendants’ alleged
professional negligence because her injuries are directly related to the
professional services provided by CVS Defendants. (See Cent. Pathology Serv.
Med. Clinic, Inc. v. Super. Ct. (1992) 3 Cal. 4th 181, 191.) Accordingly,
Plaintiff cannot claim punitive damages until she seeks leave of court and
makes the requisite evidentiary showing under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13(a).
 
The Court need not discuss CVS
Defendants’ further arguments as Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13(a) bars punitive
damages in the Complaint at this time.
 
Plaintiff’s Opposition does not discuss
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13, and, as such, does not refute the application of
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13.  
 
CVS Defendants’ Reply does not
change the Court’s analysis. 
 
Accordingly, CVS Defendants’
Motion to Strike is GRANTED.
 
d.      Rivas’
Motion to Strike
 
As Rivas’ Demurrer is nearly
identical to CVS Defendants’ Motion to Strike in substance apart from one
section that was not analyzed by the Court, the Court adopts its analysis, ante,
for the CVS Defendants’ Motion to Strike to Rivas’ Motion to Strike, as discussed
for Rivas’ Motion to Strike. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Antino Rivas’ Demurrer
is SUSTAINED in part as to Third Cause of Action (Gross Negligence), the Fourth
Cause of Action (Fraudulent Concealment), the Sixth Cause of Action (Medical
Battery), and the Seventh Cause of Action; and OVERRULED in part as to the
Second Cause of Action (Willful Misconduct).
 
It appearing that the PREP Act
argument is directed to the First Cause of Action (Medical Negligence),
Defendant Antino Rivas’ Demurrer to the First Cause of Action (Medical
Negligence) is OVERRULED.
 
The Court does not address
Antonio Rivas’ Demurrer Fifth Cause of Action (Lack of Informed Consent) and
the Eighth Cause of Action (Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision, and
Retention) as no argument has been brought by CVS Defendants.
 
Defendant Antino Rivas’ Motion to
Strike is GRANTED.
 
Defendants Garfield Beach CVS,
L.L.C., and CVS Health’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in part as to Third Cause of
Action (Gross Negligence), the Fourth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Concealment),
the Sixth Cause of Action (Medical Battery), and the Seventh Cause of Action;
and OVERRULED in part as to the Second Cause of Action (Willful Misconduct).
 
It appearing that the PREP Act
argument is directed to the First Cause of Action (Medical Negligence),
Defendants Garfield Beach CVS, L.L.C., and CVS Health’s Demurrer to the First
Cause of Action (Medical Negligence) is OVERRULED.
 
The Court does not address
Defendants Garfield Beach CVS, L.L.C., and CVS Health’s Demurrer to the Fifth
Cause of Action (Lack of Informed Consent) and the Eighth Cause of Action
(Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision, and Retention) as no argument has
been brought by CVS Defendants.
 
Defendants’ Garfield Beach CVS, L.L.C., and CVS
Health’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED.