 Case Number:  22AVCV00628    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a personal injury action. Plaintiff
Saul Vanegas (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he is an armed security guard that
works under the table for Defendant CulichiTown Management Group Inc.
(“CulichiTown”) and on October 11, 2021, he was preparing to leave when the
manager of CulichiTown approached him to let him know there was a fight inside
the restaurant and requested that Plaintiff continue working and stop the
fight. Plaintiff further alleges that he went over to the direction of the
fight and saw a male, later identified as Joseph M. Quirola, sued here as the
Estate of Joseph M. Quirola (as to both the estate and the individual
“Quirola”), and asked Quirola to stop, but Quirola’s female companion
intervened and yelled at Plaintiff to leave them alone and not tell them what
to do. Plaintiff presents that, afterwards, the Quirola’s female companion
grabbed a glass and attempted to throw it at Plaintiff, Plaintiff warned her
not to throw it or he would be forced to pepper spray her, Quirola’s female companion
threw the glass and Quirola rushed at Plaintiff, Plaintiff pepper sprayed both
individuals, Quirola then pulled out a gun and shot at Plaintiff multiple
times, going through Plaintiff’s bulletproof vest, and Plaintiff fired his
weapon for self-defense. Plaintiff contends that he could not return to work
immediately due to his injuries from this incident and, because of this,
CulichiTown and Defendants Sammy’s Café Mexican Food and Carlos Entertainment,
Inc. (collectively with Sammy’s Café Mexican Food as “Sammy’s Café Defendants”),
Ramon Misael Elenes (“Elenes”), and Norberto Manuel Perez Gutierrez
(“Gutierrez”) terminated his employment.  
 
On August 24, 2022, Plaintiff filed his
Complaint, alleging five causes of action for: (1) Assault against Quirola; (2)
Battery against Quirola; (3) Negligence against Quirola; (4) Premises Liability
– Negligence against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez; and (5)
Premises Liability – Willful Failure to Warn against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café,
Elenes, and Gutierrez. 
 
On February 16, 2023, Sammy’s Café Defendants
filed their Answer and Cross-Complaint for Equitable/Implied Indemnity,
Apportionment and Contribution, and Declaratory Relief against Moe Defendants 1
through 25. Sammy’s Café Defendants’ Answer states that it is on behalf of
(1) Sammy’s Café Mexican Food, and (2) Carlos Entertainment, Inc. dba
Culichitown (Erroneously sued and served as Culichitown Management Group, Inc.)
The Court will address both defendants as “Sammy’s Café Defendants” as the
short form has been used to address the same parties previously. 
 
On August 08, 2023 Sammy’s Café Defendants filed
a Motion for Summary Judgment as to the fourth and fifth causes of action. 
 
On August 16, 2023, an Informal Discovery
Conference (“IDC”) was held. 
 
On August 18, 2023, the parties stipulated
to a continuance. 
 
On August 30, 2023, a second IDC was
held.  
 
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
Motion for Leave to Amend the Complaint, subsequently granted. 
 
On October 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed his
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging seven causes of action for: (1)
Assault against Quirola; (2) Battery against Quirola; (3) Negligence against
Quirola; (4) Premises Liability – Negligence against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café,
Elenes, and Gutierrez; (5) Premises Liability – Willful Failure to Warn against
CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez; (6) Negligence – Cal. Lab.
Code § 3706 against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez; and (7)
Wrongful Termination – Violation of Public Policy – Cal. Lab. Code § 132a
against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez. 
 
On December 06, 2023, Sammy’s Café
Defendants filed their Demurrer, subsequently overruled. 
 
On December 13, 2023, Sammy’s
Café Defendants filed their Motion for Summary Judgment as to the sixth cause
of action only. 
 
On December 14, 2023, the parties
entered a stipulation to continue the Motion for Summary Judgments. 
 
On December 21, 2023, Sammy’s
Café Defendants filed an Amendment to the Cross-Complaint, amending the
fictitious name of Moe 1 to Miguel Macias. 
 
On December 26, 2023, an IDC was
held.
 
On January 12, 2024, Sammy’s Café
Defendants filed a Motion for Leave to Psychologically Examine Plaintiff,
subsequently granted. 
 
On February 05, 2024, Sammy’s
Café Defendants filed their Answer to the FAC. 
 
On
February 07, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition to the Motion for Summary
Judgment as to the fourth and fifth
causes of action. 
 
On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff
filed his Opposition to Motion for the Summary Judgment as to the sixth cause
of action.
 
On May 02, 2024, Sammy’s Café
Defendants filed its Replies.  
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Summary Judgment – The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Cal. Code Civ. Proc.¿§437c(c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion for
summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67 (“Juge”), citing¿FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint,
the party moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(Cal.¿Code Civ.¿Proc.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf¿v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – As an
initial matter, there are three causes of action directed towards Sammy’s Café
Defendants in the FAC: (1) Fourth Cause of Action (Premises Liability –
Negligence), (2) Fifth Cause of Action (Premises Liability – Willful Failure to
Warn), and (3) Sixth Cause of Action (Negligence – Cal. Lab. Code § 3706). The
Court notes that the Sixth Cause of Action was added through the FAC,
explaining the necessity for a second Motion for Summary Judgment. However, as
there are two separate motions, each leaving certain causes of action
unaddressed, summary judgment is improper. The Court will treat the motions as
motions for summary adjudication as the notice for both motions requests
“summary judgement, or, if applicable, summary adjudication” as to each cause
of action. (See Motion for Summary Judgment as to the Fourth and Fifth Causes
of Action 1:27-28; Motion for Summary Judgment as to the Sixth Cause of Action 1:27-28.)
 
As a second matter that must be
addressed, Douglas J. Lief’s declarations to both motions state:
 
I am an attorney
duly licensed to practice law before all courts of the State of California and
am an associate in the law firm of Kennedy & Souza, APC, attorneys of
record for Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Chung Lin Chang, LLP dba Downey Inn
Luxury Suites (“Downey Inn”) (“Defendant”). I am personally familiar with these
facts, and if called to testify, would and could do so competently based upon
my personal knowledge of the facts contained herein.
 
(Decl. Lief Motion for Summary
Judgment as to the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action 13:3-7; Decl. Lief Motion
for Summary Judgment as to the Sixth Cause of Action 7:3-7.)
Chung Lin Chang, LLP dba Downey
Inn Luxury Suites is not a party to this action. While the Court would like to
find this a scrivener’s error, this error more than a one-time mistake as it is
presented with the declaration for both motions which were filed months apart.
The Court inquires at the hearing.
 
a.      Fourth
Cause of Action (Premises Liability – Negligence)
 
There appear to be three
arguments for this cause of action.
 
First, Sammy’s Café Defendants
argue that foreseeability is a question of law; a high degree of foreseeability
is necessary to find that a landlord must hire security guards, citing Delgado
v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224 (“Delgado”) and Ann
M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal. 4th 666 (“Ann M.”)
among other cases; and, here, there were no prior incidents of violent crime at
the restaurant except for a single fight and no negative prior experience with
Quirola, so there is no evidence that Sammy’s Café Defendants had to hire a
security guard and, under Delgado, the mere hiring of a security guard
is not evidence that violence was foreseeable and such argument extends to the
security guard himself.
 
Second, Sammy’s Café Defendants
present that Plaintiff voluntarily became a security guard and knew the risks
included potentially confronting an armed assailant, and being shot at. Sammy’s
Café Defendants direct the Court to Tilley v. CZ Master Assn. (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 464 (“Tilley”). In Tilley, Tilley, a security guard
employed by BonaFide Security Services, Inc., (“BoneFide”) sued CZ Master
Association (“CZ”), a homeowners association which had contracted with BonaFide
for security services after he responded to a youth party, was assaulted by two
partygoers, and sustained injuries, including a fractured skull. (Tilley,
supra, 131 Cal.App.4th at 470.) As to the negligence cause of action,
Tilley alleged that CZ failed to take responsible steps to prevent the S.
family from hosting out-of-control youth parties, and its requirement that
security personnel “ ‘respond to reports of such parties, as opposed to
instructing them to leave such matters to local law enforcement, while at the
same time, forbidding [them] to carry firearms to pr[o]tect themselves, and by
failing and refusing to provide [security] personnel with the training and
equipment necessary to engage in crowd control/dispersal and otherwise deal
with violent assailants.’ ” (Id. at 472.) The appellate court discussed:
(1) Tilley’s failure to show a special employment relationship with CZ as Tilley
had specifically pled that BonaFide was his employer in the complaint,
testified that he took directions strictly from BonaFide, and there was no
evidence BonaFide relinquished any control over Tilley or that CZ directly
exercised such control to invoke a special employment relationship as set out
in Marsh v. Tilley Steel Co. (1980) 26 Cal.3d 486, 492 (id. at
479-82); (2) the peculiar risk doctrine applied as BonaFide was an independent
security company, and the services it performed for CZ, including controlling
access to the premises, enforcing parking restrictions, responding to
complaints and otherwise promoting and encouraging compliance with association
rules, obviously presented peculiar risk, and there was evidence that CZ
retained control over certain aspects of the worksite, but there was no
evidence that CZ’s exercise of the authority it retained over the premises
affirmatively contributed to Tilley’s injuries and CZ did not direct Tilley to
respond to the situation at the S.'s home by confronting and purporting to
“arrest” a presumed wrongdoer (id. at 483-86); (3) CZ owed Tilley no
independent duty to restrict the parties thrown by its homeowners or to control
the number of nonresidents allowed to attend those parties under the standard
set out in Sakiyama v. AMF Bowling Centers, Inc. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th
39 which included an analysis for the Rowland [v. Christian (1968)
69 Cal.2d 108] factors and an analysis of the Rowland factors in Tilley
showed that there was no foreseeability, none of the other Rowland
factors imposed a duty in Tilley, imposing a duty to place restrictions
on residents’ parties would create enormous burden and consequence to CZ, and BonaFide
insured against the risks encountered by its employees (id. at 486-89).
The appellate court also held that there is no such rule that primary
assumption of the risk cannot be applied to a private safety officer, so Tilley
failed to present an issue of material fact. (Id. at 490.) Sammy’s Café
Defendants present that Tilley is applicable as (1) Plaintiff chose to
enter a line of work with known risks; (2) Plaintiff had worked “as a career
his entire adult life, and knew it was his function to quell violence should it
occur, and that this could include being shot at; (3) Plaintiff came to work
everyday with his gun and bullet proof vest, and (4) Plaintiff brought those
because he knew there could come a time where those items might be needed in
the face of an armed assailant. Sammy’s Café Defendants argues that, with Tilley
and several other cases in mind, the fact that Plaintiff was called upon to
confront the very hazard for which he was hired is not a basis for liability
against Sammy’s Café Defendants and his claims are barred by assumption of the
risk. 
 
Finally, Sammy’s Café Defendants presents
that Plaintiff, in response to written discovery and oral questioning in
deposition, could not articulate a single negligent act or omission by Sammy’s
Café Defendants that caused the shooting to happen. 
 
The Court notes that this
argument in the Memorandum of Points and Authorities does not include
citations; however, in the Statement of Facts section, Sammy’s Café Defendants
highlight portions of Plaintiff’s testimony in which Plaintiff testifies (1) he
appreciates the risk that he might have to confront someone who was a threat (Exhibit
2 to NOL, Vanegas Depo 35:20-36:6, Exhibit 3 to NOL, Response to Request for
Admission No. 18); (2) he bought a bulletproof vest on his own for his safety
as he was concerned that someone might shoot at him, which he concedes is a
risk in his line of work (Exhibit 2 to NOL, Vanegas Depo 38:8-39:25, Exhibit 3
to NOL, Response to Request for Admission No. 27); and (3) he concedes that Sammy’s
Café Defendants did not do anything to cause the alleged shooting (Exhibit 2 to
NOL, Vanegas Depo 151:15-152:3, Exhibit 3 to NOL, Response to Request for
Admission Nos. 9, 10; Exhibit 4 to NOL; Related Response to Form Interrogatory
No. 17.1, Exhibit 5 to NOL, Responses to Special Interrogatory No. 9.) In this
section, Sammy’s Café Defendants also present facts supported by their Separate
Statement: Quirola arrived at the restaurant that night and remained for hours
until closing time; Quirola began to quarrel with another person and Sammy’s
Café Defendants asked Plaintiff to intercede; when Plaintiff interceded,
Quirola pulled a handgun from his front pocket and shot Plaintiff. Sammy’s Café
Defendants further present that Plaintiff did not know if Quirola was armed or
drunk, and does not know if Sammy’s Café Defendants had any information to the
contrary; and that Plaintiff recalls only one altercation at the restaurant
that was resolved verbally. It appears this is the evidence that Sammy’s Café
Defendants rely on for their arguments as to this cause of action.
 
The Court notes that there are
two sentences that are not supported: “Prior to the shooting Plaintiff had no
reason to believe Quirola posed a threat; his behavior was calm and not
disruptive. Plaintiff recalled no prior instance of him visiting the
restaurant.” (Motion for Summary Judgment as to Fourth and Fifth Causes of
Action 4:27-28 [no citations presented for either sentence].)
 
“ ‘The elements of a cause of
action for negligence are well established. They are “(a) a legal duty to use
due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c)the breach as the proximate
or legal cause of the resulting injury.” ’ ” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
 
The first element, duty, ‘may be
imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special
relationship.’ ” (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128.) “[T]he existence of a duty is a question of law for
the court.” (Ky. Fried Chicken of Cal. v. Superior Court (1997) 14
Cal.4th 814, 819.) It appears Sammy’s Café Defendants foreseeability argument
is directed at the element of duty. 
 
It appears Sammy’s Café
Defendants foreseeability argument is directed at the element of duty. That, is
Sammy’s Café Defendants attack foreseeability, one of the Rowland factors
that aid in determination of duty. “In the Rowland [Rowland, supra,
69 Cal.2d at p. 113] decision, [the California Supreme Court] identified
several considerations that, when balanced together, may justify a departure
from the fundamental principle embodied in Civil Code section 1714: ‘the
foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff
suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the defendant’s conduct
and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant’s conduct,
the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant
and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with
resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of
insurance for the risk involved.’ As we have also explained, however, in the absence
of a statutory provision establishing an exception to the general rule of Civil
Code section 1714, courts should create one only where ‘clearly supported by
public policy.’ ” (Cabral v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2011) 51 Cal.4th 764,
771 [internal citations omitted].) The FAC alleges, in relevant part:
 
By this reference,
Plaintiff incorporates each and every allegation and averment set forth in
Paragraphs 1 to 49 of this Complaint as though fully set forth herein.
 
Plaintiff was shot
multiple times when the manager for CulichiTown Management Group, Inc.
requested that Plaintiff continue working and stop a fight that occurred on the
premises where CulichiTown Management Group, Inc. operates.
 
[. . .]
 
The defendants named
herein knew or reasonable should have known that their practice of serving beer
in buckets to patrons would result in patrons becoming intoxicated.
 
The defendants named
herein knew or reasonable should have known that their practice of not checking
patrons for weapons would result in patrons entering their establishment armed.
 
Plaintiff alleges
the acts and failures of defendants named herein were the legal (proximate)
cause of Plaintiff’s damages.
 
The defendants named
herein negligently owned, maintained, managed, and or operated the premises
where Plaintiff was injured
 
(FAC ¶¶ 53-55.)
 
It appears that the FAC is
alleging that Quiroga’s actions resulted from a breach of duty caused by Sammy
Café Defendant’s (1) selling of alcohol, and (2) failure to check for weapons. Sammy
Café Defendants do not address these duties. Rather, the argument presented
falls outside the scope of the pleadings as the foreseeability argument is
directed at the duty to prevent “a random criminal act by a third party”
(Motion for Summary Judgment as to the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action 6:3-6
[in relevant part: “Defendant is not liable to Plaintiff for a random criminal
act by a third party. Such acts are not foreseeable. . . Defendant discharged
that duty by hiring a security guard. . .”]) and/or a duty to hire a security
guard (see id. 8:18-27). 
 
Regarding Sammy’s Café Defendants’
primary assumption of the risk argument, Tilley cannot be as readily
applied as Sammy’s Café Defendants present. There are several key differences
between Tilley and the action at hand: (1) Tilley sued CZ, not his
employer, which led to several key analyses within the case; and (2) Tilley
confronted the potentially violent young party goers without instruction though
his job function was to “observe and report.” (See Tilly, supra,131
Cal.App.4th at 469, and 490.) Here, Plaintiff has sued the employer and related
entities (See FAC ¶ 18) and it is alleged that Sammy’s Café Defendants’ manager
requested Plaintiff to continue working and stop a fight (See FAC ¶¶ 19-20). As
to assumption of the risk, only, Tilley holds: “In this case, however, CZ is
itself the entity which is alleged to have engaged Tilley to confront
potentially violent young partygoers in Coto—an extension of the more passive ‘observe
and report’ function normally required of BonaFide security guards. Assuming
that allegation were proven, it would establish that CZ hired Tilley to
confront the very hazard which resulted in his injury, and would thus exonerate
CZ from any duty to protect him from that hazard. Under those circumstances as
well, summary judgment would be appropriate.” (Tilley, supra, 131
Cal.App.4th at 490.) Sammy’s Café Defendants present that Plaintiff’s function
was to “quell violence should it occur, and that this could include being shot
at.” (Motion for Summary Judgment as to the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action
11: 9-10.) Likewise, Sammy Café Defendants’ other cited cases requires an
examination of the nature of the particular activity and the parties'
relationship to that activity. (See Moore v. William Jessup University (2015)
243 Cal.App.4th 427, 434-35; Rosenbloom v. Hanour Corp. (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 1477 [generally]; Priebe v. Nelson (2006) 39 Cal.4th 1112, 1129-32
[discussion of veteran’s rule with kennel activities and public policy]; and Gregory
v. Cott (2014) 59 Cal.4th 996, 1000, 1008-14.) However, no evidence is
cited for this statement, Plaintiff’s function is not mentioned in the
concurrently filed Separate Statement, and the section of Plaintiff’s
deposition highlighted in the Statement of Facts section only shows what
Plaintiff’s beliefs are. An analysis as to assumption of the risk cannot be
done as no evidence has been provided as to what Plaintiff’s job function was
at the time of incident other than a general statement that he was a “security
guard.” It is unclear whether his duties as a “security guard” included
confronting armed individuals. For all this Court knows, Plaintiff’s general
duties, as he was hired for, could be observing and reporting such as Tilley,
who was also a security guard at the time of his alleged incident. Further, the
issue of the allegation that this occurred after Plaintiff’s shift ended (FAC ¶
19) and how it impacts liability has not been addressed. 
 
Finally, as to Sammy Café
Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff has no evidence of a negligent act or
omission attempts to switch the initial burden from Sammy’s Café Defendants to
Plaintiff. Sammy Café Defendants have an initial burden of proof to present facts to negate an essential
element, or to establish a defense. (See Legal Standard, ante.) The
burden does not shift until Sammy Café Defendants meet their initial
burden. Plaintiff has alleged the “negligent act or omission by Defendant that
caused the shooting to happen” in paragraphs 53 and 54 of the FAC. These
duties, or lack thereof, which led to the alleged premises liability cause of
action have not been addressed by Sammy’s Café Defendants. (See FAC ¶¶ 53-55.) As
to the evidence, the section in the Memorandum of Points and Authorities does
not contain citations; however, this argument is addressed in the concurrently
filed Separate Statement:
 
·        
Exhibit 2 to NOL, Vanegas Depo 151:15-152:3 –
This section reads:
Q. What did the
restaurant do wrong? 
A. The
restaurant, it stopped taking care of responsibility after I was protecting
everybody in that restaurant.
Q. Afterwards,
you mean?
A. They didn't
-- they didn't give me no help at all.
Q. Okay. Did
they do anything that caused the shooting to happen?
A. No.
MR. WILLOUGHBY:
As to the last question, there will be an objection; calls for a legal
conclusion.
MR LIEF: That’s
fine.
It appears that
Sammy’s Café Defendants are relying upon an answer that was objected to. “For
summary judgment purposes, a deposition objection and instruction not to answer
are not the equivalent of a factually devoid response, and therefore cannot be
used to shift the burden of production from a moving defendant to the plaintiff
under Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).” (Gaggero v. Yura (2003)
108 Cal.App.4th 884, 893.) 
·        
Exhibit 3 to NOL, Response to Request for
Admission (“RFA”) Nos. 9, 10 – RFA No. 9 reads: “Admit that prior to the
INCIDENT Propounding Party did not commit any negligent act or omission that
created the risk that an incident like the INCIDENT would happen.” RFA No. 10
reads: “Admit that prior to the INCIDENT Propounding Party did not commit any
negligent act or omission that increased the risk that an incident like the
INCIDENT would happen.” The response to each reads: “Deny.” It is unclear what
Sammy’s Café Defendants are attempting to show with this evidence as the
answers are code compliant and do not need to articulate an omission of Sammy’s
Café Defendants. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.220(b)(2).)
·        
Exhibit 4 to NOL; Related Response to
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 – Form Interrogatory 17.1 reads: “Is your response
to each request for admission served with these interrogatories an unqualified
admission? If not, for each response that is not an unqualified admission: (a)
state the number of the request; (b) state all facts on which you base your
response; state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS
who have knowledge of those facts; and (d) identify all DOCUMENTS and
other tangible things that support your response and state the name, ADDRESS,
and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT or
thing.” (DISC-001 Form at 17.1 [emphasis in original].) The responses for RFAs
9 and 10 are the same and read: “By paying Responding party in an ‘under the
table’ manner, Propounding Party engaged in criminal conduct in violation of
California law. This denied Responding Party the full benefits of employment
within the State of California. Based thereon, Propounding Party did not engage
in acts of reasonable care to protect people from criminal conduct at the
PROPERTY thereby increasing the risk of criminal activity. Propounding Party
and Propounding Party’s employees would have knowledge of these facts and
possession of any documents related thereto.” The responses to the form
interrogatories state a different duty than that alleged in the FAC. A motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication is limited to the issues raised by the
pleadings (see Lewis v. Chevron (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 690, 694), all
evidence submitted in support of or in opposition to the motion must be
addressed to the claims and defenses specifically raised in the pleadings; an
issue that is “within the general area of issues framed by the pleadings” is
properly before the court on a summary judgment or summary adjudication motion
(see Lennar Northeast Partners v. Buice (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th
1576,1582-1583; see also FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 367, 381-82). The Court cannot consider an unpled issue in the
context of its ruling on motion for summary judgment or adjudication. 
·        
Exhibit 5 to NOL, Responses to Special
Interrogatory No. 9 – Special Interrogatory No. 9 reads: “Please set forth each
act or omission by Propounding Party which you contend was both negligent and a
substantial factor in causing the INCIDENT.” Plaintiff responded: “Objection.
This discovery request seeks the legal reasoning and theories of Responding
Party’s contentions. Responding Party is not required to prepare the
propounding party’s case. (Sav-On Drugs, Inc. v. Superior Court of Los
Angeles County (1975) 15 Cal.3d 1, 5.)” Sammy’s Café Defendants did not
take issue with this response as no motions to compel further were filed in
this action. This response neither proves nor disproves Sammy Café Defendants’
argument. 
 
Thus, Sammy’s Café Defendants did
not meet their initial burden to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense as to the Fourth Cause of
Action (Premises Liability – Negligence). 
 
The Court need not address the Opposition as the burden did not shift. 
 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the Fourth Cause of Action
(Premises Liability – Negligence) is DENIED. 
 
 
b.      Fifth
Cause of Action (Willful Failure to Warn)
 
Sammy’s Café Defendants present
that Plaintiff’s Failure to Warn claim fails due to primary assumption of the
risk as already stated and Sammy’s Café Defendants had no knowledge that
Quirola was intoxicated or that he was armed, Plaintiff concedes that he does
not know if Sammy’s Café Defendants possessed that knowledge, thus there is no
evidence that Sammy’s Café Defendants was aware that Quirola was armed or
intoxicated and, as a matter of law, Defendant cannot be held liable for
failure to warn. 
The Court has addressed the
issues with Sammy’s Café Defendants’ primary assumption of the risk argument, ante.
 
There are no citations in Sammy’s
Café Defendants’ Memorandum of Points and Authorities for the knowledge
argument; however, this argument is mentioned in the concurrently filed
separate statement. Sammy’s Café Defendants rely on Exhibit 4 to NOL,
Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory No. 2.13 which reads:
 
Within 24 hours before the
INCIDENT did you or any person involved in the INCIDENT use or take any of the
following substances: alcoholic beverage, marijuana, or other drug or
medication of any kind (prescription or not)? If so, for each person state: 
(a) the name, ADDRESS, and
telephone number; 
(b) the nature or description of
each substance; 
(c) the quantity of each
substance used or taken; 
(d) the date and time of day when
each substance was used or taken; 
(e) the ADDRESS where each
substance was used or taken; 
(f) the name, ADDRESS, and
telephone number of each person who was present when each substance was used or
taken; and 
(g) the name, ADDRESS, and
telephone number of any HEALTH CARE PROVIDER who prescribed or furnished the
substance and the condition for which it was prescribed or furnished. 
 
Plaintiff has responded: “Responding
Party did not, unknown as to other individuals.”
 
Sammy’s Café Defendants have not
shown their knowledge, rather they have shown that Plaintiff does not know
whether Sammy’s Café Defendants had knowledge as to whether Quirola was
intoxicated. This form interrogatory does not ask whether anyone was armed. Sammy’s
Café Defendants improperly seek to shift the burden to Plaintiff to show that
Sammy’s Café Defendants had knowledge of Quirola’s intoxication. This is not
the standard for a motion for summary judgment. (See Legal Standard, ante.)
Without evidence of Sammy’s Café Defendants’ knowledge, Sammy’s Café
Defendants’ statement that that had no knowledge that Quirola was armed or
intoxicated is conclusory. 
 
The Court need not address the Opposition as the burden did not shift. 
 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the Fourth Cause of Action
(Premises Liability – Willful Failure to Warn) is DENIED. 
 
c.       Sixth
Cause of Action (Negligence – CA Labor Code § 3706)
 
 
As an initial matter, the parties
dispute whether Plaintiff was hired directly or through a third party. Based on
the Court’s analysis, infra, this is not an issue that is dispositive to
this motion. 
 
Sammy’s Café Defendants argue
that an employee may not bring an action under Cal. Lab. Code § 3706 against an
insured employer who merely fails to pay compensation for injuries received by
the employee in the course of his employment. Sammy’s Café Defendants direct
the Court and the parties to Pecor v. Norton-Lilly Co. (1931), 111 Cal.
App. 241, 242-243 (“Pecor”). Sammy’s Café Defendants present that the
situation in this case is identical to that in Pecor. 
 
There are no citations in Sammy’s
Café Defendants’ Memorandum of Points and Authorities for this argument;
however, this argument is mentioned in the concurrently filed Separate
Statement. Sammy’s Café Defendants direct the Court and the parties to: Exhibit
C to Lief Declaration; Amended Complaint, paragraphs 18 – 27, 67 – 82; Exhibit
A to Valdez Decl., Worker’s Compensation Policy; Exhibit B to Valdez Decl.,
Checks to Plaintiff’s Employer; and Valdez Decl., paragraph 3.
 
Ricardo Valdez (“Valdez”), the
owner of Sammy’s Café Mexican Food in 2021 attests that Exhibit A is a true and
correct copy of the applicable worker’s compensation policy in October 2021.
Exhibit A states that the policy period is from “8/11/2021 to 8/11/2022 12:01
a.m.” (Exh. A p. 1 out of 5.) The Court notes that some pages of Exhibit A say “AmTrust
North America, An AmTrust Financial Company” while others, including the page
with the policy information, states “Technology Insurance Company, Inc. A Stock
Insurance Company.” 
 
The Court notes that, though not
in a motion for summary judgment, the Court of Appeal of California, Second
Appellate District has held: “Although a jury may determine questions relevant
to workers' compensation exclusivity when the issue is raised as an affirmative
defense to common law claims, jurisdiction under Labor Code section 3706 is an
issue of law for the court to decide.” (Hollingsworth v. Heavy Transport,
Inc. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 1157, 1161.) The Court notes that Sammy’s Café
Defendants’ argument that it had worker’s compensation is Sammy’s Café
Defendants’ thirty-eighth affirmative defense in its Answer to the FAC. 
 
“ ‘The elements of a negligence
cause of action are the existence of a legal duty of care, breach of that duty,
and proximate cause resulting in injury. [Citation.] The elements of a cause of
action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty,
breach, causation, and damages.’ [Citation.]” (McIntyre v. The
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) As in any
negligence action, whether a duty was owed under the facts is a question of law
for the court. (Castaneda v. Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1213.) “The
WCA provides the exclusive remedy for an injury sustained by an employee in the
course and scope of employment. (Cal. Lab. Code, §§ 3600, subd. (a), 3602,
subd. (a); Charles J. Vacanti, M.D., Inc. v. State Comp. Ins. Fund
(2001) 24 Cal.4th 800, 813 [102 Cal. Rptr. 2d 562, 14 P.3d 234] (Vacanti).)
The workers' compensation exclusivity rule is based on the ‘presumed “compensation
bargain” ’ in which, in exchange for limitations on the amount of liability,
the employer assumes liability regardless of fault for injury arising out of
and in the course of employment. (Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1,
16 [276 Cal. Rptr. 303, 801 P.2d 1054].) The compensation bargain encompasses
both psychological and physical injury arising out of and in the course of the
employment. (Cal. Lab. Code, §§ 3600, subd. (a), 3208.3.)” (Shirvanyan v.
Los Angeles Community College Dist. (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 82, 105.)
Consequently, an injured worker's remedies against his employer or a
co-employee are (absent narrow exceptions) solely under the workers'
compensation law (i.e., there is no “common law” action against the employer or
a co-employee because, as a general rule, workers' compensation law is the
exclusive remedy for injury or death of an employee occurring in the course and
scope of employment). (See Cal. Lab. Code §§ 3600, 3601; see also Jones v.
Kaiser Industries Corp. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 552, 556.) Subject to exceptions,
workers' compensation is the only remedy available to injured employees and
their dependents against the employer or against any fellow employee
responsible for injuries “arising out of and in the course of employment.” (Cal.
Lab. Code §§ 3600-3602, 5300; Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1,
18.) There are some situations in which the injured employee may maintain a
civil action against his or her employer. These include statutory exceptions
such as: 1) physical assault by the employer; 2) aggravation of injury by the
employer's fraudulent concealment; 3) products liability cases, 4) power press
guards; and 5) the employer is uninsured. (See Cal. Lab. Code §§ 3602, 3706,
4553.) This exclusivity rule extends to co-employees, unless the co-employee
proximately causes another employee's injury or death by a “willful and
unprovoked physical act of aggression” or by intoxication. (Cal. Lab. Code, §
3601(a); see Torres v. Parkhouse Tire Service, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th
995, 1002.)
 
Cal. Lab. Code § 3706 reads: 
 
If any employer
fails to secure the payment of compensation, any injured employee or his
dependents may bring an action at law against such employer for damages, as if
this division did not apply.
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges a breach
of Cal. Lab. Code § 3706, alleging that an employer has a duty to secure the payment
of compensation by obtaining insurance from an authorized carrier or by
securing a certificate of consent from the Director of Industrial Relations to
become a self-insurer (FAC ¶ 71); failure to do so allows an injured employee
or his dependents to bring an action at law against such employer under Cal.
Lab. Code 3706 (FAC ¶ 72); Plaintiff was not covered by any worker’s
compensation “whether or not any such policy was held by Culichitown Management
Group, Inc.; Sammy's Café Mexican Food And Carlos Entertainment, Inc.; Ramon
Misael Elenes; and Norberto Manuel Perez Gutierrez” (FAC ¶ 78); and the failure
to secure a workers’ compensation policy by Sammy Café Defendants resulted in
Plaintiff being denied payment for his injuries as a result of the shooting
(FAC ¶ 79.) 
 
Under Pecor, Sammy’s Café
Defendants’ cited case, though discussing a predecessor of the current workers’
compensation laws (i.e., a requirement by § 29a of the California Workmen's
Compensation, Insurance, and Safety Act of 1917, as amended and in force at the
time of the accident referred to in the complaint, to carry insurance against
liability) holds that the failure to secure worker’s compensation is what gives
an individual a right to bring his action at law in the superior court instead
of making application for compensation by a proceeding before Industrial
Accident Commission, now Workmen’s Compensation Appeals Board. (See Pecor,
supra, 111 Cal.App. 241, 243; see also Bonilla v. ICM Resources
(2002) 67 Cal. Comp. Cases 1287, 1292 [reiterating that Pecor holding]; see
also Cal. Lab. Code §3200 [discussion of Workmen’s Compensation Appeals Board].)
That is, stated another way, an employer's obligation “ ‘to secure the payment
of compensation’ ” does not require the employer to ensure that its injured employee
actually receives compensation payments from its insurer. (See Pecor, supra,
111 Cal.App. 241, 243.)
 
The underlying incident is
alleged to have occurred on October 11, 2021. Sammy’s Café Defendants have
showna worker’s compensation policy was in place at the time of the incident,
triggering the holding of Pecor.
 
Sammy’s Café Defendants have met
their burden to negate an essential
element, or to establish a defense of the Sixth Cause of Action (Negligence – CA
Labor Code § 3706). The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto.
 
Plaintiff argues that it is not
enough for Sammy’s Café Defendants to show maintenance of a workers’
compensation insurance policy and that Cal. Lab. Code § 3706 requires that
Sammy Café Defendants show coverage for Plaintiff as an aggrieved individual. 
Plaintiff’s interpretation of the
law is unpersuasive due to the binding case precedent that this Court has cited
in its analysis, ante. 
 
As support for this argument,
Plaintiff attempts to use this Court’s January 30, 2024 Statement of Decision. The
Court takes judicial notice of the Statement of Decision pursuant to Cal. Evid.
Code § 452(d). The Court provides this tentative to make the January 30, 2024 part
of the record in the action and afford each party reasonable opportunity to
meet such information. (See Cal. Evid. Code § 455.) The Court’s decision was on
a decision based on demurrer as to the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action, not
the Sixth Cause of Action. A demurrer is subject to a different legal standard
than a motion for summary judgment. That is, a general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the
demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).) At the
demurrer hearing, Plaintiff had alleged that he was an employee at the time of
the incident and Sammy’s Café Defendants’ could not refute that alleged fact.
(See Statement of Decision at p. 6) Here, Sammy’s Café Defendants have provided
evidence showing that Plaintiff is not its employee. The Court also emphasized
that Sammy’s Café Defendants have not shown how Cal. Lab. Code § 3600(a)(2)
applies to an “under the table” employee and, because of what could be argued,
there was no showing of defects on the face of the pleading. (See Statement of
Decision at p. 7). That is, the Court has not addressed the Sixth Cause of
Action previously, rather the Court addressed whether workers’ compensation was
an exclusive remedy based on Plaintiff’s allegation that he was an “under the
table” employee at the pleading stage in the sole context of the arguments
presented by both parties. Plaintiff cannot hope to rely on the Court’s
Statement of Decision for a demurrer to show an issue of triable material fact
or a defense thereto when the scope of a motion for summary judgment is
different from that of a demurrer, the arguments presented are different, and
the evidence has refuted certain facts. 
 
While Plaintiff would like to
believe the issue of workers’ compensation is not resolved or addressed by this
Motion for Summary Judgment, it has been addressed by (1) the presentation of a
workers’ compensation policy at the time of the alleged incident, and (2) the Pecor
holding which remains binding case precedent on this Court. 
 
Plaintiff argues that Sammy’s
Café Defendants have waived their ability to use their thirty-eighth
affirmative defense as an argument as it was not included in the Answer to the
Complaint. However, Plaintiff has not provided any citations. The Court notes
that (1) the Sixth Cause of Action was not pled in the Complaint, (2) Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.40 allows a party who has filed a complaint or cross-complaint
to demur to the filed answer and Plaintiff did not do so here. The Legislature
recognized that the litigation process includes amendments to the pleadings and
provided: “A party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after a
demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not demur to
any portion of the amended complaint, cross-complaint, or answer on grounds
that could have been raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the
complaint, cross-complaint, or answer.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(b).) Accordingly,
this argument does not impact the Court’s analysis of the Sixth Cause of Action
(Negligence – CA Labor Code § 3706.) 
 
Plaintiff’s final argument,
titled “Defendants’ communication with AmTrust North America Raise a Potential
New Cause of Action for Fraud” is outside the scope of this Motion for Summary
Judgment. A motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication is limited to the issues raised by
the pleadings (see Lewis v. Chevron (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 690, 694),
all evidence submitted in support of or in opposition to the motion must be
addressed to the claims and defenses specifically raised in the pleadings; an
issue that is “within the general area of issues framed by the pleadings” is
properly before the court on a summary judgment or summary adjudication motion
(see Lennar Northeast Partners v. Buice (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th
1576,1582-1583; see also FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 367, 381-82). The Court cannot consider an unpled issue in the
context of its ruling on motion for summary judgment or adjudication. 
 
In Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, Plaintiff
states he was not provided information on Sammy’s Café Defendants’ worker’s
compensation policy. (Decl. Plaintiff ¶¶ 6-7.) Plaintiff further states that he
received a letter from AmTrust, but he did not know who they were and did not
open a claim and, later, received denial of a claim. (See Decl. Plaintiff ¶¶ 8-11.)
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration includes documents provided by AmTrust as
Exhibit B. Exhibit B shows a notice of denial of claim and Request for Medical
Evaluator Panel for unrepresented employees. This evidence does not dispute the
presentation that Sammy’s Café Defendants had a worker’s compensation policy. 
 
Accordingly, The Motion for Summary Adjudication as to
the Sixth Cause of Action (Negligence – CA Labor Code § 3706) is GRANTED. 
 
-----
 
Replies
 
Sammy’s Café Defendants filed a Reply
on May 02, 2024. The Reply notice states the following:
 
TO ALL PARIES AND
THEIR ATTORNEYS OF RECORD: PLEASE TAKE NOTICE THAT
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Sammy’s Café Mexican Food and Carlos
Entertainment, Inc., collectively “Defendants” herein submit their reply in
support of their “Motion for Summary Judgment”.
 
(Reply 1:24-26.) 
 
The
notice does not make clear which Motion for Summary Judgment it is directed
towards. However, the Memorandum of Points and Authorities makes it clear that
it is directed to the Motion for Summary Judgment as to the fourth and fifth causes of action. (See Reply 3:19-20.) This
is further supported by the CRS Reservation number, 779121196553, which is
attached to the Motion for Summary Judgment as to the fourth and fifth causes of action.
 
The Court does not rule on the evidentiary
objections as they are not relevant to the disposition of Motion for
Summary Judgment as to the fourth and
fifth causes of action. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(q).
 
The Reply to the Motion for Summary
Judgment as to the fourth and fifth
causes of action does not change the Court’s analysis. 
 
Later, on the same day, Sammy’s Café
Defendants filed their Reply to the Motion for Summary Judgment as to the sixth cause of action.
 
Sammy’s Café Defendants’ evidentiary
objections as to (1) Plaintiff’s Declaration ¶¶ 6-11 are denied as they are
relevant and dispositive to the motion; (2) Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration
paragraph 4 in its entirety and Exhibit B thereto is relevant and dispositive
to the motion. Sammy’s Café Defendants’ evidentiary objections as to
Plaintiff’s counsel’s Paragraph 6 in its entirety and Exhibit D thereto,
Paragraph 7 in its entirety, and Paragraph 8 in its entirety and Exhibit E
thereto are overruled as they are part of the Court’s record. The remainder of
the objections are not ruled upon as they are not relevant to the disposition
of Motion for Summary Judgment as
to the fourth and fifth causes of action. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(q).
 
The Reply to the Motion for Summary
Judgment as to the sixth cause of
action does not change the Court’s analysis. 
 
----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Sammy’s Café Mexican Food and Carlos Entertainment, Inc.’s Motion for Summary
Judgment as to the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action is DENIED.
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Sammy’s Café Mexican Food and Carlos Entertainment, Inc.’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication as the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action is DENIED.
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Sammy’s Café Mexican Food and Carlos Entertainment, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment
as to the Sixth Cause of Action is DENIED.
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Sammy’s Café Mexican
Food and Carlos Entertainment, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the
Sixth Cause of Action is GRANTED.