  Case Number:  23CHCV03467    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49     Date:    8/9/24     Case    Name: Liliana Castillo Onofre v.    Golden Oak Dental Group, Emil J. Simanian, and Does 1 to    25     Case No.    23CHCV03467      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    AUGUST 9, 2024    MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUEST  FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS [0012]  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case No. 23CHCV03467    Motion  filed: 5/23/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Emil J. Simanian D.D.S. RESPONDING PARTY: None. NOTICE: OK.   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court compelling Plaintiff Liliana Castillo Onofre (“Plaintiff”  or “Onofre”), to serve verified responses, without objection, to the Moving  Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and imposing monetary  sanctions against Plaintiff and her attorney of record, in the amount of  $2,610.00.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED. The request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.   BACKGROUND   On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action.  Subsequently, on January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed her operative First Amended  Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Emily J. Simanian D.D.S. (“Simanian”) and  Emily J. Simanian D.D.S, Inc. d/b/a Golden Oak Dental Group Practice of Emil J  Simanian DDS Inc (“GODGP”) (collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 to 25,  alleging (1) Medical Malpractice, (2) General Negligence, and (3) Negligence  Hiring, Training, and Supervision. Subsequently, Defendants filed their Answer  to the Complaint on February 29, 2024.    On May 23, 2024, Simanian filed the instant Motion to  Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to the Request for Production of Documents, Set  One (the “Motion”). Additionally, it requests monetary sanctions against  Plaintiff and her counsel. Subsequently, the Moving Defendant filed a  Notice of Nonopposition to Motion to Compel on August 7, 2024.      ANALYSIS   If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,  testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the  party making the demand may move for an order compelling responses and for a  monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) The party that  fails to timely respond waives any objection to the demand, including one based  on privilege or on the protection for work product, unless the Court, on  motion, determines that both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) the  party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance, and  (2) the party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,  inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)   A.     Motion to  Compel Responses to Request for Productions of Documents, Set One   Moving Defendant’s counsel (“Counsel”) attests that on  February 29, 2024, it served Plaintiff with the first set of Request for  Production of Documents, to which responses were due on April 1, 2024. (Conley  Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. “A.”) Having not received any responses by the due date,  Counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a written meet and confer letter on April 30,  2024, demanding Plaintiff to serve responses, without objection, by May 6,  2024. (Id. ¶ 4, Ex. “B.”) Subsequently, on May 2, 2024, in response to  Plaintiff’s request for an extension of two weeks, Counsel agreed to grant a  one-week extension. (Id. ¶ 6.) However, no responses had been received  as of May 21, 2024. (Id. ¶ 7.)      Given the absence of any Opposition from Plaintiff and the  records above, the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to serve a timely  response, thereby waiving any objection to the interrogatories, including those  based on privilege or the protection for work product, pursuant to Code of  Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (a).      Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Compel Responses  to Request for Production of Documents, Set One.   B.     Monetary  Sanctions   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300,  subdivision (c), “The Court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7  (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to demand for  inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject  to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust[.]”   Here, Plaintiff did not provide responses to the Request  for Production of Documents, nor file an Opposition to the Motion. Accordingly,  based on the above records and authorities, the Court finds that it is  appropriate to impose monetary sanctions.    Additionally, the Court notes that the current Motion  shares substantial similarities with separately filed discovery motions by  Defendants, which has led to a reduction in reasonable fees. In view of  the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and  reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work in  preparing the Motion is $272.50, calculated at a reasonable hourly rate of $425.00  for one-half hours reasonably spent, in addition to $60 for filing fees.    Therefore, the Court GRANTS IN PART the Moving Defendant’s request  for monetary sanctions.   CONCLUSION   The Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Request for  Production of Documents, Set One, is GRANTED.    Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified responses, without  objection, to Defendant Emil J. Simanian D.D.S.’s Request for Production of Documents,  Set One, within 20 days.    Defendant Emil J. Simanian D.D.S.’s request for monetary  sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.    Plaintiff Liliana Castillo Onofre and her attorney of  record are ordered to jointly and severally pay $272.50 to Defendant Emil J.  Simanian D.D.S.’s counsel within 20 days.    Moving party to give notice.    