 Case Number:  SC128659    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  I The court has before it an ex parte application by
Buckley to continue the trial and also to file unilateral FSC documents.  The application is GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED
IN PART. 
 
The application to continue is DENIED.  The request to file unilateral documents is
DENIED.  The “joint” documents
include  (per the court’s FSC order that
can be found on line and of which the parties have been on notice for years):
(1) the short statement of the case; (2) the jury instructions; (3) the verdict
form; (4) the witness list; (5) the exhibit list; (6) the deposition chart; and
(7) the statement of unusual issues and updated estimate of length.  In most of these cases, it is really a matter
of separate filings joined into a single document.  The witness list, for example, has a list of
witnesses each party intends to call with direct and cross examination time
estimates.  Pomerantz can object to a
witness, but cannot strike the witness from the list.  Pomerantz can think Buckley’s examination
estimates are wrong, but he cannot change them. 
Similarly, with regard to exhibits, no one is forced to stipulate to
anything.  Pomerantz can disagree with an
objection by Buckley but he cannot strike the objection.  And Pomerantz can believe that an exhibit
ought not be introduced, but he cannot strike it from the list.  Jury instructions have long been required to
be placed into a group of agreed instructions, instructions one party proposes
and to which the other objects, and vice versa. 
The deposition chart is similar. 
In other words, with the potential exception of the joint short
statement of the case, the “joint” document might well be no more than each
party’s individual document joined into a single pleading.  Buckley notes that Local Rule 3.25(f) sets
forth documents required for the FSC.  He
also acknowledges that Local Rule 3.25(g) allows for discretionary orders.  That rule expressly states that the court can
require a joint short statement of the case, a joint witness list, a joint
exhibit list, a set of agreed and opposed jury instructions, and an agreed
special verdict form.  The court believes
its rules are consistent with the Local Rules, and the parties were made aware
of them years ago.
 
All of that said, the court will GRANT the motion to the
extent that the parties need not have an oral meet and confer.  Buckley may, if he so desires, insist that
the meet and confer effort to get the joint documents submitted be done in
writing.
 
The court is aware that Pomerantz filed his summary judgment
motion late in the case.  (The court
notes that Pomerantz filed his motion on September 18, 2024; Buckley filed his
motion—later withdrawn but not for this reason—on September 20, 2024.)  Pomerantz’s motion was timely filed given the
January 6, 2025, trial date.  There is no
rule of which the court is aware that ties a summary judgment motion to the
initial trial date.  Litigants often file
summary adjudication motions toward the end of the case.  Having it granted is no cause to continue the
trial.  And in light of the law,
Pomerantz had the right to have his motion heard.
 
Further, the court has little sympathy for Buckley’s
workload.  Buckley filed a motion for
summary adjudication that he had to withdraw because it was in improper
form.  He also filed an ex parte
application to add Microsoft as a defendant on December 2, 2024, a motion for
an exception to the need for expert testimony on December 3, 2024, a
declaration regarding purportedly false representations of law and fact in
Pomerantz’s reply papers filed on December 3, 2024, an ex parte
application to limit Pomerantz’s claim for damages filed on December 12, 2024,
an ex parte application to determine that Pomerantz had violated Rule of
Professional Conduct 3-300 also filed on December 12, 2024, and an ex parte
application to shorten time for Buckley to file a motion claiming he was denied
due process, filed on December 19, 2024. 
And of course, the instant application. 
Buckley has had time to file paper after paper; he has had time to work
on the FSC materials.  
In short, the court will not make the parties talk to one
another.  But the parties have had more
than ample time to get the FSC papers done. 
The court expects compliance. 
(The court is aware of the prior declarations regarding this topic,
which it does not address today.)