 Case Number:  23SMCV04284    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  I This is a fee motion brought by Mashian following Mashian’s
successful defense of the case.  (The
decision in Mashian’s favor is presently on appeal, but that does not affect
the court’s jurisdiction over the fee motion.) 
Mashian seeks fees on two theories. 
The first is under Civil Code section 1717 on the theory that the
retainer agreement between Mashian’s law firm on the one hand and Miles on the
other hand had a fee provision.  The
other theory is under CCP section 128.5 on the theory that the case was filed
in bad faith.  The court turns first to
the 128.5 motion.  
 
CCP section 128.5 allows a party that believes a filing was
made in bad faith to seek sanctions, including attorneys’ fees, against the
party so filing.  Where possible, the law
requires that the moving party provide a safe-harbor by serving the motion at
least 30 days before filing such that if the offending paper is withdrawn the
motion will not be filed.  Here, Mashian
asserts that the safe harbor provision is inapplicable because, post-judgment,
it is too late to withdraw anything.  It
is true that it is too late to withdraw anything, but that does not fully
answer the question.  The court agrees
that there is no safe harbor requirement here, as it would be futile.  But that is only because Mashian did not
bring the 128.5 motion earlier.  This
really devolves to an end run around a malicious prosecution action, which is
how the matter ought to be resolved. 
That is not to say that there is not some bite to the claim by
Mashian.  Miles’ theory here strikes the
court as outlandish.  Essentially, the
argument is that Mashian’s law firm had a retainer agreement with Miles to do
legal work for a fee and it also had a more informal agreement with Viridity
(an entity that hoped to enter into a transaction with Miles) whereby Viridity
would pay the legal fees.  Miles’ theory
is that Mashian’s firm secretly intended to collect the same fee twice—that is,
the same work would be billed in full to both Miles and Viridity and the firm
would collect a double recovery.  This
court just does not buy the notion that the firm secretly intended a double
recovery (and then sued Miles and Viridity in order to perfect its fraudulent
scheme).  The court viewed, and views,
the arrangement such that both Viridity and Miles were responsible for the fee,
but that the fee needed to be paid but once, which is why, for example, the
retainer Viridity paid was credited against the amount owed.  Such is hardly illegal or unusual.  That said, a 128.5 motion at this stage is
the wrong way to get fees.  The 128.5
motion is DENIED.
 
That leads to the contractual fee provision.  That is an odd one.  Miles points out that Mashian is not actually
a party to the contract—Mashian’s law firm is. 
But Miles nonetheless brought this action claiming that Mashian violated
various duties imposed upon Mashian in part by virtue of the attorney/client
relationship.  While it is technically
true that the firm was the other party to the agreement, Miles cannot avoid the
fee provision in the contract when his suit is based—at least in part—on the
contract and the attorney/client relationship. 
The doctrine of equitable estoppel would permit Mashian’s motion.  Miles also claims that he is not liable for
1717 fees because his suit sounds in tort, not in contract.  But that does not answer the question.  The question is whether the fee provision is
written broadly enough to cover any dispute between the parties related to the
representation or is written narrowly so as to cover only breach of
contract.  If the former, Miles argument
will fail.  The matter was addressed in Yoon
v. Cam IX Trust  (2021) 60
Cal.App.5th 388 (as well as many other cases). 
There, a promissory note was at issue. 
The defense prevailed and sought fees. 
Plaintiff opposed asserting that its claims were based in tort
only.  The trial court disagreed and the
Court of Appeal affirmed.  The reason
there was that the torts were based on the contractual relationship and the fee
clause was written broadly enough to encompass that claim.  The same applies here.  Miles’ claims, even if they were torts, were
based on the contract and the relationship that the contract formed.  (See, e.g., SAC ¶ 28.)  And the clause is written broadly enough to
encompass that claim.  The clause states
it applies to actions “instituted between Client and Attorney for any reason.”  This is within that clause.
 
But there is a harder question.  Miles also argues that the clause only
applies to arbitrations.  Frankly, this
is his strongest claim.  Oddly, the fee
provision is not a standalone provision, as (at least in this court’s
experience) is more common.  Rather, it
is placed in the arbitration paragraph, which is (appropriately enough)
entitled “Arbitration.”  That
provision states that any “dispute concerning any services rendered or billing
or billings submitted by Attorney” shall be resolved by arbitration.  The fee clause, quoted in part above, is the
next sentence.  And then the paragraph
states that the arbitration award is final and binding.  Read in context, it is certainly a plausible
reading of the paragraph that all disputes will be arbitrated, the prevailing
party in the arbitration gets fees, and that the arbitration is a binding
one.  That is not the only reasonable
reading of the clause; the clause can also plausibly be read to say that any
dispute will result in fees to the prevailing party whether or not it is
arbitrated.  But it could hardly have
been written in a less clear manner.  To
help understand the clause better, the court has looked to see whether Mashian
made any attempt to get the case to arbitration.  That is because one, and perhaps the best,
reading of the provision is that any dispute will be decided by arbitration and
the prevailing party gets fees, but the fees ought not to be forfeit if the
prevailing party was unable to arbitrate. 
Here, the court does not see any attempt by Mashian to compel
arbitration.  However, this case is one
of three related cases, and it could well be that Mashian did try to arbitrate
here or in one of the other cases but was unsuccessful or that there was some
other reason why, through no fault of his own, Mashian was unable to move the
case to an arbitral forum.  The court
will inquire as to whether such is the case. 
If it is, then the court would be inclined to grant the motion.  If not, the matter is not so simple.  Frankly, were this a more typical contract
with a standalone fee shifting provision, the motion would be granted.  But the court must take the contract as it
finds the contract.
 
The contract is poorly and ambiguously written.  And here, Mashian (or his law firm) drafted
the agreement, not Miles.  While hardly
the most robust maxim of jurisprudence, where other rules of interpretation do
not resolve an ambiguity “the language of a contract should be interpreted most
strongly against the party who caused the uncertainty to exist.”  (Civ. Code sec. 1654.)  The court is somewhat at a loss as to why the
fee provision was written this way, but it will inquire.  In sum, no one has presented any parol
evidence as to this clause’s meaning, and in the court’s view the most
plausible reading—especially in light of the ambiguity Mashian’s law firm
created—is that fees are recoverable in an arbitration and also in litigation
where arbitration was not allowed through no fault of the party seeking
fees.  Because this is an argument no one
briefed, the court will CONTINUE this motion to allow further briefing on that
issue.
 