  Case Number:  21SMCV00674    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion for renewal or reconsideration of a
decision denying a prior motion for summary judgment.  The motion was heard and denied on September
16, 2022—over two years ago—by a different judge.  Preliminarily, the court notes that it had
earlier questioned whether it had jurisdiction to reconsider a decision by
another sitting judge.  Miles is correct
that the court does have jurisdiction. 
The prior judge is recused based on a 170.6 motion, and that judge is
therefore unavailable to hear the instant motion.
 
A motion for reconsideration or renewal is governed by CCP
section 1008.  Generally, it must be
brought within 10 days, although the 10 day period does not apply to a renewed
motion, and, of course, a court always has inherent authority to reconsider a
prior order before the case is fully resolved. 
While the 10 day limit might not apply, here there was a two year
gap.  Even a renewed motion must be made
within a time supported by reasonable diligence.  That is just too long to come within section
1008 and the motion is DENIED on that basis. 
But even were the court to consider this as just a renewed motion for
summary judgment or adjudication, it would be denied.  The court has reviewed the moving papers, but
they are not sufficient to shift the burden. 
The thrust of the motion is that Mashian in the past claimed in
declarations to have personal knowledge of facts but in some discovery responses
verified on information and belief—which suggests less than personal
knowledge.  Read in context, his smoking
gun is just not smoking.  (And even if it
were, Miles received the discovery responses in October 2022, yet this motion
was filed on September 25, 2024.) 
The court sees no inconsistency there, let alone one rising to the level
of perjury (as Miles asserts).  Nor is
there a want of consideration for the contract. 
Whether the informal Viridity contract came first or the more formal
retainer agreement with Miles, there was consideration.  The consideration offered by the firm was
that it would do the legal work; the consideration it got was that both
Viridity and Miles would collectively be responsible for the fee.  Miles insists that the two contracts were
hermetically sealed—siloed off from one another as if they were two
representations.  That, simply put, is
not the only reasonable interpretation of the transaction—it is not even the
more reasonable interpretation.  The more
reasonable interpretation is that Mashian’s firm viewed the two agreements
together as related to one another. 
Certainly, for summary judgment purposes, the court need not find that,
as a matter of law, the two contracts were sufficiently unrelated so that upon
entry of one there was no consideration for the other.  As an aside, the court does not believe that
this was the keystone of Judge Mandel’s earlier decision either.  Her decision was based, as it states, on
Miles’ failure to meet his initial burden.
 
In short, for a host of reasons, the renewed motion for
summary judgment is DENIED.
 