  Case Number:  23LBCV00563    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  S25 Procedural BackgroundOn March 28, 2023, Plaintiffs Keishawn Spells and Reathell (“Plaintiffs”) filed personal injury action against Defendant Fatemeh Sabetsarvestanian (“Defendant”) for motor vehicle and general negligence. On November 29, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff Spells and Plaintiff Veal with a Request for Documents (Set One). On January 17, 2024, Plaintiffs returned unverified responses consistently of objections and no substantive or responsive documents. Plaintiffs requested and received a 30-day extension to complete these responses. No further responses were received. On February 23, 2024, Defendant provided another 7-day extension to respond. No further responses were provided. On April 15, 2024, Defendant filed these Motions to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One) from Plaintiffs. While Plaintiffs expressly do not oppose the motions, both request more time to respond due to health and family issues. Defendant requests Plaintiffs be ordered to further respond, without objection, and seeks $935 in sanctions be awarded against Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs’ counsel.AnalysisOn receipt of a response to an inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(a).) A statement of compliance shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.220.) “A representation of inability to comply with [a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. This statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.)A motion to compel further response to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b)(1).) If “good cause” is shown by the moving party, the burden is shifted responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully answer the interrogatories. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)Where the court grants a motion to compel further responses, sanctions shall be imposed against the party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300.)Since late November 2023, Plaintiffs have had the opportunity to provide responses and documents. Yet, Plaintiffs have only provided blanket objections and produced zero documents. Defendant states that there is good cause for the production of the documents because these documents are necessary (1) to prepare the defense of the case and (2) are relevant in determining liability and the Plaintiff’s damages. Specifically, Plaintiff has not produced any photographs of damage to her vehicle, medical records or bills supporting her alleged injuries, nor documents pertaining to her loss of earnings claim.Plaintiffs expressly do not oppose the motions but request more time to respond due to health and family issues.The Court finds that Plaintiffs have not provided produce basic and required documentation requested by Defendant. Though neither expressly oppose the motions, thus conceding the arguments in the moving papers, Plaintiffs request more time to respond. Admittingly, Plaintiffs may be experiencing health issues, however, the ongoing health issues do not sufficiently justify their lack of responsive, substantive, and basic documentation to Defendant. Plaintiffs voluntarily pursued this case and cannot simply abandon their discovery obligations.RulingFor the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS both of Defendant’s Motions to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents. Plaintiffs Spell and Plaintiff Veal are ordered to provide further responses to Request for Production of Documents Nos. 1-22 without objection within 10 days of the date of this ruling.The Court declines to impose monetary sanctions against either Plaintiff or Plaintiffs’ counsel due to Plaintiffs’ health concerns. Sanctions will be considered, however, if Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs’ counsel continue to fail to meaningfully participate in any remaining outstanding discovery obligations.Moving Party is ordered to give notice.TENTATIVE RULING: The Court grants Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Reathell Veal’s Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set One) and Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Keishawn Spells’ Further Responses to to Request for Production of Documents s (Set One). Plaintiff Spell and Plaintiff Veals are ordered to provide further responses to Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, without objection, within 10 days of the date of this ruling.The Court declines to impose monetary sanctions against the Plaintiffs or Plaintiffs’ counsel.