 Case Number:  23LBCV01532    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  S25 Procedural BackgroundPlaintiff Filoteo brings this complaint alleging Defendant Velez negligently operated a motor vehicle, while in the scope and scope of his employment for Defendant Classic Distribution, which caused injury to Plaintiff. Defendants Velez and Classic Distribution now move for a court order to compel Pledge Medical, one of Plaintiff’s medical providers, to comply with their February 28, 2024 Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records. Defendants Velez and Classic Distribution request monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,660.00.AnalysisDefendants Velez and Classic Distribution’s subpoena requests a wide range of medical documents from Pledge Medical. In addition to Plaintiff’s medical records regarding treatment received after the motor vehicle incident involving Defendant Velez, the subpoena also requests numerous documents regarding non-party patients, specifically patients that Plaintiff’s counsel – The Law Office of Larry H. Parker – referred to Pledge Medical for medical treatment. (Req. for Production of Documents, Nos. 1-17). Additionally, the subpoena seeks records of other similarly situated patients as Plaintiff even if they were not referred by Plaintiff’s counsel. (Req. for Production of Documents, Nos. 18-43).Relying primarily on Qaadir v. Figueroa (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 780, Defendant Velez and Classic Distribution maintain the whether a plaintiff’s attorney referred the client to a lien-physician is relevant and pertinent to the “question of the reasonable value of the lien physicians medical care as it may show bias or financial incentives on the part of the lien-physicians.” Id, at p. 808. In short, Defendant Velez and Classic Distribution are seeking information on the “relationship” between Plaintiff’s counsel and Pledge Medical. Secondarily, Defendant Velez and Classic Distribution seek information on the billing practices of Pledge Medical for non-party patients with injuries and treatment like that of Plaintiff in order to ascertain whether Pledge Medical billing for Plaintiff’s care was reasonable.Pledge Medical is not contesting any requests relating to Plaintiff’s care and treatment. Instead, in opposition, Pledge Medical argues that the broad scope of the subpoena: (1) is invalid for failure to notify patients for whose information is being requested (Code Civ. Proc. §1985.3), (2) seeks irrelevant information, and (3) violates the patients’ right to privacy. Further, Pledge Medical suggests any concern related to the reasonableness of medical bills can be resolved by expert testimony.Code Civ. Proc. §1985.3 includes pharmacy, hospital, and medical records under its definition of “personal records”. These are the type of records the subpoena seeks. A “consumer” under the statue is defined as “any individual”, which clearly covers Pledge Medical’s patients. Yet, Code Civ. Proc. §1985.3(i) exempts notice where the custodian of records deletes the identifying information. As Defendants Velez and Classic Distribution requested that Pledge Medical redact the documents upon production, the Court agrees that redacted documents are exempt from the notice requirement.“Although the scope of civil discovery is broad, it is not limitless.” (Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court, (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 233.) “The discovery methods available against nonparties are more limited…The distinction between parties and nonparties reflects the notion that, by engaging in litigation, the parties should be subject to the full panoply of discovery devices, while nonparty witnesses should be somewhat protected from the burdensome demands of litigation.’ ” (Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court of Orange County 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1033.)Upon review of the subpoena, it appears there are 43 individual requests not directly pertaining to Plaintiff. Of those 43 requests, 14 of those requests solicit information regarding non-party patients referred by Plaintiff’s counsel and 24 of those requests solicit information regarding non-party patients not referred by Plaintiff’s counsel but who shared either similar injuries or treatment methods with Plaintiff.Defendants rely heavily on Qaadir to suggest the documents requested are relevant to demonstrate whether Plaintiff’s claimed damages are reasonable or influenced by bias from the lien-physicians expecting payment. In Qaadir, the referral evidence described was evidence that Qaadir’s attorney referred him to the lien-physicians. Qaadir, at p. 808. There is no discussion regarding whether Qaadir’s attorney referred other clients to thelien-physician. At trial, Defendants’ counsel may likely explore whether Plaintiff was referred to Pledge Medical by Plaintiff’s counsel to show bias or to suggest a financial interest to inflate billing. Further, to determine whether Pledge Medical billing was reasonable, there is no justification to place the burdensome request on Pledge Medical to produce non-party medical and billing records of individuals who had same or similar injuries as Plaintiff. Determination of the reasonableness of the treatment and costs incurred can be established through expert witness testimony.The Court finds the demands of the subpoena, excluding those directly related to Plaintiff’s treatment and billing, are irrelevant and overly burdensome. Further, there are alternative means of obtaining the information sought. Accordingly, Defendant Velez and Classic Distribution’s Motion is DENIED.Defendant Velez and Classic Distribution’s request for sanctions and Pledge Medical’s request for reimbursement for the fees incurred in opposing the Motion are both DENIED.TENTATIVE RULING: Defendants Velez and Classic Distributing’s Motion to Compel Pledge Medical to Comply with the Subpoena for Production of Business Records is DENIED. The Court declines to award sanctions to either party.