  Case Number:  21SMCV00307    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  N Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant's Appleton Way, LLC’s Motion for an Order to Compel Responses to Request for Admissions and That the Truth of the Matters Specified in Requests for Admissions, Set One, Be Deemed Admitted; Request for Sanctions in the Amount of $1,600.00 [sic] is OFF CALENDAR AS WITHDRAWN.  Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amy Goldman’s Motion to Compel Further Response to Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Appleton Way, LLC shall provide code-compliant responses to Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amy Goldman’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1 to 9, without objections, within thirty (30) days of entry of this order. Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amy Goldman’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amy Goldman’s Motion to Compel Further Response to Special Interrogatories, Set One; Request for Monetary Sanctions in the Amount of $1800If a party that has propounded interrogatories believes that the responses received are evasive or incomplete, or that an objection to the interrogatories is without merit or too general, the propounding party may bring a motion to compel further responses to the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a); see also Best Products, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1189-1190 [motion to compel proper to challenge “boilerplate” responses].)“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response” to the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c).) This timeliness requirement is mandatory, and in some sense may even be considered a matter of jurisdiction, and the Court therefore “[has] no power to make an order compelling further answers where the propounding party failed to serve this motion within the statutory time.” (Prof’l Career Colls., Magna Inst., Inc. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 490, 493; see also Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681 [same].)   A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b).) A meet and confer declaration must “state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a) requires that any motion to compel further responses to discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further./Cross-DThe Court has reviewed Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amy Goldman (“Defendant”)’s special interrogatories at issue in the motion, as well as Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Appleton Way, LLC (“Plaintiff”)’s responses to the same and rules as follows: Plaintiff must supplement its responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 1 to 9, as Plaintiff merely repeats the same boilerplate objections without attempting to respond to the requests. For example, Plaintiff states the interrogatory is unduly burdensome and vague as time to scope when asked to state the dollar amount of its alleged damages. If Plaintiff is unable to state its damages, it is unclear how its claim may proceed or be successful before a trier of fact. The requests relate to Plaintiff’s claims, so Plaintiff is aware of the time and scope and shall respond accordingly. In a supplemental declaration, Defendant represents that Plaintiff has served supplemental responses, but they reference documents without specifying how those identified pages support the request. Thus, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amy Goldman’s Motion to Compel Further Response to Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Appleton Way, LLC shall provide code-compliant responses to Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amy Goldman’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1 to 9, without objections, within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.ConclusionThe Court takes care to note that this appears to be the beginning of what may be several planned discovery motions, as there is also an Informal Discovery Conference set for June 27, 2024 regarding two different sets of discovery. The present motions do not demonstrate meaningful attempts to resolve these issues without court intervention, and the Court presently lacks confidence that the parties and their attorneys will attempt to resolve any issues informally without resorting to motion practice. The parties are advised that the Court may deem it proper to appoint a discovery referee in this action to resolve discovery disputes if the parties cannot do so without court intervention, as the Court lacks the resources to hear an excessive number of discovery motions. The Court encourages the parties to resolve their disputes, discovery or otherwise, informally to avoid the costs of a discovery referee.The Court also asks defense counsel to refrain from highlighting portions of any documents filed with the Court unless absolutely necessary. It is improper to highlight filings in various colors as a way to emphasize headings or certain lines, and it does not aid the Court’s analysis in any way. Defense counsel is also reminded of the formatting requirements set forth in rule 2.108 of the California Rules of Court, which states that lines in a filing, including in a separate statement, must be one and one-half spaced or double-spaced unless the text is a description of real property, footnote, quotation, or printed form of corporate surety bond or undertaking.