 Case Number:  24PSCV00219    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT
FALCK USA’S DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED with leave
to amend (re: 1st COA (improper lumping of defendants) and 3rd
COA (mother did not have contemporaneous awareness that fever was
causing anoxic brain injury; the injury is not the fever). 
 
Background
 
This is a
negligence case. Plaintiff Angela Tapias (“Plaintiff” or “minor”), by and
through her Guardian ad Litem Hortencia Tapias, and Hortencia Tapias (“mother”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege the following against Defendants CARE
AMBULANCE SERVICE, INC (the “Ambulance”).; FALCK USA;[1]
LOS ANGELES COUNTY FIRE DEPARTMENT (the “Fire Department”); COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES (the “County”); EMANATE HEALTH QUEEN OF THE VALLEY HOSPITAL (“Emanate”
or “Hospital”) (collectively, “Defendants”): On January 23, 2023, Plaintiff,
then a 5-year-old, started to have symptoms consistent with an upper
respiratory infection. On January 28, 2023, she was diagnosed with pneumonia,
but later that day, Plaintiff’s mother called 911 as Plaintiff started to have
fevers and chills. Neither the Fire Department nor the Ambulance took
Plaintiff’s body temperature or implemented treatment modalities to lower
Plaintiff’s body temperature, which, upon arrival at the Hospital, was 108
degrees Fahrenheit. She was transferred to Miller Children’s Hospital PICU for
further care where she tested positive for human metapneumovirus, and
entero/rhinovirus and her scans showed anoxic brain injury. She the time of her
discharge, she was doing better, but due to the global anoxic brain injury, she
currently has the intellectual capacity of a 2-year-old and will require indefinite
around-the-clock care. As for Plaintiff’s mother, she suffered by way of
experiencing and witnessing the foregoing.  
 
On January
22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed suit against Defendants for: 1.    
Professional
Negligence 2.    
Violation
of Government Code section 815.2 3.    
Negligence
On February
15, 2024, Emanate filed a demurrer as to the 3rd COA (NIED), which
the court sustained on 3/28/24 with leave to amend (as the complaint did not
allege an injury-producing event). 
 
On May 29,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint (FAC) realleging the same
COAs.
 
On June 12,
2024, Emanate filed its answer.
 
On June 28,
2024, the County filed its answer.
 
On August 7,
2024, Defendant FALCK USA (“Falck”) filed the instant demurrer.
 
On August 22,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition.
 
On August 27,
2024, Falck filed its reply.
 
Discussion
 
Falck files
this instant demurrer on the grounds that the First and Third COAs for
Professional Negligence and Negligence, respectively, fail to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action against Falck and is uncertain. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10 (e)-(f).)
 
1.    
1st
COA
Defendant
argues that the fact that Falck is the parent company of CAS does not mean that
Falck is automatically liable for the actions of CAS, which is also named as a
defendant. (Demurrer p. 7, citing Davidson v. Seterus, Inc. (2018) 21
Cal. App. 5th 283, 305; United States v. Bestfoods (1998) 524 US 51, 61 [a
parent corporation is not liable for the act of its subsidiaries].)
 
However, as
noted in opposition, the allegations are not limited to liability solely by way
of being a parent company to CAS, but also Falck’s actions in regards to
the treatment of the minor. Notwithstanding, in reply, Falck clarifies that the
allegations fail to differentiate between the actions of Falck and the actions
of CAS. (Reply p. 2.) 
 
Here, the court agrees as Plaintiffs lump together Falck
and CAS, alleging that they both were dispatched, both arrived at the scene,
and both attended to Angela Tapias. (FAC ¶16.) Generally, it is improper to lump allegations against
multiple defendants. (See, e.g., Moore
v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (1990) 51 Cal. 3d 120, 125 n.1 & 134 n.12; Wilson
v. Household Fin. Corp. (1982) 131 Cal. App. 3d 649, 653 [noting that
plaintiff cannot allege claim against defendant HFC by merely lumping it together with the other defendant, as HFC did
not have duties of an insurer].) Pleadings like this that assert claims against multiple defendants
without specifying which defendants are liable for which acts or omissions make
it difficult for Defendants to make informed responses to a plaintiff's
allegations. 
 
Therefore, on the grounds of uncertainty, the demurrer as
to the 1st COA is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
2.    
3rd
COA 
The injury-producing event is
alleged as follows: “Ms. Tapias witnessed CAS and FALCK’s failure to evaluate and treat
Baby Tapis, and also witnessed CAS and FALCK’S failure to measure or monitor
Baby Tapias’ body temperature or provide any treatment to lower Baby Tapias’
body temperature.” (¶51.) However,
as noted by Falck, the fever that Falck/CAS allegedly failed to treat is not
the injury at issue; the crux of the action is that the injury at issue
is the global anoxic brain injury, which was an injury discovered until days
after the minor left Falck’s care (Demurrer p. 9.) (Plaintiffs were with Falck for about a twelve-minute
priod.) As articulated in Bird v. Saenz (2002) 28 Cal.4th 910 witnessing the consequences is not enough. (Id.
at p. 921 [“Such liability will not lie ‘based on nothing more than a
bystander's ‘observation of the results of
the defendant's infliction of harm,’ however ‘direct and contemporaneous.’”].) 
 
To the extent
that Plaintiffs rely upon Ochoa v.
Superior Court (1985)
39 Cal.3d 159, 216 Cal.Rptr. 661, 703 P.2d 1 (Ochoa), that case is inapposite. There,
the plaintiff was a mother whose teenage son had died of pneumonia while
detained in juvenile hall. The mother saw her son go “into convulsions and ...
hallucinating and heard him when he complained of feeling very sick and of
feeling pain” and she pleaded for him to get proper medical treatment (id. at
pp. 162-163), but her requests were denied. There, “the injury-producing
event was the failure of custodial authorities to respond significantly
to symptoms obviously requiring immediate medical attention. Such a
failure to provide medical assistance, as opposed to a misdiagnosis,
unsuccessful treatment, or treatment that turns out to have been inappropriate
only in retrospect, is not necessarily hidden from the understanding awareness
of a layperson.” (Bird, supra, 28 Cal. 4th at p. 919-920, emphasis
added.) The court allowed the mother to recover. (Id. at p. 170.)  
 
Here, unlike Ochoa wherein the mother repeatedly
spoke with juvenile hall authorities about her son’s lack of care, there is no
allegation of the mother pleading for help or even communicating with either
Falck or CAS during the brief transport to the hospital. (Reply p. 5.) Moreover, the discussion section
on the mother’s claim for violations of constitutional prohibitions against
cruel and unusual punishment provides more detail as to why the mother was
allowed to recover under the bystander theory. (Ochoa, supra, 39
Cal.3d at pp. 173-177.) The California Supreme Court found that “there is no question that the treatment received by
Rudy Ochoa under the circumstances was ‘woefully inadequate.’” (Id. at
p. 177.) His condition—soaring temperature, dehydration, vomiting, and
hallucinations—“indicated, event to a layperson, that emergency measures
were needed.” (Ibid, emphasis added.) Despite the “alarming”
symptoms, required tests were not undertaken to diagnose him. Essentially, the
son was ignored, hence the determination that the facts sufficiently alleged
defendant’s lack of response rose to the level of deliberate indifference
contemplated under 42 USC section 1983. Here, however, Falck was providing
emergency services. Instead, Plaintiffs’ allegations are that Falck’s care was inadequate. (See
FAC ¶32.) And in cases involving medical negligence, the court in
Bird has emphasized that a plaintiff cannot meaningfully perceive an
injury producing event because “misdiagnosis is beyond the awareness of lay
bystanders.” (Bird, supra, 28 Cal.4th at 917-918.)
 
Thus, as observed by Falck, these facts are more similar to the cases
wherein the family members learn of the injury-producing event after witnessing
the pain-ridden deterioration of the
patient. (See e.g., Jansen v. Children’s Hospital Medical Center (1973)
31 Cal.App.3d. 22 [mother precluded from NIED
recovery because she later learned that her child's death was due to the
failure to diagnose an ulcer]; Golstein v. Superior Court (1990)
223 Cal.App.3d 1415 [the parents of a child with curable cancer watched as he
underwent radiation therapy. It was only later that it was discovered that the
child had been lethally overexposed, when he developed symptoms of radiation
poisoning]; Meighan v. Shore (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 1025 [wife became aware of
husband’s heart attack the next day even though she went with him for
cardiology visit].)
 
In sum, while the mother may have been aware that her child had a high
fever, she could not have understood that it was causing the anoxic brain
injury. To the extent that Plaintiffs are not alleging the anoxic brain injury
as the injury-producing event, then the complaint could again use more clarity.

 
Therefore, the court sustains the demurrer as to the 3rd COA
with leave to amend.   
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend. 


