 Case Number:  22STCP00098    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Wednesday, May 29, 2024

Case Name:                            Diane Albertoni
v. Los Angeles Unified School District
Case No.:                                22STCP00098 
Motion:                                  (1) Demurrer
to First Amended Petition for Writ of Mandate and                                       Other Related Causes of Action
                                                (2)
Motion to Strike 
Moving Party:                         Respondent Los Angeles
Unified School District 
Responding Party:                  Petitioner Diane Albertoni
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                        Respondent LAUSD’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  The motion to strike is MOOT.  
                                    Respondent
LAUSD to give notice.
 
BACKGROUND
            Petitioner Diane Albertoni is a
school psychologist employed by Respondent Los Angeles Unified School District
(“LAUSD”).  Respondent LAUSD denied
Petitioner’s request for a reasonable accommodation to allow her to work
off-site rather than onsite at an LAUSD location.  Petitioner claims the decision was made after
an administrative hearing where she was denied an opportunity to be heard.  
            Petitioner filed a Petition for Writ
of Mandate and Related Causes of Action on January 10, 2022.  Petitioner filed a First Amended Petition for
Writ of Mandate and Related Causes of Action (“FAP”) on March 17, 2022.  Petitioner filed the operative Second Amended
Verified Petition (“SAP”) on January 17, 2023 alleging (1) Petition for Writ of
Mandate; (2) Negligence; and (3) Declaratory Relief.
            This action was originally assigned
to Department 86, the Hon. Mitchell L. Beckloff, for hearing on the Petition
for Writ of Mandate.  The Court stayed
the action as to the negligence cause of action pending resolution of the
Petition for Writ of Mandate.  On January
24, 2024, the Court denied the Petition for Writ of Mandate.  The remaining second cause of action was
subsequently transferred to Department 20. 

            On April 9, 2024, Respondent LAUSD
filed the demurrer and motion to strike currently before the Court.  On May 15, 2024, Petitioner Albertoni filed
an opposition to the demurrer and motion to strike.  On May 20, 2024, Respondent LAUSD filed a
reply to the opposition.
DISCUSSION
Applicable
Law
            A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirada (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  At the
pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to
apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him.  (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.
App. 3d 714, 721.)  On a demurrer, the
Court must accept as true all factual allegations in the complaint.  (Nealy v. County of Orange (2020) 54
Cal.App.5th 594, 597.)  “The demurrer
tests the pleading alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters which
do not appear on the face of the pleading or cannot be properly inferred from
the factual allegations of the complaint.” (Bach v. McNelis (1989) 207
Cal.App.3d 852, 864; Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d
868, 881 (error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer).)  A “demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible
in law.”  (S. Shore Land Co. v.
Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732.)  

 
            “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.” (CCP §436.)
            Pursuant to CCP §436, the Court may
strike out “any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading”
and/or “all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (CCP §436.) In
ruling on a motion to strike, the allegations in the complaint are considered
in context and presumed to be true: “[J]udges read allegations of a pleading
subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume
their truth.” (Clauson v. Sup.Ct. (Pedus Services, Inc.) (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
Application
to Facts
            Parties’ Positions
            LAUSD demurs to the negligence cause
of action on two grounds:  (1) Albertoni
failed to file a claim with LAUSD pursuant to the Government Tort Claims Act;
and (2) LAUSD is a public entity and cannot be sued for common law negligence
absent a statute or law that compels it to give notice to Plaintiff of when it
will conduct its inquiry into her reasonable accommodation request.  
            LAUSD also moves to strike Albertoni’s
request for attorney’s fees and punitive damages.  LAUSD argues it is a public entity and
Albertoni may not recover punitive damages against per Government Code
§818.  LAUSD argues no other statute is
identified that would allow for punitive damages notwithstanding Government
Code §818.  LAUSD argues there is also no
statute, law or contract cited that would allow for recovery of attorney’s
fees.  
            In opposition, Albertoni argues her
claims for failure to provide reasonable accommodation are sufficiently pled
against LAUSD.  Albertoni argues LAUSD
owed her a duty to comply with its own bulletin, which required the site
administrator/designee to acknowledge and meet with her regarding her request, to
review and consider the particular job position, to assess how these barriers
could be overcome with reasonable accommodation, to identify any potential
accommodations and to document the results of interactive process.  Albertoni argues she is entitled to
attorney’s fees pursuant to Government Code §12965(b), which allows recovery of
attorney’s fees based on a FEHA violation. 
Albertoni asks that leave to amend be granted if the Court sustains the
demurrer.  
            In reply, LAUSD argues the
opposition briefs were filed and served on May 15, 2024, which was untimely
based on the original hearing date of May 6, 2024.  The Court continued the hearing date to May
29, 2024 but did not reopen the briefing schedule. LAUSD asks that the
opposition be stricken as untimely.  
            LAUSD argues Albertoni fails to
respond to her failure to allege compliance with the Tort Claims Act.  LAUSD argues that the failure to address it
is a tacit admission of its merits. 
LAUSD argues demurrer must be sustained without leave to amend on this
ground alone.
            LAUSD argues the negligence claim
fails because Albertoni did not allege any statutory basis for her negligence
claim.  LAUSD is a public identity and
common law claims are disallowed against it. 
LAUSD argues the alleged breaches of duty identified in the SAP were
already resolved in connection with the Petition for Writ of Mandate.
            Albertoni fails to allege
compliance with the claims presentation requirement under the Tort Claims Act
            Govt. Code § 945.4 provides:  “Except as provided in Sections 946.4 and
946.6, no suit for money or damages may be brought against a public entity on a
cause of action for which a claim is required to be presented in accordance
with Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 910) of Part 3 of this division until a written claim therefor has been
presented to the public entity and has been acted upon by the board, or has
been deemed to have been rejected by the board, in accordance with Chapters 1
and 2 of Part 3 of this division.”
            “The procedural requirements for
claim presentation are prerequisites to litigation against a local public
entity or employee thereof based not only on tort liability, but on any claim
for ‘money or damages.’ (§ 905.) A cause of action that is subject to the
statutory claim procedure must allege either that the plaintiff complied with
the claims presentation requirement, or that a recognized exception or excuse
for noncompliance exists.”  (Gong v.
City of Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 374.)
            “[A] plaintiff may allege compliance
with the claims presentation requirement in the Government Claims Act by
including a general allegation that he or she timely complied with the claims
statute.”  (Esparza v. Kaweah Delta
Dist. Hosp. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 547, 552 (quoting Perez v. Golden
Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1237); Gong, supra,
226 Cal.App.4th at 374.)  Because the
claims presentation requirement is a “condition precedent” to filing a
complaint against a public entity, CCP §459 applies and under section 459,
“[i]n pleading the performance of conditions precedent under a statute ..., it
is not necessary to state the facts showing such performance, but it may be
stated generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part
required thereby…”  (CCP §459; Perez,
supra, 209 Cal.App.4th at 1236.)  
            Thus, an allegation that “plaintiff
filed a timely claim complying with the required claims statute” is sufficient
to plead compliance with GC §945.4.  (See
Perez, supra, 209 Cal.App.4th at 1237.) 
The general allegation of compliance in the Judicial Council form
complaint PLD-PI-001 that “Plaintiff is required to comply with a claims
statute, and … has complied with applicable claims statutes…” is sufficient to
plead compliance with GC §945.4.  (See
Esparza, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at 555.  
            However, “[w]here a pleading
includes a general allegation, such as an allegation of an ultimate fact, as
well as specific allegations that add details or explanatory facts, it is
possible that a conflict or inconsistency will exist between the general allegation
and the specific allegations. To handle these contradictions, California courts
have adopted the principle that specific allegations in a complaint control
over an inconsistent general allegation. 
Under this principle, it is possible that specific allegations will
render a complaint defective when the general allegations, standing alone,
might have been sufficient.”  (Perez,
supra, 209 Cal.App.4th at 1235–1236 (specific allegations regarding
claims could be reasonably interpreted as consistent with general allegation
thereof and as such, general allegation sufficient to plead compliance).  “Where a pleading includes a general
allegation and an inconsistent specific allegation, the specific allegation
controls over the inconsistent general allegation.”  (Esparza v. Kaweah Delta Dist. Hospital,
supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at 552.)  
            LAUSD’s demurrer is sustained with
20 days leave to amend.  Albertoni fails
to allege compliance with the claims procedure required under the Government
Tort Claims Act.  Compliance is an
essential element of any claim against a public entity and must be pled in the
complaint.  (Gong, supra,
226 Cal.App.4th at 374.)  
            Albertoni fails to allege a
statutory basis for liability against LAUSD
            “Except as otherwise provided by
statute: (a) A public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury
arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or
any other person. (b) The liability of a public entity established by this part
(commencing with Section 814) is subject to any immunity of the public entity
provided by statute, including this part, and is subject to any defenses that
would be available to the public entity if it were a private person.”  (Gov. C. §815.)  
            “The Government Claims Act abolished
common law tort liability and immunity for public entities, replacing it with a
comprehensive statutory scheme governing the liabilities and immunities of
public entities and public employees for torts.”  (Leon v. County of Riverside (2023) 14
Cal.5th 910, 918.)  “Under the
Government Claims Act, there is no common law tort liability for public
entities in California; such liability is wholly statutory.”  (McCarty v. State of California Dept. of
Transp. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 955, 975.)
            LAUSD’s demurrer is sustained with
20 days leave to amend.  Albertoni
alleges common law negligence against LAUSD. 
Albertoni fails to allege any statutory basis for LAUSD’s liability in
the complaint but references FEHA in her opposition.  
            Demurrer is sustained with 20
days leave to amend and Motion to Strike is moot
            Albertoni fails to state a cause of
action against LAUSD.  Demurrer is
therefore sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  The motion to strike is moot.  
                                                            CONCLUSION
            Respondent LAUSD’s Demurrer is
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
The motion to strike is MOOT.  
            Respondent LAUSD to give notice.
            If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.