 Case Number:  22STCV38963.    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative RulingJudge Kevin C. BrazileDepartment 20Hearing Date:                         Wednesday, May 29, 2024Case Name:                             Leonard, et al. v. 6834 De Celis, LLCCase No.:                                22STCV38963Motion:                                  Motion to Compel FurtherMoving Party:                         Plaintiffs Travis Leonard, et al.Responding Party:                  Defendant 6834 De Celis, LLCNotice:                                    OK  Ruling:                                  The Motion to Compel Further is GRANTED. Monetary sanctions are awarded to Plaintiffs in the amount of $1,200.00. Moving Party to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect.  BACKGROUND            On December 15, 2022, Plaintiffs Travis Leonard, Donnie Fazard Hosein, Nhu Quynh Nguyen, Keisha Sharon Alfred, Peter Smith, Phenisha Gary, Lashaunda Bell, and Darlene Taylor filed a Complaint against Defendant 6834 De Celis, LLC for violations of building standards for original construction.            On December 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants 6834 De Celis, LLC and Zvika Lipman alleging (1) violations of building standards for original construction pursuant to California Civil Code sections 896 et seq and 897; (2) negligence by Plaintiffs Keisha Sharon Alfred and Peter Smith against Builder Defendants; (3) Negligence by Plaintiff Darlene Taylor against Builder Defendants; (4) Negligence by Plaintiffs Phenisha Gary and Lashaunda Bell against Builder Defendants; and (5) Negligence by Plaintiffs Donnie Fazard Hosein and Nhu Quynh Nguyen against Builder Defendants. DISCUSSIONApplicable Law            On receipt of a response to a Request for Production of Documents, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete, (2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or (3) an objection in the response is without merit or too general. (CCP § 2031.310(a).)   Motions to compel further responses to RPDs must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the request. (CCP § 2031.310(b).) To establish good cause, a discovery proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and explain how the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact. (Digital Music News LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224, disapproved on other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531; see also Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98 [characterizing good cause as “a fact-specific showing of relevance”].)  If good cause is shown by the moving party, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to disclosure of the documents. (Kirkland, supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at 98.) Application to FactsMeet and Confer A motion to compel further responses to requests for production of documents must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)  Here, on December 14, 2023, Plaintiffs served their Meet and Confer letter regarding Defendant’s deficient discovery responses. (Libertino Decl. ¶ 5.) After receiving supplemental responses, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent Defendant’s counsel an email regarding the amended responses remaining incomplete, inadequate, and failing to comply with the code. Plaintiffs’ counsel requested counsel’s availability for an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) with the court pursuant to Paragraph 12 of Dept. 20 Courtroom Rules. (Id.) However, it does not appear that the parties actually conducted an IDC. Defendant contests the meet and confer efforts. Defendant’s counsel claims that the parties were conferring via email with dates for an IDC, but Plaintiffs’ counsel filed the instant motion prior to the IDC. (Grinwald Decl. ¶¶ 6-13.) In reply, Plaintiffs claim that meet and confer efforts were sufficient despite being unable to schedule the IDC. Plaintiffs argue that Defendant made no effort to discuss the insufficiency of its responses, nor made any effort to amend them. The Court finds that the parties were in the process of scheduling times for the IDC and Plaintiffs filed this motion prior to conducting one. However, it also appears that Defendant had sufficient time to discuss its substantive responses and failed to do so. Thus, the Court will consider the motion on the merits.Separate Statement Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3), a motion to compel further responses to a request for production of documents must be accompanied by a separate statement. “A separate statement is a separate document filed and served with the discovery motion that provides all the information necessary to understand each discovery request and all the responses to it that are at issue.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).) Here, only Plaintiffs have complied with this requirement as no separate statement was filed by Defendant.RPDsPlaintiffs seek further responses to RPDs nos. 1, 3-26, 28, 29, 30, 32, and 33. These requests include documents related to any service or repair requests for Plaintiffs’ property, construction documents, and communications between the parties. They also request documents pertaining to the sale of the property, such as agreements, contracts, and reports, along with communications with government agencies regarding the property. Additionally, Plaintiffs seek documents concerning the approved structural and architectural plans and specifications for the property, as well as the defendant’s job file for the property. Furthermore, Plaintiffs request documents related to contracts with subcontractors and design professionals involved in the property’s construction. There are also requests for documents related to the windows supplied for the property, the installation of windows, exterior doors, and the exterior waterproofing system. Other specific installation-related documents requested include those for the balcony system, roofing systems, and any warranty work performed by Defendant at the property. Lastly, Plaintiffs seek documents identifying the person most knowledgeable about the work performed by Defendant, as well as communications and contracts between Defendant and Zvika Lipman concerning the property.Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s responses are disingenuous, evasive, non-compliant with the code, and materially incomplete as many of the responses simply state that Defendant possesses no documents responsive to the request. (See Separate Statement, Defendant’s responses to request numbers 1, 8, 9, 10, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, and 32). Defendant does not provide a required statement of inability to comply, specifying whether the documents never existed, were destroyed, lost, misplaced, stolen, or are no longer in their possession as mandated by Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230. Where Defendant does presumably possess responsive documents, they often respond with “See attached documents.” (Separate Statement, Defendant’s responses to request numbers 3, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 23, and 33). However, Plaintiffs point out that this is improper as a party responding to a request for production of documents is required to state whether they will comply with the request, cannot comply, or object to it. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210.) Additionally, they claim the responses do not clarify whether Defendant will comply with the particular demand, identify the documents produced, or indicate if they lack the ability to comply with the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.) In opposition, Defendant argues that its responses, including the statements of inability to comply, were based on diligent searches, and further clarification could have been addressed through proper communication channels, which the plaintiffs failed to utilize. However, the Court disagrees and finds that Defendant fails to meaningfully respond to Plaintiffs’ arguments. The requests at issue appear to be relevant as they go to the claims in this case regarding the Property and Defendant’s alleged violations and negligence. Further, the responses are deficient as explained by Plaintiffs. Thus, Plaintiffs are entitled to further responses. Monetary SanctionsAs the prevailing parties, Plaintiffs are entitled to monetary sanctions. Plaintiffs’ counsel requests $3,137.50, which consists of $350.00 hourly rate, $60 filing fee, $75 service fees, $1,912.50 in connection with the motion, 3.5 hours anticipated for reviewing the opposition and filing a reply. The Court reduces the sanctions to $1,200.00. CONCLUSION            The Motion to Compel Further is GRANTED. Monetary sanctions are GRANTED to Plaintiffs in the amount of $1,200.00, to be paid within 30 days.            Moving Party to give notice.            If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect.