  Case Number:  20STCV37014    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative RulingJudge Kevin C. BrazileDepartment 20Hearing Date:                         Wednesday, May 29, 2024Case Name:                             Esparza v. Conagra Brands, Inc., et al.Case No.:                                20STCV37014Motion:                                  Motion to QuashMoving Party:                         Defendant Full-Fill Industries, LLCResponding Party:                  Plaintiff Roland EsparzaNotice:                                    OK  Ruling:                                    Defendant Full-Fill Industries, LLC’s motion to quash is GRANTED. Full-Fill Industries, LLC’ to give notice.     If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person.  BACKGROUND            On September 28, 2020, Plaintiff Roland Esparza filed a Complaint against Defendant The Vons Companies, Inc. (“Vons”) and Does 1-50, stating causes of action for negligence, breach of implied warranties, and strict product liability.On October 19, 2020, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), stating the same causes of action but adding Conagra Brands, Inc. as a defendant.On March 2, 2022, Plaintiff Roland Esparza filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Conagra Brands, Inc., The Vons Companies, Inc., and Does 1-50 for (1) Strict Product Liability—Manufacturing Defect, (2) Strict Product Liability—Design Defect, (3) Strict Product Liability—Failure to Warn, (4) Negligence, and (5) Breach of Implied Warranties. Plaintiff alleges that he used butter spray manufactured, distributed, or sold by Defendants and that this butter spray contains diacetyl, acetyl propionyl, and/or other hazardous food flavoring components dangerous to the lungs.On October 20, 2023, specially appearing Defendant Full-Fill Industries, LLC filed a motion to quash service of summons and dismiss Plaintiff’s SAC. On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On February 14, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. On February 22, 2024, the Court continued the hearing for purposes of jurisdictional discovery. DISCUSSIONDefendant Full-Fill Industries, LLC seeks to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.  Legal StandardA defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground the Court lacks personal jurisdiction. (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1).) “Although the defendant is the moving party, the plaintiff must carry the initial burden of demonstrating facts by a preponderance of evidence justifying the exercise of jurisdiction in California.” (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I and II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 110.) By statute, the courts of this state may exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresident defendants to the extent permitted by the United States Constitution. (Code Civ. Proc. § 410.10.) Constitutional due process requires that a nonresident defendant have “certain minimum contacts” with a forum such that the Court’s exercise of personal jurisdiction does not offend traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice. (International Shoe Co. v. State of Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)  The extent of the defendant’s contacts with the forum determines whether the Court’s jurisdiction is general or specific. (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 134 S.Ct. 746, 754-755.)  Courts may assert general jurisdiction where the foreign defendant’s contacts with the forum “ ‘are so “continuous and systematic” as to render them essentially at home in the forum State.’ ” (Id. at p. 754.)  To determine whether the exercise of specific jurisdiction is proper in a given case, courts consider the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation. (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269.) “A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice.” (Elkman v. National States Ins. Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1314.) It is the plaintiff’s burden to demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct giving rise to the pleaded causes of action amounts to constitutionally cognizable “minimum contacts.” (Id. at p. 1313.)Application to FactsHere, there is no general jurisdiction because, as Defendant puts it, “Full-Fill conducts all of its business operations at its sole location in Henning, Illinois. [ ] Full-Fill is not registered to do business in California; does not pay any taxes in California; does not have any physical location, assets, or operations in California; does not advertise in California or otherwise solicit business from California residents; and does not have dealings with any customers in California.”With respect to specific jurisdiction, Defendant contends that it “makes the cooking oils that it packages for Conagra and its other customers available for the customers to pick-up at Full-Fill's Illinois facility. [ ] It is Conagra who arranges for, and pays, the truckers who pick up the cooking oils and deliver them to Conagra. [ ] Full-Fill does not own the cooking oils once they are picked up from Full-Fill's Illinois facility. [ ] Most importantly, Full-Fill has no involvement in where its customers ship their cooking oils after they pick them up from Full-Fill's Illinois facility, and Full-Fill does not have any control over, or involvement with, where or how its customers sell their cooking oils.” Plaintiff requests that he be able to complete jurisdictional discovery, and points to the facts that Defendant “specifically targeted retail outlets in California as part of its national marketing campaign and sales efforts. Full-Fill also engaged in tortious conduct under California law. Specifically, Full-Fill removed the warnings provided to it in MSDS from the butter flavoring manufacturers and failed to test the PAM products it manufactured, distributed, supplied and/or sold.”“The plaintiff has the right to conduct discovery with regard to the issue of jurisdiction to develop the facts necessary to sustain this burden.” (Mihlon v. Superior Ct. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 710.) However, “a continuance [of a motion to quash] may be denied if there is no showing that discovery would likely produce evidence of additional ‘contacts.’ ” [Beckman v. Thompson (1992) 4 CA4th 481, 486-487, 6 CR2d 60, 63].”  (Weil et al., Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Guide 2021) Ch. 3-B.)To date, Plaintiff has not provided any supplemental briefing or exhibits to supplement his opposition. Thus, Plaintiff fails to rebut Defendant’s showing of an absence of personal jurisdiction. Therefore, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to quash.The objections remain overruled.CONCLUSIONDefendant Full-Fill Industries, LLC’s motion to quash is GRANTED.Full-Fill Industries, LLC to give notice.        If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person. Tentative RulingJudge Kevin C. BrazileDepartment 20Hearing Date:                         Wednesday, May 29, 2024Case Name:                             Esparza v. Conagra Brands, Inc., et al.Case No.:                                20STCV37014Motion:                                  DemurrerMoving Party:                         Defendant Elan Chemical Company, Inc.Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Roland EsparzaNotice:                                    OK  Ruling:                                    Defendant Elan Chemical Company, Inc.’s Demurrer is OVERRULED. Motion to Strike is DENIED. Moving party to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person.  BACKGROUND            On September 28, 2020, Plaintiff Roland Esparza filed a Complaint against Defendant The Vons Companies, Inc. (“Vons”) and Does 1-50, stating causes of action for negligence, breach of implied warranties, and strict product liability.On October 19, 2020, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), stating the same causes of action but adding Conagra Brands, Inc. as a defendant.On March 2, 2022, Plaintiff Roland Esparza filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Conagra Brands, Inc., The Vons Companies, Inc., and Does 1-50 for (1) Strict Product Liability—Manufacturing Defect, (2) Strict Product Liability—Design Defect, (3) Strict Product Liability—Failure to Warn, (4) Negligence, and (5) Breach of Implied Warranties. Plaintiff alleges that he used butter spray manufactured, distributed, or sold by Defendants and that this butter spray contains diacetyl, acetyl propionyl, and/or other hazardous food flavoring components dangerous to the lungs.On December 29, 2023, Defendant Elan Chemical Company, Inc. filed the instant demurrer with motion to strike the SAC. On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On May 21, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. DISCUSSIONLegal StandardWhen considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.” (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)In toxic tort cases, “(1) Plaintiff must allege that he was exposed to each of the toxic materials claimed to have caused a specific illness. An allegation that he was exposed to ‘most and perhaps all’ of the substances listed is inadequate. (2) He must identify each product that allegedly caused the injury. It is insufficient to allege that the toxins in defendants' products caused it. (3) He must allege that as a result of the exposure, the toxins entered his body. (4) He must allege that he suffers from a specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his body was a substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating that illness. (5) Finally, except in a case governed by the principle of liability based on market share for a uniform product that we outlined in Sindell v. Abbott Laboratories (1980) 26 Cal.3d 588, 612 [163 Cal.Rptr. 132, 607 P.2d 924, 2 A.L.R.4th 1061], he must allege that each toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied by a named defendant.” (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chem. Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 80.)Application to FactsDefendant Elan Chemical Company, Inc demurs to all causes of action for failure to state sufficient facts and uncertainty. Specifically, Defendant argues, “Plaintiff has not identified any specific product manufactured or distributed by Elan that is at issue. The allegations asserted against the ‘Defendants’ in the Complaint do not specify specific substances from specific defendants and, regardless, they do not apply to, or make any reference to, Elan because Elan is not a named defendant in the Complaint. Rather, Elan was brought into this action only via a DOE Amendment.” (Mot. p. 7.) Defendant further argues that the Doe Amendment only vaguely alleges that Elan manufactured or distributed unspecified components of a generic “butter flavored cooking spray” but fails to identify any specific toxin in these components that allegedly entered Plaintiff’s body and caused the illness. Defendant asserts that because the SAC fails to sufficiently plead a toxic tort claim as it fails to provide information on which specific products or toxins it is allegedly involved with that could have harmed Plaintiff.Defendant asserts the SAC is uncertain and ambiguous because (1) there is no clear indication in the complaint that the term “Defendants” includes both the named defendants and DOES 28-50; (2) the SAC identifies two cooking sprays but leaves open the possibility of additional, unspecified cooking sprays; and (3) the SAC mentions two possible toxins but also refers to other unspecified hazardous food flavoring components, suggesting the involvement of additional unidentified toxins, which fails to inform Elan of the specific toxins for which it is allegedly in the chain of commerce, further contributing to the SAC’s uncertainty and ambiguity. Here, the SAC sufficiently alleges that Plaintiff has bronchiolitis obliterans as a result of diacetyl, acetyl propionyl, and structurally similar flavoring chemicals found in butter spray products, such as Pam Butter Cooking Spray and Signature Select No Stick Butter Flavored Cooking Spray, that Plaintiff cooked with daily and which were sold, manufactured, or distributed by Defendants. Defendant’s argument that the SAC is uncertain because it fails to specifically mention Elan is without merit; the SAC mentions “Defendants,” and it is reasonable that Elan would be included in this. Further, the Court finds that additional facts can be determined in discovery.  The Demurrer is overruled. Motion to StrikeDefendant’s Motion to Strike punitive damages is denied because Plaintiff pleads that Defendant was aware of the respiratory effects of diacetyl and acetyl propionyl, but chose to manufacture them anyway.CONCLUSIONDefendant Elan Chemical Company, Inc.’s Demurrer is OVERRULED. Motion to Strike is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  