 Case Number:  21STCV30098    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative RulingJudge Kevin C. BrazileDepartment 20Hearing Date:                         Wednesday, May 29, 2024Case Name:                             Llanos v. Sedgwick Formally York Risk, et al.Case No.:                                21STCV30098Motion:                                  Motion for Protective Order; Request for Sanctions in the        Amount of $2,125.00Moving Party:                         Non-Party Deborah Tropp, Esq.Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Jonathan Alvarez LlanosNotice:                                    OK  Ruling:                                    The Motion for Protective Order is GRANTED.                                                Non-Party is not required to (1) appear for a second subpoenaed deposition and not required to (2) produce any documents in response to the second subpoenaed deposition.                                                                                               The Court awards sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,250.00 in favor of Non-Party Deborah Tropp, Esq., and against Plaintiff and his attorneys of record, Heidari Law Group, PC, payable within 20 days. Non-Party to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear in person.  BACKGROUND            On August 13, 2021, Plaintiff Jonathan Alvarez Llanos (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Sedgwick Formally York Risk; York Risk Services Group; Steadfast Insurance Company; Roxanne Hazel; Lalanika Narasinha Arachchige; Rashad Hamzathul and DOES 1 through 25, inclusive for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Tortious Breach of The Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Violation of Business & Professions Code Section 17200, et seq; (4) Unjust Enrichment/Constructive Trust; (5) Injunctive Relief; and (6) Declaratory Relief. The Complaint alleges Defendants failed to properly and timely make a decision regarding Plaintiff’s demand and demand for arbitration or interpleading of funds arising out of a motor vehicle collision involving him as a Lyft driver.            On February 20, 2024, Non-Party Deborah Tropp, Esq. (“Tropp”) filed the instant motion for protective order.On May 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.On May 21, 2024, Tropp filed a reply. DISCUSSIONApplicable Law            “Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (CCP § 2025.420(a).)  “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (CCP § 2025.420(b).)  “The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The court may make this determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or other affected person. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (CCP § 2017.020(a).)  Application to Facts(1)  Request for Judicial NoticeTropp’s request for judicial notice of (1) Plaintiff Jonathan Alvarez Llanos’ Notice of Motion and Motion to Compel Deborah Tropp, Esq. to Provide Answers and Produce Documents at Deposition; and (2) Court Ruling Denying Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deborah Tropp, Esq. to Provide Answer and Produce Documents at Deposition on July 31, 2023 is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d).       (2)  Motion for Protective OrderTropp moves for a protective order wherein she is not required to (1) appear for a second subpoenaed deposition and (2) produce any documents in response to the second subpoenaed deposition.“Once any party has taken the deposition of any natural person, including that of a party to the action, neither the party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition of that deponent.” (CCP § 2025.610(a).) However, “for good cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition, and the parties, with the consent of any deponent who is not a party, may stipulate that a subsequent deposition be taken.” (CCP § 2025.610(b).)Here, Tropp was deposed in relation to this instant lawsuit on May 17, 2022. (Furman Decl., ¶6, Ex. 4.) Specifically, Tropp has already testified regarding her legal representation of Plaintiff in the underlying lawsuit and produced all of the files for the underlying case at the first deposition, which consists of over 27,000 pages of documents. Although Plaintiff contends that  he failed to finish the first deposition because Tropp attempted to bury him in a document dump prior to the deposition, this argument is not convincing. In fact, nearly five-hours into the deposition including a breaks, Plaintiff’s counsel voluntarily terminated the deposition. (Furman Decl., ¶7.) Furthermore, a party seeking to take a subsequent deposition must seek leave of court to do so pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.610, subdivision (b). Plaintiff sought leave of court through its prior motion to compel compliance with a second deposition subpoena and this Court denied it. Likewise, Plaintiff did not subsequently seek motion for reconsideration of the Court’s order. Moreover, the second subpoena served on January 26, 2024 seeks the same documents already produced by Tropp for the initial deposition. (Furman Decl., ¶18.) Plaintiff’s counsel admits as much in the opposing papers. (Opp. at 3:25-4:1-2.) As such, the second deposition subpoena is duplicative and unduly burdensome on Tropp. Additionally, Plaintiff fails to rebut Tropp’s objections to the newly requested documents in the second deposition subpoena. Instead, Plaintiff simply asserts that these newly requested documents are relevant. Finally, Tropp indicates that she has already incurred over $60,000.00 in legal fees in response to the first deposition, which demonstrates an undue burden and expense will occur in having to produce these documents once again.Therefore, Tropp has shown that good cause exists for a protective order. (3)  Monetary Sanctions“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2025.420(h).)“[T]he burden is on the moving party to show (by declarations) the facts essential to an award of sanctions: e.g., the opposing party's failure to make discovery, reasonable efforts to resolve the matter informally, etc. The burden then shifts to the party against whom sanctions are being sought to establish some excuse or justification for the conduct in question.”  (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide:  Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2021 Update) ¶ 8:2015.)Here, Tropp requests monetary sanctions of $2,125.00 in connection with the instant motion for protective order. (Furman Decl., ¶20-21.) Sanctions are warranted because Tropp has already been deposed in connection to this matter, Plaintiff voluntarily terminated the first deposition, and the second deposition subpoena seeks the same testimony and documents already produced by Tropp. Furthermore, Plaintiff has provided no substantial justification or other circumstances that would make imposition of sanctions unjust. Plaintiff failed to respond to Tropp’s meet and confer email, failed to substantially justify why the first deposition was voluntarily terminated, and failed to provide evidentiary support for the newly requested documents.Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,250.00 in favor of Tropp and against Plaintiff and his attorneys of record, Heidari Law Group, PC. CONCLUSIONThe Motion for Protective Order is GRANTED. Tropp is not required to (1) appear for a second subpoenaed deposition and not required to (2) produce any documents in response to the second subpoenaed deposition.The Court awards sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,250.00 in favor of Non-Party Deborah Tropp, Esq., and against Plaintiff and his attorneys of record, Heidari Law Group, PC, payable within 20 days.            Non-Party to give notice.            If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear in person.