  Case Number:  22CHCV00674    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 3-21-24
Case # 22CHCV00674, Triscenic Production Services,
Inc. vs. Maurice Starrantino, et al.
Trial Date: 5-28-24
 
DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Triscenic
Production Services, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTIES: Cross-Complainants Maurice
Starrantino and Karen G. Starrantino
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer
·        
Entire Cross-Complaint
·        
Third Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing Re: Rise, Inc.
·        
Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing Re: Salt Snake LLC
·        
Fifth Cause of Action for Violations of
California Business and Professions Code Re: Rise, Inc.
·        
Sixth Cause of Action for Violations of
California Business and Professions Code Re: Salt Snake, LLC
 
RULING: Demurrer to the entire complaint is
sustained without leave to amend.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Cross-Complainants Maurice Starrantino and Karen G.
Starrantino (Cross-Complainants) are alleging that Cross-Defendant Triscenic
Production Services, Inc. (Cross-Defendant) breached its lease agreement with Cross-Complainants.
Cross-Complainants alleged that Triscenic breached the lease agreement by
sub-letting property belonging to Cross-Complainants without Cross-Complainants’
permission. Cross-Complainants allege that Triscenic sublet the property to
both Rise, Inc., and Salt Snake LLC.
 
Cross-Complainants attached a Settlement Agreement to
their Cross-Complaint from a previous action that they filed against Triscenic.
 
ANALYSIS
Cross-Defendant brings a demurrer to Cross-Complainants’
entire cross-complaint on the basis that it is barred due to the general
release of all claims in the Settlement Agreement signed by Cross-Complainants
in 2022. Cross-Defendant demurs to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action on the
basis that the breach of implied covenant claims are duplicative of the breach
of contract claims. Finally, Cross-Defendants demur to the Fifth and Sixth
Causes of Action on the basis that they fail to state a claim.
 
Cross-Complainants oppose Cross-Defendant’s demurrer on the
basis that the grounds for demurrer for uncertainty is deficient and should be
overruled. Cross-Complainants also argue that the Third and Fourth Causes of
Action are not duplicative of the breach of contract claims.
Cross-Complainants’ opposition does not address Cross-Defendant’s argument
regarding the Settlement Agreement’s general release.
 
Cross-Defendant argues in its reply that Cross-Complainants
failed to refute its argument that the Settlement Agreement bars all claims.
Cross-Defendant also argues that the demurrer should be sustained for the Third
and Fourth Causes of Action because they do not add anything beyond the breach
of contract duty itself. Finally, Cross-Defendant argues that the Fifth and
Sixth Causes of Action fail to state a claim and are uncertain.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Entire Complaint
Attached as Exhibit 3 to Cross-Complainants’ Cross-Complaint
is a Settlement Agreement between Cross-Defendant Triscenic Production
Services, Inc. and Maurice and Karen Starrantino. The Settlement Agreement was
signed on June 24, 2022. Maurice and Karen Starrantino had sued Triscenic for
allegedly breaching a lease by virtue of an unauthorized sub-lease to Rise,
Inc. The case number for that case was 22CHCV00422. 
 
The Settlement Agreement included a General Release that
released Triscenic “from any and all claims, demands, differences
responsibilities, liabilities and obligations whatsoever, either known or
unknown…which Starrantino ever had…or may have against Triscenic by reason of
any matter, transaction…whatsoever occurring prior to the date hereof, and
cause or causes of action heretofore or hereafter arising out of, connected
with or incidental to the dealings between the parties hereto prior to the
effective date hereof, including, without limitation on the generality of the
foregoing.” (Cross-Complaint, Ex. 3.)
 
“A release is ‘the abandonment, relinquishment or giving up
of a right or claim to the person against whom it might have been demanded or
enforced and its effect is to extinguish the cause of action.” (In re
Mission Ins. Co. (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 828, 838.) Thus, “a valid release
conclusively estops the parties from reviving and relitigating the claim[s]
released.” (Faye v. Feldman (1954) 128 Cal.App.2d 319, 328; L.A. City
School Dist. of L.A. County v. Landier Inv. Co. (1960) 177 Cal.App.2d 744,
752 [“One who agrees to waive or forego a right is precluded from afterwards asserting
that right.”].) “[A] general release can be completely enforceable and act as a
complete bar to all claims (known or unknown at the time of the release)
despite protestations by one of the parties that he did not intend to release
certain types of claims.” (San Diego Hospice v. County of San Diego
(1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1048, 1053.)
 
In this case, Cross-Complainants’ claims against Triscenic
appear to be an attempt to relitigate the alleged breach of lease due to the
sublease. All of the allegations in the cross-complaint were for sub-leases
that took place prior to the Settlement Agreement being signed in June 2022. That
means that Cross-Complainants’ claims would certainly be covered by the general
release in the Settlement Agreement and should be dismissed.
 
It is unlikely that Cross-Complainants could amend their
cross-complaint to include allegations that would not be covered by the general
release. Therefore, Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the entire cross-complaint is
sustained without leave to amend.
 
Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action
While the demurrer to the entire cross-complaint has been
sustained, the Court will briefly address Cross-Defendant’s arguments for the
individual causes of action.
 
For the Third and Fourth Causes of Action related to the
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, a “‘breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond
breach of the contractual duty itself’[Citation.]” (Congleton v. National
Union Fire Ins. Co. (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 51, 59.) “If the allegations do
not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same
alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a
companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as
no additional claim is actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v. Security
Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.)
 
In this case, Cross-Complainants allegations for the Third
and Fourth Causes of Action do not go beyond the mere breach of contract. Were
it necessary to address these causes of action, the Court would have sustained
the demurrer to these causes of action with leave to amend.
 
For the Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action for Violations of
the Business and Professions Code, Business and Professions Code § 17200 “is
not an all purpose substitute for a tort or contract claim.” (Cortez v.
Purolator Air Filtration Prods. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.) “Its purpose
‘is to protect both consumers and competitors by promoting fair competition in
commercial markets for goods and services.” (Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 320.) Therefore, “a UCL action based on a contract is
not appropriate where the public in general is not harmed by the defendant’s
alleged unlawful practices.” (Rosenbluth Int’l, Inc v. Sup Ct. (2002)
101 Cal.App.4th 1073, 1077; see also Marsh v. Anesthesia Services Med. Grp.
(2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 480, 501-02 [dismissing UCL claim where plaintiff only
alleged “individualized harm”].) 
 
“A plaintiff alleging unfair business practices under these
statutes must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the
statutory elements of the violation.” (Khourv v. Maly’s Cal., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619 [dismissing § 17200 claim, on a demurrer, where
complaint fails to set forth facts with “reasonable particularity,” and where “[t]he
complaint does not describe the manner in which respondent’s practice is
‘unlawful”]; see Saunders v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 832,
841-842 [dismissing § 17200 claim where “allegations are too vague and
conclusionary” and “too vague and uncertain”].)
 
In this case, Cross-Complainants did not allege how the
public in general has been harmed by Triscenic’s alleged unlawful practices.
Cross-Complainants have also not alleged facts with reasonable particularly describing
how Triscenic’s actions amount to unfair competition or fraudulent business
practices. The Court would also have sustained the demurrer to these causes of
action with leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Cross-Complainants’ claims are barred by the general release
in the Settlement Agreement that they signed with Cross-Defendant. Therefore,
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the entire complaint is sustained without leave
to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice.