 Case Number:  22STCV25220    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  30 SIMONE VACA, AN INDIVIDUAL vs ISAIAH MORALES, AN INDIVIDUAL, et al.TENTATIVEDefendant’s motion to compel compliance with subpoena for business records is DENIED without prejudice in order for Defendant to personally serve Keck Medicine USC with the motion.Legal StandardWhen a subpoena has been issued requiring the attendance of a witness or the production of documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion “reasonably made” by the party, the witness, or any consumer whose personal records are sought, or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms and conditions as the court may specify. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1; Southern Pac. Co. v. Superior Court (1940) 15 Cal.2d 206.)The court can compel a witness’ compliance with a subpoena on such terms and conditions as appropriate to protect parties or witnesses from “unreasonable or oppressive demands” including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) Generally, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.)DiscussionDefendant moves to compel Keck Medicine of USC’s compliance with a subpoena for Plaintiff’s imaging records. (Storti Decl., Exh. C.) Neither plaintiff nor Keck Medicine of USC objected to the subpoena and no documents have been produced. (Storti Decl., ¶ 5.)California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346 requires a motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena to be personally served on the non-party whose compliance is sought. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1011 subd. (b); California Rule of Court, rule 3.1346.) Defendant has filed proof of service indicating that USC was served with the motion by mail, not by personal service. As a result, the motion is DENIED.