  Case Number:  21STCV02970    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  30 PHOTON MUUR, et al. vs WEEDMAPS MEDIA, LLC, A DELAWARE LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, et al.Tentative:The motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena for production of business records is DENIED without prejudice.  Legal StandardWhen a subpoena has been issued requiring the attendance of a witness or the production of documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion “reasonably made” by the party, the witness, or any consumer whose personal records are sought, or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms and conditions as the court may specify. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1; Southern Pac. Co. v. Superior Court (1940) 15 Cal.2d 206.)The court can make an order quashing or modifying a subpoena as necessary to protect a person from “unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) Generally, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.)DiscussionPlaintiff moves to compel compliance with a subpoena for production of business records, seeking production of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department file on the underlying shooting investigation.California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346 requires a motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena to be personally served on the non-party whose compliance is sought. Plaintiff filed proof of service on January 30, 2024, showing that the Sheriff’s Department was personally served with the motion. However, the Court subsequently continued the hearing on this motion to this date. But there is no proof of service showing the Sheriff’s Department was given notice of the continued hearing date. As a result, the motion is denied without prejudice. 