 Case Number:  24NNCV02064    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 24NNCV02064
Hearing Date: 10/04/2024 – 8:30am   
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: ANDREH HAKOOPIAN, an individual; YEROS
HAKOPIAN, an individual; ND NVART ISSAIAN, an individual v. ROSETTE V.
HARATOONIAN, an individual; THE WESTERN PRELACY OF THE ARMENIAN APOSTOLIC
CHURCH OF AMERICA; S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT; a DBA operating under MICHAEL
SHAAR INC., a California corporation; and DOES 1-50 inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE RULING - DEMURRER]
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendants, The Western Prelacy of the Armenian Apostolic Church of America
(Western Prelacy) and S.I.G. Property Management (S.I.G.) demur to the first,
second, sixth, and eighth causes of action on grounds of failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
[The
Court notes that Defendant S.I.G. is the only demurring Defendant to the sixth
cause of action because Western Prelacy’s special motion to strike as to the
sixth cause of action was granted on 8/15/2024. As to the first, second, and
eighth causes of action, both Western Prelacy and S.IG. are demurring.]
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving Party:  Defendants, Western Prelacy of the Armenian
Apostolic Church of America (Western Prelacy) and S.I.G. Property Management
(S.I.G.)
Responding Party: Plaintiffs,
Andreh Hakoopian; Yeros Hakopian; and Nvart Issaian
Moving Papers: Demurrer;
Proposed Order [The Court notes that Defendants do not provide a proof of
service for the Proposed Order. A proof of service was only provided with the
demurrer.]
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  “The
parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(4).)
Here,
the parties dispute whether or not the meet and confer was sufficient. However,
the Court will hear this demurrer.
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS
Demurrer
– Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.”  (Das v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” 
(Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  “Generally
it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for
uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained
where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e.,
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs, Andreh
Hakoopian, Yeros Hakopian, and Nvart Issaian, allege they had been tenants at
the subject property since February 1, 2007 until September 30, 2023. (Compl. ¶
1.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Haratoonian was the owner, landlord, and
manager of the subject property when Plaintiffs initially rented the unit.
(Compl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs allege that at some point during their tenancy,
Defendant The Western Prelacy of the Armenian Apostolic Church of America
(Western Prelacy) became owner and landlord of the apartment complex. (Compl. ¶
3.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant S.I.G. Property Management, dba, operating
under Michael Shaar Inc. (S.I.G. Management) became the management company
responsible for leasing and maintaining the subject property on behalf of
Western Prelacy. (Compl. ¶¶ 4-5.)
Plaintiffs
allege they paid all rent to Defendant Haratoonian. (Compl. ¶ 20.) Plaintiffs
allege they are unaware when Defendant Western Prelacy became owner and
landlord of the apartment complex since Haratoonian continued to claim that she
was the owner, landlord, and manager of the complex. (Compl. ¶ 21.) Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant Haratoonian intentionally interfered with Plaintiffs
receiving notices from Defendant S.I.G. Management and Defendant Western
Prelacy. (Compl. ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs allege that Western Prelacy was aware or
should have been aware that Haratoonian was continuing to collect rent because
Plaintiffs observed occasions that Haratoonian would interfere with the duties
S.I.G. Management was supposed to perform. (Compl. ¶ 23.) Plaintiffs allege
that Western Prelacy and S.I.G. Management failed to take measures to make sure
Defendant Haratoonian was not interfering in their managerial duties such as
maintaining and collecting rent from tenants. (Compl. ¶ 25.)
ANALYSIS
First Cause of Action – Negligence
Defendants demur to the first cause of action for negligence. 
Plaintiffs
allege negligence as follows:
27. PLAINTIFFS reallege and incorporate by reference every
allegation of paragraphs 1 to 26 as though fully set forth in this paragraph. 
28. Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, owed a duty to PLAINTIFF as the
owner of the property to manage and maintain this PROPERTY under reasonable
prudent person or entity standards by ensuring no one interfered with their
obligations and their tenant’s obligations. 
29. Defendant, HARATOONIAN, had a duty to PLAINTIFF to act under
reasonable prudent person standards by not collecting rent when she was not
entitled to it and/or claiming to be the owner of the PROPERTY when she wasn’t
in order to 
30. Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, owed a duty to
PLAINTIFF to act under industry standard by maintaining and managing the
PROPERTY and to collect rent on a monthly basis. 
31. Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, breached their duty owed to
PLAINTIFF by allowing Defendant, HARATOONIAN, to interfere in their duty owed. 
32. Defendant, HARATOONIAN, breached her duty owed to PLAINTIFF by
continuing to collect rent when she was not entitled to it and maintaining and
managing the PROPERTY as if she was the owner. 
33. Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, breached their duty
owed to PLAINTIFF by their inactivity and not adhering to the industry
standards by not maintaining and managing the PROPERTY and not collecting rent
on a monthly basis from tenants. 
34. As a direct and proximate cause of all Defendants' breach of
their duty owed, PLAINTIFFS suffered irreparable harm. 
35. As a result, PLAINTIFFS suffered irreparable harm that will be
proven at the time of trial.
(Compl. ¶¶ 27- 35.)
Based on the allegations in the Complaint, it
appears as if Plaintiffs are attempting to allege a cause of action for
professional negligence.
As explained in Giacometti v. Aulla, LLC:
To state a cause of action for professional negligence, a party must show “(1)
the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence and diligence as
other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise;
(2) breach of that duty;
(3) a causal connection between
the negligent conduct and
the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from
the professional negligence.” (Nichols v. Keller (1993)
15 Cal.App.4th 1672, 1682, 19 Cal.Rptr.2d 601.) “The threshold element of
a cause of action for negligence is the existence of a duty to use due care
toward an interest of another that enjoys legal protection against
unintentional invasion.” (Bily v. Arthur Young & Co. (1992)
3 Cal.4th 370, 397, 11 Cal.Rptr.2d 51, 834 P.2d 745 (Bily ).)
(Giacometti v. Aulla, LLC (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 1133, 1137.)
Here, Defendants only attack the element of duty.
“While negligence is ordinarily a question of
fact, the existence of a duty is generally a question of law that may be
addressed by demurrer.” (Paul v. Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1088,
1095.)
The problem the Court faces here today in
analyzing whether or not Plaintiffs alleged a duty in the instant scenario is
that neither side provides any legal authority as to what determines whether a
duty has been alleged as a matter of law.
Both sides make arguments not rooted in legal
authority and assert irrelevant arguments and make factual assertions that have
not been determined at the pleading stage.
Defendants simply argue that there is no duty to
demand rent, under either the Lease Agreement or California landlord-tenant
law. Defendants argue that Plaintiffs seek to create a made-up duty to actively
collect rent from tenants. Defendants do not provide any support for their
argument despite the fact that they are the moving party.
Plaintiffs’ Opposition is equally unhelpful.
With respect to the allegations in ¶¶ 28
and 30 listed under the first cause of action as to how the moving Defendants’
duty arose, ¶¶ 28 and ¶ 30 are unhelpful.
“Defendant, WESTERN
PRELACY, owed a duty to PLAINTIFF as the owner of the property to manage and
maintain this PROPERTY under reasonable prudent person or entity standards by
ensuring no one interfered with their obligations and their tenant’s
obligations.” (Compl. ¶ 28.)
“Defendant, S.I.G.
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, owed a duty to PLAINTIFF to act under industry standard by
maintaining and managing the PROPERTY and to collect rent on a monthly basis.)
(Compl. ¶ 30.)
In Opposition, Plaintiffs
appear to be arguing that Defendants’ duty to Plaintiffs arise from the
allegations in ¶ 23.
“PLAINTIFFS are informed
and believe that Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, was aware or should have been
aware that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, was continuing to collect rent because
PLAINTIFFS observed occasions that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, would interfere with
the duties Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, was supposed to perform.”
(Compl. ¶ 23.)
Tentative Ruling
First Cause of Action
The
Court will hear argument.
The crux of Plaintiffs’
Complaint appears to be that Western Prelacy and S.I.G. should be liable to
Plaintiffs for Plaintiffs paying rent to the wrong party (Haratoonian).
Plaintiffs appear to be
arguing that the basis of Defendants’ duty to Plaintiffs arises from the
allegations in ¶ 23 which state, “PLAINTIFFS are informed and believe that
Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, was aware or should have been aware that Defendant,
HARATOONIAN, was continuing to collect rent because PLAINTIFFS observed
occasions that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, would interfere with the duties
Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, was supposed to perform.”
There are several
problems with Plaintiffs’ arguments.
First, even if the Court
assumes the truth of Plaintiffs’ argument – that a duty can be alleged against
a defendant landlord/owner/property manager when the defendant landlord/owner/property
manager was aware or should have been aware that plaintiffs are paying rent to
the wrong party – Plaintiffs fail to realize that their allegations in ¶ 23
allege only that Western Prelacy was aware or should have been aware that
Haratoonian was continuing to collect rent.
Assuming the truth of
Plaintiffs’ argument as to how a duty can arise in this scenario, Plaintiffs do
not allege a cause of action as to S.I.G. because Plaintiffs only allege
knowledge as to Western Prelacy.
As previously mentioned,
neither party helps the Court in explaining what considerations the Court is to
use to determine the existence and scope of a duty.
Based on the Court’s own
research, the Court points the parties to Parsons:
Some of the considerations that
courts have employed in various contexts to determine the existence and scope
of duty are: “the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of
certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection
between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame
attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the
extent of the burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of
imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the
availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.
(Parsons v. Crown
Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456, 472-73.)
The Court also highlights
that, in conducting its own research, it cannot find a duty of a
landlord/owner/property manager to collect rent from its tenants.
Although Plaintiffs are
likely to argue that the duty arises from Western Prelacy being aware that the
wrong party (Haratoonian) was collecting rent, the Court is not entirely
convinced that this forms a basis for Defendants’ duty to Plaintiffs.
Through no help of the
moving or opposing parties, the Court acknowledges there is a line of cases
discussing the duty of a landlord to protect a tenant from criminal activity
only where the landlord’s negligence facilitates the criminal act. (See Rosenbaum
v. Security Pacific Corp. (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1084, 1091.) 
However, the Court is
uncertain as to the applicability of that line of cases in the instant scenario
because the two scenarios are entirely different. For example, in Rosenbaum a
tenant was robbed and shot while exiting her automobile after parking on the
street in front of her apartment and brought an action against the landlord
based on the landlord’s alleged negligence in failing to adequately light
driveway, garage, and common areas.
Through no help of the
moving or opposing parties, there is also a line of cases discussing how a
landlord owes a duty of care to a tenant to provide and maintain safe
conditions on the leased premises. (See Portillo v. Aiassa (1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 1128, 1134.) However, here, the Court is also uncertain as to the
applicability of that line of cases as applied to the instant scenario because
the two scenarios are different. For example, in Portillo, the tenant’s
invitee brought action against landlord for injuries sustained when the
tenant’s dog attacked the invitee.
Unlike Rosenbam or
Portillo, the instant case isn’t based on physical injuries to
Plaintiffs based on what occurred on the landlord’s property.
“The general rule is that
privity of contract is a requisite to a professional negligence claim.” (Giacometti
v. Aulla, LLC (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 
1133, 1137.)
The Court will hear
argument. The Court is inclined to find that Plaintiffs did not allege a duty
against Movants. It appears as if Plaintiffs’ right to enforce their lease
agreement and stay at the subject property without getting evicted would lie in
the lease agreement; that is, the Court is confused as to why Plaintiffs are
not bringing a breach-of-contract cause of action against the party who holds
their lease if Plaintiffs did in fact pay rent. 
Plaintiffs appear to be
attempting to push liability onto Movants for Movants not collecting the rent
they were owed by arguing that Movants knew the wrong party was collecting
rent. The Court cannot find cases that support a duty to plaintiffs arising
from of a landlord/owner/property manager when landlords/owners/property
managers are aware that plaintiffs are paying rent to the wrong party. It
appears as if the plaintiffs’ cause of action in that scenario is more
appropriate against the party that was allegedly defrauding plaintiffs.
Second Cause of Action – Res
Ipsa Loquitur
Plaintiffs’ second cause
of action is for “Res Ipsa Loquitur Negligence.”
Plaintiffs’ Complaint
alleges as follows:
36. PLAINTIFFS reallege and incorporate by
reference every allegation of paragraphs 1 to 35 as though fully set forth in
this paragraph. 
37. PLAINTIFFS are informed and believe
that Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, hired Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,
after acquiring ownership of the subject property. 
38. Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, is
strictly liable for harm and/or damage caused by Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT, since their duty shall be considered to be a nondelegable duty
because Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, had the responsibility to ensure Defendant,
S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, was performing according to industry standards. 
39. As a direct and proximate cause of
Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, failure to supervise Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT, actions and inaction, PLAINTIFFS suffered irreparable harm. 
40. As a result, PLAINTIFFS suffered
irreparable harm that will be proven at the time of trial.
(Compl. ¶¶ 36-40.)
Defendants argue that “Plaintiffs'
Second Cause of Action leaps into the legal realm of ‘strict liability’ and ‘nondelegable
duties’ without no [sic] explanation nor reference as how either of those
doctrines could possibly apply herein.” (Demurrer, p. 13.)
Plaintiffs argue in
Opposition:
Here, the injuries pursuant to the
PLAINTIFFS [sic] being deceived into giving their rent money to the wrong
person is [sic] exactly the kind of thing that could not happen without
substantial negligence. If WESTERN PRELACY and S.I.G. knew or should have
known, as alleged in the COMPLAINT, that HARATOONIAN received the rent money
instead of them, then it is clear, even without making a determination as to
each element of negligence, that they were each extremely negligent in
preventing such an outcome, given their individual and collective control over
the entire property (the instrumentality of the negligent consequences here)
and over the employees that clearly should have clarified the outrageously
deceptive and grievous scenario. Further, as the allegations make clear, the
PLAINTIFFS had no actual notice of the change of ownership and were
consistently deceived by HARATOONIAN: they could not have contributed any
negligence or volitional behavior that resulted in their own injuries.
(Oppo. p. 9-10.)
TENTATIVE RULING
Neither
Defendants’ nor Plaintiffs’ arguments make sense to this Court.
As stated in Vebr v.
Culp:
“In California, the doctrine of res
ipsa loquitur is defined by statute as ‘a presumption affecting the burden
of producing evidence.’ (Evid.Code, § 646, subd. (b).) The presumption arises
when the evidence satisfies three conditions: ‘ “(1) the accident must be of a
kind which ordinarily does not occur in the absence of someone's negligence;
(2) it must be caused by an agency or instrumentality within
the exclusive control of the defendant; (3) it must not
have been due to any voluntary action or contribution on the part of the
plaintiff.” ’ ” (Brown v. Poway Unified School Dist. (1993) 4
Cal.4th 820, 825–826, 15 Cal.Rptr.2d 679, 843 P.2d 624.)
(Vebr v. Culp (2015)
241 Cal.App.4th 1044, 1058.)
To the Court, res ipsa
loquitur does not appear to be a cause of action. It appears to be an
instruction that can be given to the jury in certain scenarios. (See Scott
v. Rayhrer (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1535.)
Defendants’ demurrer to
the second cause of action is SUSTAINED.
Sixth Cause of Action –
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
S.I.G.
is the only Defendant that demurs to the sixth cause of action.
Plaintiff’s Complaint
alleges as follows:
62. PLAINTIFFS reallege and incorporate by
reference every allegation of paragraphs 1 to 61 as though fully set forth in
this paragraph. 
63. Defendant’s, WESTERN PRELACY’s,
conduct was outrageous since Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, knew or should have
known that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, had been collecting the rent payments from
PLAINTIFFS because when they brought the unlawful detainer action against
PLAINTIFFS, they were informed of such and continued to pursue with the
eviction proceedings. 
64. Defendant’s, HARATOONIAN’s, conduct
was outrageous since Defendant, HARATOONIAN, knew or should have known that if
the rent paid by PLAINTIFF is not received by its rightful owner, that the
owner, Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, would proceed with evicting PLAINTIFFS. 
65. Defendant’s, S.I.G. PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT’s, conduct was outrageous Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,
knew or should have known that the rent payments paid by PLAINTIFFS were going
to the wrong person and/or they did not take any reasonable action to ensure
PLAINTIFFS were aware that rent payments had to be sent to them because they
knew or should have known that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, was interfering with
them managing and maintaining the PROPERTY. 
66. The Defendants acted with reckless
disregard of the probability that PLAINTIFFS would suffer emotional distress,
knowing that PLAINTIFFS their conduct would harm them. 
67. The Defendant’s conducts were a
substantial factor in causing PLAINTIFFS’ severe emotional distress.
(Compl. ¶¶ 62-67.)


Tentative Ruling
Sixth Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
The case of Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. describes the elements
of an IIED claim:
“ ‘ “[T]o state a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress a plaintiff must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the
defendant; (2) the defendant's intention of causing or reckless disregard of
the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.” ’ [Citation.] ‘
“Conduct, to be ‘ “outrageous” ’ must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized society.” ’ [Citation.] In order to
avoid a demurrer, the *161 plaintiff must allege with ‘great[ ]
specificity’ the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. [Citation.]” (Vasquez
v. Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th
819, 832, 166 Cal.Rptr.3d 242 (Vasquez ).)
(Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014)
229 Cal.App.4th 144, 160-61.)
Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs do not allege a duty on behalf of S.I.G. 
The Court fails to
understand this argument. Duty is not an element of an IIED claim.
Defendant also argues
that Plaintiffs fail to establish some conduct rising to the level of “extreme
and outrageous.”
Here, Plaintiffs appear
to allege the elements of an IIED claim in ¶¶ 65-67 of the Complaint. 
Defendant, S.I.G.’s
demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.
Eighth Cause of Action –
Declaratory Relief
Plaintiffs’ Complaint
alleges as follows:
71. PLAINTIFFS reallege and incorporate by
reference every allegation of paragraphs 1 to 70 as though fully set forth in
this paragraph. 
72. Under California Code of Civil
Procedure §1060, et seq., this Court may declare rights, duties, statuses, and
other legal relations, regardless of whether further relief is or could be
claimed. 
73. An actual controversy has arisen
between PLAINTIFFS and Defendants as to their rights, duties, responsibilities,
and obligations under the AGREEMENT and tenant-landlord relationship. 
74. Resolution of the duties,
responsibilities, and obligations under the AGREEMENT and tenant-landlord
relationship is necessary as no adequate remedy at law exists and a declaration
of the Court is needed to resolve the dispute and controversy. 
75. As alleged in detail above, PLAINTIFFS
have performed all obligations under the AGREEMENT & tenant-landlord
relationship. 
76. PLAINTIFFS paid all the rent payments
and have met all their obligations under the AGREEMENT and tenant-landlord
relationship in exchange for Defendants to allow PLAINTIFFS to stay at the
subject PROPERTY. 
77. PLAINTIFFS have complied with all
their obligations under the AGREEMENT & tenant-landlord relationship. 
78. Defendants failed to uphold their
obligations by allowing PLAINTIFFS to continue to occupy the PROPERTY. 
79. An actual case or controversy exists
regarding PLAINTIFFS’ rights and TRANSAMERICA’S obligations under the AGREEMENT
& tenant-landlord relationship. 
80. PLAINTIFFS are informed and believe
that Defendants will dispute and deny each of PLAINTIFFS’ contentions set
forth. 
81. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
1060, PLAINTIFFS, therefore, seek a declaratory judgment regarding each of
PLAINTIFFS’ contentions set forth in this Cause of Action.
(Compl. ¶¶ 71-81.)
TENTATIVE RULING
EIGHTH CAUSE OF ACTION
“Any person interested under a written instrument, excluding a will or a
trust, or under a contract, or who desires a declaration of his or her rights
or duties with respect to another, or in respect to, in, over or upon property,
or with respect to the location of the natural channel of a watercourse, may,
in cases of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the
respective parties, bring an original action or cross-complaint in the superior
court for a declaration of his or her rights and duties in the premises, including
a determination of any question of construction or validity arising under the
instrument or contract. He or she may ask for a declaration of rights or
duties, either alone or with other relief; and the court may make a binding
declaration of these rights or duties, whether or not further relief is or
could be claimed at the time. The declaration may be either affirmative or
negative in form and effect, and the declaration shall have the force of a
final judgment. The declaration may be had before there has been any breach of
the obligation in respect to which said declaration is sought.”
(CCP § 1060.)
Defendants argue that nowhere in Plaintiffs’ Complaint do Plaintiffs
allege any particular provision of the lease agreement which is actually in
dispute and that Plaintiffs have not alleged a duty.
Here, the Court will hear argument. Plaintiffs’ entire declaratory
relief claim is based on an alleged “AGREEMENT.”
However, not a single cause of action in the Complaint, other than the
declaratory relief claim, is premised on this alleged “AGREEMENT.” 
It is entirely unclear what “AGREEMENT,” Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief
claim is relying upon.
Plaintiffs did not file a cause of action for breach of contract based
on an alleged lease agreement.
Further, Plaintiffs’ Opposition appears to argue that there is a Lease
Agreement attached to the Complaint that is in dispute in this action.
However, there in fact is no Lease Agreement attached to the Complaint,
and there is no breach of contract cause of action that is part of Plaintiff’s
Complaint that is premised upon this alleged Lease Agreement. 
 
If this demurrer is sustained as to any of the causes of action, this
Court will hear argument as to whether or not leave to amend should be granted.
 
 


