  Case Number:  23PSCV03856    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  K 1.         Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Haha Smart,
Inc.’s Demurrer to Walter Ocheaga’s Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED in part (i.e.,
as to the first cause of action) and otherwise SUSTAINED. The court will hear from
counsel for Ocheaga as to whether leave to amend is requested, and as to which
cause(s) of action, and will require an offer of proof if so.
2.         Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Haha Smart, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Walter Ocheaga’s
Cross-Complaint is DENIED as MOOT in part (i.e., as to punitive damages) and
GRANTED in part (i.e., as to attorney’s fees).
Background   
Plaintiff Haha Smart, Inc. (“HSI”) alleges as follows:
HSI is a general contractor. On April
8, 2022, HSI entered into a written Solar Home/Building Improvement Agreement
(“Agreement”) with Walter Ocheaga (“Ocheaga”), wherein HSI agreed to furnish
all labor, materials, and equipment to complete certain work (“Project”) at
Ocheaga’s property located at 16761 E. Benbow St. in Covina in exchange for
Ocheaga’s payment. HSI procured the services of S3 Electrical Solutions, LLC (“S3
Electrical”) to perform the Project. Although the Project is complete, Ocheaga
has failed to pay HSI.
On December 12, 2023, HSI filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Ocheaga, S3 Electrical, First Franklin Financial
Corporation (“First Franklin”) and Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract
2.                 
Foreclosure on Mechanic’s Lien
3.                 
Recovery on Mechanic’s Lien Release Bond
4.                 
Quantum Meruit
5.                 
Prompt Payment Penalties
6.                 
Unjust Enrichment
On February 5, 2024, S3’s default was entered.
On February 7, 2024, Ocheaga filed a cross-complaint,
asserting causes of action against HSI, Amir Jafary and Roes 1-20 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract
2.                 
False Promise
3.                 
Tortious breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing
4.                 
Fraud
5.                 
Negligent Misrepresentation
6.                 
Intentional Misrepresentation
7.                 
Declaratory Relief
8.                 
Release of Mechanics Lien
On April 11, 2024, First Franklin filed a “Disclaimer of
Interest.”
A Case Management Conference is set for May 16, 2024.
1.         Demurrer
to Cross-Complaint
Legal Standard
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is uncertain. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations
omitted].)
Discussion
HSI demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10,
subdivisions (e) and (f), to the first through eighth causes of action in
Ocheaga’s cross-complaint, on the basis that they each fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute causes of action and are uncertain.
First Cause of Action (i.e., Breach of Contract)
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance of the
contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4) the
resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
HSI demurs to the first cause of action on the basis that Ocheaga
has failed to allege breach, performance and damages. Not so. With respect to
breach, Ocheaga has alleged that the solar panels installed by HSI pursuant to
their contract do not work. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 13). HSI’s argument that any
delays are excused by Section 6 of the parties’ contract is more not
appropriate for resolution via demurrer.
Ocheaga has pled performance in ¶¶ 14 and 17. HSI’s statements
that Ocheaga “has not allowed HAHA to install the converter” and that Ocheaga
“admits . . . that the reason the converter has not been installed has nothing
to do with HAHA” are contradictory to Ocheaga’s allegation in ¶ 12 that
“[w]hile Cross-Complainant called Amir Jafary many times from September through
early January, Cross-Defendants never came to put in a new converter and Amir
Jafary told Cross-Complainant that the person who would do the labor was sick
and he was having a hard time getting a hold of that person.” With respect to
damages, Ocheaga has alleged that he has been making financing payments to
Mosaic for the solar panels, that he has solar panels on his roof that do not
work and that he has been sued by HSI. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 10, 13 and 14).
HSI’s demurrer to the first cause of
action is overruled.
Second Cause of Action (i.e., False Promise)
“Promissory fraud or false promise is a subspecies of the
action for fraud and deceit.” (Rossberg v. Bank of America, N.A. (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 181, 1498 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) “The elements of
promissory fraud. . . are: (1) a promise made regarding a material fact without
any intention of performing it; (2) the existence of the intent not to perform
at the time the promise as made; (3) intent to deceive or induce the promise to
enter into a transaction; (4) reasonable reliance by the promisee; (5)
nonperformance by the party making the promise; and (6) resulting damage to the
promise[e].” (Id. [internal quotations and citation omitted].)
“[E]ach element of a promissory fraud claim must be alleged with particularity.”
(Id. [internal quotations and citation omitted].) “This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73 [internal quotations and citation
omitted; italics theirs].)
HSI points out that the only specific statement set forth in
Ocheaga’s second cause of action (i.e., that “Haha Smart was a fraud, took
peoples, [sic] money, took advantage of racial minorities via finances
companies, received monies and kick back from finance companies, and performed
terrible service where there was either delay or not services performed to
provide solar” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 13) is alleged to be true. Ocheaga otherwise
only generically alleges, without more, that “Cross-Defendants made the
statements stated herein above in this Cross-Complaint. Said promises were all
false promises and Cross-Defendants knew them to be false promises.” (Id.)
This allegation fails to allege any false promise. Ocheaga has also failed to
plead any of the remaining elements with particularity, as required.
HSI’s demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained.
Third Cause of Action (i.e., Tortious Breach of Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing)
Although not specifically raised by HSI, the court notes that
“[g]enerally, no cause of action for the tortious breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing can arise unless the parties are in a ‘special
relationship’ with ‘fiduciary characteristics.’” (Pension Trust Fund for
Operating Engineers v. Federal Ins. Co. (9th Cir.  2002) 307 F.3d 944, 955 [italics added].)
HSI’s demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained.
Fourth Through Sixth Causes of Action (i.e., Fraud, Negligent
Misrepresentation and Intentional Misrepresentation, Respectively)
“The essential allegations of an
action for fraud are a misrepresentation, knowledge of its falsity, intent to
defraud, justifiable reliance, and resulting damage.” (Roberts v. Ball, Hunt, Hart, Brown & Baerwitz (1976) 57
Cal.App.3d 104, 109.) “The elements
of negligent misrepresentation are (1) the misrepresentation
of a past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing
it to be true, (3) with intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4)
justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.”
(Apollo Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital
Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.)
“Fraud must be pleaded with specificity…[t]o withstand a
demurrer, the facts constituting
every element of the fraud must be alleged with particularity, and the claim
cannot be salvaged by references to the general policy favoring the liberal
construction of pleadings.” (Goldrich v.
Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772,
782 [emphasis in original].) Likewise, “[e]ach element in a cause of action for. . . negligent misrepresentation
must be factually and specifically alleged.” (Cadlo v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 513, 519
[citation omitted].)
Ocheaga has not pled these causes of action with the
required specificity. HSI’s demurrer to the fourth through sixth causes of
action is sustained.
Seventh Cause of Action (i.e., Declaratory Relief)
A claim for declaratory relief requires two elements: (1) “a
proper subject of declaratory relief” and (2) “an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to the rights or obligations of a party.” (Lee
v. Silveira (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 527, 546.) Ocheaga has not
alleged facts setting forth any “actual controversy.” HSI’s demurrer to the
seventh cause of action is sustained.
Eighth Cause of Action (i.e., Release of Mechanics Lien)
Ocheaga generically references a lien and that HSI caused
one to be recorded against his residence (i.e., Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 12, 36, 57
and 62). There does not appear to be a cause of action for “release of
mechanics lien;” rather, there is a separate procedure under Civil Code § 8480
available to obtain such relief. HSI’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action
is sustained.
2.         Motion to
Strike Cross-Complaint
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
HSI moves to strike out the following portions of Ocheaga’s
cross-complaint:
1.                 
Punitive damages (i.e., ¶¶ 31, 42, 48, 54, and 62 and
Paragraph 2 of the prayer for relief); and 
2.                 
Attorney’s fees (i.e., Paragraph 5 of the prayer for
relief).
HSI’s motion is denied as moot in part (i.e., as to
the punitive damages language and request for relief). The motion is otherwise
granted, inasmuch as Ocheaga has not articulated any contractual or statutory
basis for attorney’s fees. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021). 