 Case Number:  24AHCV00344    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



HENRY HUANG, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JUNYI
   ZHOU, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)


      CASE NO.: 24AHCV00344
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT XIAOYAN CHEN’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF POWASTAR
   INC.’S RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE); REQUEST FOR MONETARY
   SANCTIONS
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   6, 2024



 
On February
 20, 2024, plaintiffs Henry Huang (“Huang”) and Powastar, Inc. (“Powastar”)
filed this action against defendants Xiaoyan
 Chen (“Defendant”), Junyi Zhou, Shalom K. Braunstein, and Elite Asian
Art Auction, LLC. On July 5, 2024, Defendant
served Special Interrogatories (Set One) on Powastar.
No responses were received. On August 14, 2024, Defendant
filed this motion. On August 22, 2024, Powastar filed an opposition brief. On November
12, 2024, Defendant filed her reply brief. On November 25, 2024, Powastar filed
a sur-reply without leave of court. 
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) Powastar served verified responses to
Defendant’s Special Interrogatories on August 21, 2024. (Opp., Ex. 5.) Therefore,
the motion to compel is DENIED as moot. 
Nevertheless, the Court imposes
sanctions on Powastar and Plaintiffs’ counsel pursuant to California Rules of
Court rule 3.1348, which permits a court to award sanctions under the Civil
Discovery Act, even though the requested discovery was provided to the moving
party after the motion was filed. Sanctions are particularly appropriate here
because Powastar provides no valid reason for its failure to timely serve
responses to Defendant’s discovery requests, which forced Defendant to engage
in motion practice. 
The Court notes that this is
Defendant’s third discovery motion out of the four directed to Huang and
Powastar (collectively, “Plaintiffs”). On November 27, 2024, the Court heard
Defendant’s first discovery motion which sought to compel Huang’s responses to
Defendant’s Special Interrogatories (Set One). The Court scheduled an OSC
demanding Plaintiffs’ counsel explain why a referral to the State Bar should
not be made after Defendant alerted the Court to the nonexistence of two cases
cited in Huang’s opposition brief. The OSC was set for December 4, 2024, the
same day as Defendant’s second discovery motion, which involved an order
compelling Huang’s responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories (Set One). 
On December 4, 2024, Plaintiffs’
counsel, Peter S. Deng, appeared before the Court and was not prepared to
address the OSC or the issue of the manufactured cases (which were included in Plaintiffs’
four substantively identical opposition briefs). The OSC was therefore
continued to the hearing date for this third motion to compel Powastar’s
responses to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories (Set One). Mr. Deng stated in
open court on December 4, 2024, that he had received an email from the attorney
who appeared at the previous hearing on November 27, 2024, but that he did not
read it. This admission demolishes Powastar’s already ludicrous claim that
Defendant failed to follow “proper protocol” by failing to send discovery
responses with a different subject header instead of replying to an existing
email thread. Also, while neither Huang nor Powastar has filed any notice of
errata withdrawing their false legal references in their opposition briefs, Mr.
Deng and his legal assistant, Ray Yao, filed declarations on December 4, 2024, admitting
that ChatGPT was used to draft the opposition briefs and that neither of them
independently verified the “cases” conjured by ChatGPT. Their declarations further
undercut the claims of diligence and care made in Powastar’s opposition brief
and sur-reply. 
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s actions forced
Defendant to incur costs for drafting this motion, reviewing the frivolous arguments
in Powastar’s lengthy and repetitive papers, drafting reply papers, and
drafting an objection to Powastar’s impermissible sur-reply that added nothing
of substance for the Court to consider. Accordingly, the request for sanctions
is GRANTED in its entirety and imposed against Powastar’s counsel of record in
the reduced amount of $3,061.65, consisting of 7.5 hours at defense counsel’s
hourly rate of $400 and a $61.65 filing fee. Sanctions are to be paid within 20
days of the date of this Order. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 6th
day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties
indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at
the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.
 