 Case Number:  23STCV24742    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  57  
 
Plaintiff
Denise Washington sued Defendant O.R. Barkhordar D.D.S., Inc. (“ORB”) arising
out of ORB’s application in her name for third-party financing to pay for
Washington’s dental treatment at ORB’s offices without her knowledge.   Pending before the Court is ORB’s demurrer to
the third cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, the fifth cause of action for intentional misrepresentation, and
the sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress in Washington’s
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
The Court is sustaining the demurrer with leave to amend as to the third
and sixth causes of  action and
overruling the demurrer as to the fifth cause of action.
 
Third Cause of Action:  Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing 
 
“There is
implied in every contract a covenant by each party not to do anything which
will deprive the other parties thereto of the benefits of the contract. … This
covenant not only imposes upon each contracting party the duty to refrain from
doing anything which would render performance of the contract impossible by any
act of his own, but also the duty to do everything that the contract
presupposes that he will do to accomplish its purpose.” (Harm v. Frasher
(1960) 181 Cal.App.2d 405, 417.)  A claim
for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing necessarily depends
on the existence of a contractual relationship between the plaintiff and
defendant.  (Smith v. San Francisco (1990)
225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49.)  
 
ORB argues
in the demurrer that Washington’s claim for breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing fails as a matter of law because the FAC also does
not assert a corresponding claim for breach of contract.  ORB is mistaken.  While such cases are “rare,” a plaintiff may
choose to bring a claim for breach of the implied covenant without also
bringing a claim for breach of  contract.
(Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222
Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) 
 
ORB is on
firmer footing, however, with its contention that Washington’s claim for breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing fails as a matter because
the FAC does not specifically allege the existence of a contract between Washington
and ORB.  The FAC dances around this
point.  It refers to “the contract
Defendants required Ms. Washington to enter into as a condition of the
rendering of services.”  But it is
unclear if this is a contract between Washington and ORB or a contract between
Washington and the third-party loan servicer that ORB had Washington enter into
without her knowledge to pay for dental services.  Washington states in her opposition to the
demurrer that the predicate contract is the “standard doctor-patient contract.”
  (Opposition, p. 2.) This was not pleaded in
the FAC, however.   Accordingly, ORB’s
demurrer to the third cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Fifth Cause
of Action: Intentional Misrepresentation 
 
As support
for the fifth cause of action for intentional misrepresentation, the FAC
alleges as follows: 
 
59.                  
On or around May 17, 2022, [ORB’s] Front Desk
Receptionist Mary Doe and [ORB dentist] Dr. Tyler Zalatimo, the employees and
agents of Defendant who Ms. Washington interacted with on that day regarding
her dental treatment, intentionally concealed and failed to disclose to Ms.
Washington that Defendants arranged for a loan to pay for her dental treatment.

60.                  
Front Desk Receptionist Mary Doe and Dr. Tyler
Zalatimo were under a duty to disclose the facts about the loan to Ms.
Washington and intended to induce Ms. Washington to go forward with the dental
treatment by concealing these facts. In reasonable and justifiable reliance on
this concealment, Ms. Washington initiated services under the treatment plan.
Had the facts about then loan been disclosed, Ms. Washington would not have
agreed to initiate services under the treatment plan.
 
(FAC, ¶¶ 59-60.) 
 
ORB’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is based on the contention that these
paragraphs of the FAC fail to plead an affirmative misrepresentation -- at most,
they plead concealment, says ORB.  ORB’s contention
is misplaced because, as Washington correctly points out, concealment is a form
of misrepresentation.  Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974, citing Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  And, as ORB itself concedes, the FAC does
plead concealment.   
 
ORB also
misses the mark in contending that the FAC fails to allege that ORB had a duty
to disclose the facts that were concealed from Washington.  Not so. 
The FAC alleges that ORB’s employees and agents with whom Washington had
a duty to disclose, and thus, through them, ORB had a duty to disclose as
well.    
 
ORB’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is overruled. 
           
 
Sixth Cause
of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
Washington’s
claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”) is based on the
following allegations: 
 
20. On or around June 7, 2022, Ms. Washington had a follow-up
appointment to adjust her dentures at Gardena Dental Care because the dentures
she received did not fit properly. At the appointment, she received very rough
treatment from the dentist, Dr. Tyler Zalatimo, and left in tears. The dentist
shoved the dentures into her mouth, resulting in excruciating pain. At one
point, Ms. Washington expressed her worry about not being able to eat solid
foods due to the ill-fitting dentures, to which the dentist responded, “just
eat donuts.”
 
[¶]
 
64. As a result of the acts of Defendants, Ms. Washington suffered and
continues to suffer severe and/or permanent emotional and/or mental distress
and anguish, humiliation, embarrassment, fright, shock, pain, discomfort and/or
anxiety. . . . 
 
(FAC, ¶¶ 20,
64.) 
 
The elements
of an IIED claim are: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with
the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant's outrageous conduct.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1050, internal quotes omitted.)   ORB contends that Washington’s IIED claim
fails because the FAC neither sufficiently pleads “extreme and outrageous
conduct” nor “severe emotional distress.” The Court agrees. 
 
As to extreme
and outrageous conduct, Washington states that this level of conduct is met “if
a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage
the plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.” (Argarwal v. Johnson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 932, 946, overruled on
other grounds.)  Here the, parties were
in a doctor and patient relationship, which arguably gives ORB power to harm
Washington’s interest. (See So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652,
671-672.)  But the FAC fails to plead this
power dynamic.  
 
As to severe
or extreme emotional distress, Washington contends that alleging “severe and/or
permanent emotional and/or mental distress and anguish, humiliation,
embarrassment, fright, shock, pain, discomfort and/or anxiety” is sufficient.
(FAC, ¶ 64.) Severity is a “high bar,” however. (Hughes, supra,
46 Cal.4th 1035 at p. 1051.) While physical impact or injury is not
required, severe emotional distress must be enduring. (State Rubbish
Collectors Ass'n v. Siliznoff (1952) 38 Cal.2d 330, 338; Fletcher v.
Western Nat. Life Ins. Co. (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 376, 397.) The FAC’s
allegations of enduring severe emotional distress are conclusory. In Fletcher,
which Washington cites, the plaintiff’s mental reaction “continu[ed] for many
months,” yet the FAC lacks more specific facts than paragraph 64 to
sufficiently plead enduring emotional distress. 
 
The Court sustains
the demurrer to the sixth cause of action with leave to amend. 