  Case Number:  23PSCV03141    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit
Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons Construction Group, Inc.’s Motion
to Strike Punitive Damages from Plaintiffs’ Third Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs
Alicia Olivares, Stephanie Watkin, Amaris Violet Gutierrez, Abel Valentino
Gutierrez, and Angelina Victoria Gallegos
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit
Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons Construction Group, Inc.’s Motion
to Strike Punitive Damages from Plaintiffs’ Third Amended Complaint is GRANTED
with twenty (20) days leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a wrongful death action arising from a motor
vehicle collision. In November 2022, Alberto J. Gutierrez was the passenger of
a 2006 GMC Sierra that was travelling eastbound on Route 66 in Glendora near
the intersection of Hunters Trail. As a result of the allegedly narrow
construction of the road, Alberto Gutierrez’s truck was forced off the road by
a vehicle in the other lane and collided with a wall on the southside of the
roadway. Alberto Gutierrez was killed after the impact caused the truck to flip
over.
 
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiffs Alicia Olivares,
individually and as successor in interest to Alberto Gutierrez; Stephanie
Watkin, individually and as successor in interest to Alberto Gutierrez; Amaris
Violet Gutierrez, by and through Watkin as guardian ad litem; Abel Valentino
Gutierrez, by and through Watkin as guardian ad litem; and Angelina Victoria
Gallegos, individually and as successor in interest to Alberto Gutierrez
(collectively Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendants City of Glendora
(the City), Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LA Metro),
the Metro Gold Line Foothill Extension Construction Authority (Foothill Gold
Line), Kiewit Corporation (Kiewit), Fernando Vasquez Barrera, and Does 1-200,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) dangerous
condition of public property, (3) negligence per se, (4) loss of consortium,
(5) wrongful death, and (6) survival.
 
On December 8, 2023, Plaintiffs amended the Complaint to
replace Doe 1 with Defendant Kiewit-Parsons and Doe 2 with Defendant Kiewit
Infrastructure West Co. (Kiewit West). On December 11, 2023, Plaintiffs amended
the Complaint to replace Doe 3 with Defendant Parsons Construction Group Inc.
(Parsons).
 
On February 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against the City, LA Metro, Foothill Gold Line, Kiewit, Vasquez
Barrera, and Does 1-200, alleging the same causes of action.
 
On February 20, 2024, LA Metro filed a cross-complaint
against Vasquez Barrera and Does 1-10, alleging causes of action for (1)
indemnification, (2) apportionment of fault, and (3) declaratory relief. On the
same day, Foothill Gold Line also filed a cross-complaint against Vasquez Barrera
and Does 1-10, alleging causes of action for (1) indemnification, (2)
apportionment of fault, and (3) declaratory relief.
 
On March 6, 2024, Kiewit, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit West, and
Parsons (collectively, Kiewit-Parsons Defendants) filed a cross-complaint
against Vasquez Barrera and Roes 1-50, alleging causes of action for (1)
equitable indemnity, (2) implied indemnity, (3) comparative fault, and (4)
declaratory relief.
 
On April 22, 2024, the court sustained the Kiewit-Parsons
Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC in part with leave to amend.
 
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint (SAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action. On September 18, 2024, the court sustained demurrers by LA Metro, Foothill
Gold Line, and the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants to the SAC with leave to amend in part.
 
On
October 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Third Amended Complaint (TAC) against the
same defendants alleging the following causes of action: (1) negligence, (2)
dangerous condition of public property, (3) negligence per se, (4) wrongful
death, and (5) survival.
 
On October 22, 2024, the Kiewit-Parsons
Defendants filed the present motion and their counsel attempted to meet and
confer telephonically with Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Fersch Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
A hearing on the present motion is set for November
18, 2024, along with a case management conference.
 
ANALYSIS

The Kiewit-Parsons Defendants move to strike
punitive damages from Plaintiffs’ TAC. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS their motion, with twenty (20) days leave to amend.
 
Legal Standard

Motion to Strike
 
Upon a party’s motion or the court’s own
motion, the court may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
An immaterial or irrelevant allegation
includes “(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim
or defense,” “(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported
by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense,” or “(3) A demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10.)
 
Punitive Damages
 
Civil Code section 3294 allows punitive damages when a
plaintiff establishes by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) For the
purposes of determining punitive damages, malice is defined as “conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) Lastly, fraud is defined as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(3).) “In addition to the requirement that the operative
complaint set forth the elements as stated in section 3294, it must include
specific factual allegations showing that defendant’s conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for punitive damages.” (Today’s
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) Furthermore, “[p]unitive damages may not be pleaded generally.” (Ibid.)
 
Discussion

In this case, Plaintiffs allege all
Defendants “owned, created, maintained, constructed, designed, approved of and
built, the dangerously and unlawfully narrow two eastbound lanes in violation
of the standards set forth in the California Highway Design Manual and the
California Manual on Uniform Traffic Controls.” (TAC, ¶ 17, 19.) Plaintiffs
allege these actions were carried out with conscious disregard for the safety
of Alberto Gutierrez as they “were aware of the probable dangerous consequences
of their negligence and they willfully and deliberately failed to avoid these
consequences.” (TAC, ¶ 77.) But these conclusory allegations are insufficient
as they fail to allege any facts demonstrating how Kiewit-Parsons Defendants
knew there would be dangerous consequences” for negligently designing a road
that did not meet state standards.
 
Furthermore, it is not enough for Plaintiffs
to allege the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants consciously disregarded the risks of
danger in designing and constructing the subject roadway. They must demonstrate
such actions were despicable conduct that is “so vile, base, contemptible,
miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised
by ordinary decent people.” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994)
25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) In Schreefel v. Okuly (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d
818, the court held a railroad’s failure to deploy warning or signal lights at
an intersection was not sufficiently malicious because there was nothing to
suggest the “crossing itself was particularly unusual or vision of oncoming
trains was obstructed.” (Id., at p. 828.) The court there also
distinguished that case from another case where punitive damages were found to
be proper as the railroad had there had actual knowledge of how dangerous the
railroad crossing was. (Ibid, citing Seimon v. Southern Pac.
Transportation Co. (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 600, 608-609.) Here, no such facts
are adequately alleged with sufficient detail.
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’ motion with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, the Kiewit-Parsons
Defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages from the TAC is GRANTED with
twenty (20) days leave to amend.