  Case Number:  23TRCV04111    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered defendant’s motion and the associated exhibits thereto, the court rules as follows: the motion to compel arbitration is granted.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn December 8, 2023, Plaintiffs Yvonne Renteria (“Renteria”) and Beau Peter Dodd (“Dodd”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc. (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Violation of Civ. Code § 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civ. Code § 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civ. Code § 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of Express Written Warranty; and (5) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability.On February 5, 2024, Defendant filed and served the instant unopposed Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration. Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiffs to arbitrate their claims in accordance with their arbitration agreement with Defendant and staying this action pending the outcome of arbitration.On February 6, 2024, the Court accepted the preemptory challenge filed by Defendant and reassigned this matter to the Honorable David K. Reinert in Department P at the Torrance Courthouse. (02/06/24 Minute Order.) As such, the Court continued the hearing on Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration to June 11, 2024 in Department P at Torrance Courthouse.(02/06/24 Minute Order.) The Clerk’s office mailed the Court’s February 6, 2024 Minute Order to counsel for the parties. (02/06/24 Certificate of Mailing.)As of June 7, 2024, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is unopposed. Any opposition to the motion was required to have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) Given that the motion is unopposed, there is an inference that the motion is meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs allege that on or about June 26, 2023, in exchange for valuable consideration, Plaintiffs purchased a 2023 Tesla Model 3 (the “Subject Vehicle”), which was manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant. (Complaint, ¶ 5.) After Plaintiffs took possession of the Subject Vehicle and during the warranty period, the Subject Vehicle contained or developed defects that substantially impaired the use, safety, and/or value of the Subject Vehicle. (Complaint, ¶ 10.)III. LEGAL STANDARDParties may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) California law favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies to any contract evidencing a transaction involving interstate commerce which contains an arbitration clause. (Wolls v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) Section 2 of the FAA provides that arbitration provisions shall be enforced, save upon grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Ibid.) A state court may refuse to enforce an arbitration clause on the basis of generally applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability. (Ibid.) A state court, however, may not defeat an arbitration clause by applying state laws applicable only to arbitration provisions. (Ibid.)For the FAA to apply, a contract must involve interstate commerce. (Ibid.) When it applies, the FAA preempts any state law rule that stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment of the FAA’s objectives. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.) A party asserting FAA preemption bears the burden to present evidence establishing a contract with the arbitration provision affects interstate commerce, and the failure to do so renders the FAA inapplicable. (Ibid.) Evidence must be presented, in the form of declarations or other evidence, that establishes that the contract affects interstate commerce. (Ibid.) “[S]ince arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also applies if it is so stated in the agreement.” (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956, 963.)“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b).) Thus, in assessing a motion to compel arbitration, the moving party “bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the [motion] bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284, citation omitted.)“If a court of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsDefendant contends that Plaintiffs’ claims fall squarely within the scope of the arbitration clauses. Defendant further argues that the FAA, as well as California law, requires compliance with Plaintiffs’ agreement to arbitrate with Defendant. Defendant indicates that binding arbitration should be compelled under the Order Agreement but, in the alternative, binding arbitration can be completed pursuant to the Retail Installment Sale Contract (RISC). Defendant requests that Plaintiffs’ claims be stayed pending arbitration.Responding Party’s OppositionAs of June 7, 2024, the motion is unopposed.Moving Party’s ReplyAs of June 7, 2024, no reply brief has been filed.Merits of the MotionA. Judicial NoticeThe Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice pursuant to Evid. Code §§ 452 and 453.B. Evidence in Support of the MotionIn support of the motion, Raymond Kim (“Kim”) provides a declaration. Mr. Kim declares the following: on or about June 16, 2023, Plaintiffs initially ordered the Subject Vehicle. (Kim Decl., ¶ 3.) Upon initially placing the order for the Subject Vehicle, Plaintiffs electronically accepted the terms and conditions of the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (the “Order Agreement”). (Kim Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 1.) Plaintiffs took delivery of the Subject Vehicle on or about June 26, 2023, at which time Plaintiffs executed a Retail Installment Sale Contract (the “RISC”) for the purchase of the Subject Vehicle on credit. (Kim Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 2) The Order Agreement contains an arbitration provision on page 3 therein and Plaintiffs were provided with the opportunity to opt out of the Order Agreement, but Plaintiffs did not do so. (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Prior to taking delivery of the Subject Vehicle, Plaintiffs also signed the RISC which contained an arbitration provision at page 5 therein. (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 8-12.)The arbitration provision in the Order Agreement provides that if a concern or dispute arises and is not resolved within 60 days after written notice of such concern or dispute, Plaintiffs “agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to any aspect of the relationship between [Plaintiffs] and Tesla will not be decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer Arbitration Rules.” (Kim Decl., Exh. 1 at p. 3.) The Order Agreement is only in the name of Plaintiff Renteria. (Kim Decl., Exh. 1 at p. 1.)The RISC also contains an arbitration provision which provides that “[a]ny claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute, or otherwise, . . . between [Plaintiffs] and [Defendant] . . . which arises out of or relates to [Plaintiffs’] credit application, purchase or condition of this Vehicle . . . shall at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action.” (Kim Decl., Exh. 2 at p. 5.) The RISC provides that Plaintiffs or Defendant may choose the American Arbitration Association or National Arbitration and Mediation as the arbitration organization to conduct the arbitration. (Kim Decl., Exh. 2 at p. 5.) The RISC specifically indicates that any arbitration pursuant to the RISC shall be governed by the FAA. (Kim Decl., Exh. 2 at p. 5.) Plaintiffs both signed the RISC. (Kim Decl., Exh. 2 at pp. 5-6.)Ali Ameripour (“Ameripour”) declares that Plaintiffs have not agreed to stipulate to arbitration. (Ameripour Decl., ¶ 3.)C. Appropriateness of Compelling Arbitration and Staying the ActionInitially, the Court notes that the Order Agreement does not indicate that such document was agreed to by Plaintiff Dodd. (Kim Decl., Exh. 1.) The Order Agreement only shows Plaintiff Renteria as the customer. (Kim Decl., Exh. 1.) The Court cannot bind Plaintiff Dodd to a document in which he did not agree. As such, the Court does not find that the Order Agreement is a proper basis to compel both Plaintiffs to arbitration.However, the Court does find that the RISC was executed by Plaintiff Renteria and Plaintiff Dodd. (Kim Decl., Exh. 2 at pp. 5-6.) As such, the Court will assess whether to compel arbitration under the RISC.The Court finds that the FAA applies to the RISC as application of the FAA is specifically set forth therein.Additionally, the Court finds that Defendant has established the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate pursuant to the RISC. Further, the Court finds that the language of the RISC concerning arbitration is broad and covers the claims raised in this action.Given that the instant motion is unopposed, Plaintiffs have not established by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to their defense.Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration. The Court compels arbitration pursuant to the arbitration provision in the RISC. The Court STAYS this action pending the completion of arbitration. (CCP § 1281.4.)V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration is GRANTED, and the Court compels arbitration of this action pursuant to the RISC. The Court stays this action pending the completion of arbitration between the parties. (CCP § 1281.4.)Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc. to give notice.The Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration filed by Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc. on 02/05/2024 is granted.