 Case Number:  23STCV23593    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARCUS PORTIS
  
        
  vs.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV23593   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 17, 2024




 
Defendant’s
demurrer to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of actions is
SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
On 9/28/2023,
Plaintiff Marcus Portis (Plaintiff) filed suit against the City of Los Angeles
O 2/9/2024, Plaintiff fifled a second amended complaint (SAC) alleging: (1)
disability discrimination; (2) age discrimination; (3) religious
discrimination; (4) harassment in violation of FEHA; (5) retaliation in
violation of FEHA; (6) failure to prevent; (7) failure to accommodate; and (8)
failure to engage in interactive process.
 
On 3/12/2024,
Defendant demurred to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action. 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts to state a claim as
to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action. More specifically,
Defendant contends that Plaintiff still relies on conclusory allegations which
fail to show a causal connection between his alleged adverse employment action
and his various protected characteristics. 
 
As to the
second cause of action, the Court previously found that the FAC “has not
alleged any facts which could show a causal connection between his age and
adverse employment action or any adverse treatment of him.” (Minute Order, p.
3, January 26, 2024). The only additional facts that Plaintiff alleged to show
Defendant’s animus toward Plaintiff’s age is that Defendant allegedly replaced
him with a younger fireman after Plaintiff’s termination. (SAC, ¶ 33) However,
aside from this new allegation, nothing in the SAC suggests that Defendant took
any action against Plaintiff specifically because of his age. Plaintiff has not
identified any legal authority which could show that the mere fact of being
replaced by a younger employee, without more, is sufficient to state a claim
for age discrimination. If it were, any employer would be liable for age
discrimination where an older employee was replaced by a younger employee. 
 
Moreover,
Plaintiff himself admits that he was terminated, “due to him being unable to return
to work in his normal capacity.” (SAC, ¶ 31). As a result, the Court agrees
that “Plaintiff’s own admissions as to the alleged reason for his termination
show that his age played no role in Defendant’s decision to terminate his
employment.” (Motion, 3: 13-15.) 
 
As for the
third cause of action, the Court noted in its prior Minute Order, “Plaintiff
himself alleges he was placed on unpaid leave ‘because he did not get the COVID
19 vaccine,’ not because of his religious convictions.” (Min. Order, p. 4, January
26, 2024). Further, just as with the FAC, the SAC alleges that once Plaintiff
actually applied for a religious exemption from the Covid 19 vaccine mandate,
Defendant accepted the exemption and allowed Plaintiff to return to work. (SAC,
¶ 22). While Plaintiff has added new allegations that Plaintiff’s religious
exemption would only last 30 days, would need to be renewed, and may eventually
be revoked, Plaintiff does not allege any of these actions came to fruition.
Instead, the SAC describes a timeline of events that show the following: (1)
Defendant had a Covid 19 vaccine mandate for all employees requiring
vaccination (SAC, ¶¶ 18, 20); (2) Defendant’s employees could apply for a
religious exemption from that mandate (SAC, ¶ 22); (3) Plaintiff eventually
applied for a religious exemption (SAC, ¶ 22); and (4) Defendant accepted
Plaintiff’s religious exemption (SAC, ¶ 22). As such, Plaintiff has not alleged
facts which could show that he was subjected to religious discrimination. 
 
As for the
fourth cause of action, the Court previously found that Plaintiff had not
alleged facts which could show he was subject to severe and pervasive
harassment. (Min. Order, p. 4, January 26, 2024.) Plaintiff’s SAC still suffers
from the same deficiency. Where as the original Complaint alleged: 
 
When
Plaintiff arrived at work, he felt everything was very different. The other
workers would not look at or engage with Plaintiff. The congeniality in the
station was not the same. When Plaintiff arrived in a room, the talking
stopped, and the room would be dead silent.
 
(FAC ¶ 24).
 
Now, the SAC
allege: 
 
When
Plaintiff arrived at work, he felt everything was different. Everyone was
ignoring him. Everyone would walk out of the room when Plaintiff walked in. The
other worker would not look at or engage with Plaintiff. The congeniality in
the station was not the same. When Plaintiff arrived in a room where there was
conversating, the talking stopped, and the room would be dead silent.
 
(SAC ¶ 25).
 
As such, Plaintiff’s
claim still turns on an allegation that on a single day Plaintiff was allegedly
shunned by unnamed co-workers who would leave the room when he entered. The
Court agrees with Defendant that these allegations are insufficient as a matter
of law to state a claim for harassment. (Aguilar
v. Avis Rent A Car System (1999) 21 Cal.4th 121, 130-131.)
 
Finally, as for the fifth cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges that he was retaliated against in violation of FEHA for
opposing the Covid mandate that conflicted with Plaintiff’s sincere religious
belief. However, first, Plaintiff himself admits
in the SAC that, “Plaintiff’s job was terminated on March 7, 2023, due to him
being unable to return to work in his normal capacity.” (SAC, ¶ 31 [emphasis
added]). Second, Plaintiff alleges he refused to get the Covid-19 vaccine and
Defendant placed him off work on November 30, 2021. (SAC, ¶ 21). He was not
terminated for another sixteen months. Taken together, Plaintiff has not
alleged facts which could show that he was terminated based on his initial
refusal to be vaccinated for COVID-19. 
 
Given that
Plaintiff was unable to address these deficiencies in the previous round of
leave to amend, the Court has reason to believe additional leave would be
futile. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes
of actions is sustained, without leave to amend. 
            
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 