  Case Number:  19SMCV01709    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  O Case  Name:  City National Bank v. Law  Offices of Jeremy Tenser Limited, et al.      Case No.:   19SMCV01709   Complaint Filed:   9-26-19                 Hearing Date:   2-13-24    Discovery C/O:   N/A     Calendar No.:   1   Discovery Motion C/O:   N/A     POS:   OK    Trial Date:   None    SUBJECT:                MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT MOVING  PARTY:  Plaintiff City National Bank RESP.  PARTY:        Defendant Adam Jeremy  Tenser   TENTATIVE  RULING             Defendant  Adam Jeremy Tenser’s (“Tenser”) Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. Tenser’s  Motion for Summary Adjudication, in the alternative, is GRANTED as to City  National Bank’s (CNB) prayer for punitive damages, and DENIED for all other  claims.  Tenser does not meet his burden  to show that one or more elements of Plaintiff City National Bank’s claims  cannot be established.                Plaintiff  City National Bank’s Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) is GRANTED.   “A party is entitled to summary  judgment only if it meets its initial burden of showing there are no triable  issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  This is true even if the opposing party fails to file any opposition. The  court's assessment of whether the moving party has carried its burden—and  therefore caused a shift—occurs before the court's evaluation of the opposing  party's papers. Therefore, the burden on the motion does not initially shift as  a result of what is, or is not, contained in the opposing papers.” (Mosley  v. Pacific Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435  [landlord’s failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their  tenant’s marijuana growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment  where moving party failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue]; Thatcher  v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 [court cannot  grant summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first  determine if the moving party has satisfied its burden].)    In addition, the evidence and  affidavits of the moving party are construed strictly, while those of the  opponent are liberally read. (Government Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct.  (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100. “All doubts as to the propriety of granting the  motion (whether there is any issue of material fact [Code of Civil Procedure] §  437c) are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing the motion (i.e., a  denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004)  116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)   A defendant seeking summary  judgment or adjudication, must show that either “one or more elements of the  cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that  there is a complete defense to that cause of action.” (Code of Civil Procedure  §437c, subd., (o)(2).) A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the  claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential  element of the claim. (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31  Cal.App.4th 574, 590.) Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts  to plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists  as to that cause of action or defense thereto.” (Id.) If unable to prove  the existence of a triable issue of material fact, summary judgment or summary  adjudication in favor of the defendant is proper. (Id.)   I.                    Tenser failed to submit a proper separate  statement of undisputed facts.     A motion for summary  judgment or summary adjudication must be supported by a separate statement of  undisputed facts.  California Rules of  Court.Rule 3.1350(c)(2) requires:  “(1)   The separate statement “must separately  identify: (A) Each cause of action, claim  for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of the  motion; and (B) Each supporting material fact  claimed to be without dispute with respect to the cause of action, claim for  damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion. (2) The separate statement should  include only material facts and not any facts that are not pertinent to the  disposition of the motion. (3) The separate statement must  be in the two-column format specified in (h). The statement must state in numerical  sequence the undisputed material facts in the first column followed by the  evidence that establishes those undisputed facts in that same column. Citation  to the evidence in support of each material fact must include reference to the  exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.”   “[T]he court's power to deny  summary judgment on the basis of failure to comply with California Rules of  Court, rule 3.1350 is discretionary, not mandatory.” (Truong v. Glasser  (2009) 181 Cal.App.4th 102, 118.)   Tensor’s separate statement does  not meet the procedural requirements required by Rule 3.1350. (See e.g. Tenser’s  Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts (“Tenser SUF”).)  Tenser’s separate statement does not identify  each cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty or affirmative defense  that is the subject of the motion. (Id. at (d)(1)(A).) Furthermore, Tenser does  not provide a two-column format specified in subdivision (h.) (See Id.,  at (d)(3) and (h). Tenser’s separate statement does not identify any undisputed  material facts that support the Motion for Summary Judgment. Indeed, some of  the listed facts support CNB’s claims. (See e.g. Tenser SUF, ¶¶ 4 (“The Firm  first utilized the funds June 7, 2016”), 5 (“CNB sent monthly statements for  the Line commencing December 28, 2015”), and 10 (“The Firm stopped making  payments March 2019.”).)    Thus, Tenser’s Motion for Summary  Judgment is procedurally defective and does not identify the undisputed facts or  evidence that show CNB’s causes of action for Breach of Contract, Open Book  Account, and Account States cannot be established. Tenser’s Motion for Summary  Judgment and is DENIED.    II.                 Tenser Does Not Meet Defendant’s Burden To Show  That One or More Elements of CNB’s Claim Cannot be Established   a.       1st cause of action—breach of written  contract               The essential elements of breach of contract are “(1)  the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for  nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the  plaintiff." (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of  America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.)               Tenser argues Plaintiff City National Bank (“CNB”) cannot  meet the first element of a breach of written contract cause of action because CNB  would need inadmissible parol evidence to show that Tenser personally  guaranteed the 2015 loan, CNB does not demonstrate evidence of mutual assent to  the Basic Business Builder Agreement (the “BBBA”) also known as the 2015 line  of credit, and the BBBA does not create a unilateral agreement by implication. The  Court disagrees.               Parol evidence is admissible here because the 2015 Line  of Credit is not based on an integrated agreement.  Both documents at issue, the 2015 Credit  Application and the 2015 Credit Agreement explicitly reference each other as  being part of the overall agreement governing the 2015 Line of Credit. (See CNB’s  Additional Undisputed Facts (“CNB SSF”), ¶¶ 8, 14, Wartburg Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E,  2015 Credit Application at p. 129, Ex. F; Tenser FAXC, Ex. 7; see also Civ.  Code, § 1642 [“Several contracts relating to the same matters, between the same  parties, and made as parts of substantially one transaction, are to be taken  together.’]; Versaci v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 805, 814.)  [“Civil Code section 1642 “is most frequently applied to writings executed  contemporaneously, but it is likewise applicable to agreements executed by the  parties at different times if the later document is in fact a part of the same  transaction.”].) Tenser also personally guaranteed the 2015 Line of Credit again  when he signed the Overdraft Application in 2018, thus also showing Tenser  personally guaranteed the loan. (CNB SSF, ¶ 23, Wartburg Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. I at  p. 151.)                Tenser’s mutual assent argument fails because Tenser  signed the 2015 Credit Application which included all the details of Line of  Credit agreement, and furthermore Tenser utilized the line of credit thus  manifesting assent as per the terms of the line of credit agreement. (See CNB SSF,  ¶¶ 8, 19, Wartburg Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E, 2015 Credit Application at p. 129; Wartburg  Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. F, 2015 Credit Agreement at p. 132.) “[A]n offeree, knowing  that an offer has been made to him but not knowing all of its terms, may be  held to have accepted, by his conduct, whatever terms the offer contains.” (Windsor  Mills, Inc. v. Collins & Aikman Corp. (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 987,  992.) The undisputed facts show that Tenser accepted the terms of the credit  agreement by his conduct, and thus there was mutual assent.               Tensor provides no authority for his final argument that the  language of the 2015 Credit Agreement which provided for CNB to cancel or  terminate at any time demonstrates a lack of mutual assent between Tenser and  CNB. This argument thus fails for lack of authority.                Thus, Tenser fails to meet his burden to prove the 1st  cause of action for breach of contract cannot be established.    b.       2nd cause of action—open book account   The elements of a common counts claim  for an open book account are as follows:   “[Name  of plaintiff] claims that there was an open book account in which financial  transactions betwen the parties were recorded and that [name of defendant]  owes [him/her/nonbinary pronoun/it] money on the account. To establish  this claim, [name of plaintiff] must prove all of the following: 1.  That [name of plaintiff] and [name of defendant] had financial  transactions with each other; 2.  That [name of plaintiff], in the regular course of business, kept [a  written/an electronic] account of the debits and credits involved in the  transactions; 3.  That [name of defendant] owes [name of plaintiff] money on the  account; and 4.  The amount of money that [name of defendant] owes [name of plaintiff].”   (CACI  372, Open Book Account.)             “[W]hen a statement is  rendered to a debtor and no reply is made in a reasonable time, the law implies  an agreement that the account is correct as rendered (Professional  Collection Consultants v. Lauron (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 958, 968; see (HSBC  Bank Nevada, N.A. v. Aguilar (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th Supp. 6, 12 [entering  default on open book account for credit card issuer where cardholder failed to  pay sums due under written loan agreement in which the issuer agreed to provide  credit to the cardholder in exchange for the cardholder’s agreement to pay the  issuer under the contract].)              Tenser’s separate statement  of undisputed facts includes the facts that support CNB’s claim for an open  book account. Tenser and CNB had financial transactions with each other (Tenser  SUF, ¶¶ 1–5, Tenser Decl., Ex A –E.) CNB kept accounts of the debits and  credits involved in the transaction as evidenced by CNB sending monthly  statements for the line commencing starting in 12-28-15. (Tenser SUF, ¶ 5, Tenser  Decl., Ex. E.) Tenser states his firm stopped making payments in March 2019 and  CNB made a demand for payments showing that CNB is owed money on the account. (Tenser  SUF, ¶¶ 10, 11; Tenser Decl., Ex. I, J.) The exhibits provided by Tenser show  the amount of money owed to CNB. (Id.             Thus, Tensor fails to meet his burden to prove the 2nd  cause of action for open book account cannot be established.    c.        3rd cause of action—account stated                          “The essential elements of an account stated [common  counts] are: (1) previous transactions between the parties establishing the  relationship of debtor and creditor; (2) an agreement between the parties,  express or implied, on the amount due from the debtor to the creditor; (3) a  promise by the debtor, express or implied, to pay the amount due.” (Zinn v.  Fred R. Bright Co. (1969) 271 Cal.App.2d 597, 600, internal citations  omitted.)               Tenser again supplies most, if not all, of the elements  of an account stated cause of action within his SUF. Tenser shows that previous  transaction between the parties established the relationship of debtor and  creditor (Tenser SUF, ¶¶ 1–5, Tenser Decl., Ex A–E.) Tensor provides an unsigned  agreement between the parties to show an amount due via the original loan  agreement, an email stating the his account was approved, multiple monthly  credit statements, and a demand letter for the remaining balance sent by CNB. (Tenser  SUF, ¶¶ 1, 3, 4, 5, 10; Tenser Decl., Ex. A, C, D, E, I.) CNB provides evidence  of Tenser’s promise to pay CNB for the line of credit by including the signed  2015 line of credit application and agreement, and the 2018 Guaranty Agreement (CNB  SSF ¶¶ 7–14, 22–26; Wartburg Decl., ¶¶ 8, 13, Ex. E, I.)                Thus, Tensor fails to meet his burden to prove the 3rd  cause of action for account stated cannot be established.      d.       Motion For summary adjudication                Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (f)(1)  provides: “A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes  of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more  claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if that party contends that  the cause of action has no merit or that there is no affirmative defense  thereto, or that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of  action, or both, or that there is no merit to a claim for [punitive] damages,  as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants  either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for  summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause  of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Catalano  v. Superior Court (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 91, 95; see CCP § 437c, subd.  (f)(1).)                                                                        i.             Punitives “It is settled . . . that a claim for punitive damages is  one of the substantive areas which is properly the subject of a motion for  summary adjudication (Catalano, supra, 82 Cal.App.4th at p. 92.) “Punitive damages  are authorized by statute in actions for the breach of an obligation, not  arising from a contract, in which the defendant has acted oppressively,  fraudulently, or maliciously. Punitive damages may not be recovered in actions  founded in contract.” (Roam v. Koop (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 1035, 1040.)   Tenser argues, CNB cannot be awarded punitive damages under  their contract causes of action, and thus is entitled to Summary adjudication  for the damages claim. (Motion, p. 19.)  The Court agrees.  CNB does not plead any causes of action  sounding in tort in addition to the three contract causes of action.  Thus, CNB’s prayer for punitive damages is not  authorized by statute and is subject to a motion to summary adjudication. (See CCP  § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)   Tenser’s Motion for Summary  Adjudication as to Punitive Damages is GRANTED.                                                                         ii.             Duty to Disclose the terms of the BBBA, Duty of  Good Faith and Fair dealing, Duty to Against Disclosure of Tenser’s Information   ‘[T]here is no obligation on the  opposing party . . . to establish anything by affidavit unless and until the  moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every element  [of the affirmative defense] necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor....’  ” ' ... [¶] What this means ... is that if an affirmative defense has four  elements, it does not suffice even if the defendant produces overwhelming  evidence as to three of those elements. If the defendant fails to address the  fourth element at all or to produce substantial evidence supporting that  element, the trial court cannot properly grant summary judgment. Moreover, a  summary judgment granted in those circumstances would have to be reversed, even  if the plaintiff failed to introduce a scintilla of evidence challenging that  element.'' (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th  454, 468, emphasis in original.)   Tenser fails to provide facts or  evidence within the separate statement or affidavit to prove the elements of the  three affirmative defenses raised in his motion for summary adjudication in the  alternative. Indeed, Tenser’s own evidence shows CNB did disclose the terms of  the 2015 Line of Credit agreement. (Tenser SUF, ¶¶ 1–5, Tenser Decl., Ex. A–E.)     Likewise, Tenser fails to show which  conduct violated any duty of good faith, and cites to Perdue v. Crocker  National Bank (1985) 38 Cal.3d 913, 923 to argue that “[w]here a contract  confers on one party a discretionary power affecting the rights of the other, a  duty is imposed to exercise that discretion in good faith and in accordance  with fair dealing.” (Motion, p. 20.) However, Purdue goes on to state, “a  contracting party's discretionary power to vary the price or other performance  does not render the agreement illusory if the party's actual exercise of  that power is reasonable.” (Perdue (1985) 38 Cal.3d at p. 923.)  Tenser’s ambiguous argument does not show CNB  violated any duty of good faith and fair dealing.               Finally, Tenser does not provide any authority how CNB’s  duty not to disclose Tenser’s confidential information is a defense to CNB’s  claims. Thus, Tenser’s Motion for Summary Adjudication as to CNB’s Duty Against  Disclosure of Tenser’s Information is DENIED.     Case Name: 
City National Bank v. Law Offices of Jeremy Tenser Limited, et al.  




Case No.:


19SMCV01709


Complaint Filed:


9-26-19            




Hearing Date:


2-13-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


8


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None




SUBJECT:                MOTION TO STRIKE THE LAW OFFICE
OF JEREMY TENSER LIMITED’S ANSWER TO CITY NATIONAL BANK’S FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT

MOVING
PARTY:  Plaintiff City National Bank

RESP.
PARTY:        Defendant Law Office of
Jeremy Tenser Limited; Adam Jeremy Tenser

 

TENTATIVE
RULING

             Plaintiff City National Bank’s Motion to
Strike The Law Office of Jeremy Tenser Limited’s Answer to City National Bank’s
First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 

 

The Law Office of Jeremy Tenser Limited is a suspended corporation
and thus has no capacity to sue or defend itself. The Court may strike a
suspended corporations answer under  Code
of Civil Procedure (CCP) § 436 (The Court may “[s]trike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” and Rev. & Tax. Code, § 23301.5.           

 

            “[T]he
corporate powers, rights, and privileges of a domestic taxpayer may be
suspended, and the exercise of the corporate powers, rights, and privileges of
a foreign taxpayer in this state may be forfeited, if a taxpayer fails to file
a tax return required by this part. (Rev. & Tax. Code, § 23301.5.) “The
purpose of Revenue and Taxation Code section 23301 is to ‘prohibit the
delinquent corporation from enjoying the ordinary privileges of a going
concern,” in order to pressure it into paying its taxes.” (Center for
Self-Improvement & Community Development v. Lennar Corp. (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 1543, 1552, quoting Peacock Hill Assn. v. Peacock Lagoon
Constr. Co. (1972) 8 Cal.3d 369, 371.)

 

            “[R]espondent
corporation had no right to defend in the instant action, or even to
participate therein during the time that its corporate rights were suspended.
Therefore the trial court should have granted appellants' motion to strike the
pleadings of respondent and certainly the trial court had no right to consider
the defenses of the statute of limitations, laches, and estoppel which
respondent set up in its answers.” (Alhambra-Shumway Mines, Inc. v. Alhambra
Gold Mine Corp. (1957) 155 Cal.App.2d 46, 50–51.)

 

            “Under the
law of California, a corporation which has been suspended for failure to pay
franchise taxes is prohibited from suing, from defending a suit, or from
appealing from an adverse decision.” (Mather Const. Co. v. U. S. (Ct.
Cl. 1973) 475 F.2d 1152, 1155, collecting cases.)

 

 

 

 

            It is undisputed
that Defendant Law Office of Jeremy Tenser Limited (“Law Office”) has been
suspended due to outstanding taxes. (Motion, p. 3; see SAXC, ¶ 40 [“The
California Secretary of State suspended the Law Office for failure to pay the
One Thousand Eight Hundred Fifty-Five Dollars and Eighty-Five Cents ($1,855.85)
before CNB filed a claim September 26, 2019.”].) CNB argues that because the
Law Office is suspended the Law Office lacks capacity to sue or defend itself,
and thus the Law Office’s Answer “must be stricken in its entirety.” (Id.,
at pp 3–4; see Rev. & Tax. Code 23301.) CNB is correct. 

 

            Law Office
argues the motion is procedurally deficient because CNB did not meet and
confer, nor file a meet and confer declaration, prior to filing the motion as
per CCP § 435.5(a)(3). However, a suspended corporation is generally
disqualified from litigation activities including and meet and confer
obligations. (See Palm Valley Homeowners Ass'n, Inc. v. Design MTC (2000)
85 Cal.App.4th 553, 561 [A suspended corporation “is indeed disqualified from
litigation and all other activities. All its “corporate
powers, rights, and privileges” are suspended; the only exceptions provided by
statute are to change the name of the corporation, and to cure the default by
filing the missing statement.”].) Furthermore, the lack of a meet and confer
declaration with a motion to strike are not grounds to deny the motion. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd., (a)(4).) [“A determination by the court that the
meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny
the motion to strike.”].)

 

            Law Office
argues (1) the Court has no authority to strike the Law Office Answer; (2) a
suspended corporation can cure its suspension which revives the corporation’s
powers and validates prior litigation activities; (3) CNB has no right to put
the firm in default under Rev. & Tax. Code 23305(a); and (4) CNB should be
equitably estopped from striking the answer. (Oppo., pp. 4–6.) None of these
arguments are persuasive.  As noted
above, the Court does have authority to strike the Law Offices answer under CCP
§ 466(b).  The answer is a pleading, and
Law Office’s filing of their answer is not in conformity with the laws of the
state because Law Office is a suspended corporation. (See Rev. & Tax. Code,
§ 23301.5.)  Law Office has been given a
reasonable opportunity to cure the suspension and Tenser has chosen not to. CNB
has not yet requested the entry of a default or a default judgment against Law
Office so this argument is not ripe.  Regardless, the authority Law Office cites does
not support Law Office’s argument, and only applies to corporations that have
begun revival proceedings. (Ctr. For Self-Improvement & Cmty. Dev, supra,
173 Cal. App. 4th at p. 1553 [holding a “plaintiff may not take the defendant’s
default by virtue of the defendant’s inability to defend due to suspension of
corporate powers, where the defendant consummated revival proceedings upon the
grant of a continuance.”].) Here, Law Office has not commenced any revival
proceedings, and thus a default can be brought when a corporation fails to
respond, i.e. an answer is struck from the record. (See Tabarrejo v.
Superior Ct. (2014) 232 Cal. App. 4th 849, 862 (“[A] suspended corporation
may be sued and a default judgment may be entered upon its failure to
respond.”) Finally, because the Law Firm is suspended, the Court cannot
consider the purported estoppel defense. (Alhambra-Shumway Mines, Inc., supra,
155 Cal.    App. 2d at p. 51 [holding that
suspended corporation’s answer should have been             struck  and that
“the trial court had no right to consider the defenses of . . . estoppel.”].)           