  Case Number:  20STCV37321    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 



MIRRIAM PANTIG,  
 
Plaintiff, 
 
vs. 
 
VXI GLOBAL SOLUTIONS, LLC, 
 
Defendant. 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 


      CASE NO.: 20STCV37321 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  GRANTING MOTION TO DISMISS FOR FAILURE TO PROSECUTE
 
Dept. 48 
TIME: 8:30 AM
DATE: January
  18, 2024



 
 
BACKGROUND
On September 30, 2020, Plaintiff Mirriam
Pantig (“Plaintiff”), as an “aggrieved employee,” filed this action against
Defendant VXI Global Solutions, LLC, (“Defendant”) asserting a single cause of
action for civil penalties under the Private Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) due
to the Defendant’s violations of the Labor Code.
On April 6, 2023, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.  According to Defendant, Plaintiff has taken no
other steps at this time, and Plaintiff’s counsel has told this Court that he
is unaware of Plaintiff’s whereabouts. 
Consequently, on December 1, 2023,
Defendant filed the instant motion to dismiss for failure to prosecute.  The motion is brought on the grounds that this
action has not been brought to trial or conditionally settled within two years
after the action was commenced against Defendant.  
MOVING PARTY POSITION 
            Defendant requests the Court for an
order dismissing Plaintiff’s action for unreasonable and unjustified delay in
prosecution.  Defendant seeks only the
dismissal of this action at law in this Court. 
            No opposition or reply has been
filed. 
DISCUSSION
I.                  
Motion
to Dismiss
Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 583.410 states:  
(a) The court may in its discretion dismiss an action for
delay in prosecution pursuant to this article on its own motion or on motion of
the defendant if to do so appears to the court appropriate under the
circumstances of the case. 
(b) Dismissal shall be pursuant to the procedure and in
accordance with the criteria prescribed by rules adopted by the Judicial
Council. 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 583.420 provides in part: 
(a) The court may not dismiss an action pursuant to this
article for delay in prosecution except after one of the following conditions
has occurred:   
(1) Service is not made within two years after the action
is commenced against the defendant.   
(2) The action is not brought to trial within the following
times:  
A.     
Three years after the action
is commenced against the defendant unless otherwise prescribed by rule under
subparagraph (B). 
B.      
 Two years after the
action is commenced against the defendant if the Judicial Council by rule
adopted pursuant to Section 583.410 so prescribes for the court because of the
condition of the court calendar or for other reasons affecting the conduct of
litigation or the administration of justice. . . ."  
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1340(a), states, “The court on its own motion or on motion of the defendant
may dismiss an action under Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.410-583.430
for delay in prosecution if the action has not been brought to trial or conditionally
settled within two years after the action was commenced against the defendant.”
 
“The court may grant or deny
the motion or, where the facts warrant, the court may continue or defer its
ruling on the matter pending performance by either party of any conditions
relating to trial or dismissal of the case that may be required by the court to
effectuate substantial justice.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1340(f).)  Relevant
matters that must be considered on such a motion are: 
(1) ¿The court's file in the case and the
declarations and supporting data submitted by the parties and, where
applicable, the availability of the moving party and other essential parties
for service of process; 
(2) ¿The diligence in seeking to effect service of
process; 
(3) ¿The extent to which the parties engaged in any
settlement negotiations or discussions; 
(4) ¿The diligence of the parties in pursuing
discovery or other pretrial proceedings, including any extraordinary relief
sought by either party; 
(5) ¿The nature and complexity of the case; 
(6) ¿The law applicable to the case, including the
pendency of other litigation under a common set of facts or determinative of
the legal or factual issues in the case; 
(7) ¿The nature of any extensions of time or other
delay attributable to either party; 
(8) ¿The condition of the court's calendar and the
availability of an earlier trial date if the matter was ready for trial; 
(9) ¿Whether the interests of justice are best served
by dismissal or trial of the case; and 
(10) ¿Any other fact or circumstance relevant to a
fair determination of the issue. 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1340(e).)
Here, this case meets the
two-year time requirement pursuant to section 583.420 and Rule 3.1340 because
this case has been pending for a total of 760 days (514 days between September
30, 2020 and February 25, 2022 plus 246 days between August 4, 2022 and April
6, 2023). (Declaration of Laura Reathaford (“Reathaford Dec.”), ¶¶ 2, 3, 4, 7.)  As such, the action is more than two years
old and has not been brought to trial or conditionally settled in that
time.  
Additionally, there is a showing that
Plaintiff has abandoned the case because, despite the Court’s order compelling
arbitration on April 6, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel told this Court on October 6,
2023 that he is unaware of Plaintiff’s whereabouts and thus unable to
communicate with her.  (Reathaford Decl.,
¶ 8.)  Consequently, Plaintiff’s counsel
has not commenced arbitration proceedings. 
(Id.)  Also, Plaintiff did
not file an opposition to the instant motion, and Defendant filed notice of
non-opposition, which further shows the likelihood of abandonment.  
Lastly, Defendant seeks only the dismissal
of this action at law in this Court.  The
Court may not dismiss an arbitration proceeding or bar a potential future
arbitration proceeding because “contractual arbitration proceedings have a life
of their own regardless of whether an action at law based on the same
controversy is dismissed.” [1]  (Brock v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1790, 1801 (Brock).)  Since Defendant is only requesting dismissal
of this action at law as opposed to the arbitration proceeding, Defendant’s
request is appropriate.  Therefore, the
Court exercises its discretion to dismiss this action at law. 
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Dismiss is GRANTED. 
Moving party to give notice. 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit.  If all parties in the case submit on the tentative
ruling, no appearances before the Court are required unless a companion hearing
(for example, a Case Management Conference) is also on calendar.
         Dated this 18th day of January
2024 



  


 




 


Hon. Thomas D.
  Long 
Judge of the
  Superior Court 



 
 
 


