 Case Number:  21STCV24001    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA  
 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 
 



CORNELIO PACHECO, 
 
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
 
PANDRO SOKOLOW CONSTRUCTION, INC., 
 
Defendant. 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 


      CASE NO.: 21STCV24001 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING
  MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF PAGA SETTLEMENT 
 
Dept. 48 
8:30 a.m. 
January 18, 2024 



 
 
BACKGROUND
On June 28, 2021, Plaintiff Cornelio
Pacheco (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Pandro Sokolow
Construction, Inc. (“Defendant”) for penalties under the Private Attorney
General Act (“PAGA”). 
The parties have agreed on the terms
of a settlement.  Under the proposed settlement, Defendant will pay a
Gross Settlement Amount of $42,500.00.  Of that amount, up to $14,166.66 (33%)
will be paid as PAGA Counsel Fees, up to $6,307.93 will be paid as PAGA Counsel
Litigation Expenses, up to $3,000.00 will be paid as Administrator Expenses
Payment, and $19,025.41 will be paid as PAGA Penalties (75% or $14,269.06
allocated to the LWDA PAGA Payment and 25% or $4,756.35 allocated to Individual
PAGA Payments).  (Kevin Mahoney
Declaration (“Mahoney Decl.”), Ex. A at p. 4, ¶¶ 3.1-3.2.3.)  
DISCUSSION
A court must review and approve any
penalties sought as part of a proposed settlement agreement pursuant to Labor
Code section 2699.  (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (l).)  “[C]ivil
penalties recovered by aggrieved employees shall be distributed as follows: 75
percent to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency for enforcement of labor
laws and education of employers and employees about their rights and responsibilities
under this code, to be continuously appropriated to supplement and not supplant
the funding to the agency for those purposes; and 25 percent to the aggrieved
employees.”  (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (i).)  
A.        Plaintiff Has Provided Notice of the Settlement to LWDA. 
A proposed PAGA settlement must be
submitted to LWDA at the same time that it is submitted to the court for review
and approval.  (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (l)(2).)  Counsel
declares the settlement agreement has already been submitted to LWDA on
December 21, 2023.  (Mahoney Decl., ¶ 25 Ex. D.) 
Accordingly, the Court finds that this
requirement is satisfied. 
B.        The Settlement is Entitled to a Presumption of Fairness. 
A presumption of fairness¿for a settlement agreement exists
where: (1) the settlement is reached through arm’s-length
bargaining; (2) investigation and discovery are sufficient to allow counsel and
the court to act intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in similar
litigation; and (4) the percentage of objectors is small.  (Dunk
v. Ford Motor Co.¿(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1802.)  The final factor
does not apply to PAGA.  (See Arias v. Superior Court (2009) 46
Cal.4th 969, 984 [representative actions under PAGA do not violate the due
process rights of “nonparty aggrieved employees who are not given notice of,
and an opportunity to be heard”].) 
Here, the parties conducted mediation
with Mark LeHocky on November 22, 2022; the parties did not resolve the matter
at mediation, but the parties continued arm’s length negotiations resulting in
the settlement.  (Mahoney Decl., ¶ 5.)  Counsel states: “Prior to
mediation, the Parties engaged in discussions of the
claims, evidence and defenses. Plaintiff
and his counsel had sufficient information prior to mediation to evaluate the
potential strengths and weaknesses of the claims and defenses in the action.  During the mediation, the Parties, through the
mediator, continued to discuss and evaluate all aspects of the case, including
the risks and delays of further litigation, the risks to the Parties of
proceeding with trial, the law relating to representative PAGA actions,
wage-and-hour enforcement, the evidence produced and analyzed, and the risks of
trial and appeals, among other things.”  (Id.)  The settlement was therefore reached through arm’s-length
bargaining with sufficient investigation to allow counsel and the Court to act
intelligently. 
Counsel further states that the settlement of $42,500.00
represents approximately 200% of the estimated potential first penalties that
could be assessed in Plaintiff’s view.  (Id.
at ¶  12.)  Counsel also presents evidence of significant experience in
wage-and-hour litigation, almost entirely in class and representative
actions.  (Id. at  ¶¶ 26-27.)  Counsel
is therefore experienced in similar litigation. 
In sum, the Court finds that the settlement is entitled to
a presumption of fairness. 
C.        The Release Requires
Explanation as to Plaintiff’s Release. 
Through the settlement agreement,
Plaintiff releases all of his claims against Defendant, including the rights
and benefits of
Civil Code section 1542; the release is not effective until the Gross
Settlement Amount has been funded and distributed.  (Id. at Ex. A at pp. 6-7, ¶ 5.1.)  The
Court notes, however, that the release extends to Plaintiff and “his or her
respective former and present spouses.” 
The Court would like to hear how it would be proper for Plaintiff’s Release
to extend to former and present spouses. 
Plaintiff also releases, on behalf of
all aggrieved employees, “from all claims for PAGA penalties that were alleged,
or reasonably could have been alleged, based on the PAGA Period facts stated in
the Operative Complaint, and the PAGA Notice”; the release is not effective
until the Gross
Settlement Amount has been funded and distributed.  (Id. at  Ex. A at p. 7, ¶ 5.3.) 
This release is limited to claims PAGA penalties that arise
from or relate to allegations in Plaintiff’s Operative Complaint in this
action, and it is permissible. 
D.        The
Attorney Fees and Costs Are Reasonable. 
A prevailing employee is entitled to
an award of reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred in the action. 
(Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (g)(1).)  
Plaintiff’s counsel will receive up to
33% of the Gross Settlement Amount for attorney fees ($14,166.66) and up to $6,307.93
in costs and expenses from the Gross Settlement Amount.  (Mahoney Decl.,
Ex. A at p. 4, ¶ 3.2.1.)  Counsel states
in his declaration that 38 hours were spent on this case, totaling $24,009.50
at counsel’s respective hourly rates.  (Id. at  ¶ 15; Ex. F.)  Counsel’s lodestar exceeds
the requested attorney fee of 1/3 or $14,166.66 of the Gross Settlement Amount.  The Court finds that the 1/3 requested is
reasonable in light of the hours expended, the experience and ability of
counsel, and results achieved. 
E.        Unclear Whether
Representative Enhancement is Requested. 
The motion provides that “a common fund was created from
which will be paid…the representative enhancement.”  (Motion at p. 15.)  The Court does not find any other mention of
the representative enhancement in the moving papers.  The Court asks Plaintiff to clarify whether
there is a representative enhancement.  
CONCLUSION
The motion for approval of PAGA settlement is DENIED
without prejudice so that Plaintiff can (1) explain why it would
be proper for Plaintiff’s release to extend to former and present spouses; and
(2) clarify whether a representative enhancement is requested.  Also, the Settlement Agreement attached to
attorney Mahoney’s declaration is not signed by Plaintiff’s counsel.  Any future revised copies must be fully
executed by all parties and counsel before the Court can grant approval. 
Moving party to give notice. 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit.  If all parties in the case submit on the tentative
ruling, no appearances before the Court are required unless a companion hearing
(for example, a Case Management Conference) is also on calendar. 
 
         Dated this 18th day of January
2024 



  


 




 


Hon. Thomas D.
  Long 
Judge of the
  Superior Court 
 



 
 
 
 