 Case Number:  23PSCV02476    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Weijun  Zhang v. Bolun Zhang, et al.  Defendants  Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain, Inc.’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First, Fourth, and Twelfth  Causes of Action in the First Amended Complaint with leave to amend. The Court  SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action in the First Amended  Complaint without leave to amend. The Court will await the outcome of Defendant  All Good Escrow, Inc.’s demurrer, which is currently set for hearing on  February 21, 2024, before setting the deadline for Plaintiff to file an amended  complaint.              The Court DENIES the motion to  strike.              Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo  Supply Chain, Inc. are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five  calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a  real property dispute. On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff Weijun Zhang (Plaintiff)  filed this action against Defendants Bolun Zhang (Bolun), Jinghan Zhang  (Jinghan), All Good Escrow, Inc., Taikoo Supply Chain, Inc. (Taikoo)  (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 20. On October 25, 2023,  Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same  Defendants, alleging causes of action for promissory fraud, breach of oral  contract, rescission of contract pursuant to Civil Code § 1689(b), breach of  covenant of good faith and fair dealing, conversion, actual fraudulent  conveyance, constructive fraudulent conveyance, quiet title, common count:  money had and received, breach of fiduciary duty, imposition of constructive  trust, and civil theft under Penal Code section 496(c).  On November 28, 2023, Defendants Bolun and Taikoo (collectively,  Moving Parties)[1] filed a demurrer to the First, Third, Fourth, and Twelfth Causes of Action from  the FAC and a motion to strike. On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition to the demurrer. No opposition to the motion to strike has been  filed. On January 16, 2024, Moving Parties filed a reply to Plaintiff’s  opposition to the demurrer and a notice of non-opposition for the motion to  strike.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer             A demurrer  is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings.¿It raises  issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party's  pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10;  see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It  is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the  complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the  complaint are assumed to be true. (Id.)    A demurrer  can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading  under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.)¿No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered.¿(Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881  [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer];  see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d  859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund  Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider contents of release not  part of court record].)   A demurrer  can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete or  discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc. v.  Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.)¿The “face of the  complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in  the same action. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see  also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505  [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the  exhibits.”])    A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  DISCUSSION Meet and Confer Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a),  Moving Parties were required to meet and confer with Plaintiff in person or  telephonically before bringing their demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,  subd. (a).) The Court finds Moving Parties’ meet-and-confer efforts  satisfactory. (Cheng Decl., ¶ 3.)  First Cause of Action – Promissory  Fraud To allege a cause of action for promissory fraud, the  plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) a promise made regarding a  material fact without any intention of performing it; (2) the existence of the  intent not to perform at the time the promise was made; (3) intent to deceive  or induce the promisee to enter into a transaction; (4) reasonable reliance by  the promisee; (5) nonperformance by the party making the promise; and (6)  resulting damage to the promise[e]. [Citation]. As with any other form of fraud, each element of a promissory fraud claim  must be alleged with particularity. [Citation.]” (Rossberg v. Bank of Am., N.A. (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1498.)  Moving Parties demur to the First Cause of Action for  promissory fraud on the grounds that the FAC fails to allege facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action. More specifically, they contend this cause of  action is based on the vague term “assist” and the FAC does not explain what  Plaintiff means by that term. The Court agrees.  The FAC fails to allege facts with the requisite  particularity to state a cause of action for promissory fraud. The FAC contains  vague and unclear allegations, and does not allege any specific statements  made, who made what statements to whom, where they were made, or by what means  they were made. (See FAC, ¶¶ 31-42; see also Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)  12 Cal.4th 631, 645, italics in original [“’This particularity  requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what  means the representations were tendered.’ [Citation.]”])  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer  with leave to amend as to the First Cause of Action. Third Cause of Action – Rescission  of Contract Pursuant to Civil Code § 1689, subd. (b) “Rescission is not a cause of action; it is a remedy. [Citations.]” (Nakash v. Superior Ct. (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 59, 70,  italics in original.)  Moving Parties demur to the Third Cause of Action for  rescission of contract pursuant to Civil Code section 1689 on the grounds that the  FAC fails to state a cause of action. More specifically, they contend  rescission is a remedy, not a cause of action. The Court agrees. (See Id.)  Moreover, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s opposition did  not respond to this argument raised in the moving papers, which the Court  construes as a tacit admission that the argument is meritorious. (Holden v. City of San  Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418;  C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.  Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶¿9:105.10.) Furthermore, Plaintiff has not offered any new  allegations that may be made to overcome these defects. (Murphy v. Twitter,  Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 12, 42 [plaintiff bears burden of showing  possibility of amendment, not the court].) Even if Plaintiff had offered new  allegations, they could not remedy this defect because rescission is simply not  a cause of action. (See Nakash, supra, 196 Cal.App.3d at p. 70.)  Finally, Plaintiff seeks rescission in his prayer for relief as to several  causes of action in the FAC.  Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer without  leave to amend as to the Third Cause of Action. Fourth  Cause of Action – Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing To allege a breach of the implied covenant of good faith  and fair dealing, the plaintiff must allege, “something beyond breach of the  contractual duty itself and it has been held that [b]ad faith implies unfair  dealing rather than mistaken judgment .... [Citations.]” (Careau & Co. v. Sec. Pac. Bus. Credit, Inc. (1990)  222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.)  Moving Parties demur to the Fourth Cause of Action for breach of  the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing on the grounds that it  fails to state a cause of action. More specifically, they contend it is merely  duplicative of the Second Cause of Action for breach of contract and adds  nothing new. The Court agrees.  “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a  mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the  same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of  action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is  actually stated.” (Careau & Co., supra, 222  Cal.App.3d at p. 1395.) The FAC alleges the same facts and damage claims for  both the breach of contract cause of action and the breach of the implied  covenant of good faith and fair dealing cause of action. (FAC, ¶¶ 43-50,  60-65.) Thus, the Fourth Cause of Action is duplicative of the Second Cause of  Action and is superfluous.  Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer with leave  to amend as to the Fourth Cause of Action. Twelfth  Cause of Action – Civil Theft (Pen. Code § 496, subd. (b).) To state a civil cause of action for receipt of stolen  property, the plaintiff, “must establish criminal intent on the part of the  defendant beyond ‘mere proof of nonperformance or actual falsity.’ [Citation.]”  (Siry Inv., L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th  333, 361–362.)  Moving Parties demur to the Twelfth Cause of Action on  the grounds that the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action. Moving Parties contend this cause of action is merely duplicative of  the First Cause of Action for promissory fraud. The Court agrees.  The FAC lacks allegations that establish criminal intent  on the part of the Moving Parties. (See FAC, ¶¶ 130-134.) As discussed above,  the FAC fails to allege facts with sufficient particularity to state a cause of  action for promissory fraud. It then follows that the FAC fails to allege  sufficient facts demonstrating criminal intent on the part of Moving Parties,  which requires more allegations than a standard civil fraud claim. (See Siry  Inv., L.P., supra, 13 Cal.5th at pp. 361-362.)  Moreover, even if Plaintiff had alleged sufficient facts  to state a cause of action for promissory fraud, that would not necessarily  amount to civil theft under Penal Code section 496, subdivision (b) either. “Although  we are not asked here to determine whether plaintiff would have been able to  prove theft, we observe that not all commercial or consumer disputes alleging  that a defendant obtained money or property through fraud, misrepresentation,  or breach of a contractual promise will amount to a theft.” (See Siry Inv.,  L.P., supra, 13 Cal.5th at pp. 361-362.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer  with leave to amend as to the Twelfth Cause of Action. LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike             “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading  may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof,  but this time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision  (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion  made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms  it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter  inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not  drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an  order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)   DISCUSSION  – Motion to Strike             Meet and Confer             Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), Moving Parties were required to meet and confer with  Plaintiff before bringing their motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,  subd. (a).) The Court finds the parties’ meet-and-confer efforts to be  satisfactory. (Cheng Decl., ¶ 3.)             Analysis             Moving Parties seek to strike the damages  claimed in the Second Cause of Action for breach of contract (¶ 50) from the  FAC on the grounds that it is improper. Moving Parties contend the FAC does not  allege sufficient facts regarding the allegations of the contract terms, and it  is unclear what the FAC means by alleging that Defendant Bolun was supposed to  “assist” Plaintiff. Moving Parties then argue the damage amount of $1,690,355  plus costs and interest should be stricken as improper, and that the FAC should  instead allege that this amount is subject to proof. The Court disagrees.  The Court assumes the factual allegations as true on a demurrer or  motion to strike. (Donabedian, supra, 116  Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) A motion to strike or demurrer are not the appropriate  place to determine the truth of disputed facts. (See Panterra GP, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County  (2022) 74 Cal. App. 5th 697, 709.) While  Moving Parties may dispute the amount of damages sought by Plaintiff for the  alleged breach of contract, such dispute does not render the amount improper.  Plaintiff alleges that he seeks damages of $1,690,355.00 and the Court finds  nothing improper about such allegation.              Based on the  foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion to strike.  CONCLUSION The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First, Fourth, and Twelfth  Causes of Action in the First Amended Complaint with leave to amend. The Court  SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action in the First Amended  Complaint without leave to amend. The Court will await the outcome of Defendant  All Good Escrow, Inc.’s demurrer, which is currently set for hearing on  February 21, 2024, before setting the deadline for Plaintiff to file an amended  complaint.              The Court DENIES the motion to  strike.              Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo  Supply Chain, Inc. are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five  calendar days of this order.    