  Case Number:  22VECV02222    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  W GUILLERMO ARANA v. GLENDALE DODGE, LLC,
et al.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE
TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES FROM DEFENDANT FCA US LLC, AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Date of Hearing:          September 27, 2023                                       Trial
Date:       None set.   
Department:               W                                                                     Case
No.:         22VECV02222
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff
Guillermo Arana 
Responding Party:       Defendant
FCA US LLC  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action.  On December 1, 2022, Plaintiff Guillermo Arana
filed a complaint against Defendants Glendale Dodge, LLC dba Glendale Dodge
Chrysler Jeep, and FCA US LLC for 1. Violation of Song-Beverly Act - Breach of
Express Warranty; 2. Violation of Song-Beverly Act - Breach of Implied
Warranty; and 3. Negligent Repair. On December 20, 2020, Plaintiff entered into
a warranty contract with FCA US LLC regarding a 2021 Dodge Ram 1500. Plaintiff
alleges defects and nonconformities manifested themselves within the applicable
express warranty period, including but not limited to engine, exterior, brakes,
and steering. However, Defendant was unable to conform the Subject Vehicle to
the applicable express warranty after a reasonable number of repair attempts.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Response to Special Interrogatories from Defendant FCA Us LLC, and Request for
Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiff
Arana moves the court for an order compelling further responses to Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatories and for monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,310.00
against Defendant FCA US LLC and its attorney of record, Ongaro PC. 
 
“On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of
the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿(CCP § 2030.300(a).) “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (CCP § 2030.300(b).)¿In addition, a separate statement is required.¿
(CRC Rule 3.1345(a)(2).)
 
Plaintiff
seeks further responses to Plaintiff’s special interrogatories nos. 25, 31, and
45-48 on the grounds Defendant FCA US LLC has not provided Code compliant
responses. Specifically, interrogatories 25 and 31, seek information regarding
FCA’s policies, procedures, and training and information that FCA provides with
respect to its handling of consumer requests for relief under the Song-Beverly
Act. However, FCA objected to the interrogatories on the grounds they seek
irrelevant information, seeks information beyond the subject vehicle, is overly
broad, seek information protected by work product/attorney-client privilege,
and speculative. As for interrogatories 45-48, they seek repair rates for 2021
Ram 1500 vehicles including the top five symptoms and components replaced. FCA
again objected to these interrogatories on the grounds they seek irrelevant
information and are overly broad as they includes entities not owned or
operated by FCA or any claim of defect or nonconformity in this case.
 
Defendant
first opposes this motion on the grounds Plaintiff failed to meet and confer in
good faith. Defendant contends Plaintiff sent one meet and confer letter to FCA
US regarding its interrogatory responses. When Defendant responded and invited
further discussion, Plaintiff made no effort to respond. The court finds the
meet and confer process sufficient for the purposes of the instant motion. Even
if Plaintiff did not respond to Defendant’s response, as noted by Defendant,
Plaintiff also requested an Informal Discovery Conference regarding this
dispute. As such, it cannot be said there was no reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion. 
 
Defendant
next argue the motion should be denied because Plaintiff failed to set forth
specific facts showing good cause for the discovery sought. This is the wrong
standard. A motion to compel further responses to requests for production
“shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought by the inspection demand.” (CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).) Where a motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories is timely filed, “the burden is on
the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully answer the
interrogatories.”¿(Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide: Civil Pro. Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2017) ¶ 8:1179.)
 
The court agrees Interrogatories Nos. 25 and 31 are overly
broad. While FCA’s policies, procedures, and training and information that FCA
provides with respect to its handling of consumer requests for relief under the
Song-Beverly Act may be relevant, the requests are not limited to the make,
model, and year vehicle at issue. As for Interrogatories Nos. 45 – 48, the
requests are also overly broad. Although they specify the make, model, and year
of the vehicle, none of the interrogatories are limited to any claim of defect
or nonconformity in this case or at least issues similarly complained of in the
complaint. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses
is DENIED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount of $2,310.00
against FCA and its counsel due to FCA’s failure to provide Code-compliant
responses in response to Plaintiff’s interrogatories. 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”¿(CCP § 2030.300(d).)
 
The court finds sanctions unwarranted as Defendant acted
with substantial justification in objecting to the requests and opposing the
instant motion. 