 Case Number:  22STCV23231    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 18, 2022, Plaintiff Kamo Martirosyan (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Monteverde Ranch, LLC, Monteverde Ranch Equestrian Center,
LLC, and Does 1-100 for general negligence, strict liability, gross negligence
and/or recklessness, negligent infliction of emotional distress, and exemplary
damages. 
On
July 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. 
On
May 9, 2024, the Court dismissed Plaintiff’s claims for strict liability,
negligent infliction of emotional distress, and exemplary damages without
prejudice at Plaintiff’s request.  On
July 1, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendant Monteverde Ranch Equestrian Center,
LLC, without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
May 10, 2024, Defendant Monteverde Ranch, LLC (“Defendant”) filed a demurrer to
the remaining claims in the first amended complaint.  The demurrer was set to be heard on June 6,
2024.  On June 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition.  On June 27, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply.  The Court
continued the hearing to July 31, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to sustain the demurrer. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to overrule the demurrer or grant leave to amend. 
LEGAL STANDARDS 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
* * *
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any
ground for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the
face thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,
emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).)  
"A
demurrer may be filed to one of several causes of action in the complaint,
without answering the other causes of action."  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 7:34.1,
p. 7(l)-19.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.  
Plaintiff’s
first amended complaint 
The
first amended complaint alleges the following:
Defendant
provides guided trail rides on horseback to the public for a fee. 
On
or around July 20, 2020, Plaintiff paid
for a guided horseback riding tour to be led by a professionally trained and
competent guide.  Defendants assigned
Plaintiff a horse to ride. 
The
guide, Defendants’ employee, was neither trained nor competent. The inexperienced guide’s failure to control his horse caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s
horse taking off.  Plaintiff’s horse began
to show dominance and unusual aggressiveness including trying to run fast, trying
to be ahead of the pack, shaking his head, and blowing out of his nose.  Defendants nonetheless encouraged Plaintiff
to continue riding the horse and advised Plaintiff the horse was fine even
though they knew or should have known the horse had dangerous propensities and
had thrown or injured other people in the past.  Plaintiff trusted that
Defendants’ employee had the experience, training and competence to advise
Plaintiff to continue to ride the horse. 
Plaintiff’s
horse threw Plaintiff to the ground, injuring him.  Rather than assisting Plaintiff, Defendants
attempted to catch the horse. 
Defendants
had a duty to provide Plaintiff a trained and competent guide and had a duty to
not increase the inherent risks of horseback riding.  Defendants breached this duty, causing
Plaintiff’s injuries and damages.  The
guide’s negligent acts or omissions increased the inherent risk and/or failed
to minimize the risk of horseback riding for Plaintiff because Defendants did
not provide necessary instructions and warnings to Plaintiff prior to the
subject incident and Defendants did not respond to Plaintiffs warnings and/or
requests for help and/or took no action to assist Plaintiff when his horse was
acting unusually aggressive. 
Defendants
had a duty to provide Plaintiff a horse with an appropriate temperament.  Defendants breached this duty by selecting
the horse assigned to Plaintiff even though Defendants knew the horse was unduly dangerous for riders like
Plaintiff. 
B.  
Defendant’s
demurrer 
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s gross negligence and
general negligence claims.  On the gross
negligence claim, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing
an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of care.  On the general negligence claim, Defendant
argues that the primary assumption of the risk doctrine bars the claim because
the complaint does not allege facts showing Defendant increased the inherent risk
of falling or being thrown from a horse by engaging in reckless conduct totally
outside the range of ordinary activity involved in the sport of horseback
riding. 
The complaint alleges that Defendant provided a trail
guide who was untrained and unqualified to lead horseback riders along the trail.
 The guide knew Plaintiff’s horse had
thrown or injured people in the past. 
During the ride, the horse began to act aggressively.  Nonetheless, the guide encouraged Plaintiff
to continue riding the horse and advised Plaintiff the horse was fine.  As a result, the horse threw Plaintiff,
injuring him.  The Court cannot say that,
as a matter of law, these alleged facts do not demonstrate (1) an extreme
departure from the ordinary standard of care and (2) reckless conduct conduct
totally outside the range of ordinary activity involved in the sport that increased the risk inherent in the sport. 
The
Court overrules the demurrer. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court OVERRULES Defendant Monteverde Ranch, LLC’s demurrer.  Defendant Monteverde Ranch, LLC, is to file
an answer to the first amended complaint within 10 days. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.