  Case Number:  22SMCV02275    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Regency Holt
LLC v. Fox, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02275
MOTION:                  Motions
to Compel Further Responses
HEARING DATE:   8/2/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
            In
the absence of contrary court order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is
broad. “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action . . . if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010;
see Davies v. Superior Court
(1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) Section 2017.020(a) vests the Court with authority
to limit the scope of discovery if the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of the
discovery sought “clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  CCP § 2019.030 directs the Court to consider
the needs of the case, amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues
at stake in the litigation, and to consider whether the discovery being sought
is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable by a more convenient
or less expensive or less burdensome way, when deciding whether to restrict the
frequency of extent of use of an authorized discovery method.
 
            If a party to whom a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely
response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling response to
the demand. (CCP § 2031.300(b); see Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403-404.) However, when responses are served, the proper
motion is a motion to compel further responses, which is governed by CCP §§
2030.300 and 2031.310. A motion to compel further responses must set forth
specific facts showing “good cause” justifying the discovery sought by the
demand and must be accompanied by a declaration showing a “reasonable and good
faith attempt” to resolve the issues outside of court. (CCP §§ 2016.040,
2031.310(b)(2).) 
 
            A motion to compel further responses
to a demand for inspection or production of documents may be brought based on:
(1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete
claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A motion
for order compelling further responses “shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).) Absent a claim of privilege or attorney work product, the
moving party meets its burden of showing good cause by a fact-specific showing
of relevance. (See Kirkland v.
Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) If the moving party
has shown good cause for the RPDs, the burden is on the objecting party to
justify the objections. (Ibid.)  
 
PROCEDURAL ISSUES
 
Defendants
object to the motion on the grounds that it was untimely. Generally, notice of
the motion must be provided within 45 days of service of the response, or any
supplemental response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
parties have agreed. (CCP § 2031.310(c).) This 45-day deadline runs from the
date the response is served, extended depending on the method of service. (CCP
§§ 1010.6(a)(2), 1013(a).)
 
Defendants’
objection-only responses were served by email on May 10, 2024. Due to the
electronic service, Plaintiff had 45 days plus two court days to bring
the motion. Defendants admit that Plaintiff served the motions to compel on day
46, June 25, 2024. The motions are therefore timely.
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Regency Holt, LLC moves to
compel Defendant Dahlia Fox and Defendant Avrohom Fox to provide verified, code-compliant
and objection-free further responses to the Requests for Productions, Sets
Three, propounded by Plaintiff on Defendants individually, and for imposition
of monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,010.00 against each Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff served Defendant with
discovery, including Requests for Production of Documents (RPD), Set Three, by
email on April 8, 2024. (Ruttenberg Decl. ¶ 2.) The RPDs both make the
following three requests:
 
Request No. 1: Every document or
WRITING relating to DEFENDANT’S application for rent relief under the CA
COVID-19 Rent Relief Program for the SUBJECT PREMISES. 
Request No. 2: Every document or
WRITING between DEFENDANT and any other person relating to rent relief received
by DEFENDANT under the CA COVID-19 Rent Relief Program for the SUBJECT
PREMISES. 
Request No. 3: Every financial
document or WRITING reflecting the deposit of rent relief funds provided to
DEFENDANT under the CA COVID-19 Rent Relief Program for the SUBJECT PREMISES.
 
On May 10, 2024, Defendants
provided their respective responses, which contained only objections. (Ruttenberg
Decl. ¶ 3.) Both Defendants objected as follows: “Respondent objects to this
request to the extent that it seeks confidential, trade secret, proprietary,
financial, and/or commercially sensitive information. This information is
privileged and/or confidential and it is protected from disclosure by applicable
law. It is also not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.”
 
First, Plaintiff shows good cause
for the production of documents. Counsel explains that the information sought
by the Requests for Production is relevant and necessary for Plaintiff to
prepare for trial in this case. (Ruttenberg Decl., ¶ 6.) The Court concurs, as
the above documents would be relevant on issues of liability for rent, and
Defendants’ affirmative defense of the COVID-19 rent moratorium. Plaintiff may
therefore obtain discovery regarding Defendants purported inability to pay due
to the pandemic, including documents relating to Defendants’ COVID-19 rent
relief. 
 
As these are objection-only
responses, Defendants have the burden to justify their respective objections.
Defendants each fail to meet this burden. Defendants only reiterate their
generic objections that the documents are not relevant and argue that requiring
a response or production would be unduly burdensome or oppressive. Defendants
provide no reasoning or analysis as to why requests are not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Defendant does not
address their written objections, that the RPDs seek secret or privileged
information. As such, Defendants have not justified their objections.
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel
further is GRANTED. Sanctions are mandatory and imposed in favor of Plaintiff in
the noticed amounts: a) $1,010.00 against Defendant Dahlia Fox;
and b) $1,010.00 against Defendant Avrohom Fox. Sanctions are to be paid to
Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days.
 
Further responses are ordered within 10 days.