 Case Number:  23SMCV04803    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           McGlothenon,
et al., v. Mercedes-Benz USA LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV04803
MOTION:                  Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
HEARING DATE:   8/2/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A defendant’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings may be made after the time to demur has expired and an answer
has been filed. (CCP § 438(f).) A motion by a defendant may be made on the
grounds that (1) the court “lacks jurisdiction of the subject of one or more of
the causes of action alleged” or (2) the complaint or cross-complaint “does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”
(CCP § 438(c).) 
 
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer but is made after the
time for demurrer has expired. Except as provided by statute, the rules
governing demurrers apply. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is akin to a
general demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the complaint to state a cause of
action. The court must assume the truth of all factual allegations in the
complaint, along with matters subject to judicial notice.” (Wise v. Pacific
Gas and Elec. Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738, citations omitted.)
Further, like a general demurrer, a motion for judgment on the pleadings “does
not lie as to a portion of a cause of action, and if any part of a cause of
action is properly pleaded, the [motion] will be overruled.” (Fire Ins.
Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)  
  
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant request for judicial
notice is GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant LAD-MB, LLC (dba
Mercedes-Benz of Los Angeles) moves for judgment on the pleadings against
Plaintiffs Caitlyn McGlthen and Cardiaz McGlothen on behalf of Dezniworld LLC’s
operative complaint’s second cause of action for negligent repair. Defendant
argues that the claim is barred by the economic loss rule.
 
The economic loss rule posits that
a purchaser of a product that does not live up to the buyer’s expectations can
only recover in contract and not tort, “unless [the purchaser] can demonstrate
harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.” (Food Safety Net
Services v. Eco Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118,
1130, quoting Robinson Helicopter Company, Inc. v. Dana Corporation (2004)
34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) “Economic loss consists of ‘damages for inadequate value,
costs of repair and replacement of the defective product or consequent loss of
profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages to other property.’” (Ibid.)
A party must plead the existence of a duty that arises independent of any
contractual duty and independent injury, other than economic loss, that arises
from the breach of that duty. (Id. at 988-991.) For example, the Robinson
court recognized fraudulent inducement of a contract which exposed a plaintiff to
potential liability, as sufficiently independent to avoid the economic loss
rule. (Id. at 993.)


The Court concurs that the
allegations only amount to economic loss and do not state any duty independent
of the contractual warranties. Plaintiff alleges that on November 8, 2020,
Plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with Defendant regarding a 2021
Mercedes A Class, VIN: W1K3G4EB2MJ270007 ("the Subject Vehicle”), which
Plaintiff(s) leased and purchased for a total price of approximately
$43,859.25. (Compl., ¶ 17.) Defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested
themselves within the applicable express warranty period and substantially
impaired the use, value and/or safety of the Subject Vehicle. (¶ 18.) Plaintiff(s)
delivered the vehicle to an authorized Defendant repair facility for repair of
the nonconformities. (¶ 19.) Defendant was unable to conform the Subject
Vehicle to the applicable express warranty after a reasonable number of repair
attempts. (¶ 20.) Defendant failed to promptly make restitution in accordance
with the Song-Beverly Act. (¶ 21.) Defendant failed to remedy the defects and
nonconformities or to promptly issue restitution. (¶22.) Defendant acted
willfully in its failure to comply with the Song-Beverly Act. (¶ 23.) 
 
The Complaint further alleges that Plaintiffs
delivered the Subject Vehicle to Defendant for repair during the express
warranty period for a warranted defect in the Subject Vehicle. (Compl., ¶ 29.) Defendant
owed a duty to Plaintiff to use ordinary care and skill in storage, preparation
and repair of the Subject Vehicle in accordance with industry standards. (¶
30.) Defendant breached its duty by failing to properly store, prepare and
repair of the Subject Vehicle in accordance with industry standards. (¶ 31.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that the alleged
damages arise from the independent negligence of Defendant in the storage,
preparation and repair of the Subject Vehicle. Plaintiff posits that such
damages “may include further injury to the vehicle above and beyond the
inherent defect.” (Opp. at 5.) However, Plaintiff cites no allegations of
damages to the vehicle or other damages independent of the economic loss from
the alleged inadequate repairs. Further facts would be required to establish
this independent duty.
 
Accordingly, the motion for
judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED with 10 days leave to amend.