  Case Number:  BC616669    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  21, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


BC616669




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for an Order for Specific Performance of California Rule of Professional
  Conduct 1.15(d)(7)   




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Melissa Rosapapan 




OPPOSING PARTY:


 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 21, 2016, Plaintiff Melissa Rosapapan (Plaintiff) filed this
action surrounding a motor vehicle accident and retained D. Hess Panah as her
counsel. (Motion at pg. 3.) On October 4, 2017, McElfish Law Firm was
associated into the case, and exclusively has represented Plaintiff since then.
(Id.)
 
On May 2, 2023, the parties entered into a settlement agreement and a
settlement check was made payable to Plaintiff Melissa Rosapapan, McElfish Law
Firm, and Panah Law Firm. D Hess Panah and McElfish have asserted a lien for
their attorney’s fees. (Motion at pg. 3.)
 
Plaintiff asserts, through her counsel McElfish Law Firm, that D. Hess
Panah has refused to endorse the settlement check. (Motion at pg. 3.) McElfish
has agreed to hold the balance of the settlement for attorney’s fees in trust
until there is an agreement between McElfish and Panah or the Court has ordered
a distribution. (Id.) As a result, Plaintiff argues Panah should be
forced to endorse the check so that Plaintiff can receive her settlement. (Id.
at pg. 4-5) Plaintiff asserts the amount due to her is not in dispute, but that
Panah refuses to endorse until an agreement is reached regarding the
distribution of attorney’s fees. (Id.) Plaintiff now moves under
California Rules of Professional Conduct 1.15(d)(7) to compel Panah to endorse
the settlement check. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
California Rules of Professional Conduct,
rule 1.15(d)(7) requires a lawyer to “promptly distribute, as requested by the
client or other person, any undisputed funds or property in the possession of
the lawyer or law firm that the client or other person is entitled to
receive.”  Plaintiff cites to opinions from the Review Department
of the State Bar Court of California which discuss the predecessor to Rule
1.15(d)(7), rule 4-100. In Matter of Kaplan (Cal. Bar Ct., Aug. 20, 1993) 2 Cal.
State Bar Ct. Rptr. 509, the attorney Kaplan refused to endorse a settlement
check despite repeated attempts to obtain a signature. There, the State Bar
Court determined Kaplan was obligated to act promptly to release those funds by
endorsing the check. (Id. at 521–22.)  However, Plaintiff
cites no legal authority for the Court to order specific performance pursuant
to rule 1.15(d)(7). 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            The Court sets an Order to Show
Cause re: dismissal of action with prejudice and what, if any, corrective
action should be taken by the Court in view of any violation of the California Rules
of Professional Conduct, on October 13, 2023 at 1:30 p.m. in Department
32. D. Hess Panah and Raymond McElfish are ordered to appear in
person.
 
            The Order to Show Cause Re:
Dismissal (Settlement), currently scheduled for 9/26/23, is advanced and
vacated.
 
            The Clerk of the Court shall give
notice of the Court’s order to D. Hess Panah, Raymond McElfish, and all parties
in this action. 