 Case Number:  22STCV21891    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21891




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Federal Express Corporation 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Specially
  Appearing Universal Protection Service, LP



 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 7, 2022, Plaintiff Latita Swan
Washington (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Federal Express
Corporation and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff
alleges that on July 11, 2020, she slipped and fell on premises owned by
Federal Express Corporation (“FEC”). 
 
FEC previously filed a cross-complaint
against Universal Protection Service, LP (“Universal Protection”) on February
21, 2023. On April 24, 2024, the Court granted Universal Protection’s motion to
strike the cross-complaint and sustained its demurrer. (Min. Order, 4/24/24.) 
 
On May 20, 2024, FEC filed the instant motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint against Universal Protection. Universal Protection specially
appears to oppose and FEC replies. Universal Protection also has filed a
sur-reply.[1] 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be
filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or cross-complaint,
which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the complaint or
cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 412.20(a)(3), 428.50(a),
432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the
court has set a trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc. §428.50(b).)   
 
If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time
limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file
the cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave
to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith. (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to
file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of
justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).) The
court must grant leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint so long as the defendant
is acting in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint may file
a cross complaint setting forth “[a]ny cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10(b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
FEC moves for leave to file the
cross-complaint arguing that the “Guard Services Agreement” entered between FEC
and Universal Protection required Universal Protection to obtain a release from
any employee assigned to FEC. Further, FEC argues the agreement contained an
express indemnity clause. 
 
In Universal Protection’s
sur-reply, it argues that the proposed pleading fails to address the
deficiencies identified in the Court’s April 24, 2024 order. 
 
FEC has addressed the prior
deficiencies in part. The First Cause of Action now alleges a written agreement
between FEC and Universal Protection where Universal Protection agreed to obtain
a release from its employees, and that failing to do so was a breach. (Proposed
Cross-Complaint ¶ 14.) The purported agreement is also attached to the
pleading. 
 
However, while the proposed
cross-complaint alleges a written agreement to indemnify, hold harmless, and
defend FEC, the proposed causes of action are for equitable indemnity,
contribution, and apportionment of fault. FEC does not explain how these causes
of action are not foreclosed by Labor Code section 3864, and therefore does not
address the deficiencies previously identified by the Court. Accordingly, the Court
denies leave to file this proposed cross-complaint.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the Motion for Leave to File a
Cross-Complaint. 
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 


