 Case Number:  23STCV19129    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV19129




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Verified Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
(2)
  Compel Verified Responses to Request for Production, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  BOP FigAt7th LLC  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Enedino Espinoza  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant BOP FigAt7th LLC (“Defendant”) now moves to compel initial
responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Production, Set
One from Plaintiff Enedino Espinoza (“Plaintiff”). Defendant also seeks
monetary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Interrogatories 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence,
or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1), (a)(2).) The
statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have
been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does not respond to
discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set
of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to
respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall
impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
Requests for Production 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails
to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro
§ 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On March 18, 2024, Defendant served Special Interrogatories, Set One
and Request for Production, Set One on Plaintiff. The responses were originally
due May 2, 2024. Defendant granted an extension.[1] On
May 20, 2024, Plaintiff served responses. Defendant asserts the responses
contain only objections and are unverified. (Grover Decl. ¶ 4, Exh B.) 
 
Unverified
discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all, and are subject to a
motion to compel responses (rather than a motion to compel further responses).¿
(Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-36.)¿¿However,
the party to whom interrogatories and requests for production are
directed shall sign the response under oath unless the responses contain only
objections. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.250(a), 2031.250(a).)
 
Here,
because Plaintiff’s responses contain only objections, a verification is not
required. Therefore, a motion to compel is not appropriate, but rather motions
to compel further under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300 and 2031.310,
which requires the moving party to meet and confer, schedule an informal
discovery conference, and file a separate statement. 
 
In
reply, Defendant asks the Court to continue the instant motions and allow
Defendant to submit a concise outline of the discovery requests in lieu of the
separate statement. (Reply, 4.) 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court continues the motions to August 2, 2024. The
Court sets an informal discovery conference for July 18, 2024 at 11:00 a.m.
Counsel are ordered to meet and confer by telephone at least 3 days prior to
the IDC and attempt to reach a resolution. If any issues are resolved, the
moving party must email the Court by July 17 at noon at sscdept32FSC@lacourt.org to advise
the Court which issues remain.
 
 
Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 


