 Case Number:  22STCV25690    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25690




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reopen Expert Discovery




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Anabella Alexandra Pleitez Navas  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Richard Aronoff and Pamela Aronoff   



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On August 9, 2022, Plaintiff Anabella
Alexandra Pleitez Navas (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Richard
Aronoff, Pamela Aronoff, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence resulting from a motor
vehicle accident. Defendants Richard Aronoff and Pamela Aronoff (“Defendants”)
filed an answer on October 17, 2022. Trial was initially set for February 6,
2024.
 
            On January 4, 2024, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related deadlines to May 7,
2024. 
 
            On April 26, 2024, the Court granted
in part, the ex parte application filed by Plaintiff to continue trial and
reopen expert discovery. Pursuant to oral stipulation, trial was continued to
August 1, 2024. The Court denied the request to reopen discovery, requiring a
noticed motion instead. (Min. Order, 4/26/24.) 
 
On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to reopen expert discovery
to complete expert depositions. Defendants oppose and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Theodore J. Feldsher, Plaintiff’s counsel, does not
describe a meet and confer effort to reopen expert discovery. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, the expert designation date was set for March 18, 2024. However,
the parties agreed to hold off disclosing experts to focus on a mediation that
was scheduled on March 28, 2024. (Feldsher Decl. ¶ 3–4.) The mediation was
unsuccessful and on March 29, 2024, the parties designated experts, thereby decreasing
the expert discovery period since trial was set for May 7, 2024 at the time. (Id.
¶ 5.) Plaintiff asserts that Defendants’ counsel ignored Plaintiff’s efforts to
schedule experts’ deposition and never provided dates. (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. B,
C.) 
 
In opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff failed to timely notice
depositions and that Plaintiff failed to produce its own expert for deposition.
However, Defendants do not dispute that they failed to provide available
deposition dates for their experts. 
 
Therefore, given the already-limited period of expert discovery, the
Court finds that Plaintiff acted reasonably to seek available dates before
noticing unilaterally set depositions. The need for the discovery also appears
high since neither party has conducted expert depositions. Additionally, it
appears that expert depositions could be completed before the trial date of
August 1, 2024. Therefore, the motion to reopen expert discovery is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to reopen expert discovery is GRANTED. The parties should meet and confer
promptly to ensure that all expert discovery can be completed by the current
trial date.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 