 Case Number:  22STCV22802    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV22802




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Petition for Minors Compromise 
(2)
  Petition for Minors Compromise




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Chanel Cajas 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petitions
filed on May 24, 2024 by Petitioner Chanel Cajas (Petitioner) on behalf of
Claimant Noah Rosas, age 15 and Claimant Desiree Rosas, Age 14. The Court denies the petitions
without prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
Unless stated otherwise, the following defects apply to
both petitions. 
 
Petitioner must correct the court address on the first
page of the petitions (city and zip code). 
 
Petitioner should also mark “guardian ad litem” in item 1
of the petitions and item 2 of the proposed orders. 
 
Petitioner states that Claimant Noah Rosas suffers from leg
pain, lower back pain, and head pain/ache from the subject motor vehicle
accident. Petitioner asserts Noah has not recovered, but the injuries are
temporary. Claimant Desiree Rosas sustained the following injuries: neck pain,
mid back pain, lower back pain, head pain/aches, anxiety, attention and
concentration problems, dizziness, sensitivity to noise. Petitioner asserts
Desiree has not recovered completely but the injuries are temporary. 
 
Petitioner must provide attachment 8 containing medical
records/report showing Claimants’ current condition. 
 
Petitioner must include the terms of the settlement in
item 10c. 
 
Item 11b(1) should be $2,000 based on the values in
11b(4). 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 11b(6) stating the reasons
for apportionment between the settlements of the other plaintiffs and Claimants.

 
Petitioner must complete item 12a(5) since it appears
there are medical liens. Item 12a(3) should be the value of the reductions, not
the remaining balance after reductions. The same should be applied in item
12b(5)(b). 
 
Since there are medical liens, item 12b(5)(a)(ii) should
be completed but should only account for the $300 lien from Health Pointe.
Since Petitioner already disclosed the Medi-Cal lien in item 12b(4), Petitioner
does not need to re-list it in 12b(5)(b)(ii). 
 
Petitioner must include a copy of the attorney fee
agreement in attachment 17a.
 
It appears counsel is representing other parties in this
case. The answer in item 17e must be changed and attachment 17e must be
provided. 
 
No signature is required in item 21 since Claimant is not
an adult. 
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), item 6 must show the
gross settlement ($1,000). If expenses and costs are waived, Petitioner should
not complete item 8a(2). 
 
In MC-355, Petitioner must make a selection in item 3. 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petitions without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 