  Case Number:  21STCV02421    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



FREDY VERY CORONA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
EXQUISITE APPAREL CORP., et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 21STCV02421 




Hearing Date:


November 15, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
MOTION BY
  DEFENDANT EXQUISITE APPAREL CORP. TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT



            
 
Background 
On
January 20, 2021, Plaintiff Fredy Vera Corona (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Exquisite Apparel Corp. (“Exquisite Apparel”) and Affluent Staffing, LLC (“Affluent”) (jointly,
“Defendants”). On March 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended
Representative Action Complaint (the “SAC”), which contains a single cause of
action for violation of the Private Attorneys General Act.
Plaintiff previously moved for an order imposing terminating and monetary sanctions against Exquisite
Apparel. No opposition to the motion was filed. On October 6, 2023, the Court issued an order on the motion. 
The Court’s October 6,
2023 Order provides, inter alia, that “[b]ased on the foregoing,
Plaintiff’s motion is granted in part and denied in part. Plaintiff’s motion
for an order ‘issuing a terminating sanction striking Defendant’s Answer to
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint in its entirety’ is granted. The Court strikes
Exquisite Apparel’s answer filed on July 26, 2021. Plaintiff’s motion for
monetary sanctions against Exquisite Apparel is granted in part. Exquisite
Apparel is ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,421.65 to
Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this Order.” 
Exquisite
Apparel now moves “for relief from the Court’s October 6, 2023
order striking Exquisite’s July 26, 2021 Answer.” Plaintiff opposes. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Exquisite Apparel’s evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection
No. 1 (paragraph 15): overruled 
Objection
No. 2 (paragraph 16): overruled 
Objection
No. 3 (paragraph 17): overruled
Objection
No. 4 (paragraph 18): sustained
Objection
No. 5 (paragraph 19): sustained 
Discussion 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b) provides in
pertinent part:  
 
“The
court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, 
or
proceeding was taken.” 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) also contains a mandatory provision: “Notwithstanding any
other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  
Exquisite
Apparel states in its notice of motion that “[t]his motion is
made pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) on the grounds
that the actions, or non-actions, of Exquisite resulting in issuance of the
Order were grounded in mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect.”
(Notice of Motion at p. 1:7-9.) Exquisite Apparel also asserts that “Mr.
Sands has signed a declaration of fault, warranting mandatory relief under Section 473(b). The Court should set aside its Order
and permit filing of the Answer by Exquisite filed concurrently.” (Mot. at p.
1:21-23.)[1] 
In his declaration in support of the instant motion, Thomas Sands
states that “[d]uring my representation of Exquisite, I corresponded via email
with Chris Van Hulse, COO of Exquisite, and Sheila Geraghty, its general
counsel, using their email addresses @exquisiteapparel.com.” (Sands Decl., ¶
3.) The Court notes that on November 29, 2022, the Court issued an Order
granting Thomas D. Sands’s motion to be relieved as counsel for Exquisite
Apparel. Mr. Sands states in his declaration in support of the instant motion
that “[t]hough the November 29, 2022 Order granting our motion to
withdraw says that it was effective upon filing of a proof of service of the
signed order on Exquisite, I never served a copy of that order on Exquisite,
whether through the California registered agent, Exquisite’s New York address
or the email addresses for Mr. Van Hulse or Ms. Geraghty.” (Sands Decl., ¶ 6.) Mr.
Sands states that “[t]hough I thus technically remained counsel for Exquisite
throughout the case, I did not send Exquisite copies of Plaintiff’s motions to
compel or for terminating sanctions. I did not oppose those motions, which
resulted in those motions being granted.” (Sands Decl., ¶ 7.) 
In
the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that the instant motion “is
procedurally improper and mandatory relief does not apply because the
Terminating Sanctions Order did not result in a default, default judgment, or
dismissal within the meaning of the statute…” (Opp’n at p. 11:18-20.) As set forth
above, Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) provides in part that “[n]otwithstanding any other requirements of this section,
the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six
months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the
clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against
his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not
in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”
(Emphasis added.) 
As set forth above, the
Court’s October 6, 2023 Order provides, inter alia, that “Plaintiff’s
motion for an order ‘issuing a terminating sanction striking Defendant’s Answer
to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint in its entirety’ is granted. The Court
strikes Exquisite Apparel’s answer filed on July 26, 2021.” Plaintiff notes in his opposition to the
instant motion that “the Termination Sanctions Order struck Exquisite’s
Answer and required the payment of monetary sanctions and no default, judgment,
or dismissal was entered.” (Opp’n at
p. 10:20-22, emphasis omitted.) 
In
addition, as noted by Plaintiff, Exquisite Apparel cites to Rodriguez v. Brill (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 715, 725, but in that case, “Brill’s
motion was labeled a motion for dismissal as a terminating sanction and it
asked the court to ‘dismiss Plaintiff’s action against Defendant.’ The trial
court granted the motion and ordered the complaint stricken as a sanction
against Rodriguez for failing to respond to discovery. As a result, a June 9,
2011, ‘JUDGMENT OF DISMISSAL AS A TERMINATING SANCTION’ was filed. The judgment
stated ‘the case is dismissed with prejudice.’” The Court of Appeal “conclude[d] the judgment dismissing Rodriguez’s complaint
constitutes a ‘dismissal entered’ for purposes of section
473(b).” (Ibid.) 
In the reply, Exquisite Apparel asserts that “the
Court’s order striking Exquisite’s Answer is tantamount to a default, in that,
absent relief, Exquisite will be unable to present its defense at trial.”
(Reply at p. 3:11-13.) But Exquisite Apparel does not cite any legal authority to
support this proposition for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b). The Court does not find that Exquisite Apparel has
demonstrated that the mandatory provision of Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) is applicable here. 
Plaintiff also asserts that Exquisite Apparel’s “motion
for relief is discretionary and should be denied.” (Opp’n at p. 11:22-23.) As
set forth above, Mr. Sands states that “[t]hough I thus
technically remained counsel for Exquisite throughout the case, I did not send
Exquisite copies of Plaintiff’s motions to compel or for terminating sanctions.
I did not oppose those motions, which resulted in those motions being granted.”
(Sands Decl., ¶ 7.) As set forth above, on November 29, 2022, the Court issued
an Order granting Mr. Sands’s motion to be relieved as counsel for Exquisite
Apparel. 
Plaintiff states that after Mr. Sands had been relieved as counsel for
Exquisite
Apparel, Plaintiff served documents on Exquisite Apparel’s agent
for service of process, Registered Agent Solutions, Inc. For instance,
Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that “[o]n April 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed his
Second Sanctions Motion against Exquisite and served it on Exquisite’s agent
for service of process via express mail (i.e., includes tracking information).”
 (Alami Decl., ¶ 27.) Plaintiff’s counsel
further states that “on August 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Third Sanctions
Motion against Exquisite and served it by mail on Exquisite’s registered agent
for service of process, Registered Agent Solutions, Inc.” (Alami Decl., ¶ 32.) Plaintiff asserts that he “has
always served Exquisite either through its counsel Mr. Sands or through its
agent for service of process, Registered Agent Solutions, Inc., in this Action.”
(Opp’n at p. 12:17-19.) Plaintiff argues that Exquisite Apparel thus fails to
establish mistake or inadvertence as a basis for vacating the October 6, 2023
Order. 
Plaintiff also asserts that Exquisite Apparel’s “neglect is
inexcusable.” (Opp’n at p. 14:13.) Plaintiff argues that “[t]he Terminating
Sanctions Order could have been avoided through the exercise of ordinary care.
In other words, the Parties would not be here today if Exquisite and/or its
counsel complied with its discovery obligations and multiple discovery orders...”
(Opp’n at p. 14:17-19.) Plaintiff similarly argues that “[d]ue to Exquisite’s
repeated negligence and disregard of these documents that were served, it is
precluded from arguing ‘surprise’ as a basis for granting the Motion for
Relief.” (Opp’n at p. 14:7-9.)
In the reply, Exquisite Apparel asserts that “Plaintiff’s opposition
has no competent evidence that Exquisite received actual notice that it was no
longer represented by Thomas Sands, that it was faced with terminating
sanctions and, with this knowledge, inexcusably failed to act.” (Reply at p. 5:9-12.)
In the opposition, Plaintiffs’ counsel states that “[a]ttached hereto
as Exhibit N is a true and correct copy of the Proof of Service to Thomas
Sands’ Third Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Exquisite, dated November 1,
2022.” (Alami Decl., ¶ 14, pp. 8-9, Ex. N.) However, Plaintiff does not appear
to provide evidence that Exquisite Apparel received notice of the Court’s
November 19, 2022 Order that the Court granted Mr. Sands’s motion to be
relieved as counsel. As set forth above, Mr. Sands states that “[t]hough the
November 29, 2022 Order granting our motion to withdraw says that it was
effective upon filing of a proof of service of the signed order on Exquisite, I
never served a copy of that order on Exquisite, whether through the California
registered agent, Exquisite’s New York address or the email addresses for Mr.
Van Hulse or Ms. Geraghty.” (Sands Decl., ¶ 6.) Mr. Sands further states that
“[t]hough I thus technically remained counsel for Exquisite throughout the
case, I did not send Exquisite copies of Plaintiff’s motions to compel or for
terminating sanctions. I did not oppose those motions, which resulted in those
motions being granted.” (Sands Decl., ¶ 7.) 
Exquisite Apparel also submits the “Corrected” Declaration Chris Van
Hulse in support of the motion. Mr. Van Hulse is the Chief Operating Officer of
Exquisite Apparel. (Van Hulse Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Van Hulse states that in this
case, Kevin Charco of Affluent
Staffing informed Mr. Van Hulse that “Affluent’s counsel, Thomas
Sands, would handle the matter for both parties.” (Van Hulse Decl., ¶ 5.) Mr. Van Hulse states that he “received
emails from Thomas Sands at [Mr. Van Hulse’s] email address
@exquisiteapparel.com, with a copy to Kevin Charco, about a July 21, 2021 Zoom
conference including Messrs. Sands and Charco.” (Van Hulse Decl., ¶ 7.) Mr. Van Hulse further states that he
“never received any notice to [his] email @exquisiteapparel.com that Mr.
Sands’s firm was withdrawing from representation of Exquisite or that Exquisite
was potentially, and then actually, suffering terminating sanctions for not
responding to discovery that [he] thought Affluent was handling.”  (Van Hulse Decl., ¶
12.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Exquisite Apparel has demonstrated grounds for relief under the
discretionary portion of Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b) on the grounds of mistake and/or inadvertence.[2] 
Lastly, Plaintiff asserts that he must be awarded attorneys’ fees and
costs if the instant motion is granted. Plaintiff notes
that Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides that “[t]he court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” As the Court
agrees with Plaintiff that the mandatory provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)
is not applicable here, the Court does not see how the foregoing provision pertaining
to attorney’s fees and costs is applicable. The Court thus denies Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees and costs.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Exquisite
Apparel’s motion for an order for relief from the Court’s October 6,
2023 Order striking Exquisite Apparel’s July
26, 2021 Answer is granted. The Court vacates
its October 6, 2023 Order that “[t]he Court strikes Exquisite Apparel’s
answer filed on July 26, 2021.” 
Exquisite Apparel is ordered to give notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  November 15, 2023                        ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


