  Case Number:  24STCV12025    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



VANESSA TELLEZ 
  
        
  vs.
 
FORD MOTOR COMPANY, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV12025    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 1, 2024




 
 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the fifth cause of action,
but OVERRULED as to the sixth cause of action. 
 
            On
5/13/2024, Plaintiff Vanessa Tellez (Plaintiff) filed suit against Ford Motor
Company and Norm Reeves Ford Superstore, alleging violations of the
Song-Beverly Warranty Act.  
 
            Now,
Defendant demurs to the fifth (negligent repair) and sixth causes of action (fraudulent
inducement – concealment).
 
Discussion   
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for negligent repair and fraudulent concealment
because both claims are barred by the economic loss rule. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees only in part.  
 
            As
for the concealment claim, Defendant argues that it is barred by the economic
loss rule because Plaintiff’s damages are limited to economic loss. “As our
Supreme Court has explained, although that fraudulent intent is often
established by circumstantial evidence, “ ‘something more than nonperformance
is required to prove the defendant’s intent not to perform his promise.’
[Citations.]”) (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34
Cal.4th 979, 988, 993.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s claim is not based solely on a failure to perform. Rather,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew that the specific transmission installed
in the vehicle was defective and did not disclose this fact. The California
Supreme Court in Robinson expressly permitted fraud claims to proceed in
contract actions to “a defendant’s affirmative misrepresentations on which a
plaintiffs rely, and which expose a defendant to liability for personal damages
independent of the Plaintiffs’ economic loss.” (Id. at p. 993.) While
Plaintiff’s claim is here is based on concealment, rather than
misrepresentation, there is no reason to believe that an individual can be held
liable for fraud if they vocalize their deception, but not if they withhold
material information as part of that deception. 
 
            While
Defendant may dispute whether or not Plaintiff can actually show that Defendant
knowingly concealed a defective transmission, and while this may be Plaintiff
transforming a run-of-the-mill Song Beverly claim into a fraud claim, this will
require factual determinations not properly made at this stage.
 
            As
for the negligent repair cause of action, Plaintiff does not allege that she
paid out-of-pocket for any repairs performed by Norm Reeves because those
repairs were covered under warranty. In the absence of Plaintiff alleging out
of pocket expenses for any repairs, the Court agrees that Plaintiff has failed
to allege the essential element of damages to state her negligent repair claim.

 
In
opposition, Plaintiff did not indicate that she did, in fact, incur any costs
related to the repair, nor did she allege any physical damage incurred separate
and apart from the alleged defective vehicle. Accordingly, there is no reason
to believe Plaintiff could cure this deficiency with leave to amend. Moreover,
given this conclusion, the Court need not reach Plaintiff’s arguments regarding
the special relationship or components exception. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend, as
to the fifth cause of action, but overruled as to the sixth cause of action. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 