 Case Number:  23AHCV00658    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER SUSTAINING THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST, SECOND, FOURTH, FIFTH AND SIXTH
CAUSES OF ACTION WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND; AND GRANTING MOTION TO STRIKE IN PARTI.        INTRODUCTION
          Plaintiff Catherine V. Burnham and Defendant Jonathan L.
Blackley were involved in a long-term romantic relationship and had a child
together. This lawsuit stems from the termination of their relationship.
Plaintiff Burnham is in pro per. Her default has been entered on Blackley’s
cross-complaint. 
          Burnham alleges that while they were a couple they
purchased real property together (Palm Property). Burnham alleges it was
purchased jointly, but that she learned in 2014 Blackley was the only one on
title. 
This
is the second demurrer to the Complaint. On August 31, 2023, the Court
sustained the demurrer to the first, second, fourth, fifth and sixth causes of
action and overruled the demurrer to the third cause of action. (8/31/23 Minute
Order.) The Second Amended Complaint followed.
Attached
to the operative Second Amended Complaint is a Separation Agreement containing
certain terms regarding the property Burnham alleges were breached. Burnham
also alleges claims concerning storage agreements of personal belongings at a
warehouse. The Second Amended Complaint contains six causes of action: (1)
quiet title, (2) fraud, (3) breach of contract-subject property, (4) promissory
estoppel, (5) breach of contract- storage facility and (6) breach of contract-
oral. Blackley demurs to all but the third cause of action and moves to strike
punitive damages and attorney fees. 
Blackley
filled the instant demurrer on November 14, 2023. It is unopposed. (4/24/24
Notice of Non-Opposition.)
Defendant
Blackley’s Demurrers to the first, second, fourth, fifth and sixth causes of
action on the Second Amended Complaint are sustained without leave to amend. The
motion to strike is granted as to the request for attorney fees.
II.      SUMMARY
OF FACTS ALLEGED
Blackley’s unopposed request for judicial notice of
three documents is granted. Judicial notice of the two grant deeds to the
property (Exhibit 1 -prior owners to Blackley, a single man; Exhibit 2-- Blackley
to the Infrared Catastrophe Trust) is granted pursuant to Evid. Code §452(c).
Judicial notice of Max’s birth record is granted pursuant to Evid. Code § 452(h).

The below summary of the operative Second Amended
Complaint allegations incorporates the evidence from these documents.
Palm Property Dispute
RJN    In 2002, Max was born to Burnham and
Blackley, in Seattle, Washington.
¶6       In May 2005, Burnham and Blackley jointly purchased the Palm Property.

¶8       At the time, they were in a loving, committed relationship.
¶9       It was the parties’ mutual understanding that the Palm Property
would be purchased jointly; both parties contributed funds towards the
purchase; throughout escrow the names of both parties were on all documents and
it was understood that title would be taken in both their names; at some point
during escrow and unbeknownst to Burnham, title was placed Blackley’s name alone.

¶10     Since that time, it was understood, acknowledged, and represented
to Burnham that she was a co-owner of the Palm Property.
¶11     In or around 2007, Burnham and Blackley entered into the Van
Burnham/Seamus Blackley Separation and Custody Agreement dated November 24,
2007. This document is attached as Exhibit 1 to the pleading. 
¶13     Under the terms of the Agreement, Burnham and Blackley agreed that
the Palm Property would be held in trust for Max and that a family trust would
be created to serve as title holder for the property. Burnham and Blackley both
agreed not to sell the Palm Property or to use it as collateral for any loans.
¶14     Under the Agreement, Burnham would continue to live at the Palm Property
and Blackley agreed to pay the mortgage, taxes, insurance, etc. 
¶15     In 2014, Burnham and Blackley separated and Burnham discovered for
the first time that the Palm Property was in Blackley’s name alone. 
¶17     In around October 2022, Blackley claimed full title to the Palm
Property and stated his intention to sell it. He offered to sell it to Burnham
even though she is a co-owner. Blackley requested that Burnham vacate the
property and has refused to honor the Agreement to hold it in trust for Max. 
¶18     In or about March 2023, Blackley requested that Burnham vacate
the property. 
          Storage Fee Dispute
¶¶20-23        In about June 2018, the parties entered
into a written agreement in which Burnham agreed to certain game items out of a
warehouse leased for the parties’ businesses, to grant Pacific Light &
Hologram (Blackley’s business) more space in the warehouse. In return, Blackley
agreed the game items would be moved to a storage facility in Banning where
Blackley would pay the storage fees. Blackley provided payments toward the
storage facility until July 2020. In 2020, the storage facility was being sold and
it became necessary to move the gaming items. At that time there was an
outstanding balance of $15,000. Burnham alleges that she was forced to expend
her own funds to access and relocate the items. Burnham has made repeated
demands for reimbursement and for compliance with the storage agreement. In
January 2023, Blackley expressly refused to provide any such payments.
          Office and Warehouse Dispute
¶¶24, 25        As part of the Storage Agreement, it was
further agreed that the warehouse leased for Burnham and Blackley’s businesses
would be kept in Blackley’s name and not transferred to Heat Engine LLC or its
associates. It was agreed that Burnham could continue utilizing her portion of
the space. Despite oral and written agreements, Blackley did not keep the lease
in his name and transferred it to other entities. 
          The causes of action alleged are:
1. Quiet Title (against
Blackley)
2. Fraud (against Blackley)
3. Breach of Contract
(against Blackley)
4. Promissory Estoppel (against
Blackley)
5. Breach of Contract (against
Blackley)
6. Breach of Contract, Oral (against
Blackley)
 
III.     DEMURRER
A. Legal Standard
Code
Civ. Proc. §430.10(e) provides for a demurrer on the basis that a complaint
fails to state a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of a complaint. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  
Code Civ. Proc. §430.30, subdivision (a) provides,
“When any ground for objection to the complaint . . . appears from… matter of which the court is required to or may take judicial
notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading.” (CCP § 430.30(a).) 
          B. Meet and Confer 
          Counsel’s declaration is offered in support of meet and
confer efforts. (Cohen Declaration) Counsel declares that he met and conferred
with plaintiff’s counsel on the phone on October 30, 2023. They did not reach a
resolution. (Cohen Decl. ¶ 3.)
          The meet and confer requirement has been met.
          C. Effect of Plaintiff’s Non-Opposition to this Demurrer
Per
California Rules of Court 8.54(c), “A failure to oppose a motion may be
deemed a consent to the granting of the motion.” (CRC 8.54(c), emphasis
added.) If a demurrer is unopposed, Plaintiff may be deemed to have abandoned
the issue or otherwise acquiesced that the demurrer is meritorious. (See Herzberg
v. County of Plumas (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1, 20.) Pro per litigants are
“held to the same standards as attorneys. (Kobayashi v. Superior Court (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 536, 543.)
          Here, Plaintiff Burnham is currently
in pro per. Her former attorney withdrew from the case on March 8, 2024. (3/8/24
Minute Order.) Burnham did not submit an opposition to Blackley’s demurrer now
before the Court. (4/24/24 Notice of Non-Opposition.) As such, the Court holds
that she has abandoned the issues presented by the demurrer or otherwise
acquiesced to its merits.
          The demurrers to the first, second,
fourth, fifth and sixth causes of action are sustained without leave to amend. 
D.
In the Alternative, the Quiet Title and Fraud Causes of Action Are Time Barred
          The basis for Burnham’s quiet title cause of action is that
Blackley acquired sole title by fraud. (Second Amended Complaint (SAC) ¶¶  15, 36-38; 51-53.) Consequently, both it and
the fraud claim are both subject to the three-year statute of limitations for
fraud. (CCP § 338(d).) Burnham alleges she learned of the fraud in 2014. (FAC
¶¶15, 38. )As this action was filed more than 3 years later, the quiet title
and fraud causes of action are barred by the statute of limitations.  
          As the pleading alleges on its face that Burnham learned of
Blackley’s allegedly fraudulent conduct (taking title in his name alone) in
2014, and as the action was not filed until 2023, nine years later, the claims
for quiet title and fraud are time barred. On that basis, demurrers to these
causes of action are sustained. 
          As the brief also discusses the sufficiency of the facts
alleged, a short discussion is included here. 
          To state a quiet title cause of action, a plaintiff must
file a verified complaint alleging: (a) a description of the property; (b) the
title of the plaintiff as to which a determination is sought; (c) the adverse
claims to the title against which a determination is sought; (d) the date as of
which the determination is sought; and (e) a prayer for the determination of
title. (CCP § 761.020.) The SAC at ¶¶32-33 arguably alleges these elements.
Burnham alleges she has a 50% interest in the property as of May 2005 when they
purchased it. And she alleges that she seeks a determination adverse to the
title ownership by Blackley’s trust as of 2005. 
          Blackley urges that Burnham lacks standing to sue for quiet
title since she does not have legal title, citing Liberty National
Enterprises, L.P. v. Chicago Title Ins. Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 62, 81,
internal citations omitted [“the general rule is that the holder of equitable
title cannot maintain a quiet title action against the holder of legal title.”].
Blackley is correct about Burnham’s burden of proof in this action. Evid. Code
Section 662 supplies a presumption that the holder of legal title is the owner
of full beneficial title, which may only be rebutted by clear and convincing
evidence. “Evidence Code section 662 has application, by its express terms,
when there is no dispute as to where legal title resides but there is
question as to where all or part of the beneficial title should rest.” (Murray
v. Murray (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1067.)
Fraud
is deficiently pled. Pleadings are to be broadly construed (Code Civ. Proc.
§452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the facts are sufficient to state
any cause of action. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998)
19 Cal.4th 26, 38.) The policy of liberal construction does not apply to fraud,
however. Fraud actions are subject to “strict requirements of particularity in
pleading.  . . . Accordingly, the rule is
everywhere followed that fraud must be specifically pleaded. The effect of this
rule is twofold: (a) General pleading of the legal conclusion of ‘fraud’ is
insufficient; the facts constituting the fraud must be alleged. (b) Every
element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner
(i.e., factually and specifically), and the policy of liberal construction of
the pleadings ... will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading
defective in any material respect.” (Committee on Children’s Television,
Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216, superseded by
statute on other grounds.) “This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’” (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) The SAC does not meet the heightened
pleading standard for fraud. 
          The demurrers to the first and second causes of action are
sustained without leave to amend.
          E. In the Alternative, Promissory Estoppel Is Not
Adequately Alleged
          The 4th cause of action for promissory estoppel
is based on the same facts and appears to be included as an alternative theory.

          “The elements of a cause of action for promissory estoppel
are (1) a promise, (2) the reasonable expectation by the promisor that the
promise will induce reliance or forbearance, (3) actual reliance or
forbearance, and (4) the avoidance of injustice by enforcing the promise. (Citation.)
A cause of action for estoppel is a claim in equity that substitutes reliance
on a promise for consideration ‘in the usual sense of something bargained for
and given in exchange.’ (Citation.) If actual consideration was given by the
promisee, promissory estoppel does not apply. (Citations.) “Although a cause of
action for promissory estoppel is inconsistent with a cause of action for
breach of contract based on the same facts (See, e.g. Money Store Investment
Corp. v. Southern Cal. Bank (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 722, 732, 120 Cal.Rptr.2d
58), ‘[w]hen a pleader is in doubt about what actually occurred or what can be
established by the evidence, the modern practice allows that party to plead in
the alternative and make inconsistent allegations.’ (Citation.)” (Fleet v.
Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1412-1413.)
          The defect in this cause of action is that the pleading
lacks detrimental reliance allegations. As noted by the Court in its prior
order sustaining the demurrer, agreeing to live in the Palm Property while
Blackley pays all expenses cannot be considered conduct Burnham engaged in to
her detriment. 
          The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend.
          F. In the Alternative, Consideration is Inadequately
Pled
          In the 6th cause of action, Burnham alleges as
part of the Storage Agreement, Blackley agreed that the office and warehouse
would remain in his name and not transferred to Heat Associates, LLC or his
associates. Burnham alleges that despite the oral agreements between the
parties, Blackley transferred the lease to one of his entities. (SAC ¶¶ 86-87.)
However, missing from these allegations is allegation of the consideration Burnham
gave to Blackley in exchange for his agreement not to transfer the lease.
Demurrer
to the sixth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend, as Burnham
failed to plead consideration for the alleged additional oral contract. 
IV.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
          A. Legal Standard
          Code Civ. Proc. §436: “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper:
(a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”       
B.
Motion to Strike is Granted in Part
Blackley
seeks to strike the prayer for punitive damages. This portion of the motion is
moot considering the ruling on demurrer. The remaining cause of action is
breach of contract.
Blackley
also seeks to strike the prayer for attorney fees. The Court agrees. Attorney
fees are only available if provided for by statute or contract. (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 1021, 1035(a)(10).) The FAC does not allege a right to recover fees
under either; the two written contracts attached to the pleading do not contain
an attorney fee provision. 
The
motion to strike the prayer for attorney fees is granted.
V.       CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Demurrers to the first, second, fourth, fifth and sixth
causes of action are sustained without leave to amend. 
          Motion to strike is prayer for attorney fees is granted.
Motion to strike is otherwise denied.  
          Blackley is ordered to provide notice of this order. 
          
Dated:  4/29/24                                                                                                                                                                                       
JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 
