  Case Number:  22STCV13692    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 5, 2023                  TRIAL
DATE: February 6, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         RESPECT THE SHOOTER, LLC v. WARF
Productions, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV13692            
 
MOTION
TO DEEM THE TRUTH OF MATTERS IN REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS x2

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant WARF Productions, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 11/30/23
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract that was filed on April 25, 2022.
Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to perform according to the terms of a
contract for services in connection with production of a film.
 
            Defendant
WARF Productions, LLC moves for an order deeming the truth of matters in
Requests for Admissions propounded to Plaintiff and to Cross-Defendant Mansour
Bennouna, and for sanctions. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motions to Deem the
Truth of Matters in Requests for Admissions are DENIED. 
 
This ruling is conditioned on
Defendant’s payment of an additional $60 in filing fees within 5 days of the
date of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Defendant
WARF Productions, LLC moves for an order deeming the truth of matters in
Requests for Admissions propounded to Plaintiff and to Cross-Defendant Mansour
Bennouna. 
 
Multiple Motions
 
Defendant improperly filed a single
motion pertaining to two sets of discovery propounded to Plaintiff. 
 
Multiple motions should not be
combined into a single filing.¿(See¿Govt. Code,¿§ 70617(a)(4) [setting forth
the required filing fee for each motion, application, or any other paper or
request requiring a hearing];¿see¿also¿Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter Group 2011)¿[“Motions to compel
compliance with separate discovery requests ordinarily should be filed
separately.”].) Defendant should have reserved two separate hearings for two
separate motions to compel further responses. 
 
Combining multiple motions under
the guise of one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates the Court
Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants. Moreover,
combining motions to avoid payment of separate filing fees deprives the Court
of filing fees it is otherwise entitled to collect.
 
Accordingly, the Court’s ruling on
these motions is conditioned on Defendant’s payment of an additional $60 in
filing fees within 5 days of the date of this order. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
When a party to
whom requests for admission are directed fails to respond, the party
propounding the requests may move for an order that the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).)
“The court shall make this order [deem the requests admitted], unless it finds
that the party to whom the request for admissions have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with section 2033.220.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court issue an order deeming the truth of matters in
Defendant’s Request for Admissions (Set One) propounded to Plaintiff and to
Cross-Defendant Mansour Bennouna. Defendant propounded the requests for
admission via electronic service on July 24, 2023. (Declaration of Tiffany P.
Scarborough ¶¶ 2-3, Exhs. A-B.) Counsel for respondents sought and received an
extension of the time to respond to the discovery to September 7, 2023. (Id.
Exh. C.) Defendant admits that responses were provided, but states that they
were provided on September 13, 2023, after the deadline had expired, and
consisted entirely of objections. (Exh. D.) 
 
Defendant contends that the
untimely objection-only responses constitute a failure to respond such that an
order deeming the truth of the matters should be issued. Although it is true
that Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant’s failure to serve timely responses waived
their objections to the requests for admissions, (See Code Civ. Proc. §
2033.280(b)), Defendant provides no authority for the position that these
untimely objections authorize an order to deem the truth of the matters
admitted. Moreover, Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.290 provides a remedy
for when a party asserts invalid objections before a discovery motion is made:
the party propounding the discovery may move for an order compelling further
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290.) Defendant has not demonstrated that it
is entitled to the relief requested.  
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendant
also requests sanctions against both respondents. However, as Defendant is not
the prevailing party on this motion, sanctions are not warranted. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s
Motions to Deem the Truth of Matters in Requests for Admissions are DENIED. 
 
This ruling is conditioned on
Defendant’s payment of an additional $60 in filing fees within 5 days of the
date of this order. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 5,
2023                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 