 Case Number:  22STCV24280    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 5, 2023                  TRIAL
DATE: January 23, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Century Recovery LLC v. Walter C.
Harris, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV24280            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Century Recovery, LLC 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 11/30/23
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract filed on July 27, 2022.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached the terms of a loan agreement by
failing to make payments as required by its terms. 
 
Plaintiff moves for summary
judgment.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for summary
judgment.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) Once the moving party has met that burden, section
437c shifts the burden to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto. If the opposing party cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.
(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.) 
 
When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the Court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except evidence to
which the Court has sustained an objection, as well as all reasonable
inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment. (Ibid.)   
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary judgment on the Complaint’s sole cause of action for breach
of contract. 
 
In order to prevail on a claim for
breach of contract, a plaintiff must establish (1) the existence of a contract,
(2) the plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) resulting damage to the plaintiff. (Richman v.
Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) To constitute an enforceable
contract, the terms of the agreement “must be sufficiently certain to provide a
basis for determining what obligations the parties have agreed to.” (Estate
of Thottam (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1331, 1340.) The issue of whether a
contract is sufficiently definite is a question of law. (Ladas v. California
State Auto Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 770 fn. 2, 23.) 
 
As Defendant has not responded to
the motion, summary judgment is warranted if Plaintiff produces evidence
sufficient to establish that there is no triable issue of material fact. 
 
1.     
Valid Contract
 
            Plaintiff
states that Defendant entered into a business loan agreement with a lending
entity, LoanMe, on February 19, 2016. (Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Fact A.1-2.) Plaintiff has produced the loan documents and a record of
Defendant’s electronic signature on those documents dated February 19, 2016.
(See Plaintiff’s Exh. 7.) The terms of the loan granted Defendant a loan of
$11,500 from LoanMe to be repaid in installments at a rate of 94% interest.
(SSUMF No. 4.) 
 
            The rate of
interest upon any loan is governed by Article XV, section 1 of the California
Constitution. Under this section, the absolute maximum interest rate on a loan,
commercial or otherwise, is 10% per annum, save for loans made by an entity or
person which is subject to an exemption enacted by the Legislature. (See Cal.
Const. Art. XV § 1.) One such exemption exists for “finance lenders,” which:
 
includes any person who is engaged in
the business of making consumer loans or making commercial loans. The business
of making consumer loans or commercial loans may include lending money and
taking, in the name of the lender, or in any other name, in whole or in part,
as security for a loan, any contract or obligation involving the forfeiture of
rights in or to personal property, the use and possession of which property is
retained by other than the mortgagee or lender, or any lien on, assignment of,
or power of attorney relative to wages, salary, earnings, income, or
commission.
 
(Fin. Code § 22009; see also § 22002 [establishing the
exemption].) Plaintiff has also produced LoanMe’s license from the California
Department of Financial Protection and Innovation designating it as a Finance
Lender and Broker. (SSUMF A.5, Exh. 9.) Finally, Plaintiff has shown the chain
of assignments of the loan culminating in the assignment to Century Recovery,
LLC. (SSUMF A.6, Exh. 8.) Plaintiff has thus offered evidence showing the
existence of a valid contract for a business loan.
 
2.     
Plaintiff’s Performance
 
Plaintiff has produced
documentation from LoanMe showing that the funds promised under the loan
agreement were provided to Defendant pursuant to its terms. (SSUMF B.1.)
Plaintiff has thus demonstrated that the lender performed its obligations under
the agreement. 
 
3.     
Defendant’s Breach
 
Plaintiff states that Defendant
made payments or obtain credits toward the outstanding loan balance up until
September 1, 2018. (SSUMF C.1.) However, after that date, Defendant ceased
making payments on the balance. (SSUMF C.2.) Plaintiff has demonstrated that
Defendant has breached his principal obligations under the loan agreement.
 
4.     
Resulting Damage
 
Plaintiff offers an accounting of
the outstanding balance which shows that Defendant owes $11,490.07 in unpaid
principal, plus $49,632.88 in unpaid interest, for a total of $61,113.95.
(SSUMF D.1-3.) This evidence demonstrates that Plaintiff, who has been assigned
LoanMe’s interest in the loan, has been damaged by Defendant’s failure to repay
the loan pursuant to its terms. 
 
            Plaintiff
has produced evidence establishing each of the elements of its breach of
contract claim. As Defendant has not responded to the motion, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has demonstrated that there is no triable issue of fact in this
action and that Century Recovery LLC is entitled to summary judgment. 
            
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: December 5, 2023                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 