 Case Number:  23STCV20839    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



APD EXPRESS, LLC,
 
            Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SIMPLIFIED LABOR STAFFING SOLUTIONS,
  INC., et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV20839
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: SPECIAL MOTION TO
  STRIKE 
 
Date: 
  December 14, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants Simplified Labor Staffing Solutions, Inc. (“Simplified”) and
J.D. Cuzzolina (“Cuzzolina”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff’s
complaint (the “Complaint”) alleges intentional interference with contractual
relations. 
 
 
 
In
relevant part, the Complaint alleges: On or about May 14, 2021, Simplified
obtained a judgment against Tricap International, LLC (“Tricap”) (the “Tricap
Judgment”).  (Complaint ¶¶ 9-11.)  Simplified and Cuzzolina, acting as
Simplified’s attorney, engaged in aggressive collection activities in an
attempt to collect the Tricap Judgment. 
(Complaint ¶ 11.)  On or
about August 28, 2023, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department arrived at
the site of Plaintiff’s business operations (the “Property”) to enforce a lien
on Tricap property based on Cuzzolina’s representation that Tricap operated out
of the Property.  (Complaint ¶ 12.)  Cuzzolina therafter contacted Plaintiff and
offered to stay the lien enforcement efforts if Plaintiff agreed to pay a
portion of the Tricap Judgment. 
(Complaint ¶ 15.)
 
On
November 2, 2023, Moving Defendants filed a motion to strike (the “Motion”) on
the ground that the conduct underlying the challenged allegations of the
Complaint arise from Moving Defendants’ rights under the anti-SLAPP statute.  
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            Plaintiff’s objections to the Declaration of J.D.
Cuzzolina (“Cuzzolina Decl.”) are OVERRULED. 
.  
DISCUSSION
Under
California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 425.16, a cause of
action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of
the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States
Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue
shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court determines
that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim. 
(CCP § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)  
 
 The court must engage in a
two-step analysis under when evaluating anti-SLAPP motions.  (Rivera
v.  First DataBank, Inc. (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 709, 714.)  First, the court must decide whether the moving
party has met the initial burden of making a prima facie showing that the
plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the moving party’s constitutional right
of petition or free speech in connection with a public issue.  (Martin
v. Inland Empire Utilities Agency (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 611, 622.)  Under CCP section 425.16, subdivision (e),
acts in furtherance of a defendant’s furtherance include:
 
1.     Any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law;
 
2.     Any written or oral statement in writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law;
 
3.     Any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest; and
 
4.     Any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional
right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with
a public issue or an issue of public interest. (CCP § 425.15, subd.
(e)(1)-(4).)
 
Once it has
been determined that the anti-SLAPP statute applies, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the merits of the
action.  (Navarro v. IHOP Properties, Inc. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 834,
843.)  If the plaintiff does so, the
motion to strike under the anti-SLAPP statute must be denied.  (Id.) 
Anti-SLAPP motions must be supported
(and opposed) by declarations
stating facts upon which the liability or defense is based.  (HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
204, 212.)  
 
            The
Motion argues that the conduct alleged in the Complaint arises out of Moving
Defendants’ attempt to satisfy the Tricap Judgment, which falls within CCP
section 425.16, subdivisions (e)(2) and (e)(4).
 
Protected Activity
Statements
made in litigation, or in connection with litigation, are protected by CCP
section 425.16.  (Bergstein v. Stroock
& Stroock & Lavan LLP (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 793, 803.)  In making a prima facie showing, however, it
is not enough to establish that the action was filed in response to or in
retaliation for a party's exercise of the right to petition.  (Id. at 804.)  Rather, the claim must be based on the
protected petitioning activity.  (Id.)
 When a cause of action involves both
protected and unprotected activity, the court looks to the gravamen of the
claim to determine if the claim is a SLAPP.  (Id.) 
Protected conduct which is merely incidental to the claim does not fall
within the ambit of CCP section 425.16.  (Id.) 
Determining the gravamen of the claims requires examination of the
specific acts of alleged wrongdoing and not just the form of the claim.  (Id.) 
 
Both CCP section
425.16 and the litigation privilege are construed broadly, to protect the right
of litigants to the utmost freedom of access to the courts without the fear of
being harassed subsequently by derivative tort actions.  (Contemporary Services Corp. v. Staff Pro
Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1043, 1055.) 
Thus, it has been established for well over a century that a
communication is absolutely immune from any tort liability if it has “some
relation” to judicial proceedings.  (Id.)  Where the cause of action is based on a
communicative act, the litigation privilege extends to those noncommunicative
actions which are necessarily related to that communicative act.  (Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th
1048, 1052.)   
 
            The
gravamen of the claim in the Complaint—that the Sheriff’s execution of the lien
interfered with Plaintiff’s contractual relationships—arises out of Cuzzolino’s
alleged communications regarding collecting the Tripart Judgment.  This conduct falls within the ambit of the
anti-SLAPP statute.  (See
O’Neil-Rosales v. Citybank (South Dakota N.A.) (2017 11Cal.App.5th Supp. 1,
6.)  The Court therefore finds that Moving
Defendants have satisfied the first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis.  
 
Probability of Prevailing on the
Merits 
In the second prong of the
anti-SLAPP analysis, the court employs a summary-judgment-like procedure,
accepting as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff and evaluating the
defendant’s evidence only to determine whether the defendant has defeated the
plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law. 
(Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein, LLP (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 435, 444.)  In other words,
the court does not assess credibility, and the plaintiff is not required to
meet the preponderance of the evidence standard.  (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39
Cal.4th 260, 291.)  The court accepts as
true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff, who need only establish that his
or her claim has “minimal merit” to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.  (Id.) 
The plaintiff is required to present facts which would, if proved at
trial, support a judgment in the plaintiff’s favor.  (CCP § 425.16, subd. (b); Shekhter v.
Financial Indemnity Co. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 141, 150-51.)  
 
The elements of intentional interference with
contractual relations are: (1) a valid contract between the plaintiff and a
third party; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) the
defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the
contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; and (5) resulting damage. 
(Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th
26, 55.)  
 
Plaintiff does not present evidence of its
contracts with third-parties or Moving Defendants’ knowledge of these
contracts.  The Court thus
finds that Plaintiff has not demonstrated a substantial probability of
succeeding on the merits of its claim. 
The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion.
 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.
 
 
 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 14th day of December 2023



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 