 Case Number:  23NWCV02663    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  C GUDINO v. AMERICAN
HONDA MOTOR CO., INC. 
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV02663
HEARING:  09/19/24
 
#7
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents (set one) is CONTINUED to Thursday, February
13, 2025 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
This lemon law action
was filed on August 24, 2023. Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Request for Production of Documents (“RPD”) (set one) Nos. 1-31. 
In Opposition,
Defendant stands by its objections. 
The Court
is not persuaded that counsel have exhausted their meet and confer obligations
pursuant to the Code. Counsel are advised that their meet and confer efforts
should go beyond merely sending letters stating their respective positions.
(See Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A
determination of whether an attempt at informal resolution is adequate…involves
the exercise of discretion. The level of effort at an informal resolution which
satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith attempt’ standard depends upon the
circumstances. In a larger, more complex discovery request, a greater effort at
informal resolution may be warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly focused
case, a more modest effort may suffice. The history of the litigation, the
nature of the interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type
and scope of the discovery requested, the prospects for success and other
similar factors can be relevant. Judges have broad powers and responsibilities
to determine what measures and procedures are appropriate in varying
circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) 
 
Counsel are
instructed to further meet and confer on the issues outlined in the subject
Motions. 
 
Counsel are
ORDERED to make further efforts to
resolve the issues presented. If, after exhausting those efforts, court
intervention is needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the
continued hearing date. If counsel are unable to informally resolve their
discovery disputes, then counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT STATEMENT
outlining the remaining disputed issues for which a ruling is required. The
joint statement must be FILED on or before Monday, February 3, 2025.
 
In
addition, Counsel are ORDERED to review the Case Management Conference Order
issued on December 27, 2023. The discovery issues outlined in the Subject
Motion may be moot. 