 Case Number:  23NWCV02630    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  C HAO v. SG INVESTMENT
LLC 
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV02630
HEARING:  09/19/24
 
#6
 
    
I.       
Defendants SG INVESTMENT LLC; USIH, LLC; and
HONGPENG WANG’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED
with 20 days leave to amend in part and OVERRULED in part. 
 
   
II.       
The Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended
Complaint is MOOT. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
This
contractual fraud action was filed by Plaintiffs ZHIDONG HAO and FANG WANG
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) on August 17, 2023. On November 17, 2023, the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that they entered into an Investment Agreement on or about May 15, 2019.
(FAC ¶11.) Plaintiffs purportedly fully performed under the terms of the
Investment Agreement, and that Defendants are in breach. (FAC ¶17.) Plaintiffs
specifically allege that “Defendants failed to register Plaintiffs as
investors…. [¶] Defendants never provided Plaintiffs an English language
version of the investment documents…. [¶] Defendants did not issue any stock
certificates to Plaintiffs, nor have Plaintiffs received from Defendants the
English-language investment documents….” (Id. at ¶¶19-21.) “Plaintiffs made
demands for return of their capital including the guaranteed return of 12%.
Defendants then presented Plaintiffs with an agreement for return of their
capital, only Defendants have a legal obligation to return the capital and has
the legal obligation to also pay the guaranteed return of 12%, because this is
expressly set forth in the Investment Agreement.” (Id. ¶22.) 
 
Consequently,
the parties entered into a Settlement Agreement to resolve the outstanding
monies owed by Defendants. (Id. ¶26.) “Under the Settlement Agreement,
Defendants were required to pay a total of $900,000 through four separate
payment installments, via an initial payment of $100,00 within 5 days of the
signing of the Settlement Agreement, second payment of $200,000 by July 31,
2023, and then payments of $300,000 on October 31, 2023 and December 15, 2023….
[¶] Defendants made the required $100,000 payment. Defendants then failed to
make any further payments under the Settlement Agreement.” (FAC ¶¶26-27.) 
 
The
FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1)
Rescission of Settlement Agreement; 
(2)
Breach of Settlement Agreement; 
(3)
Breach of Contract; 
(4)
Fraud – False Promise; 
(5)
Conversion; 
(6)
Violation of Penal Code §496; and 
(7)
Restitution – Unjust Enrichment
 
Defendants
SG INVESTMENT LLC (“SGI”); USIH, LLC (“USIH”); and HONGPENG WANG (“Wang”)
(collectively “Defendants”) specially and generally demur to the first, second,
fourth, fifth; and sixth causes of action. 
 
First
Cause of Action – Rescission of Settlement Agreement   
 
Cal.
Civ. Code §1689 sets forth grounds for rescission stating, in part, that “[a]
party to a contract may rescind the contract in the following cases: (1) If the
consent of the party rescinding, or of any party jointly contracting with him,
was given by mistake, or obtained throughout duress, menace, fraud, or undue
influence, exercised by or with the connivance of the party as to whom he rescinds,
or of any other party to the contract jointly interested with such party. (2)
If the consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party fails, in whole
or in part, through the fault of the party as to whom he rescinds. (3) If the
consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party becomes entirely void
from any cause. (4) If the consideration for the obligation of the rescinding
party, before it is rendered to him, fails in a material respect from any
cause. (5) If the contract is unlawful for causes which do not appear in its
terms or conditions, and the parties are not equally at fault. (6) I the public
interest will be prejudiced by permitting the contract to stand. (7) Under the
circumstances provided for…. Or any other statute providing for rescission.”
(Id.) 
 
Defendants
argue that the first cause of action is moot “because Defendants have confirmed
their consent to rescind the Settlement Agreement.” (Dem. 7:7.) 
 
The
demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED. The arguments raised by
Defendants in the subject Demurrer raise factual and evidentiary determinations
which are not properly resolved at this juncture. Moreover, the Court finds
that Plaintiffs adequately allege elements to maintain this cause of action at
this time. Plaintiffs plead that they were induced into entering into the
Settlement Agreement with Defendants: “But for Defendants’ promise and
contractual representation and agreement to pay Plaintiffs $900,000, Plaintiffs
would not have entered into the Settlement Agreement.” (FAC ¶30)
 
Although
not argued in the Moving Papers, the Court notes that rescission is a remedy
that may be coupled with a cause of action for breach of contract or fraud, not
an independent cause of action. (Wong v. Stoler (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th
1375, 1384-1385.) However, at the demurrer state, the Court does not look only
at the title of the claim, but at the underlying allegations to see if the
facts alleged support any cause of action. For reasons stated below, the Court
finds that Plaintiffs adequately allege claims to support the remedy of
rescission. 
 
Second
Cause of Action – Breach of Settlement Agreement 
 
Defendant
argues that the second cause of action is subject to Demurrer because
Plaintiffs’ rescission claims extinguish any claim for breach of contract.
Defendants do not raise any other substantive arguments against this claim. 
 
As
indicated above, rescission is a remedy—not a cause of action. “A party to a
contract has two different remedies when it has been injured by a breach of
contract or fraud and lacks the ability or desire to keep the contract alive.
[Citation.] The party may disaffirm the contract, treating it as rescinded, and
recover damages resulting from the rescission. [Citation.] Alternatively, the
party may affirm the contract, treating it as repudiated, and recover damages
for breach of contract or fraud. [Citation.] [¶] Recission and damages are
alternative remedies. [Citation.] A party may seek rescission or damages for
breach of contract or fraud ‘in the event rescission cannot be obtained’ in the
same action. [Citations.] But ‘[t]he election of one remedy bars recover under
the other.’ [Citation.]” (Wong v. Stoler (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1375,
1384-1385.) 
 
Plaintiffs
are allowed to plead rescission and damages for breach of contract as
alternative remedies. 
 
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fourth
Cause of Action – Fraud (False Promise)
 
The elements of a cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation are 1) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment,
or nondisclosure); 2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); 3) intent to defraud or induce
reliance; 4) justifiable reliance; and 5) damages. (See Cal. Civ. Code §1709.)
 
The elements of a claim for fraudulent false
promise are: (1) a promise made regarding a material fact without any intention
of performing it; (2) the existence of the intent at the time of making the
promise; (3) the promise was made with intent to deceive or with intent to
induce the party to whom it was made to enter into the transaction; (4) the
promise was relied on by the party to whom it was made; (5) the party making
the promise did not perform; (6) the party to whom the promise was made was injured.
(Muraoka v. Budget Rent-A-Car, Inc. (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 107, 119.) 
 
Whether intentional or negligent in nature,
fraud actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading.
(Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983)
35 Cal.3d 197, 216.) “Fraud must be pleaded with specificity… [t]o withstand a
demurrer, the facts constituting every element of the fraud must be
alleged with particularity, and the claim cannot be salvaged by references to
the general policy favoring the liberal construction of pleadings. (Goldrich
v. Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782.)
“This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.’” (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220
Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) “The requirement of specificity in a fraud action against a
corporation requires the plaintiff to allege the names of the persons who made
the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) 
 
As the basis for their fraud claim, Plaintiffs
allege that FANG WANG spoke with Hongpeng Wang’s spouse sometime in early 2019.
 Based on these communications Plaintiffs
“were directed to speak directly with HONGPENG.” (FAC ¶53.) “Beginning on April
3, 2019, and thereafter, the parties exchanged communications via an
application called We Chat, which was followed by in-person meetings,
voicemails, and discussions over the phone.” (Ibid.) The Court
determines that Plaintiffs have not shown with sufficient specificity “how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” 
 
The demurrer to this cause of action is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs allegations lack the
specificity required to maintain this claim. Conclusory allegations are
insufficient. Particularity is required. 
 
Fifth
Cause of Action – Conversion 
 
The elements of a cause of action for conversion are: (1)
Plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2)
defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights;
and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “A cause of action for conversion of money can
be stated only where a defendant interferes with the plaintiff’s possessory
interest in a specific, identifiable sum, such as when a trustee or agent misappropriates
the money entrusted to him.” (Kim v. Westmoor Partners, Inc. (2011) 201
Cal.App.4th 267, 284.) [U]nless there is a specific, identifiable sum involved,
such as where an agent accepts a sum of money to be paid to another and fails
to make the payment,” money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for
conversion. (McKell v. Wash. Mut., Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457,
1491.) 
 
The demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days
leave to amend. Plaintiffs allege that “Plaintiff HAO has been damaged in an
amount not less than $1,024.037.12…. Plaintiff FANG WANG has been damaged in an
amount not less than $340,251.86. The exact amount of said damages will be
proven at trial.” (FAC ¶69.) Plaintiffs fail to allege an entitlement to a
specific, identifiable sum of money.
 
Sixth
Cause of Action – Violation of Penal Code §496
 
The
demurrer to this claim is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. “A plaintiff
may recover treble damages and attorney’s fees under section 496(c) when
property has been obtained in any manner constituting theft.” (Siry
Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 361.) Plaintiffs
base this claim on Defendants’ purported misrepresentations cited throughout
the claim for fraud. For the same reasons noted above under the cause of action
for fraud, this claim is also insufficiently alleged. Statutory causes of
action must be pleaded with particularity. (Searcy v. Hemet Unified School
Dist. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.) 
 
Motion
to Strike 
 
The
Motion to Strike punitive damages and treble damages is MOOT given the Court’s
ruling with respect to the fourth and sixth causes of action. 