  Case Number:  22NWCV00993    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  C RAMIREZ v. FAUST 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV03970
HEARING:  09/19/24
 
#5
 
Defendant ESTATE OF LEDA FAUST’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication is DENIED without
prejudice. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
No Opposition filed as of September 16, 2024. 
 
This action for quiet title by adverse possession was filed
by Plaintiffs PAIGE A. BURKE and LEONARDO RAMIREZ (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
against Defendants LEON FAUST; LEDA FAUST TRUSTEES OF FAUST TRUST; ROGER E.
FAUST; and Does 1 through 25, inclusive; and All Persons Unknown, Claiming Any
Legal Or Equitable Right, Title, Estate, Lien, or Interest in the Property
Described in the Complaint Adverse to Plaintiffs Title, or any Cloud on
Plaintiffs Title or Any Cloud on Plaintiffs Title Thereto, Named herein, as
Does 26 through 100, inclusive, on October 13, 2022. 
 
On August 28, 2023, the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) was filed. Plaintiffs “seek to quiet title and or in the alternative by
adverse possession to the subject property plus any additional relief.” (FAC
¶1/) 
 
Plaintiffs’ FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1) Quiet
Title; 
(2) Abandonment;

(3) Exclusive
Easement; 
(4) Recovery
Under the Doctrine of Estoppel; 
(5) Declaratory
Relief; and 
(6) Clerk
of the Court Sign all Necessary Documentation
 
The Subject Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication (“Motion”)
was FILED on July 1, 2024 by Defendant ESTATE OF LEDA FAUST, Personal
Representative Taylor Moore (“Estate of Leda Faust”). 
 
As of September 16, 2024, no Opposition has been
filed/lodged with the Court. The Proof of Service for the Motion was separately
FILED on July 3, 2024, and states that the Motion and documents filed in
conjunction therewith, was served on July 1, 2024 at 3:41 p.m. “BY CONSTRUCTIVE
SERVICE PURSUANT TO 1011(a) [¶] BY POSTING IN A CONSPICUOUS PLACE… there being
no person of equitable age to receive the documents.” (See 07/03/24 POS). The
documents were “posted” in a conspicuous location at Plaintiffs’ Counsel’s law
office located at 8137 3rd Street. 1st Floor, Downey CA
90241. Service of a motion may be accomplished by delivery to the party’s
attorney. (CCP §1011.) “[S]ervice may be personal, by delivery to the party or
attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be made as
follows: [¶] (a) If upon an attorney, service may be made at the attorney’s
office, by leaving the notice or other papers in an envelope or package clearly
labeled to identify the attorney being service, with a receptionist or with a
person having charge thereof. If there is no person in the office with whom the
notice or papers may be left for purposes of this subdivision at the time
service is to be effected, service may be made by leaving them between the
hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., in a conspicuous place in the office….” (Id.)
Therefore, as an initial matter, the Court finds that the Motion was properly
served in a manner consistent with the rules of civil procedure and the lack of
Opposition cannot be attributed to improper service. 
 
Notwithstanding, the Motion is DENIED without prejudice on
procedural grounds. 
There is no evidence or exhibits attached to, or filed in
conjunction with any of the Moving Papers. In fact, the Separate Statement,
consisting of only 3 material facts, does not reference any supporting
evidence. (See generally, Separate Statement). Motions for summary
judgment/adjudication “shall be supported by affidavits, declarations,
admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which
judicial notice shall or may be taken…. Each of the material facts stated shall
be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (CCP §437c(b)(1).)  Where no evidence has been submitted to
support the arguments raised by the Moving Party, summary judgment/adjudication
cannot be granted. 
 
The Moving Papers indicate that “[e]ach of the named
defendants, LEON FAUST, LEDA FAUST and ROGER FAUST, are deceased. According to
the Verified Complaint, LEON FAUST and LEDA FAUST predeceased their son, ROGER
FAUST…. Roger died in 2015. [¶] Defendant, TAYLOR MOORE, Personal
Representative of the Estate of LEDA FAUST, was appointed by the court on June
8, 2023.” (Motion 3:8-14.) The Court notes that no Notice of Related Case
pertaining to the existence or filing of any probate action has been filed in
this subject action. Moreover, no Declaration in compliance with CCP §377.32
has been filed with this Court. At this time, it is unclear as to whether
Taylor Moore is authorized to act on behalf of Defendant Leda Faust. 