 Case Number:  23STCV24668    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  74 Seneviratne
v. Avanzado et al. 
Plaintiff Saman Seneviratne’s Motion
for Leave to File First Amended Complaint.
 
BACKGROUND  
            Plaintiff
Saman Seneviratne, individually and as a trustee of the Seneviratne Family
Residence Trust of 2018 (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against defendants Melvin
Avanzado, Abigania Avanzado, The Avanzado Law Firm, Kirsch & Jansen, LLP
(Defendants). In the original complaint, Plaintiff alleged breach of written
contract of Plaintiff’s right to purchase 2601 Basil Lane. (the Property). On
November 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file Plaintiff’s first
amended complaint.
 
DISCUSSION
            Because
Plaintiff’s proposed amendments allege facts that occurred after Plaintiff
filed the original complaint, Plaintiff’s proposed new pleading is in fact a
supplemental complaint, not an amended complaint. (See Code
of Civ. Proc. § 464; see also Rutter Civil Proc. Before Trial 6:791 et seq.) In
principle, the distinction between an amended complaint and supplemental
complaint matters because, among other things, different rules apply concerning
new causes of action and the effect the supplemental complaint has on the
original complaint. That distinction does not matter here, however, for the
pending motion because the same liberal standard applies to the Court’s review
of the proposed pleading whether it is an amended or supplemental complaint. Plaintiff seeks to (1) add a third
cause of action for breach of contract; (2) add a fourth cause of action for
fraud/constructive fraud; (3) add punitive damages to the prayer; (4) make
factual corrections based on the foreclosure and change of facts; and (5)
correct punctuation errors.
Defendant
opposes the motion on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff fails to plead a claim for
breach of contract; (2) fails to plead a claim for fraud; and, (3) improperly
seeks punitive damages and attorney’s fees. 
Defendant’s opposition is unavailing because the grounds Defendant
raises are more appropriately asserted by demurrer or a motion to strike. Trial
is set for November 24, 2025. Given that Defendant does not show prejudice from
the new pleading, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a supplemental
complaint.
CONCLUSION
            The
Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a supplemental complaint.
            Plaintiff
to give notice.