  Case Number:  22STCV06573    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  74 Francisco-Andreas  v. Avalon Cold Storage LLC et al.  Plaintiff Diego Francisco-Andreas’s Motion  to Vacate Stay or Compel Arbitration     BACKGROUND               Plaintiff  Diego Francisco-Andreas (Plaintiff) filed a complaint alleging his employers  Avalon Cold Storage LLC, I-Staffing Inc., and Rami Rostami wrongfully  terminated Plaintiff, and failed to properly compensate Plaintiff.              Defendant  I-Staffing Inc (I-Staffing) filed a motion to compel arbitration, which  defendant Avalon Cold Storage LLC (Avalon) joined.              On  September 8, 2023, the Court granted the motion to compel arbitration as to  I-Staffing and Avalon.  The Court ordered  a stay pending binding arbitration to all parties.              Since  compelling arbitration, Avalon ceased operating and closed.              Plaintiff  now moves to either vacate the stay or compel defendant Rami Rostami (Rostami)  to arbitration.   LEGAL STANDARD  Vacate Stay             A  trial court has limited discretion to lift a stay pending arbitration.  (MKJA, Inc et al. v. 123 Fit Franchising,  LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 643, 660.)   A trial court may lift the stay if the issue subject to arbitration is  severable and lifting the stay would not frustrate the arbitrator’s  jurisdiction.  (Id. at 160-161.)    Compel Arbitration “A  petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required  allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that  provides for arbitration.  The provisions  must be stated verbatim, or a copy must be physically or electronically  attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.)   DISCUSSION Vacating Stay             Plaintiff  alleges that he has alter-ego and joint-employment claims against Rostami. Plaintiff  contends that the arbitrator’s jurisdiction would not be frustrated by lifting  the stay of proceedings in this Court because Rostami has refused to  participate in the arbitration proceedings. The Court finds, however, that due  to the intermingled nature of the claims, lifting the stay creates a meaningful  possibility of inconsistent rulings in the two forums which would frustrate the  arbitrator’s jurisdiction. The court also finds plaintiff’s argument involving possible  duplicative discovery unpersuasive. Accordingly, the court denies the motion to  lift the stay.   Compelling Rostami to Participate in  Arbitration             Because  the court’s authority to act is limited after a court orders a case to  arbitration, the court declines to rule on plaintiff’s motion to compel Rostami  to participate in the pending arbitration (which the arbitrator has already  addressed). Moreover, and in any event, Plaintiff’s request does not meet the  procedural requirements to compel arbitration because Plaintiff has not alleged  the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for  arbitration nor has Plaintiff stated the provision verbatim or attached a copy  to the petition.  (Cal. Rules of Court,  rule 3.1330.)  CONCLUSION             The  Court denies Plaintiff’s Motion to Vacate the stay.             The  Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Arbitration             Plaintiff  to give notice.