 Case Number:  22STCV19064    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  28, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV19064




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel the Depositions of Plaintiff’s Experts




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Shiki Seafood Buffet




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Lashabra Johnson 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
Shiki Seafood Buffet (“Defendant”) moves to compel the depositions of Plaintiff
Lashabra Johnson’s (“Plaintiff”) experts: Andrew S. Morris, D.C. and Alex J.
Balian. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes and
Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On
receipt of an expert witness list from a party, any other party may take the
deposition of any person on the list. The procedures for taking oral and
written depositions set forth in Chapters 9 (commencing with Section 2025.010),
10 (commencing with Section 2026.010), and 11 (commencing with Section
2028.010) apply to a deposition of a listed trial expert witness except as
provided in this article.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.410.) 
 
“An
expert described in subdivision (b) of Section 2034.210 whose deposition is
noticed pursuant to Section 2025.220 shall, no later than three business days
before his or her deposition, produce any materials or category of materials,
including any electronically stored information, called for by the deposition
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.415.) 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action, or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party . . . ,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document . . . described in the deposition
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Alan Shepard II, Defendant’s counsel, states that after
Plaintiff failed to produce the expert documents, he wrote a letter to
Plaintiff’s counsel on February 29, 2024. (Shepard Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff did
not respond. (Id. ¶ 7.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement has
been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On January 22, 2024, Defendant noticed the depositions of Plaintiff’s
experts, Andrew S. Morris, D.C. (“Morris”) and Alex J. Balian (“Balian”) for
March 4, 2024. The notices also included requests for expert documents.
(Shepard Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A, B.) On February 26, 2024, Defendant requested the
experts’ W-9’s and approval of invoices to pay the expert’s fees. (Id. ¶
5.) Plaintiff did not respond and did not serve objections. Then, three days
before the depositions, on February 28, 2024, Plaintiff failed to produce the
experts’ job files. (Id. ¶ 5–6.) As a result, Defendant took the
depositions off calendar. Defendant filed the instant motion on March 8, 2024. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends she provided the required documents
on March 21, 2024. (Garzaryan Decl. ¶ 7.) Afterward, Plaintiff contends
Defendant agreed to depose the experts on May 10, 2024. (Id. ¶ 8.) Balian’s
deposition took place on May 10, 2024. (Id. ¶ 9.) However, Defendant
unilaterally canceled Morris’ deposition for failure to produce all documents;
Plaintiff contends that all documents were provided. (Id. ¶ 9–10, Exh.
E.) As a result, Plaintiff argues this motion is moot.
 
In reply, Defendant contends that as to Morris, his deposition has not
been rescheduled and no dates have been provided. It asserts that on March 21,
2024, Plaintiff failed to provide all the documents requested in the notice. As
to Balian, Defendant admits he was deposed on May 21, 2024, but did not produce
all requested documents, such as Request 8, a list of cases he was an expert
for Plaintiff’s counsel. 
 
Therefore, because Plaintiff does not dispute that no objection was
served, and Defendant asserts that not all documents were produced, and the
deposition has not been rescheduled, the motion to compel the expert deposition
of Andrew S. Morris, D.C. is granted. 
 
As to Balian, the Court grants the motion to compel Plaintiff to
produce the documents requested in the notice of deposition, specifically, the
list of cases he acted as an expert for Plaintiff’s counsel, communications
with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding Plaintiff and other patients, reports for
other cases the expert was retained by Plaintiff’s counsel, income records for
all cases referred by Plaintiff’s counsel.
 
Defendant requests $1,160 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and
her counsel of record, representing an hourly rate of $200 and the $60 filing
fee. (Shepard Decl. ¶ 9.) Because Plaintiff failed to provide the documents
under section 2034.415, the Court finds sanctions are warranted, but that the
amount requested is excessive. Therefore, the Court awards monetary sanctions
in the amount of $760 (3.5 hours of attorney time and the filing fee). 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to compel the depositions of Plaintiff’s experts is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff
shall produce Andrew S. Morris, D.C. for deposition within 30 days of this
order and produce documents at least 3 business days in advance. The parties
shall meet and confer to schedule the deposition. Plaintiff shall produce all
documents requested in Balian’s notice of deposition within 10 days.
 
The Court further grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the
reduced amount of $760.00. Said monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel for
Defendant within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 