 Case Number:  22STCV32266    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  28, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV32266




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Additional Sanctions




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant City of Carson




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Larry Finley 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 3, 2024, the Court granted Defendant City of Carson’s
(“Defendant”) motion to deem admitted Request for Admissions against Plaintiff
Larry Finley (“Plaintiff”). The Court also awarded monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff’s counsel of record for $337.50. The monetary sanctions were due
within 30 days to counsel for Defendant. 
 
On January 8, 2024, Defendant served notice of the order on
Plaintiff’s counsel via mail and electronic service. 
 
Defendant now moves for monetary sanctions under Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7, for failure to pay the monetary sanctions in the
January 3, 2024 order. Plaintiff opposes,[1]
and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 128.7 provides that a
court may impose sanctions on a party or attorney that presents a pleading,
petition, motion, or other similar papers in the following circumstances:¿ 
¿ 
1) the document is presented primarily for an improper
purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase
in the cost of litigation.¿ 
2) the claims, defenses, and other legal contentions
therein are not warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of
new law.¿ 
3) the allegations and other factual contentions have no
evidentiary support;¿ 
4) the denials of factual contentions are not warranted on
the evidence.¿ 
¿ 
Section 128.7 permits the Court to impose monetary sanctions on an
attorney or an unrepresented party that violates any one of these requirements.
(Eichenbaum v. Alon (2003) 106 Cal App 4th 967, 976.)¿ In addition,
section 128.7 does
not require a finding of subjective bad faith; instead it requires only that
the Court find that the conduct be objectively unreasonable. (In re
Marriage of Reese & Guy (1999) 73 Cal. App. 4th 1214, 1221.)¿ 
 
Section 128.7(c)(1) requires
that a motion for sanctions under section 128.7 be “made
separately from other motions or requests and shall describe the specific
conduct alleged to violate subdivision (b). Notice of motion shall be served as
provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the court
unless, within 21 days after service of the motion, or any other period as the
court may prescribe, the challenged paper, claim defense, contention,
allegation, or denial is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected.” This 21-day
time period is known as a "safe harbor" period and its purpose is to
permit an offending party to avoid sanctions by withdrawing the improper
pleading during the safe harbor period. (Li v. Majestic Industry Hills LLC
(2009) 177 Cal. App. 4th 585, 591.) This permits a party to withdraw a
questionable pleading without penalty, thus saving the court and the parties
time and money litigating the pleading as well as the sanctions request. (Ibid.)¿¿A
formal noticed motion is required to begin the 21-day period. (Galleria
Plus, Inc. v. Hanmi Bank (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 535, 538.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant only seeks
sanctions for Plaintiff’s failure to pay monetary sanctions imposed by a Court
order. Since the basis for sanctions does not stem from a motion or pleading
filed by Plaintiff, section 128.7 does not apply. Even if it did, Defendant has
not shown that it complied with the 21-day safe harbor requirement in section
128.7(c). 
 
Additionally, in
opposition, Plaintiff contends that the monetary sanctions have since been
paid. (Higgins Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Defendant does not dispute this in reply but
instead appears to seek further monetary sanctions under Code of Civil
Procedure section 177.5. However, section 177.5 was not included in the Notice
of Motion as a basis for awarding sanctions. Because of this, and the fact the
sanctions have been paid, the Court declines to award further monetary
sanctions under section 177.5. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant City of Carson’s motion for further sanctions is
DENIED.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


