  Case Number:  23STCV10575    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
7, 2023                   TRIAL DATE: 
Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Josue Valdez v. Johnny Hickey, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV10575





















 
MOTIONS FOR ORDER FOR PUBLICATION FOR SERVICE

VIA SECRETARY OF STATE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Josue Valdez 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:    
No opposition 
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On May 10, 2023, Plaintiff, Josue Valdez,
initiated this action alleging nine causes of action stemming from alleged
misrepresentations made by Defendant, Johnny Hickey, which led to the transfer
and theft of $30,000 from Plaintiff.  To
date, Plaintiff has been unable to serve Defendant.  
 
On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff Josue Valdez
filed this Motion for an Order Allowing Service of Summons and Complaint Upon
Defendant Johnny Hickey by Publication.
 
            The motion is
unopposed. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
Where a defendant cannot with reasonable
diligence be served in any manner specified in Code of Civil Procedure sections
415.10 through 415.40, a plaintiff may seek an order for service by
publication.  Code of Civil Procedure section 415.50 provides, in
pertinent part: “A summons may be served by publication if upon affidavit it
appears to the satisfaction of the court in which the action is pending that
the party to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be served in another
manner specified in this article and that either:  (1) A cause of action
exists against the party upon whom service is to be made or he or she is a
necessary or proper party to the action. (2) The party to be served has or
claims an interest in real or personal property in this state …” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 415.50, subd. (a).)  “When substituted or constructive service is
attempted, strict compliance with the letter and spirit of the statutes is
required.”  (Olvera v. Olvera (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 32, 41.) 
 
            “For the purpose of
service by publication, the existence of a cause of action is a jurisdictional
fact.”  (Harris v. Cavasso (1977) 68 Cal.App.3d 723, 726; Code Civ.
Proc., § 415.50, subd. (a) [requiring that a “cause of action exists against
the party upon whom service is to be made.”])  
 
            “Diligence is a
relative term and must be determined by the circumstances of each case. The
question is one for the trial court in the first instance.”  (Vorburg
v. Vorburg (1941) 18 Cal.2d 794, 797.)  “If the facts set forth in the
affidavit have a legal tendency to show the exercise of diligence on behalf of
the plaintiff in seeking to find the defendant within the state, and that after
the exercise of such diligence [she or] he cannot be found, the decision of the
judge that the affidavit shows the same to his satisfaction is to be regarded
with the same effect as is [her or] his decision upon any other matter of fact
submitted to [her or] his judicial determination.”  (Id.)  
 
            Corporations Code
section 1702, subdivision (a) also provides the following:  If an agent for the purpose of service of
process has resigned and has not been replaced or if the agent designated
cannot with reasonable diligence be found at the address designated for
personally delivering the process, or if no agent has been designated, and it
is shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court that process against a
domestic corporation cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon the
designated agent by hand in the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision
(a) of Section 415.20 or subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil
Procedure or upon the corporation in the manner provided in subdivision (a),
(b) or (c) of Section 416.10 or subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, the court may make an order that the service be made upon
the corporation by delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or to any
person employed in the Secretary of State’s office in the capacity of assistant
or deputy, one copy of the process for each defendant to be served, together
with a copy of the order authorizing such service. Service in this manner is
deemed complete on the 10th day after delivery of the process to the Secretary
of State. 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff
seeks an order allowing service of Defendant Johnny Hickey by publication in
the Boston Globe and the Los Angeles Times newspapers.  He contends that despite diligent efforts, he
has been unable to serve Defendant with the summons and complaint.  In support, Plaintiff offers the declaration
of his counsel, Haley M. Morrison, who details the diligent efforts undertaken
to serve Defendant with the summons and complaint.  Those efforts included searching or inquiring
into Defendant’s IMDB page, LinkedIn profile, and Instagram accounts, running a
PeopleMap, and reviewing credit reporting information and vehicle records.  Based on that information, Plaintiff
determined four possible addresses in the Boston Area.  Plaintiff attempted service at all four
addresses but was unable to effect service. 
(Morrison Decl., ¶¶ 3-11.)  
 
            Plaintiff further contends that Defendant is a necessary
party to this action.  The core of
Plaintiff’s claims is that Defendant Hickey was responsible for fraudulently inducing
Plaintiff to transfer $30,000 to Defendant Hickey and other named defendants.  Of the nine causes of action alleged in the
operative complaint, eight are asserted against Defendant Hickey. (Morrison
Decl., ¶ 12.)  
 
Based
on the foregoing, the court finds Plaintiff is entitled to an order allowing
service of Defendant Hickey by publication. 
The Complaint states causes of action against Defendant which meets the
requirement of Code of Civil Procedure section 415.50, subdivision (a). (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (a).)   Moreover, service by
publication in the Boston Globe and Los Angeles Times newspapers is proper
considering Defendant may live and/or frequent Boston, Massachusetts, and the
alleged actions took place in the county of Los Angeles.  (See Morrison Decl., ¶ 15.)  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
            
The motion for service by publication is GRANTED.  Service by publication as provided by
Government Code section 6064 of Defendant Johnny Hickey in the Boston Globe and
Los Angeles Times is ordered.  If Defendant
Hickey’s address is ascertained before expiration of the time prescribed for
publication of the summons, Plaintiff must mail a copy of the summons, the
complaint, and the order for publication to Defendant Hickey at that address.
 
            Moving party to give
notice.  
 
 
Dated:   February 7, 2024                                           




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 
 