  Case Number:  22PSCV00257    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  City of El
Monte v. Lino James Ibarra, et al. 
Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint of
Plaintiff City of El Monte 
TENTATIVE RULING 
The Court SUSTAINS
Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s demurrer to Second Amended Complaint of Plaintiff
City of El Monte in its entirety, as to Defendant Tucker Lincoln, without leave
to amend. Defendant Tucker Lincoln may submit a proposed judgment for the
Court’s review and signature. 
The Court
DENIES Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s motion to strike as moot. 
Defendant
Tucker Lincoln is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof
of service of same within five days of the Court’s order. 
BACKGROUND 
This
is a nuisance action relating to illegal sales of cannabis. On March 16, 2022, plaintiff
City of El Monte (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Lino James
Ibarra (Ibarra), Michael Atencio, Manuel Aquino, Joseph Hernandez, Jung Hsiang
Chen, Ya Fen Hsu, Tucker Lincoln (Lincoln), Philip Gonzales, Shane Sapp, H.C.
Rue Royale Partner LLC (Rue Royale) (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1
through 100, alleging causes of action for narcotics abatement (Health and
Safety Code section 11570 et seq.), public nuisance (Civil Code section 3479 et
seq.), violation of El Monte Municipal Code (EMMC Chapters 5.18 and Ch. 1.19),
violation of unfair competition law (Business and Professions Code section
17200 et seq.), and violation of MAUCRSA (Business and Professions Code section
26000 et seq.) 
On
January 18, 2024, after the Court granted Lincoln’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint against the
same Defendants and alleging causes of action for narcotics abatement (Health
and Safety Code section 11570 et seq.), public nuisance (Civil Code section
3479 et seq.), violation of El Monte Municipal Code (EMMC Chapters 5.18 and Ch.
1.19), violation of unfair competition law (Business and Professions Code
section 17200 et seq.), and violation of MAUCRSA (Business and Professions Code
section 26000 et seq.) 
On May 13,
2024, after the Court sustained Lincoln’s demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against
the same Defendants, plus defendant Joseph Flores (Flores), alleging causes of
action for narcotics
abatement (Health and Safety Code section 11570 et seq.), public nuisance
(Civil Code section 3479 et seq.), violation of El Monte Municipal Code (EMMC
Chapters 5.18 and Ch. 1.19). Plaintiff
also added Flores via doe amendment on May 14, 2024. 
On
May 31, 2024, City of Covina field a complaint in intervention against Rue
Royale and Does 1 through 50 for narcotics abatement. 
On
July 1, 2024, Lincoln demurred to and moved to strike the SAC. On July 30,
2024, Plaintiff opposed both motions. On August 5, 2024, Lincoln replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD – Demurrer 
A
demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other
pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function
of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for
purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are
assumed to be true. (Id., at pp. 993-994.) 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) 
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as
surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]) 
A demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire
pleading, cause of action, or affirmative defense. (See Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1320, subd. (a); Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046-1047.) 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE – Demurrer and Motion to Strike           
The Court GRANTS
Lincoln’s request for judicial notice. (See Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d); Bockrath v. Aldrich Chem. Co.
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 83 [“[A] complaint's allegations may be disregarded when
they conflict with judicially noticed discovery responses. [Citation.]”]) The Court takes judicial
notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and
authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it does not take
judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents.
(Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400.) 
MEET AND
CONFER – Demurrer 
Per
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), the parties were
required to meet and confer telephonically or in person before filing this
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds the parties’
meet-and-confer efforts to be sufficient. (Krouse Decl., ¶ 26.) 
DISCUSSION – Demurrer           
Exceeding Scope of Permissible Amendment 
A demurrer sustained with leave to amend does not
permit the amended pleading to include new causes of action, add new
defendants, or allege unrelated facts. (See Cmty. Water Coal. v. Santa Cruz
Cnty. Loc. Agency Formation Com. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1317, 1329.)
Leave to amend should be sought before adding such new matters. (See People By & Through Dep't of Pub. Works v. Clausen
(1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 770, 785-786 [a demurrer sustained with leave to amend
does not permit adding new defendants without leave of court.]) 
Defendant Lincoln contends the SAC goes beyond the
scope of the permitted amendment by adding Flores and the property located at
3015 Durfee Avenue #9, City of El Monte, California (the Durfee Property).
Lincoln contends this was not proper because Plaintiff never sought leave to
add a defendant or assert additional claims, and Plaintiff already had two
prior opportunities to amend its pleadings and add allegations regarding Flores
and the Durfee Property. Lincoln argues that a doe amendment would not be
permissible here because Plaintiff needs to have been truly ignorant to
substitute Flores as a doe defendant, which it was not in this case, given
Plaintiff’s separate lawsuit against Flores regarding the Durfee Property and
the same conduct that is now the subject of this action (LASC Case No.
21PSCV00363). Lincoln also contends the SAC improperly increased its request
for relief by over $22 million. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends it was allowed to
amend the FAC as to Flores and the Durfee Property because it establishes
factual allegations showing that Lincoln was involved in the sale and
distribution of unlicensed marijuana products in the City of El Monte and
thereby gives Plaintiff standing. Plaintiff contends it had the right to amend
the FAC and name Flores as a Doe defendant. Plaintiff also contends that
Lincoln has no standing to challenge the Doe amendment and that such challenges
must be brought by a motion to quash under Code of Civil Procedure section
418.10. Plaintiff further argues it was allowed to add Flores as a defendant
based on the Court’s ruling on April 22, 2024, sustaining the demurrer to the
FAC with leave to amend. 
The Court finds Lincoln’s arguments to be well taken.
The Court finds Plaintiff’s attempt to insert the Durfee Property into this
matter to be improper and beyond the scope permitted by the Court’s prior order
sustaining the demurrer to the FAC with leave to amend. (See Order re Tentative
Ruling (4/22/24); see also Cmty. Water Coal. v. Santa Cruz
Cnty. Loc. Agency Formation Com., supra, 200 Cal.App.4th at p. 1329.)
Such new allegations would significantly expand the scope of this litigation. Plaintiff
brought this action alleging various statutory violations relating to the sale
of cannabis at properties located in Covina and West Covina. The Court granted
leave to amend to allow Plaintiff to plead facts establishing its injury in the
City of El Monte flowing from the alleged wrongful conduct at the properties in
Covina and West Covina. (Id.) Rather than allege such facts, Plaintiff added
facts showing alleged misconduct regarding illegal cannabis activity by Flores
at a different property located in the City of El Monte, the Durfee Property, which
is also the subject of a completely separate lawsuit filed by the City of El
Monte against Flores and another third party (LASC Case No. 21PSCV00363). These
allegations in essence add new causes of action relating to the Durfee Property
as also evidenced by the increase in damages sought. (Cf. SAC, Prayers for
Relief, FAC Prayers for Relief.). Plaintiff’s amendments clearly exceed the
scope of the order granting leave to amend. 
Moreover, Plaintiff should have sought leave of the
Court before adding these allegations. Even if Plaintiff had sought leave to
amend, the Court would not be inclined to permit the amendment. Plaintiff waited
two years into this lawsuit before even mentioning them, which underscores
their unrelatedness to the present matter. (See Id.) 
Further, if Plaintiff wanted to add Flores as a
defendant to the SAC, Plaintiff should have first sought the Court’s permission
to do so. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1), italics added [“The court
may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a
party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party…”]; People By & Through Dep't of Pub. Works v.
Clausen, supra, 248 Cal.App.2d at pp. 785-786.) Plaintiff did not do
so. 
However, the Court declines to rule on the parties’
arguments regarding the Flores Doe amendment, finding that the foregoing
reasons constitute sufficient grounds for disregarding the new allegations of
the SAC. 
Accordingly, the Court disregards the new allegations
regarding Flores and the Durfee Property in the SAC on the grounds that they
exceed the scope of permissible amendment. 
Sham Pleading 
“Generally, if a verified complaint contains
allegations fatal to a cause of action, a plaintiff cannot cure the defect by
simply omitting those allegations in an amended pleading without explanation. [Citation.]
This principle is known as the sham pleading doctrine. But amendment in this
manner is allowed where a plaintiff clearly shows that the earlier pleading is
the result of mistake or inadvertence. [Citations.]” (JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. v. Ward (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th
678, 690; see also Pierce v. Lyman (1991) 1
Cal.App.4th 1093, 1109 [sham pleading doctrine also applies to unverified
complaints].) “When the plaintiff pleads inconsistently in separate actions,
the plaintiff's complaint is nothing more than a sham that seeks to avoid the
effect of a demurrer. [Citation.]” (Cantu v. Resol. Tr. Corp.
(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857, 877-878.) 
Lincoln contends the SAC is a sham pleading because
it contradicts Plaintiff’s complaint in a prior case involving Flores and the
Durfee Property (LASC Case No. 21PSCV00363). Lincoln contends the SAC alleges
Flores admitted to selling marijuana from the Durfee Property, but the complaint
from the other case involving Flores and the Durfee Property contains an
attachment indicating that Flores stated he had not been selling marijuana from
that address. Lincoln contends Plaintiff reiterated this argument in a summary in
support of its request for judgment filed in that same case. Lincoln further
contends these allegations are contradicted by Plaintiff’s discovery responses,
wherein Plaintiff did not mention Flores or the Durfee Property. Lincoln also
notes that Plaintiff has known of Flores and the Durfee Property for years, and
mentioning them now in the SAC is in bad faith. Lincoln contends the SAC is
otherwise unchanged from the FAC and therefore subject to demurrer without
leave to amend. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends Lincoln fails to
acknowledge that the SAC is based on new facts and connections Plaintiff
revealed, and that there is no contradiction because these are additional facts
merely supporting and amending the allegations made in discovery. Plaintiff
cites the allegations regarding Flores and the Durfee Property in the SAC, and
contends Lincoln’s motion overlooks other allegations contained in the
affidavit attached to the complaint in LASC Case No. 21PSCV00363 regarding
actions Flores took at the Durfee Property regarding marijuana, in the police
detective’s report regarding the same, and in the summary of evidence.
Plaintiff also contends there is no contradiction in its discovery responses,
as Plaintiff provided amended discovery responses mentioning Flores and the
Durfee Property. 
The Court agrees with Lincoln that the SAC is a sham
pleading, albeit for reasons not necessarily articulated by Lincoln. The Court
notes that nowhere in the complaint from LASC Case No. 21PSCV00363 is Lincoln ever
mentioned. (See generally, Krouse Decl., Ex. 8.) Nowhere in Plaintiff’s
argument submitted in support of its request for judgment in LASC Case No.
21PSCV00363 is Lincoln ever mentioned either. (See generally, Id., Ex.
13.) If Lincoln had had any involvement in the Durfee Property as is alleged in
the SAC, then Lincoln should also have been named as a defendant in LASC Case
No. 21PSCV00363. Instead, Lincoln is nowhere to be found in that case. The
Court finds the absence of Lincoln from LASC Case No. 21PSCV00363 contradicts
Plaintiff’s new allegations in the SAC. (See Cantu v. Resol. Tr. Corp.,
supra, 4 Cal.App.4th at pp. 877-878.) 
Moreover, the Court finds these new allegations problematic
given their total absence from the prior iterations of the complaint over the
past couple years that this action has been pending. If Lincoln had had any
involvement at the Durfee Property, this should have been included in this
action from the outset. Plaintiff was clearly aware of Flores and the Durfee
Property when Plaintiff filed this lawsuit, as the complaint in LASC Case No. 21PSCV00363
was filed on May 7, 2021, (Krouse Decl., Ex. 8), whereas this action was filed
on March 16, 2022, i.e., almost one year later. There is no plausible
explanation for this failure to include Flores and the Durfee Property from the
outset of this action except that Plaintiff is now attempting to shoehorn that
matter into this action in an attempt to avoid this demurrer. These allegations
are also problematic given that the allegations against Flores involving the
Durfee Property were already the subject of a prior lawsuit. (See generally, Krouse
Decl., Ex. 8; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (c); Federation of
Hillside & Canyon Assns. v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 126 Cal.App.4th
1180, 1202 [res judicata].) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court disregards the new
allegations regarding Flores and the Durfee Property in the SAC under the sham
pleading doctrine. 
However, even if the new allegations were considered
in relation to Plaintiff’s actual claims involving the Covina and West Covina
properties, such allegations do not salvage Plaintiff’s claims. 
Standing – Location of Conduct           
A municipal corporation has generally no extraterritorial
powers of regulation. It may not exercise its governmental functions beyond its
corporate boundaries. (See Const., art. XI, sec. 11; Oakland v. Brock
(1937) 8 Cal.2d 639, 641. Further, “an action to abate a nuisance may be
taken by the city attorney or city prosecutor of the city within which the
nuisance exists, is kept, or is maintained.” (Health & Saf. Code, §
11571.5 (emphasis added).) 
Defendant Lincoln demurs to the entire SAC on the grounds
that Plaintiff is not the real party in interest and lacks standing to sue. Lincoln
contends the SAC shows on its face that Plaintiff does not have standing to
purse these four causes of action because they are all based on the use of
specific properties in Covina and West Covina, not in El Monte. Lincoln
contends Plaintiff is an improper plaintiff because: (1) a narcotics abatement
claim must be brought by the city where the property is to be abated; (2) a
public nuisance claim generally must by brought by the city where the nuisance
is to be abated; (3) El Monte’s municipal code is not enforceable outside of
the City of El Monte; and (4) Plaintiff cannot recover penalties for violations
outside of its boundaries. Lincoln contends Plaintiff is attempting to exercise
its municipal powers beyond its jurisdiction and boundaries. 
Lincoln then contends Plaintiff does not allege an injury
entitling it to relief. Lincoln contends that, even if the Court considers the
allegations against Flores and the Durfee Property, the allegations are
speculative and do not allege facts showing that Lincoln sold marijuana to the
Durfee Property or within the City of El Monte. Lincoln contends the presence
of marijuana at the Durfee Property does not show distribution or sales of
marijuana into the City of El Monte. Lincoln also contend the cost of investing
and executing search warrants is not an injury in fact and does not establish
standing for Plaintiff. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends it has standing for
nuisance abatement actions that extend beyond city boundaries. Plaintiff
contends that although the source of the illegal marijuana activities were
based on properties outside of the City of El Monte, the nuisance existed in
and affected Plaintiff and its community, citing the new allegations regarding
Flores and the Durfee Property. Plaintiff also contends its injury is alleged
in the FAC, as Plaintiff alleges that Lincoln was involved in distributing, storing,
and selling marijuana in the City of El Monte, and Plaintiff expended resources
in addressing this nuisance. 
The Court agrees with Defendant Lincoln. Even if the
Court were to consider the new allegations in the SAC, they still do not allege
facts showing that Lincoln was selling unlicensed marijuana products in the
City of El Monte. (See SAC, ¶¶ 8, 24-29.) The new allegations against
Lincoln in the SAC are conclusory and contain no specific facts showing
Lincoln’s involvement in the sale or distribution of unlicensed marijuana
products in the City of El Monte. (See Id., ¶¶ 8, 57; Serrano v.
Priest (1970) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591 (Serrano) [the court treats the
demurrer as admitting all properly pleaded material facts, “but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. [Citation].”]) The SAC’s
allegations against Lincoln are otherwise identical to those in the First
Amended Complaint, to which the Court sustained Lincoln’s previous demurrer.
(See Order re Tentative Ruling (4/22/24).)
Further, the documents of which the Court has taken
judicial notice, allege that only Flores and Scott Adrian Hammond were involved
in the alleged illegal conduct at the Durfee Property. (See generally, Krouse Decl., Ex. 8 and exhibits
attached thereto and Ex. 13.) No where is Lincoln tied to the Durfee Property.
There are also no facts, as opposed to contentions and conclusions, alleged in
the SAC establishing Lincoln’s involvement in any activity in the city of El
Monte. 
Moreover, since the Court is disregarding the new
allegations regarding Flores and the Durfee Property, the SAC does not allege
any other specific instances of alleged sales of illegal marijuana products
within the City of El Monte. Instead, the SAC contains speculative allegations
of such sales activity. (See SAC, ¶¶ 8, 30-62; Serrano v. Priest (1970)
5 Cal.3d 584, 591 [court treats the demurrer as admitting all properly pleaded
material facts, “but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.
[Citation].”]) The SAC otherwise alleges that the illegal manufacturing
occurred at properties and locations outside of the City of El Monte. (SAC, ¶¶
30-62.) 
Furthermore, as the Court previously found in its prior
ruling on Lincoln’s demurrer, the SAC fails to allege any specific facts
showing the specific effect of that conduct on Plaintiff. (Order re Tentative
Ruling (4/22/24).) Plaintiff fails to allege facts, as opposed to conclusions,
showing how the alleged unlawful conduct affected or created a nuisance in the
City of El Monte. While governmental entities like Plaintiff have strong
interests in regulating controlled substances within their boundaries, the SAC
fails to allege any conduct or nuisance involving Lincoln within its
boundaries. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff lacks standing to assert these
claims. 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the
entire complaint as to Defendant Lincoln without leave to amend. 
First Cause of Action – Narcotics Abatement (Health
and Safety Code section 11570 et seq.) 
“Every building or place used for the purpose of
unlawfully selling, serving, storing, keeping, manufacturing, or giving away
any controlled substance, precursor, or analog specified in this division, and
every building or place wherein or upon which those acts take place, is a
nuisance which shall be enjoined, abated, and prevented, and for which damages
may be recovered, whether it is a public or private nuisance.” (Health &
Saf. Code, § 11570.) 
Defendant Lincoln demurs to the First Cause of Action
for narcotics abatement for failure to state a cause of action. Lincoln
contends this cause of action fails because the SAC seeks to abate a nuisance
at properties located in Covina and West Covina, outside the boundaries of the
City of El Monte, and the SAC has done nothing to cure this defect. Lincoln
contends this action fails because it is not brought by the city attorney for
El Monte, and notes City of Covina’s recent intervention in this action but
further notes that City of Covina is not pursuing a claim against Lincoln.
Lincoln reiterates his arguments that the Court should disregard the
allegations concerning Flores and the Durfee Property and that the SAC fails to
allege any facts showing Lincoln’s involvement at the Durfee Property. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends it does not lack
standing to enforce the First Cause of Action, pointing to the Durfee Property,
and also arguing that the effects of the nuisance are what matter, not its
source. 
The Court again agrees with Lincoln. The allegations
of the SAC fail to cure the problem that has pervaded Plaintiff’s prior
iterations of the complaint, namely that the properties in question where the
alleged illegal narcotics activity occurred are outside the boundaries of the
City of El Monte. A narcotics abatement action under Health and Safety Code
section 11570 is limited to unlawful activities occurring in the specific
buildings where those acts occurred. (Health & Saf. Code, § 11570.) The SAC
alleges that the buildings at issue are located in West Covina and Covina,
i.e., not El Monte. (See SAC, ¶¶ 30-52.) The Court disregards the SAC’s
allegations regarding Flores and the Durfee Property for the reasons set forth
above. 
Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS Lincoln’s demurrer to
the First Cause of Action without leave to amend. 
            Second Cause of Action – Public
Nuisance (Civil Code section 3479 et seq.)           
“Anything which is
injurious to health, including, but not limited to, the illegal
sale of controlled substances, or is indecent or offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully obstructs the free
passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay,
stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway, is a
nuisance.” (Civ. Code § 3479.) “A public nuisance is one which affects
at the same time an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable
number of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted
upon individuals may be unequal.” (Civ. Code, § 3480.) 
            Defendant Lincoln demurs to the
Second Cause of Action for public nuisance for failure to state a cause of
action. Lincoln contends that Plaintiff is bringing this action in its representative capacity rather than as a private party,
and contends that Plaintiff lacks standing to do so because, again, the claim
has not been brought by the city attorney for El Monte and the properties in
questions are located outside of El Monte. Lincoln also contends the SAC
improperly pleads a section of the Civil Code that applies only to properties,
not to an amorphous public nuisance caused by controlled substances. 
Lincoln contends that the Civil Code
limits the abatement of public nuisances involving controlled substances to a
specific property and also limits the city attorney to filing an action for
unlawful detainer. Lincoln contends the SAC does not allege Plaintiff gave
prior written notice to the owner of the subject properties, let alone the
Durfee Property, requiring the owner to file an action for removal of the
person who is violating the nuisance per Civil Code section 3486, subdivision
(a)(1)(A), nor did Plaintiff plead that it pursued unlawful detainer actions
after the owners’ failure to comply with their obligations under that code
section.[1] Lincoln
contends Plaintiff could not comply with this code section anyway because,
again, the properties at issue are outside of the City of El Monte, and
Plaintiff cannot seek to abate a nuisance outside of the city boundaries.
Lincoln also contends the SAC fails to plead any specific facts of Lincoln’s
involvement at the Durfee Property, and that an abatement at that property is
not grounds to bring this claim against Lincoln. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends it does not lack
standing to enforce the Second Cause of Action, pointing to the Durfee Property,
and also arguing that the effects of the nuisance are what matter, not its
source. 
             For the same reasons set forth above with
respect to the First Cause of Action, the Court agrees with Lincoln that the SAC
fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for public
nuisance. 
Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS Lincoln’s demurrer to the Second
Cause of Action without leave to amend.

            Third
Cause of Action – Violation of El Monte Municipal Code (EMMC Chapters 5.18 and
Ch. 1.19)           
No person may engage in any commercial
cannabis activity within the city unless the person (1) has a valid commercial
cannabis license issued by the city; (2) has a valid state license; (3) any
other applicable approvals, including, but not limited to, a building permit
and city business license, and (4) is currently in compliance with all
applicable state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the commercial
cannabis activity.” 
(El Monte Municipal Code, § 5.18.040; SAC, ¶ 86.) 
“Each
and every violation of this Chapter 5.18 shall constitute a separate violation
and shall be subject to all remedies and enforcement measures authorized by the
El Monte Municipal Code. Additionally, as a nuisance per se . . . disgorgement
and payment to the city of any monies unlawfully obtained, costs of abatement,
costs of investigation, attorney fees, and any other relief or remedy available
at law or equity. The city may also pursue any and all remedies and actions
available and applicable under state and local laws for any violations
committed by the commercial cannabis business or persons related to, or
associated with, the commercial medicinal cannabis activity.” 
(El Monte Municipal Code, § 5.18.370; SAC, ¶ 88.) 
A. The administrative cost recovery procedures provided in
this chapter are in addition to any other remedies or cost recovery option
available to the city by law or in equity arising from a violation of this
code. 
B. The city shall prepare and serve upon the owner of the
property on which a violation of this code has been found to have occurred and
on each responsible person identified by the city an invoice identifying all
nuisance abatement costs related to a nuisance abatement action. 
(El Monte
Municipal Code, § 1.19.031, subds. (A)-(B).) 
Defendant Lincoln demurs to the Third Cause
of Action for violation of the El Monte Municipal Code for failure to state a
cause of action. Lincoln contends the SAC fails to allege sufficient facts here
because the El Monte Municipal Code is limited to acts occurring within its
city limits, and, as set forth above, the allegedly unlawful conduct at issue
occurred outside of the City of El Monte. Lincoln contends Defendant’s failure
to obtain a commercial marijuana license is not a viable cause of action for Plaintiff
because Plaintiff lacks jurisdiction to issue a license for the properties
outside of its territory. Lincoln also contends Plaintiff has not complied with
the administrative procedures in the El Monte Municipal Code for recovering
nuisance abatement costs, which requires the city to first issue an invoice for
abatement costs, but no such invoice is alleged in the SAC. Lincoln further
contends the allegations against Flores involving the Durfee Property are
unavailing because they still do not allege Lincoln committed an act within the
City of El Monte. 
In opposition, Plaintiff again cites the
Durfee Property, and argues that cannabis operations from all the subject
properties distributed unlawful marijuana products into the City of El Monte
and therefore violated the El Monte Municipal Code. Plaintiff contends Lincoln
fails to cite any applicable law or authority that would require Plaintiff to
undergo the procedures set forth in El Monte Municipal Code section 1.19.031.
Plaintiff contends the remedies provided thereunder are cumulative and not
exclusive, so Plaintiff is free to pursue other legal remedies. 
            The
Court agrees with Lincoln in part. As set forth above, the SAC fails to allege
facts demonstrating that Lincoln distributed or sold any marijuana within the
City of El Monte. (See SAC, ¶¶ 8, 30-62; Serrano, supra, 5 Cal.3d at p.
591.) Since the Court finds that Plaintiff fails to state a claim against
Lincoln, the Court need not decide the issue regarding Plaintiff’s compliance
with El Monte Municipal Code section 1.19.031. 
             Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the
demurrer to the Third Cause of Action without leave to amend. 
            Fourth Cause of Action – Violation of MAUCRSA
(Business and Professions Code section 26000 et seq.) 
“A person
engaging in commercial cannabis activity without a license as required by this
division shall be subject to civil penalties of up to three times the amount of
the license fee for each violation. Each day of operation shall constitute a
separate violation of this section.” (Bus. & Prof. Code § 26038, subd. (a)(1).)[2] “Actions for civil
penalties pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) may be brought by the
Attorney General on behalf of the people, on behalf of the department, or on
behalf of the participating agency, or by a city or county counsel or city
prosecutor.” (Id., 26038, subd. (c)(1).) 
            Lincoln
demurs to the Fourth Cause of Action on the grounds that it fails to state a
cause of action. Lincoln contends Plaintiff does not have standing to bring
this suit under the MAUCRSA because it is primarily administered by the
California Department of Cannabis Control, and city attorneys in cities with
less than 750,000 are only allowed to seek civil penalties. Lincoln reiterates
that the properties at issue are outside the city limits of El Monte, and
Plaintiff would not have authority to issue a marijuana license for businesses
at the subject properties, or any other properties outside its limits. Lincoln
contends the inclusion of allegations against Flores involving the Durfee
Property does not expand Plaintiff’s authority either. Lincoln further argues
there are still no facts showing Lincoln’s connection to a sale or distribution
within the City of El Monte, and the new allegations regarding the Durfee
Property do not apply to Lincoln. 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff contends it is bringing this action under Business and
Professions Code section 26038, subdivision (a)(1), and that section 26038,
subdivision (e)(4), does not apply. Plaintiff contends Business and Professions
Code section 26038, subdivision (e)(3), shows that a MAUCRSA action can be
brought by a city attorney and not exclusively by the California Department of
Cannabis Control. Plaintiff contends the SAC contains language alleging
commercial marijuana activity and therefore gives Plaintiff standing under
Business and Professions Code section 26038, subdivision (a)(1). Plaintiff also
points to the Durfee Property again to support its claim here. 
            The
Court again agrees with Lincoln in part. The SAC still fails to allege facts
demonstrating that Lincoln engaged in commercial cannabis activity in the City
of El Monte. As has been made clear throughout this demurrer, the subject
properties are outside of the limits of the City of El Monte. (SAC, ¶¶ 30-62). The
Court disregards the new allegations regarding Flores and the Durfee Property
for the reasons set forth above. Even if the Court were to consider the new
allegations involving Flores and the Durfee Property, they still contain no
specific facts demonstrating that Lincoln was involved with any illegal
marijuana sales or distributions at the Durfee Property or within the City of
El Monte. (See SAC, ¶¶ 8, 24-62; Serrano, supra, 5 Cal.3d at p. 591.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the
demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action without leave to amend.
 
LEGAL STANDARD – Motion to Strike 
            “Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions
specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.) 
MEET AND CONFER – Motion to Strike 
Per
Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), the parties were
required to meet and confer telephonically or in person before bringing this
motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).)
The Court finds the parties’ meet-and-confer efforts to be sufficient. (Krouse
Decl., ¶ 26.) 
DISCUSSION – Motion to Strike 
            In light of the
Court sustaining the demurrer without leave to amend, the Court DENIES the
motion to strike as moot. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court
SUSTAINS Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s demurrer to Second Amended Complaint of
Plaintiff City of El Monte in its entirety as to Defendant Tucker Lincoln,
without leave to amend. Defendant Lincoln may submit a proposed judgment for
the Court’s review and signature. 
The Court
DENIES Defendant Tucker Lincoln’s motion to strike as moot. 
Defendant
Tucker Lincoln is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof
of service of same within five days of the Court’s order.


