 Case Number:  21STCV36581    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Quash
filed by Specially Appearing Defendant Steve Jakubczak.
Tentative
The motion is granted.
BACKGROUND
On October 4,
2021, Santiago Merlos and Nelson Blanco (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint against Steve Jakubczak (“Jakubczak”), PV Holding Corp. (“PV Holding”),
and Does 1 through 50, asserting a negligence cause of action arising out of an
automobile accident occurring on October 15, 2019.  On May 4, 2023, PV Holding filed an answer to
the complaint.
On April 21,
2023, Plaintiffs filed a proof of service showing personal service of the
summons and complaint on Jakubczak at an address on Gateway Oaks Drive in
Sacramento by registered process server Rosemary Hernandez at 2:48 pm on April
4, 2023.  On May 4, 2023, Jakubczak filed
a motion to quash service of summons. 
The Court granted the motion on April 17, 2024.
The motion set
for hearing on May 17, 2024, challenges a subsequently filed proof of service.
On May 5, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed a proof of service showing personal service of the summons and
complaint on Jakubczak at an address on Gail Lane in Anaheim by registered
process server Rosemary Hernandez at 2:48 pm on April 4, 2023.  
On April 19, 2024,
Jakubczak filed this motion to quash service of summons. Plaintiffs filed an
untimely opposition on May 13.  Jakubczak
filed a reply on May 15.
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 415.10
provides the requirements of personal service of summons and the complaint as
follows: “A summons may be served by personal delivery of a copy of the summons
and of the complaint to the person to be served. Service of a summons in this
manner is deemed complete at the time of such delivery.  The date upon which personal delivery is made
shall be entered on or affixed to the face of the copy of the summons at the
time of its delivery. However, service of a summons without such date shall be
valid and effective.”
“When a defendant challenges the court’s
personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service of process ‘the burden
is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter
alia, the facts requisite to an effective service.’”  (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 403, 413.) Although the filing of a proof of service by a
registered process server creates a rebuttable presumption that service was
proper (see Evid. Code § 647), that presumption may be impeached by contrary
evidence submitted by a defendant. (See, e.g., Fernandes v. Singh (2017)
16 Cal.App.5th 932, 941 n.6.)  
Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10,
subdivision (a)(1), provides that, “A defendant, on or before the last day of
his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion… To quash service of summons
on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” 
If service of summons is not properly and
validly effectuated by one or more of the approved methods, California courts
lack personal jurisdiction over the defendants, and any judicial actions taken
without such service violates principles of fundamental due process and is
therefore void. (County of San Diego v. Gorham (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th
1215, 1231.)
DISCUSSION 
As a threshold matter, the Court declines
to consider Plaintiffs’ late-filed opposition. 
The opposition was due on May 6, 2024, nine court days before the
hearing.  Plaintiffs did not file until
May 13 – a full week late, only four court days before the hearing, and after
the due date for a reply.  Plaintiffs
offer no explanation or excuse for the delay.
Accordingly, the Court treats the motion as
unopposed.  When service is contested, Plaintiffs
bear the burden of proof, and here Plaintiffs are treated as having filed no
opposition of all.  They have not carried
their burden of proof.  The motion to
quash is granted.
Moreover, and independently, even if the
Court were to consider Plaintiffs’ late-filed opposition, the result would be
the same.
The only evidence regarding service on Jakubczak are two proofs of service filed with the Court.  According to these proofs, the same process
server served Jakubczak personally in two different places, hundreds of miles
apart, at precisely the same minute on the same day.  The Court disregards these proofs of service
as unreliable and lacking in credibility.
There is no other
evidence of service.  Plaintiffs have the
burden of proof and have not met their burden. 
For that reason as well, the motion is granted.
The Court also
makes the following observations.
First, both sides
parties argue about residence, but that is of limited or no value to the
Court.  If there were credible evidence in
the record that Jakubczak was personally served (and there is not), it would
not matter whether it was at his residence, at his regular place of business, at
a friend’s house, at a market, or on a street corner.  Personal service is personal service.  
Second, Plaintiffs argue that Jakubczak may be served through a car rental company under
Civil Code section 1939.33.  The short
answer to that argument is that, if so, Plaintiffs should serve Jakubczak in
this manner and file a proof of service. 
If service is valid (and the Court states no view on the merits), Jakubczak
will either answer or be subject to entry of default.
Third, Plaintiffs
argue that the Court should treat Jakubczak’s special appearance as a general
appearance.  Plaintiffs offer no
authority for doing so.  The law permits
a defendant to appear specially in order to challenge service.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (d).)
CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS Jakubczak’s motion to quash service of
the summons.  
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.