 Case Number:  22STCV26465    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  29 Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice filed by Counsel
for Non-Party Witness American Express Company.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is denied without prejudice.
 
Background
Plaintiff Laurie Scott (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that she was injured on March 23, 2022, when she slipped and/or fell on a
substance on a floor and/or walkway negligently owned, controlled, operated,
and maintained by Defendant Yard House USA, Inc. (sued as The Yard House, L.P.)
(“Defendant”) on Shoreline Village Drive in Long Beach, California. On August
16, 2022, Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendant and Does 1 through
100. On September 27, 2022, Defendant filed its answer.
 
On April
24, 2024, Non-Party Witness, American Express Company filed the application of Kevin
J. Smith (“Smith”) to be admitted pro hac vice. No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal
Standard
 
Any
attorney licensed to practice before the bar of any United States court or the
highest court in any state, and who has been retained to appear in a particular
cause pending a court of this State, but who is not a licensee of the
California State Bar may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by
submitting his or her written application and mailing notice to all interested
parties, as well as notice and a $50.00 application fee to the State Bar
Association in San Francisco.  (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 (a), (c), (e).) 
An applicant may neither reside nor work in California and may not
perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in
the State.  (Id. at Rule 9.40
(a).)  
 
Discussion
 
Smith is
an attorney barred in New York, USDC District Courts for S.D.N.Y., E.D.N.Y.,
N.D.N.Y., 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, and 2nd Circuit
Court of Appeals.  (Smith Decl., ¶ 4.) He
is a resident of New York. (Id., ¶ 2.) As to each court admitted, he is
a member in good standing and is not currently suspended or disbarred. (Id.,
¶¶ 4, 5.) 
 
Smith
provides active members of the California State Bar who will also represent his
client (a non-party witness) record in this matter. (Id., ¶ 8.)  . Smith has not applied to appear pro hac vice
in the preceding two years. (Id., ¶ 6.) 

 
Smith’s
colleague Chenxi Lu attests that a copy of the application and a check for
$50.00 will be served on the State Bar of California. (Lu Decl., ¶ 3.) 
 
No proof
of service has been filed with the Court in accordance with California Rules of
Court, rule 9.40(c)(1).
 
Accordingly,
the Court must DENY this motion to be admitted pro hac vice, without prejudice,
based on a procedural defect.
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES this motion to be
admitted pro hac vice without prejudice.
 