 Case Number:  23STCV28798    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
11-15-24 c/f 11-4-24 
Case
#23STCV28798
Trial
Date: Not Set/Not At Issue
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Cross-Defendant, T.C., a minor
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant, William S. Hart Union High School District
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Cross-Complaint
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Total Equitable Indemnity
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Partial Equitable Indemnity
·        
3rd
Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief
 
Motion
to Strike Claim for Attorney Fees
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
L.S. began attending West Ranch High School, a campus within the district of
Defendant William S. Hart Union High School District, in 2021, as a freshman.
L.S. alleges fellow freshman student, T.C., made a number of sexually
inappropriate comments and requests both in person and via SMS text messages,
grabbed L.S.’s property and rubbed said items in his groin area, sexually
assaulted L.S. in the empty high school gymnasium in the spring semester of
2022. L.S. maintains a number of efforts to inform school faculty and
administrators of the issue, but no action was taken. L.S. also filed a police
report. 
 
On November 27, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a verified complaint
for 1) Violation of Title IX (20 U.S.C. § 1681(a)); 2) Gender Violence (Civ.
Code § 52.4); 3) Negligence; 4) Negligent Failure to Warn, Train and Educate;
5) Negligence Per Se (Failure to Report Suspected Harassment and Sexual
Assault); 6) Negligence Per Se (Breach of Mandatory Duty Under Gov. Code §
815.6); 7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and, 8) Constructive
Fraud. Plaintiffs Albert and Mary Scott are the parents of L.S.
 
On
January 26, 2024, William S. Hart Union High School District answered the
complaint and filed a cross-complaint against both T.C. and Austin Collins for
Total Equitable Indemnity, Partial Equitable Indemnity, and Declaratory Relief.
On February 29, 2024, William S. Hart Union High School District filed a first
amended answer to the complaint.
 
On
August 19, 2024, the court overruled the demurrer of Austin Collins to the
cross-complaint, and granted the motion to strike the claim for attorney fees
without prejudice. The court electronic filing system shows no first amended
cross-complaint from William S. Hart Union High School District; Austin Collins
answered the remaining cross-complaint on September 20, 2024.
 
RULING
Demurrer:
Off-Calendar.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted.
The
court takes judicial notice of the filed complaint, cross-complaint, and answer,
but cannot take notice of any facts for the truth of the matter asserted. (Ramsden
v. Western Union (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 873,
879.)
 
Cross-Defendant T.C., a minor, submits an extensive demurrer
to the entire cross-complaint for Total Equitable Indemnity, Partial Equitable
Indemnity, and Declaratory Relief on grounds of insufficient factual support.
T.C. also maintains the school district was required to force T.C. to appoint a
guardian ad litem in order to proceed with the case against T.C. T.C. Next,
T.C. characterizes the cross-complaint as premature given the lack of any
judgment against the school district. T.C. relies on the answer of the school
district seeking indemnity, and presents additional detailed discussion on each
indemnity claim. William S. Hart Union High School District (District) in a two
day late opposition maintains the cross-complaint properly states a claim
against T.C. Any issues with the guardian ad litem is for Cross-Defendant to
determine, not District. District otherwise maintains the cross-complaint is
proper and not premature, and filed as a matter of right. The court electronic
filing system shows no reply on file at the time of the tentative ruling
publication cutoff.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules,
where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.] 
 
T.C. opens the
demurrer with a challenge regarding capacity to be named as a defendant without
a designated guardian ad litem. The demurrer lacks any authority for the
position that the responsibility for the appointment of a guardian in order to
appear in the subject action somehow shifted to the school district. On this
same logic, however, T.C. cannot now bring the subject demurrer, in that T.C.
improperly appears before the court as a minor, without an appointed guardian
ad litem. T.C. therefore improperly attempts to appear in the action. (Code
Civ. Proc., 372, subd. (a)(1).) The demurrer is therefore OFF-CALENDAR. 
 
Note in taking
the demurrer off-calendar due to the lack of any guardian ad litem, the court
is in no way addressing the propriety of the complaint against the minor
cross-defendant, including further prosecution of the claim against the minor.
“If the minor is the defendant, upon the application of the minor, if the minor
is 14 years of age or older, and the minor applies within
10 days after the service of the summons, or, if under that age or if
the minor neglects to apply, then upon the application of a relative or friend
of the minor, or of any other party to the action, or by the court on its own
motion. (Code Civ. Proc., 373, subd. (b); see Keane v. Penha (1946)
76 Cal.App.2d 693, 696.)
 
Assuming T.C.
elects to appoint a guardian ad litem, District moves, or the court sua sponte
directs submission of an application, and the court therefore considers the
merits, the court finds no basis for sustaining the demurrer. The demurrer
depends on a finding of a legal inability to state an indemnity claim against T.C.
(BFGC Architects Planners, Inc. v.
Forcum/Mackey Construction, Inc. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 848, 852.) T.C. submits a point-by-point
argument regarding the lack of a legal basis to state each and every
articulated claim in the operative complaint against T.C., while District
cites to Civil Code section 1714.1 and California Education section 48904.
 
“Any act of willful misconduct of a minor that results
in injury or death to another person or in any injury to the property of
another shall be imputed to the parent or guardian having custody and control
of the minor for all purposes of civil damages, and the parent or guardian
having custody and control shall be jointly and severally liable with the minor
for any damages resulting from the willful misconduct.” (Civ. Code, § 1714.1
subd. (a).)
 
“Notwithstanding
Section 1714.1 of the Civil Code,
the parent or guardian of any minor whose willful misconduct results in injury
or death to any pupil ... shall be liable for all damages so caused by the
minor. The liability of the parent or guardian shall not exceed ten thousand
dollars ($10,000), adjusted
annually for inflation. The parent or guardian
shall be liable also for the amount of any reward not exceeding ten thousand
dollars ($10,000), adjusted
annually for inflation, paid pursuant to
Section 53069.5 of the Government Code. ...” (Ed. Code, § 48904,
subd. (a)(1).)
 
The court finds no challenge to the plain language of the
statute. Nevertheless, unlike the claim against parent Austin Cross, the court
finds a lack of statutory basis against a minor (cross) defendant. The plain
language of the sections clearly addresses liability against the parent for the
acts of the minor, but specifically refrains from expressing any public policy
position on also holding minors financially liable for campus transgressions. 
 
Notwithstanding the lack of statutory language under the two
cited sections, District also cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 428.10,
which provides the statutory authority for the filing of a cross-complaint. The
court finds a lack of support, and the case cited in support insufficient.
While the minor shooter was only named in the school district cross-complaint,
nothing in the published portion of the opinion ruled on the propriety of
naming the minor as a cross-defendant. (Cleveland v. Taft Union High School
Dist. (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 776, 791.)
 
The court refrains from providing an advisory opinion on an
otherwise off-calendar demurrer. Nevertheless, the court invites more thorough
briefing on the basis of indemnity asserted by District against the minor.
 
As for prematurity, the court finds no basis for such a
determination as a procedural matter. District was required to tender the
cross-complaint at the time of the filing of the answer, or seek later leave,
which would require further law and motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) To the
extent the premature filing argument conflates with the lack of an equitable
indemnity basis of relief, the court also declines to engage in advisory
consideration. 
 
The court also declines to consider the merits of each and
every individual cause of action in operative complaint relative to a
determination of a valid indemnity claim, whether the minor is “judgment
proof,” and the existence of the pled affirmative defenses in the answer.
Again, such a determination constitutes considerations beyond the scope of pled
claims. The cross-complaint in and of itself constitutes a separate action,
thereby precluding consideration of the merits of the operative complaint. (Shepard & Morgan v. Lee & Daniel, Inc. (1982) 31 Cal.3d 256, 260-261; Bertero v. National General Corp. (1974) 13 Cal.3d 43, 51; Pacific Finance Corporation v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
County (1933) 219 Cal. 179, 182.) 
 
The demurrer is off-calendar pending resolution of the
guardian ad litem appointment. Upon the appointment, if applicable, District
may await a renewed demurrer, but cannot file an amended complaint without
leave given the answer of Austin Collins following the prior demurrer and motion
to strike.
 
 
Motion to Strike: Off-Calendar/Moot.
Again, T.C. improperly brings this motion without an
appointed guardian ad litem. 
 
Even if the court considered the motion, the court granted
the motion to the strike the claim for attorney fees without prejudice on
August 19, 2024, with 30 days leave to amend. District elected against filing a
first amended cross-complaint. Austin Collins answered the remaining, operative
cross-complaint. Furthermore, even if District insists on maintaining the
allegations remain applicable to T.C., to the extent District depends on any
showing of liability against T.C., for the reasons addressed in the demurrer,
the court finds no such basis of support. The demurrer therefore alternatively
renders the motion to strike moot.
 
The motion to strike is either OFF-CALENDAR or MOOT.
 
The court will concurrently conduct a Case Management
Conference and OSC re: Sanctions.
 
Cross-Defendant T.C. to give notice. 
 