Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21SMCV00442
Plaintiff's Name: Bryan Buckley and Kiana Madani, as Trustees of the Madani Buckley Trust
Defendant's Name: 237 Windward, LLC and A. J. Khair Construction, Inc.
People: Bryan Buckley, Kiana Madani
Company Names: 237 Windward, LLC, A. J. Khair Construction, Inc.
Places: None mentioned
Dates: March 6, 2024, May 28, 2024, May 29, 2019
Events: Trial, Discovery, Final Status Conference
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To continue the trial date
Facts: Repairs to the Plaintiffs' home are not completed, need for discovery regarding Plaintiffs' damages claims
Disputes: None mentioned
Acts: Filed a stipulation, requested a continuance
Agreements: Parties agreed to continue the trial date
Laws: California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b), rule 3.1332(c), rule 3.1332(d)
Case Citations: None mentioned
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles:
  - Judge: granted the motion to continue trial
  - Parties: agreed to continue the trial date
  - Counsel: filed a stipulation
Significant Statements:
  - "The Court finds good cause to continue the trial date."
  - "No further continuances will be granted short of a legitimate emergency."
```

And here is a summary in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling granting the motion to continue the trial date from May 28, 2024 to a date to be determined at a future hearing. The parties, including the Plaintiffs Bryan Buckley and Kiana Madani, as Trustees of the Madani Buckley Trust, and the Defendants 237 Windward, LLC and A. J. Khair Construction, Inc., have agreed to continue the trial date due to the ongoing repairs to the Plaintiffs' home and the need for discovery regarding the Plaintiffs' damages claims. The judge has considered the factors outlined in California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, including the proximity of the trial date, the length of the continuance requested, and the potential prejudice to the parties, and has determined that there is good cause to continue the trial date. The judge has advised the parties that no further continuances will be granted short of a legitimate emergency.