 Case Number:  23CMCV00774    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  A 23CMCV00774
 Los Angeles Unified School District v. Watts Learning Center Foundation, Inc.
 and ASCIP of Schools for Cooperative Insurance Programs
Tuesday,
March 5, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER BY
ALLIANCE OF SCHOOLS FOR COOPERATIVE INSURANCE PROGRAM TO THE FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The first amended complaint alleges that Defendant
Watts Learning Center Foundation, Inc. (“Watts”) breached an obligation set
forth in its Charter Petition to provide liability insurance covering Plaintiff,
Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”), as an additional insured. Watts
obtained coverage from Alliance of Schools for Cooperative Insurance Program (“ASCIP”)
to defend, indemnify, and hold LAUSD harmless against any claims for damages
arising out of the Charter Petition. LAUSD alleges claims for breach of
contract, express indemnity, and declaratory relief against Watts.
      Additionally, LAUSD alleges claims for
breach of contract and for declaratory relief against ASCIP for breaching its
contractual duty to defend LAUSD in the personal injury action filed by
Plaintiff M.R. in the related lawsuit (20STCV22476 Veronica Hamid, et al v.
LAUSD, et al. “M.R. Lawsuit”). 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
      Defendant
ASCIP demurs to the sixth cause through eighth causes of action on grounds LAUSD
failed to timely present a claim pursuant to the Government Claims Act (“GCA”)
prior to filing this lawsuit. ASCIP argues it is a public entity formed
pursuant to the Joint Exercise of Powers Act. LAUSD’s letter tendering defense
to ASCIP cannot satisfy the claims filing requirements since LAUSD delivered
its tender letters before Plaintiff filed the complaint. Therefore, Plaintiff’s
claims are barred for failure to file a government claim within one year of
accrual.
      In opposition, LAUSD argues that a public
entity is not required to present a claim to another public entity before
filing suit. Regardless, Plaintiff argues that its tender letters delivered to ASCIP
satisfies the claims filing requirements. ASCIP waived any defense of the
claims filing requirement since ASCIP did not give statutory notice in its
letter rejecting tender of defense. The indemnity claims do not accrue until
the indemnitee has suffered a loss through payment of M.R.’s damage claim. Claims
filing requirements do not apply to claims for declaratory relief.
Alternatively, LAUSD asks for leave to amend. 
      ASCIP
did not file a reply brief by February 27, 2025 (five court days before the
hearing). (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005 subd. (b).)
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
      A demurrer tests the sufficiency of the
pleading as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) In testing its sufficiency, the court must
assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts
that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3)
judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The court may not consider contentions, deductions,
or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 634, 638.) The plaintiff must show that the pleading alleges
facts sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where the pleading fails
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should
sustain the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1126.)      
IV.   
DISCUSSION
      No suit may be
brought against a public entity until a written claim has been presented and
acted upon by the public entity. (Gov.
Code, § 945.4.) A “public entity” “includes the state, the Regents of the
University of California, the Trustees of the California State University and
the California State University, a county, city, district, public authority,
public agency, and any other political subdivision or public corporation in the
State.” (Gov.
Code, § 811.2.) 
      Failure
to allege compliance with the requirement or excuse for non-compliance subjects
the pleading to a general demurrer for failure to state a claim. (State
of California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1243.)
      The
FAC alleges on information and belief that defendant ASCIP is a California joint powers authority (“JPA”) that
provides liability insurance coverage to member public agencies, including
Watts and LAUSD. (FAC, ¶ 3.) Plaintiff alleges that ASCIP is a separate and independent legal entity from LAUSD. (Id.)

      Although
Plaintiff did not allege it, ASCIP represents it qualifies as a public entity
for purposes of the GTA, requiring LAUSD to file a government claim.  In its demurrer to the original complaint,
ASCIP argued that a public agency includes “any joint powers authority formed
pursuant to this article” by any state or county, (among other entities). (Gov.
Code, § 6500.) Additionally, “the agency is a public entity separate from
the parties to the agreement.” (Gov.
Code, § 6507.) 
            Accepting ASCIP’s position that it is a
public entity, LAUSD, also a public entity, is not required to present a
government claim to another local public entity ." (Gov.
Code, § 905 subd (i); [1]
City
of Ontario v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 894, 898 [“Pertinent
here is subdivision (i), which similarly exempts ‘claims by the State or by a
state department or agency or by another public entity.’ Thus, under section
905, the State's claim against the City could be pressed directly through
litigation, without the precedent filing of a claim. The same is true of the
other categories of claims described in that statute.”].)
 
V.     
CONCLUSION
      Based
on the foregoing, ASCIP’s demurrer to the first amended complaint is OVERRULED.
ASCIP is ordered to file its answer within 10 days. 


