 Case Number:  20TRCV00610    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    September 27, 2023
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   20TRCV00610
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Earl Brown;
Shonte Powers v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC, et al. 
 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiffs,
Earl Brown and Shonte Powers  
 
TRIAL DATE:                           October 23, 2023  
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion for Contempt for
Plaintiff’s Violation of Order to Produce Vehicle for Inspection
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) CONTINUE hearing on Motion
for Contempt
(2) Trial date is vacated pending Motion by Plaintiffs’
counsel to Withdraw or Proof that Plaintiffs have re-established contact with
their counsel of record
                                                
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On
August 28, 2020, Plaintiff, Earl Brown and Shonte Powers (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC, and DOES 1
through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Statutory Violation
of California Civil Code section 1793.2(d)—Failure to Repurchase/Replace; (2)
Statutory Violation of California Civil Code section 1794(b)—Failure to
Complete Repairs within 30 days; (3) Statutory Violation of California Civil
Code sections 1791.1, 1794 – Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability; and
(4) Violation of Business and Professions Code. 
 
 On July 11, 2023, Defendant
filed a Motion to Compel the Production of Plaintiffs’ Vehicle Inspection. On
August 30, 2023, the Court granted the motion and imposed a series of
conditions to facilitate a productive vehicle inspection (“VI”) given proof that
either Plaintiffs or their counsel were not being cooperative in enabling MBUSA
to inspect the subject vehicle, a critical facet of a Song-Beverly Act
defendant’s evidence gathering and trial preparation.  On two separate occasions, counsel and experts
for both sides appear to have been ready, willing, and available to perform the
VI but neither plaintiffs nor the vehicle arrived.  In an effort to rectify what appeared to the
Court to be unwillingness or lack of cooperation by Plaintiffs themselves to
bring the subject vehicle to a Mercedes-Benz dealership for the measurements
and testing aspects of a VI, the Court order the VI to commence at Plaintiffs’
residence. 
 
On September 13, 2023. shortly after the second of these
failed VI efforts and after the Court’s August 30 Order, MBUSA filed a motion
for contempt for Plaintiffs’ refusal to abide by the Court’s Order and for
other sanctions.  MBUSA also brought an
ex parte application to advance the hearing date on the Contempt Motion in
light of the looming trial date.  The
Court granted the ex parte application in part, setting a briefing schedule and
a September 27, 2023 hearing date.  At the
ex parte hearing, the Court indicated its intent to postpone or vacate the
trial date given the delays in conducting the VI.
 
II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
            The Court will not conduct a
hearing on the drastic sanction of civil contempt without proof that the
Plaintiffs themselves, as distinct for their lawyers, have actual notice of the
Motion for Contempt.  From the opposition
papers and declaration of Plaintiffs’’ counsel, it appears to the Court that
either counsel have lost communication with their clients, or that their
clients have communicated unwillingness to cooperate in the conduct of a
Court-ordered VI.  If Plaintiffs’ counsel
have lost communication with their clients, their representation cannot proceed
and the Court will expect a motion by counsel to withdraw from the
representation.  If communication has not
been lost but instead the Plaintiffs have advised their lawyers, in confidence,
that they refuse to comply with the Court’s August 30, 2023 Order, then counsel
likely will need to withdraw for a different reason while maintaining their
ethical duty to refrain from disclosing confidential communications.  If the vehicle has been lost or destroyed, or
has been transferred out of Plaintiffs’ possession such as by sale or gift or repossession,
Plaintiffs’ counsel have a duty to advise their clients as to their responsibilities
and potentially to have Plaintiffs submit a declaration in opposition to the Contempt
Motion attesting to the facts as to why the Court-ordered VI could not take
place so that MBUSA and the Court can consider their options.
            But regardless of which of these hypothetical
circumstances exist, the Court will VACATE the existing October 23, 2023 trial
date and the October 13, 2023 FSC.  If a
motion to withdraw is to be filed, the Court orders such a motion to be filed
no later than October 13, 2023.  The
Court will consider re-setting the case for trial or continuing the trial to a
date certain, and the Court will continue the Contempt Motion to a date
certain, depending on what additional information may be provided at the hearing.  