  Case Number:  20STCV09612    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  74 Glenn
Feldman, et al. v. Fraser Ross, et al.
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Deposition of Defendant Kitross Apparel Los Angeles, LLC’s Person Most
Qualified and Request for Monetary Sanctions
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a contractual dispute.
            On
March 9, 2020, Plaintiff Glenn Feldman (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
Fraser Ross and Kitross Apparel Los Angeles, LLC (Defendant). In the complaint,
Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: intentional
misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary duty,
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, constructive trust,
accounting, and fraudulent conversion.
            On
February 2, 2022, Plaintiff served a deposition notice for Defendant’s person
most qualified (PMQ). Defendant served objections and the deposition did not
take place.
            On
December 16, 2022, Plaintiff served another deposition notice for Defendant’s
PMQ. Defendant served objections and the deposition did not take place.
            On
March 3, 2023, Plaintiff served another deposition notice for Defendant’s PMQ.
Defendant served objections and the deposition did not take place.
            On
July 17, 2023, Plaintiff served another deposition notice for Defendant’s PMQ.
The deposition was set for August 17, 2023. On August 11, 2023, Plaintiff
served objections to the notice and the deposition did not take place.
            On
January 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel Defendant’s appearance
at deposition and production of documents.
LEGAL STANDARD
            “The
service of a deposition notice . . . is effective to require any deponent who
is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee
of a party to attend and to testify, as well as produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) “If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action . . . without having served a valid
objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, the
party giving notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff seeks to compel
Defendant’s PMQ’s appearance at deposition and production of documents
responsive to Requests for Production Nos. 1-131. The court finds Plaintiff has
demonstrated good cause for the testimony and documents sought. In opposition,
though, Defendant argues the court should deny this motion because Plaintiff’s
counsel failed to meet and confer in good faith. The court disagrees. After
Defendant’s PMQ did not appear for the August 17 deposition, Plaintiff’s
counsel promptly proposed alternate dates. (Cunningham Decl., ¶ 13; Ex. H, p.
8.) Plaintiff’s counsel further requested that the parties stipulate to an
order for a deposition schedule to ensure the depositions would go forward. (Cunningham
Decl., ¶ 13; Ex. H, p. 8.) The court finds the proposed stipulation reasonable
given Defendant’s PMQ’s failure to appear for multiple noticed depositions.
However, Defendant’s counsel refused to stipulate. (Cunningham Decl., ¶ 13; Ex.
H, pp. 2-3.) At this point, the parties reached an impasse. (Najemy Decl., ¶ 2;
Ex. 1.) Given the foregoing, the court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel has made
a good faith effort to meet and confer with Defendant’s counsel before filing
this motion.
            Moreover,
Defendant waived any objection to the noticed deposition. Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.410, subdivision (a) provides that, “Any party served
with a deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly
serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three
calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled […].” On
July 17, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with the deposition notice, but Defendant
did not serve objections until three-and-a-half weeks later on August 11, 2023,
which is not “prompt.” (§ 2025.410 [party “promptly serves a written
objection”].) Because Defendant did not promptly serve the objections,
Defendant waived those objections. In addition, Defendant’s objection of
unavailability does not constitute an error or irregularity under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.210, et seq. The court further notes that
Defendant’s boilerplate objections to the document requests are improper. (Korea
Data Systems v. Superior Court (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1513, 1516.)
            Given
the foregoing, the court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s PMQ’s
deposition and production of documents. As the prevailing party, Plaintiff is
entitled to attorney’s fees. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
Moreover, Defendant lacks substantial justification to oppose the motion. While
the court sympathizes with Defendant’s counsel’s circumstances, the court does
not find that Defendant’s refusal to appear at the deposition for months is
warranted. Plaintiff’s counsel’s proposed hourly rate is reasonable, and he has
substantiated his request with a breakdown of work performed. (Cunningham
Decl., ¶ 15.) But this this motion largely duplicates Plaintiff’s prior motion.
The court will reduce the award accordingly.
CONCLUSION
            The court grants Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Defendant’s PMQ’s appearance at deposition and production of
documents. The court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. Defendant shall
appear for deposition and produce documents within 30 days of this order.
Defendant shall pay Plaintiff’s counsel attorney’s fees in the sum of $1,020 within 30 days of this order.
            Plaintiff
shall give notice.