  Case Number:  22STCV30773    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Defendant Joseph Rubin’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint of Plaintiff Gary
Stiffelman.
BACKGROUND
In
this case, GARY STIFFELMAN (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendants JOSEPH RUBIN,
individually and in his capacity as Trustee of the Licht 2018 Irrevocable Trust
(“Rubin”), STUART RUBIN, ELLIOT LANDER, DESERT MEDICAL PROPERTIES, SGE REALTY
LLC (“SGE”), and THE COACHELLA LIGHTHOUSE, LLC (“Lighthouse”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) improperly withheld rent payments due to Plaintiff for breaches
of contracts by SGE and Lighthouse. Plaintiff also alleges that Rubin and other
Defendants induced and interfered with a sublease.  The FAC’s listed causes of action are:
1) Conversion; 2) Breach of Contract; 3) Inducing Breach of Contract; and 4)
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations.
Rubin filed a demurrer to the first, third, and fourth
causes of action in the FAC. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“The primary function of a pleading is to give the
other party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation], and a defect in
a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect
substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th
203, 240.)¿
Demurrers are to be sustained where a pleading fails
to plead adequately any essential element of the cause of action. (Cantu v.
Resolution Trust Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857, 879-880.)
¿Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)¿¿
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The Court grants Rubin’s request for judicial notice. 
ANALYSIS
            Uncertainty
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored, and are
granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot
reasonably respond.” (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc.
(2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695 [internal quotations omitted].) 
The FAC is not so incomprehensible that Rubin cannot
reasonably respond. The FAC clearly asserts the third and fourth causes of
action against Rubin in his individual capacity and the first cause of action
against Rubin as an individual and as Trustee of the Licht 2018 Revocable Trust.
The factual allegations allege that Rubin, individually and as Trustee, converted
funds belonging to Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶ 7, 28.) The FAC also alleges that Rubin, in
his individual capacity, sought to cause breaches of contracts resulting in
Plaintiff not receiving rent owed to him. (Id., ¶¶ 7, 41-42, 47-48.) 
Rubin contends the claims in the FAC center around
Lighthouse’s failure to pay rent to SGE and SGE’s failure to pay rent to DMP,
however, he cannot be blamed in his individual capacity for any of Lighthouse
or SGE’s actions of inactions because he has no formal affiliation with either
defendant in his personal capacity. Rubin relies on the agreements attached to
the FAC to support his contention that allegations in the FAC that Rubin has
control over SGE and Lighthouse are “demonstrably false.” Mot., p. 6:5. The
Court finds, however, that the FAC’s allegations that Rubin has control over the
payments and distributions of SGE and Lighthouse by virtue of his roles as manager
(SGE) and managing member (Lighthouse) are sufficient to withstand demurrer. See
FAC ¶ 7. The agreements attached to the FAC and relied on by Rubin show that
Rubin signed the various agreements on behalf of SGE and Lighthouse. Thus, the
allegations in the FAC that Rubin exercised control over SGE and Lighthouse are
not “demonstrably false” but a factual dispute that cannot be resolved on
demurrer. Finally, Rubin cites no published state court case to support the
assertion that the business judgment rule applies to limited liability company
such that the FAC would be barred. 
Therefore, the Court overrules the demurrer on the
grounds of uncertainty and business judgment rule.  
First Cause of Action –
Conversion
The elements for a claim of conversion include, “(1)
the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) the
defendant's disposition of the property in a manner that is inconsistent with
the plaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages.” (Regent
Alliance Ltd. v. Rabizadeh (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1181.)
The FAC sufficiently states facts to constitute a
cause of action for conversion. The FAC alleges Plaintiff has an ownership
right and right to possess property, i.e., his portion of the rental proceeds
pursuant to the sublease agreement. (FAC ¶¶ 6-7, 26-27.) The FAC further
alleges Rubin and other Defendants improperly retained ownership and control of
Plaintiff’s property and interfered with Plaintiff’s property by preventing
Plaintiff from receiving rent payments, having access to the property, and
maintaining possession of the rental income owed to Plaintiff. (FAC ¶ 28.) The
FAC also alleges that because of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiff suffered
monetary damages in the amount of at least $737,951.00. (FAC ¶ 30.)
Rubin argues Plaintiff’s conversion claim fails
because it is not based on a specific sum of money. But this is not accurate. Money
can be the subject of a conversion claim if the claim involves a specific and identifiable
sum. (Welco Elecs., Inc. v. Mora (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 202, 209.)
Here, the FAC adequately alleges that Defendants have wrongfully retained at
least $737,951.00. Such allegations are sufficient to survive demurrer.  
Rubin contends that any alleged conversion that occurred
prior to September 2019 is time-barred. Even if true, such an argument would
not dispense with the entire conversion claim and thus is not appropriate for demurrer.
Rubin contends the conversion claim is barred by the economic loss rule but the
economic loss rule does not bar conversion because it applies to unintentional
torts such as negligence, not intentional torts. The cases cited by Rubin are unpublished
federal court cases that have no applicability here.
In addition, Rubin argues Plaintiff did not have a
right to immediate possession of the rental distributions because he only had a
contractual right to distributions based on rent paid through several entities
and that rent was never paid. Last, Rubin asserts the FAC does not describe a
single affirmative action taken by him, individually or through an entity to
support the conversion claim. But as discussed above, the FAC contains sufficient
factual allegations regarding Rubin’s alleged conversion-related conduct that
he undertook in his individual capacity. 
Therefore, the Court overrules the demurrer as to
first cause of action for conversion. 
            Third
Cause of Action – Inducing Breach of Contract
Stating a cause of cause of action for inducing breach
of contract “requires that a plaintiff prove: (1) he had a valid and existing
contract with a third party; (2) defendant had knowledge of this contract; (3)
defendant committed intentional and unjustified acts designed to interfere with
or disrupt the contract; (4) actual interference with or disruption of the
relationship; and (5) resulting damages.” (Little v. Amber Hotel Co.
(2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 280, 291-92.)
Rubin argues this claim fails because he is a
signatory to the Side Letter at issue in the claim. But he signed the Side
Letter in his role as a member of SGE and managing member of Lighthouse. The
FAC alleges Rubin is not a party to the contract but knew of its existence.
(FAC ¶¶ 39-40.) Such allegations are sufficient to state a claim for inducing a
breach of contract because the FAC alleges Rubin in his personal capacity is a
stranger to the agreement. As discussed above, the specifics of Rubin’s role
vis a vis SGE and Lighthouse is a factual dispute not appropriate for demurrer.
Similarly, Plaintiff’s contention that the Side Letter was never breached is not
an appropriate argument at the demurrer stage. Plaintiff has adequately alleged
facts of the wrongful conduct i.e., that Rubin deliberately failed to pay Plaintiff
rent due under the Side Letter, even though rent was paid to other Defendants. (FAC
¶¶ 7, 10-11, 41-42.) 
Therefore, the Court overrules the demurrer as to the
third cause of action for inducing breach of contract. 
            Fourth
Cause of Action – Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations 
“In order to state a cause of action for intentional
interference with contract, a plaintiff must show: “(1) a valid contract
between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant's knowledge of this
contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Winchester Mystery
House, LLC v. Global Asylum, Inc. (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 579, 596.)
Rubin advances the same arguments discussed regarding
the third cause of action. Alternatively, Rubin asserts the third and fourth
causes of action are duplicative because Plaintiff makes the same exact
allegations and seeks the same exact relief for both. 
Plaintiff advances the same rebuttal arguments
discussed regarding the third cause action. Plaintiff also argues the third and
fourth causes of action are not duplicative because they rely on different
grounds and have both been recognized under California law as separate causes
of action. 
The Court rejects these arguments. The FAC sufficiently
states facts to constitute a cause of action for intentional interference with
contractual relations, which is based on a different legal theory from the
third cause of action (that is, the Rubin prevented performance of the
agreement). The FAC alleges a valid contract exists between Plaintiff,
Lighthouse, SGE, and DMP, which Rubin was made of aware. (FAC ¶¶ 39, 40, 45,
46.) The FAC further alleges Rubin intentionally interfered with the Master
Signed Letter and caused Lighthouse, SGE, and DMP to commit breach by failing
to pay and distribute rent to Plaintiff due under the contract as advised by
Rubin. (FAC ¶¶ 47-48.) The FAC also alleges Rubin’s conduct resulted in Plaintiff
suffering damages. (FAC ¶ 49.)
Therefore, the Court overrules the demurrer as to the
fourth cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relations.

CONCLUSION
The Court overrules the demurrer in its entirety. Twenty
days to answer. 