  Case Number:  20STCV27665    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  40                                                                                                                                       
  Superior Court of
California
 
County of Los Angeles
 
Department 40
 



SANDRA NORLUND, an individual, et al.,
Plaintiffs,
v.
RICHARD L. NORLUND, et al.,
Defendants.
  
_____________________________________
NANCY HYMAS, as Trustee,
Intervenor.


 Case No.: 20STCV27665
 [Consolidated with 23STCV19070]
 Hearing Date: July 30, 2024
 Trial Date: August 20, 2024
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRERS TO, AND MOTIONS TO STRIKE, THE
  SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT AND FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT IN INTERVENTION
 



 
Case
No.: 20STCV27665
 
The parties dispute title to the real property located at
14924 and 14930 Arrow Highway, Baldwin Park, California (“the Property”). 
Plaintiff Sandra Norlund (“Plaintiff”), as trustee of one
Norlund Family Trust, sued defendants Richard L. Norlund and Sharon K. Bacon
Norlund (“Defendants”), individually and in their capacities as trustees for
four other Norlund trusts, on July 22, 2020. Plaintiff also named, as nominal
defendant, Nancy Hymas in her capacity as trustees for two further trusts.
Plaintiff filed her operative second amended complaint (“SAC”)
on March 20, 2024, asserting claims for judicial foreclosure, quiet title,
reformation of contract, declaratory relief, and elder abuse. 
Nominal defendant, now intervenor, Nancy Hymas
(“Intervenor”) filed a complaint in intervention on October 20, 2023, and an
operative first amended complaint in intervention (“FACI”) on April 18, 2024. The
FACI asserts causes of action for judicial foreclosure, breach of contract,
fraud, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage,
declaratory relief, and quiet title.
On May 22, 2024, Defendants demurred to and moved to strike
portions of Plaintiff’s FAC. On June 5, 2024, Defendants demurred to and moved
to strike portions of Intervenor’s FACI.
On July 15, 2024, Plaintiff and Intervenor filed oppositions
to the respective demurrers and motions. On July 23, 2024, Defendants filed
their replies to each.
The Court has considered all moving, opposition, and reply
papers, and rules as follows.
 
Background Allegations
Plaintiff alleges, in brief, that she “was supposed to be
the owner of a secured interest in [the Property]”, but Defendants
“fraudulently altered documents to invalidate her interest” in the Property
and/or the promissory note it secured. (SAC, ¶¶ 2-3; see also ¶¶ 13, 17-19.)
            Intervenor alleges she and Plaintiff
were assigned the promissory note secured by the Property as part of a
settlement agreement signed April 11, 2019. (FACI, ¶ 2.) Defendants breached
the settlement agreement, including the terms of the promissory note, and
failed to record a deed of trust reflecting the parties’ obligations under the
Note. (Id., ¶ 3.)
 
Judicial Notice
Defendants request judicial notice of twenty-eight (28) exhibits
totaling 2,180 pages. On July 15, 2024, Sandra Norlund filed objections to the
request for judicial notice and Nancy Hymas filed an Opposition. The Court rules
as follows.
Most of the material is not properly subject to judicial notice
(e.g., RJN Exs. 5, 9, 12 [declarations and deposition transcripts]). Several
court records might be noticeable, except notice is unnecessary, because they
already appear in the Court’s record (e.g., RJN Exs. 7, 8, 10 [Judge Sotelo’s
prior rulings]). The materials are also largely irrelevant. “There is ... a precondition
to the taking of judicial notice in either its mandatory or permissive form—any
matter to be judicially noticed must be relevant to a material issue.”  (People ex rel. Lockyer v. Shamrock Foods
Co. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 415, 422 fn. 2.)
As Judge Sotelo observed in his April 13, 2021 ruling on
Defendants’ demurrer to the first amended complaint: “Rarely will a
demurrer require judicial notice of so many pages[.]” And the length of Defendants’
filing here suggests, as with their 2021 motion, that “Defendants have not
actually filed a demurrer.” (04-13-2021 Minute Order, at p. 1.)
The Court denies Defendants’ requests for judicial notice in their
entirety.
 
Motions to Strike
“Except in a summary judgment or summary adjudication motion, no
opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1113(d).) Defendants’ motions to strike run forty-eight (48) and one
hundred seven (107) pages, respectively. The motions are denied for gross
violations of Court Rules.
 
Demurrers
1.
Demurrer to Sandra Norlund’s Second Amended Complaint
a. Demurrers based on the motion to strike fail because the motion
to strike has been denied.
Defendants demur to the all five of Plaintiff’s causes of action
on the ground that “after the Court sustains [sic] Defendants’ Motion to
Strike ... [the] cause of action fails to state a cognizable cause of
action[.]” (Dem., 2:10-13, 2:19-3:4.)
The Court has denied Defendants’ motion to strike, so this
argument fails, and the demurrer is overruled in each instance.
            b. Defendants state a claim for
quiet title.
Defendants separately demur to the second cause of action for
quiet title because it “fails to state indispensable elements of the cause”.
(Dem., ¶ 3.) 
Defendants’ memorandum relies on numerous factual contentions that
are improper for resolution at the pleading stage. To sustain the demurrer, the
Court would have to make a factual findings that, for instance, “it is Richard
... that inherited 1/3rd of the Warehouse and bought Sandra’s and Nancy’s
2/3rds interests.” (Dem., 5:26-27.) Defendants also contend Plaintiff cannot
state a claim because she cannot overcome the title presumption at Evidence
Code section 662. (See Dem., 6:9-18.) But the Court cannot resolve an
evidentiary presumption at the pleading stage. And to the extent Defendants
rely on their requests for judicial notice, those requests have been denied.
Defendants fundamentally argue that the Settlement is perfectly
clear and any claim otherwise is frivolous and subject to demurrer. (See Dem.,
5:16-19 [“The Settlement is clear ... . This does demonstrate Sandra’ unclean
hands, suing under the Settlement for a right not contained therein”]; 6:5-6
[“the Settlement clearly delineates to whom the Warehouse went and it is not
Sandra”].)
Defendants have not made a reasoned argument why the Settlement is
as clear as they contend. And this case has proceeded across two jurisdictions
and through an appeal; various courts, including this one, disagree that the
matter is so straightforward.
The demurrer is overruled in its entirety.
 
2.
Demurrer to Nancy Hymas’s Complaint in Intervention
            a. Demurrers based on the motion
to strike fail.
Defendants demur to the first cause of action based on their
assumption that the Court will grant their Motion to Strike. The Court has
denied that motion; the demurrer fails.
            b. There is no grounds for
abatement.
Defendants demur to the second, third, fifth, and sixth causes of
action on the basis that the Plaintiff in intervention has “alleged another
fraud action which is pending.” This argument fails. First, the “other action
which is pending” has been consolidated with this one, so it is not another
action. Second, the argument amounts to a plea in abatement, which requires a specific
showing that identical claims be litigated between identical parties;
Defendants have not made this showing in their moving papers.
Defendants challenge the sixth cause of action based on factual
contentions improper for resolution on demurrer. (See Dem., 5:1:10 [“[t]he
Settlement clearly demonstrates ... that title is in Richard’s name,” based on
the evidentiary title presumption].) This argument fails for reasons discussed
above regarding the demurrer to the SAC.
c. The intervenor states a claim for intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage.
Defendants challenge one cause of action – the fourth, for
intentional or negligent interference with prospective economic relations – on
grounds that are proper for demurrer. Defendants assert Intervenor has not
alleged facts sufficient to state a claim on the face of her FACI. 
Although the argument is procedurally proper, the Court is not
persuaded by it. “To prevail on a cause of action for intentional interference
with prospective economic advantage in California, a plaintiff must plead and
prove (1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party,
with the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the
defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3) the defendant's intentional acts
designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
defendant's acts.” (Reeves v. Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1152 fn.6,
italics added.) 
The First Amended Complaint in
Intervention alleges that Plaintiffs and Intervenor had an economic
relationship – the loan secured by the Property – that had the probability of
benefit to both of them; that Defendants knew about it; that Defendants
intentionally acted in a manner designed to disrupt it, by engaging in various
fraud; that the relationship was disrupted (see the instant litigation); and
that Intervenor incurred financial costs as a result.
The demurrer to the fourth cause of action
is overruled.
 
Case No. 23STCV19070
 
            Defendants also filed a Demurrer and
Motion to Strike Intervenors’ Verified First Amended Complaint on May 30, 2024 in
the related case that was transferred from Butte County in 2023, 23STCV19070.
This case has now been consolidated at least for pretrial rulings up to the time
of trial.  Nancy Hymas filed an
Opposition to both motions on July 15, 2024, and the Defendants filed their
replies on July 23, 2024. 
            The request for judicial notice, similar
to the request in the lead case, runs 2034 pages and, among other things, asks
the Court to take judicial notice of California statutory law, providing additional
argument and case citations, in addition to lengthy argument about the import
of some 37 exhibits. As with the judicial notice in the lead case, and for the
same reasons, the Court declines the request to take judicial notice in its
entirety.
Also similar to the lead case, the motion to strike runs 69 pages and
vastly exceeds the standards appropriate for a motion to strike, seeking
resolution of disputed issues. The motion to strike is denied in its entirety
for the same reasons as those in the lead case.
Finally, the demurrer as to the First Amended Complaint in the
lead case and the related case contain overlapping challenges. To the extent that
Defendants make the same arguments, the Court overrules the demurrer on the
same grounds as those stated above relating to the lead case. The Court also
overrules the demurrer on the grounds that the second cause of action for fraud
or fifth cause of action for quiet title are not stated with sufficient
particularity. The Court disagrees, and the parties have long been apprised by
now of the allegations by both sides. This matter is in fact ripe for trial. Court
also overrules the demurrer as to the alleged ground that the claims do not
state a cause of action. Defendants repeatedly frame their challenges as an
argument about who should prevail and what the evidence will “clearly” show.  The Court will not allow this demurrer to be
transformed into a motion for summary judgment, or even a trial, with the Court
being asked to make findings of fact. “The hearing on demurrer may not be turned
into a contested evidentiary hearing through the guise of having the court take
judicial notice of documents whose truthfulness or proper interpretation are
disputable.” (Unruh-Haxton v. Regents of University of California (2008)
162 Cal.App.4th 343, 364–365, as modified (May 15, 2008) [cleaned up].)          
Conclusion
The demurrers are overruled in their entirety in both cases.
The motions to strike are denied in their entirety in both cases. 