  Case Number:  19STCV46364    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Avant Plastic Surgery, Inc. and Avant Aesthetic Institute, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.Defendants Avant Plastic Surgery, Inc. and Avant Aesthetic Institute, Inc.’s Motion to Require Out of State Plaintiff to File an Undertaking Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §1030 is DENIED.Defendants Avant Plastic Surgery, Inc. and Avant Aesthetic Institute, Inc. to give notice. REASONINGDefendants Avant Plastic Surgery, Inc. and Avant Aesthetic Institute, Inc.’s Motion for Summary JudgmentDefendants Avant Plastic Surgery, Inc. and Avant Aesthetic Institute, Inc. (“Defendants”) move for summary judgment as to Plaintiff Mengxue Deng (“Plaintiff”)’s single cause of action for negligence on the grounds that the care and treatment provided to Plaintiff by Defendants was, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, appropriate and within the applicable standard of care in the community.Legal StandardThe purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “[T]he court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection) . . . in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)Analysis“The elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Chakalis v. Elevator Solutions, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.)In her complaint, Plaintiff alleges that she sought treatment from Defendants for a procedure of 12 Kybella shots, and she began to feel pain during the recovery period. (Compl., p. 4.) Plaintiff believes that Defendants left ice packs applied too long, causing severe ice burns, or that Defendants performed the injections below the standard of care. (Ibid.) Plaintiff is now left with permanent large scars. (Ibid.)Defendants present evidence that Plaintiff presented to Avant Plastic Surgery on October 17, 2018, and Perry Hsien-Tsung Liu, M.D. (“Dr. Liu”) recommended Kybella for Plaintiff’s chin. (Defs.’ UMF Nos. 1, 2.) Dr. Liu administers Botox in the forehead area and one unit of Kybella in the chin area. (Defs.’ UMF No. 3.) Plaintiff did not have a negative reaction on that date, and ice was used following the injection. (Defs.’ UMF No. 4.) Plaintiff agreed to try Kybella on her legs, and on October 31, 2018, Plaintiff returned to Avant Plastic Surgery to undergo Kybella injunctions to her bilateral calves. (Defs.’ UMF Nos. 5, 6.) After the injections, Dr. Liu left the room, and a nurse placed ice packs on the bilateral calves. (Defs.’ UMF No. 7.) Plaintiff fell asleep with ice packs on her calves, and when she woke up, Plaintiff called out for help, and a nurse removed the ice. (Defs.’ UMF Nos. 8, 10.) Plaintiff was unable to say how long the ice packs were on her legs. (Defs.’ UMF No. 11.) The protocol is to not leave the ice packs on for longer than 20 minutes. (Defs.’ UMF No. 12.) The day after the injections, Plaintiff contacted Avant Plastic Surgery to report swelling and blistering on her calves. (Defs.’ UMF No. 16.) Plaintiff presented to the Emergency Department at Hoag Hospital in Irvine due to continuing pain, and the physician at the hospital could not say whether Plaintiff’s blisters were the result of an allergic reaction or some other condition. (Defs.’ UMF Nos. 17, 18.)Defendants’ expert witness Dorothy A. Dennin, a registered nurse licensed to practice medicine in the State of California who is familiar with the nursing standards of practice for caring for patients following administration of Kybella injections opines that the medical decision to place ice packs on Plaintiff’s calves was indicated and within the standard of care. (Mot., Dennin Decl. ¶¶ 1, 2, 5.) Ms. Dennin also states that the decision to place ice packs following a fat-reducing injection, like Kybella, is indicated and within the standard of care in the community, and the placement of the ice packs and monitoring of the patient following placement of the ice packs by the nursing staff in this case was appropriate and within the standard of care, as the ice packs were not applied directly to the skin. (Mot., Dennin Decl. ¶ 5.) Ms. Dennin further states that a nurse relies on the feedback from a patient regarding the intensity, pain, and effect of the ice packs, and Ms. Dennin opines that the treating nurse appropriately managed the patient given the feedback she received. (Ibid.)Ms. Dennin fails to state the basis for her purported knowledge of the application of Kybella. She states that she works as a trauma and neuroscience intensive care unit nurse, but this does not explain to the Court how she would become an expert in the injection of Kybella, a fat-reducing injection, or the standard of care for a nurse caring for a patient after Kybella injections. The Court also cannot rely on the Kybella labels themselves, as the Court is not itself qualified to interpret medical labels and make conclusions about the application and use of medical products. Thus, Defendants have failed to provide competent evidence to establish that the treatment provided by Defendants’ nurse was within the standard of care. It follows that the burden does not shift to Plaintiff to provide competent evidence to establish that a triable issue of material fact exists as to Plaintiff’s claim for negligence against Defendants. Accordingly, Defendants Avant Plastic Surgery, Inc. and Avant Aesthetic Institute, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.Evidentiary ObjectionsPlaintiff objects to the declaration of Dorothy A. Dennin R.N. in its entirety, as well as specific statements therein. Objection No. 1, as to the declaration in its entirety, is SUSTAINED. The Court declines to rule on Objection Nos. 2 to 4, as the evidence at issue was not material to the Court’s ruling herein. Objection No. 4 is OVERRULED, as a separate statement is not evidence.Defendants object to certain statements within the declaration of Janet DeWitt, R.N., and the entire declaration itself. The Court declines to rule on the objections, as the evidence at issue was not material to the Court’s ruling herein.Defendants Avant Plastic Surgery, Inc. and Avant Aesthetic Institute, Inc.’s Motion to Require Out of State Plaintiff to File an Undertaking Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §1030Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1030, subdivision (a), a defendant sued by an out-of-state plaintiff “may at any time apply to the court by noticed motion for an order requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking to secure an award of costs and attorney’s fees which may be awarded in the action or special proceeding.” To prevail on a motion for undertaking, the defendant must show that (1) the plaintiff resides out of state and (2) there is a “reasonable possibility” that the defendant will obtain a judgment in the matter. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (b).)A defendant need not show there is no possibility of the plaintiff prevailing, only that it is reasonably possible that defendant will prevail. (Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1427, 1432.) Additionally, the motion must be accompanied by a supporting affidavit that sets forth the nature and amount of the costs the defendant has incurred and expects to incur. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (b).) If the Court determines that it is proper to require an undertaking, the plaintiff shall file the undertaking no later than 30 days after service of the court’s order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (d).) Finally, “[t]he determinations of the court” on a motion for undertaking “have no effect on the determination of any issues on the merits of the action . . . and may not be given in evidence nor referred to in the trial of the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (f).)Defendants move the Court for an order requiring Plaintiff to post an undertaking in the amount of $20,000 to secure an award of costs. Defendants represent that Plaintiff is a resident of China, and Defendants argue there is a reasonable possibility that they will prevail in this action because the expert declaration of Dorothy Dennin, R.N. states that Defendants met the standard of care.Plaintiff does not dispute that she resides in China, such that Defendants have satisfied the first requirement of a motion for undertaking. (See Mot., Mores Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. A.) As to the second requirement, whether there is a “reasonable possibility” that Defendants will obtain a judgment in this matter, the Court finds that Defendants have failed to show a reasonable possibility of success here because, as stated above, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that Ms. Dennin is qualified to opine about the applicable standard of care for a patient following the administration  of Kybella injections. Without competent evidence, Defendants are unable to show a reasonable possibility that the trier of fact could conclude that their treatment was within the standard of care. For that reason, Defendants Avant Plastic Surgery, Inc. and Avant Aesthetic Institute, Inc.’s Motion to Require Out of State Plaintiff to File an Undertaking Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §1030 is DENIED.Evidentiary ObjectionsPlaintiff objects to the declaration of Dorothy A. Dennin R.N. in its entirety, as well as specific statements therein. Objection No. 1, as to the declaration in its entirety, is SUSTAINED. The Court declines to rule on Objection Nos. 2 and 3, as the evidence at issue was not material to the Court’s ruling herein.