 Case Number:  22SMCV02450    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, BDMGMT Partners, LLC, and Trevor Saliba’s Motion to Quash and to Stay Plaintiff’s Subpoena for Business Records is DENIED.Defendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, BDMGMT Partners, LLC, and Trevor Saliba to give notice. REASONINGDefendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, BDMGMT Partners, LLC, and Trevor Saliba (“Defendants”) move the Court for an order quashing Plaintiff J&C Global Holdings, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)’s deposition subpoena directed to the custodian of records of David Lundgren & Company, which seeks production of documents and communications relating or referring to Defendants’ financial records, including banking, investment, tax, business formation, governance, contributions, and reserves for the period of 2011 to present, Defendants’ sale, distributions, and tax filings. Defendants argue that Plaintiff is seeking duplicative documents requested from all Defendants and requests documents from Defendants’ auditor, despite that information being available in Annual Audited Reports and Tax Returns.If a subpoena requires the production of documents, the Court “may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) “The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020, subd. (a).)Plaintiff asserts this action arising from a breach of a March 2012 Purchase and Sale Agreement for Plaintiff’s subsidiary to be sold to Defendant NMS Fin Holdings, LLC. Plaintiff alleges in the First Amended Complaint that the sale was required to be timely filed and prosecuted with FINRA, and Defendants’ failure to do so resulted in failure of the sale, causing Plaintiff to sustain damages in loss of post-closing profits and an interest in Defendant NMS Fin Holdings, LLC. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Trevor Saliba has used NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB Securities, LLC, owned mostly by Plaintiff, to profit for himself and his entities when the returns were owed to Plaintiff. In the First Amended Cross-Complaint, Defendants allege that Plaintiff and Corrine Allain were responsible for the failure to close because J&C Global Holdings, Inc. is and was a suspended, revoked corporation.Plaintiff argues that it is entitled to financial documentation and communications between Defendants and their auditor because the current production is inadequate, as most documents are not responsive to the requests, and the information sought is relevant to Plaintiff’s allegations that profits were paid to Saliba and other entities. (First Am. Compl. ¶ 28.) The Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently set forth a basis for obtaining the requested information, which is fundamental to Plaintiff’s ability to prove its case against Defendants. “[W]here the financial information goes to the heart of the cause of action itself, a litigant should not be denied access” to the information requested in a subpoena such as the one at issue here. (GT, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 748, 754.) Plaintiff represents that it does not have this information, it is not clear that the information can or will be produced by parties to the action, and while Defendants have a privacy interest in financial information, Plaintiff has an interest in proving its case. Accordingly, Defendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, BDMGMT Partners, LLC, and Trevor Saliba’s Motion to Quash and to Stay Plaintiff’s Subpoena for Business Records is DENIED.