  Case Number:  23CHCV00946    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
1-23-24
Case
#23CHCV00946
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
INJUNCTION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Bradley Spencer, et al. 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, Jay Cook-Wong, et al. 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Preliminary Injunction
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiffs
Jay and Danny Cook-Wong co-founded Defendant Same Love Surrogacy, LLC and
currently own a 49% interest in the business entity. Defendant Bradley Spencer
also co-founded Same Love Surrogacy and owns a 51% interest. Plaintiff Chien
Fang Wang provides unspecified employment services “primarily” from the Peoples
Republic of China. Plaintiffs allege Spencer manages business operations,
including “supervisor” of all individual plaintiffs.
 
All
parties work remotely or not in any indicated central space. Plaintiffs allege
Spencer in the position as majority shareholder and company director both
improperly manages human resources issues, and engaged in a pattern and
practice of “sexual assault and sexual harassment” against both the Cook-Wang
plaintiffs in their individual residences and/or shared hotel rooms during
business travels. Plaintiffs additionally allege Spencer withheld shareholder
distributions in retaliation and through control of the company. 
 
On
April 3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their complaint for Sexual Battery, Assault,
Sexual Harassment, Workplace Harassment, Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, Retaliation, Conversion, Trespass, and Invasion of Privacy. On April
10, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint for Sexual Battery,
Assault, Work Place Harassment, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Retaliation,
Conversion, Trespass, Invasion of Privacy, and Non-Payment of Wages. Same Love
Surrogacy, LLC is the only named defendant in the Retaliation cause of action.
Spencer is the only named defendant in the Sexual Battery, Assault, Sexual
Harassment, Workplace Harassment, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
and Trespass causes of action.
 
On
August 14, 2023, the court denied the motion to compel arbitration filed by
defendants Same Love Surrogacy, LLC and Bradley
Spencer. On August 29, 2023, defendants answered. Defendant Same Love
Surrogacy, LLC also filed cross-complaint against Jay and Danny Cook-Wong, and
new party All Love Surrogacy, LLC for Violation of California Comprehensive
Computer Data Access and Fraud Act (Penal Code section 502), Violation of Penal
Code section 496, Misappropriation of Trade Secrets, Breach of Duty of Loyalty,
Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, Conversion,
Intentional Interference with Prospective Business Advantage, Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations, and Breach of Contract.
 
RULING: Denied.
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Same
Love Surrogacy, LLC (SLS) moves for a preliminary injunction against
plaintiffs/cross-defendants Jay Cook Wong, Danny Cook-Wong, and All My Love
Surrogacy, LLC (ALMS) from soliciting, employing, retaining or otherwise doing
business with any current or former Same Love Surrogacy Employee; utilizing any
data, documents, or information, including trade secrets by any person from
SLS; compelling cross-defendants to contact each and every surrogate affiliated
with SLS in order to terminate relationships with ALMS; and, return and/or
destroy all confidential information in responding parties possession. 
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants in
opposition present seven individual points: 1) the subject matter of the instant
motion belongs in arbitration; 2) the motion lacks a sufficient showing of
urgency/inadequate remedy at law; 3) lack of a legal basis for the injunction
in that the motion fails to establish the existence of a trade secret; 4)
further lack of basis for injunctive relief due to insufficient showing of
damages as a result of any alleged misappropriation of trade secrets; 5) lack
of probability of success due to preemption of the California Trade Secrets
Act; 6) improper prohibitory relief sought; and, 7) a prohibition from bringing
the injunction against the Cook-Wong parties due to the allowable competition
clause in the operation agreement.
 
SLS in reply maintains proper
jurisdiction for the motion, a probability of success on the merits due to the
existence of trade secrets and lack of preemption, characterization of the
conduct of responding parties as unjustified “theft,” and irreparable harm if
injunctive relief is not granted.
 
Because the content of the subject motion incorporated
evidence as part of the motion to seal records—the Declaration of Michael
Snaric and a significant portion of exhibits in the declaration of Bradley
Spencer—the court continued the instant motion until after its ruling on the
motion to seal. The court granted the unopposed motion to seal, thereby
allowing the submission of the withheld documents to the court.
 
In
ruling on a motion for preliminary injunction, the court first considers both
the likelihood of prevailing on the merits and irreparable harm. (Millennium Rock Mortg., Inc. v. T.D. Service
Co. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 804, 812.) “An evaluation of the relative harm
to the parties upon the granting or denial of a preliminary injunction requires
consideration of: ‘(1) the inadequacy of any other remedy; (2) the degree of
irreparable injury the denial of the injunction will cause; (3) the necessity
to preserve the status quo; [and] (4) the degree of adverse effect on the
public interest or interests of third parties the granting of the injunction
will cause.’” (Vo v. City of Garden Grove
(2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 425, 435.) “‘[T]he more likely it is that plaintiffs
will ultimately prevail, the less severe must be the harm that they allege will
occur if the injunction does not issue .... [I]t is the mix of these factors
that guides the trial court in its exercise of discretion.’” (Right Site Coalition v. Los Angeles Unified
School Dist. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 336, 342.) “The ultimate questions on a
motion for a preliminary injunction are (1) whether the plaintiff is ‘likely to
suffer greater injury from a denial of the injunction than the defendants are
likely to suffer from its grant,’ and (2) whether there is ‘a reasonable
probability that the plaintiffs will prevail on the merits’” (Huong Que, Inc. v. Luu (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 400, 408. Procedurally, an application for a preliminary
injunction, must be based upon sufficient evidence.  (CCP § 527(a); Bank of America v. Williams (1948) 89 Cal.App.2d 21, 29.)
 
“[T]he general
rule is that an injunction is prohibitory if it requires a
person to refrain from a particular act and mandatory if it
compels performance of an affirmative act that changes the position of the
parties.” (Davenport v. Blue Cross of California (1997)
52 Cal.App.4th 435, 446.)
“An injunction designed to preserve the status quo as between
the parties and to restrain illegal conduct is prohibitory,
not mandatory, and does not require heightened appellate scrutiny.” (Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th
1036, 1048.) “The granting of a mandatory
injunction pending trial is not permitted except in extreme cases where the
right thereto is clearly established.” (Teachers Ins. & Annuity Assn. v. Furlotti (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1487, 1493.) 
 
Jurisdiction
The court begins with the argument against subject matter
jurisdiction. Other than an introductory sentence in opposition regarding an
impending motion to compel arbitration, the court remains unable to locate any
supporting legal authority for the argument. SLS in reply maintains the court
holds jurisdiction to rule on provisional remedies pending an arbitration
motion in the Code of Civil Procedure and the terms of the operating agreement
relied upon by ALMS in bringing the arbitration motion. 
 
“(a) As used in this section, “provisional remedy” includes
the following: ... (3) Preliminary injunctions and temporary restraining orders
issued pursuant to Section 527....
(b) A party to an arbitration agreement may file in the
court in the county in which an arbitration proceeding is pending, or if an
arbitration proceeding has not commenced, in any proper court, an application
for a provisional remedy in connection with an arbitrable controversy, but only
upon the ground that the award to which the applicant may be entitled may be
rendered ineffectual without provisional relief. The application shall be
accompanied by a complaint or by copies of the demand for arbitration and any
response thereto. If accompanied by a complaint, the application shall also be
accompanied by a statement stating whether the party is or is not reserving the
party's right to arbitration. ...” (CCP § 1281.8.)
 
The plain language of the statute in no way precludes
consideration of the injunction. The court finds the sought after injunction
directly relates to the potentially arbitrable subject matter, and therefore
appropriately considered. 
 
Probability of Success on the Merits
The argument for injunction depends on a claim of ownership
of proprietary information and the alleged misappropriation of said data for
the operation of a competing surrogacy agency. SLS introduces the motion as a
series of accusations regarding inappropriate conduct, then concluding with the
misappropriation of company information via a series of e-mails identified in a
list of documents. SLS relies on the causes of action for Violation of
California Comprehensive Computer Data Access and Fraud Act (Penal Code § 502),
Violation of Penal Code § 496, Misappropriation of Trade Secrets, Breach of
Duty of Loyalty, Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, and
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations, as the basis of support to
this element for injunction. The motion lacks any indication of citation to the
Conversion, Intentional Interference with Prospective Business Advantage,
Breach of Contract causes of action.
 
Transcending the underlying claims, the crux of the motion
depends on a finding of proprietary information. “‘Trade secret’ means
information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device,
method, technique, or process, that: (1) Derives independent economic value,
actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other
persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) Is
the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain
its secrecy.” (Civ. Code § 3426.1(d).) The party asserting the privilege holds
the burden of establishing its existence. (Bridgestone/Firestone,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1393.) 
 
SLS asserts the proprietary trade secret privilege on
grounds that the information comprises customer lists, insurance templates, and
other forms reflecting business operations not readily disclosed to the public
and providing a competitive advantage. ALMS challenges any showing of a trade
secret.
 
The UTSA defines a trade secret as “information ... that:
[¶] (1) Derives independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being
generally known ...; and [¶] (2) Is the subject of efforts that are reasonable
under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.” (§ 3426.1(d).) In short, the
test for a trade secret is whether the matter sought to be protected is
information (1) that is valuable because it is unknown to others and (2) that
the owner has attempted to keep secret.” (DVD Copy Control Assn., Inc. v.
Bunner (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 241, 251.) 
 
The information at issue as summarized by ALMS consists of
e-mail templates delivered to customers regarding enrollment periods; lists of
donors and parents with no contact information; marketing materials and
compensation information which is published on the SLS company website;
insurance guides from third parties; a template email sent to surrogates in
preparation for birth; emails with third parties regarding Hawaiian surrogacy
laws; and duplicative emails sent to counsel for the Cook-Wang parties regarding
“allegations of past falsification of surrogate records by Spencer.” 
 
ALMS denies any propriety in contract information. A client
list can in fact qualify as a trade secret. (Reeves v. Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1155.) SLS in reply specifically identifies “intended parent
lists” as the protected information given the lengthy process in coordinating
the surrogacy from conception through pregnancy. SLS concedes that the parental
information itself lacked actual contact information, but still maintains the
identity of said surrogates and parents still compromises the competitive
advantage of the list. “A violation of the UTSA occurs when an
individual misappropriates a former employer's protected trade secret client
list, for example, by using the list to solicit clients.” (Ibid.)
 
SLS implicitly concedes to the
lack of any trade secret protection of the identified information other than
the parental and surrogate identification information based on the lack of any
responsive argument other than the client/participant lists. While the parties
also agree that the contact information is specifically lacking from the
emails, the court still finds the identification of the parties as potential
customers and participants in the surrogacy program hold trade secret value.
The court assumes the individuals can be readily contacted regardless of
whether the information was specifically in the files. The court therefore
considers the injunction as to the said list of participants only.
 
ALMS strenuously denies any actual
basis of potential liability in that SLS fails to establish a true threat in
that the individual parties only allegedly acquired the information but
otherwise acted no further in utilizing the information. “The California
Uniform Trade Secrets Act requires an ‘[a]ctual or threatened misappropriation
....’ (§ 3426.2(a).) Mere possession of trade secrets by a departing employee
is not enough for an injunction. (Citations.) ‘A trade secret will not be
protected by the extraordinary remedy of an injunction on mere suspicion or
apprehension of injury. There must be a substantial threat of impending injury
before an injunction will issue....’ ... [¶] “Where the trade secrets plaintiff
seeks a permanent injunction, section 3426.2, subdivision (c) ‘authorizes only
injunctions that compel “affirmative acts.”’” (Citation). It authorizes
mandatory, not prohibitory injunctions, i.e., ‘mandatory injunctions requiring
that a misappropriator return the fruits of misappropriation to an aggrieved
person ... [Citation.] An order enjoining a remote threat or misuse or
disclosure is prohibitory and does not necessarily compel affirmative acts.
Thus such an injunction is not authorized by subdivision (c) of section 3426.2.’…”
(FLIR Systems, Inc. v. Parrish (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1279–1280 (internal
quotation marks omitted).)
 
CUTSA provides the “exclusive civil remedy for conduct falling
within its terms.” (Silvaco Data Systems v. Intel Corp. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th
210, 236 disapproved of by Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th
310 on unrelated grounds.) Civil Code § 3426.7(b) “preempts common law claims that are ‘based on the same nucleus of facts
as the misappropriation of trade secrets claim for relief.’” (K.C. Multimedia, Inc. v. Bank
of America Technology & Operations, Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 939, 958.) “A cause of action for
monetary relief under CUTSA may be said to consist of the following elements:
(1) possession by the plaintiff of a trade secret; (2) the defendant's
misappropriation of the trade secret, meaning its wrongful acquisition,
disclosure, or use; and (3) resulting or threatened injury to the plaintiff.
(3426.3; see id., §§ 3426.1, 3426.2.) The first of these elements
is typically the most important, in the sense that until the content and nature
of the claimed secret is ascertained, it will likely be impossible to
intelligibly analyze the remaining issues.” (Silvaco Data Systems v. Intel Corp., supra, 184 Cal.App.4th at p. 220.) (“[T]he determination of whether a claim
is based on trade secret misappropriation is largely factual.” (Angelica Textile Services, Inc.
v. Park (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 495.)
 
The subject motion seeks both a prohibition from certain conduct,
as well as the return or destruction of certain property and ordered contact
with third parties to inform them of a termination of the relationship. The
injunction therefore seeks both prohibitory and mandatory relief. While ALMS
concedes that at least part of the motion itself arises from no direct claim
for violation of the California Trade Secret Act itself, the court finds the
core nucleus of facts and relied upon in the causes of action for Violation of
Misappropriation of Trade Secrets, Breach of Duty of Loyalty, Violation of
Business and Professions Code § 17200, and Intentional Interference with
Contractual Relations, are directly integral to the trade secret basis of
relief. 
 
SLS in reply cites to authority in the reply effectively
conceding to the common law preemption, but notes a district court disagreement
over the lack of authority involving penal code considerations as pled in the California
Comprehensive Computer Data Access and Fraud Act (Penal Code § 502), and Violation
of Penal Code § 496 causes of action. (Synopsys, Inc. v. Ubiquiti Networks,
Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2018) 313 F.Supp.3d 1056, 1075 [“Absent additional
authority or persuasive argument, I will not find the CCDAFA claim preempted
even if based in part on the misappropriation and subsequent use of defendants'
information”].) While the reply raises a valid challenge, it is also the burden
of moving party to establish the right to injunctive relief. The case relied
upon offers insufficient support for the argument and SLS otherwise offers no follow-up
support. The court found no California authority specifically addressing the
standard as well. (See Casillas v. Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Ins. Co.
(2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 755, 767.) 
 
Even considering the statute and actual cause of action for
Violation of the California Comprehensive Computer Data Access and Fraud Act
(Penal Code § 502), the court finds a lack of support. The statute provides in
relevant part:
 
(c) Except as provided in subdivision (h), any person who
commits any of the following acts is guilty of a public offense:
(1) Knowingly accesses and without permission alters,
damages, deletes, destroys, or otherwise uses any data, computer, computer
system, or computer network in order to either (A) devise or execute any scheme
or artifice to defraud, deceive, or extort, or (B) wrongfully control or obtain
money, property, or data.
(2) Knowingly accesses and without permission takes, copies,
or makes use of any data from a computer, computer system, or computer network,
or takes or copies any supporting documentation, whether existing or residing
internal or external to a computer, computer system, or computer network.
(3) Knowingly and without permission uses or causes to be
used computer services.
(4) Knowingly accesses and without permission adds, alters,
damages, deletes, or destroys any data, computer software, or computer programs
which reside or exist internal or external to a computer, computer system, or
computer network.
(5) Knowingly and without permission disrupts or causes the
disruption of computer services or denies or causes the denial of computer
services to an authorized user of a computer, computer system, or computer
network.
(6) Knowingly and without permission provides or assists in
providing a means of accessing a computer, computer system, or computer network
in violation of this section.
(7) Knowingly and without permission accesses or causes to
be accessed any computer, computer system, or computer network.
(8) Knowingly introduces any computer contaminant into any
computer, computer system, or computer network.
(9) Knowingly and without permission uses the internet
domain name or profile of another individual, corporation, or entity in
connection with the sending of one or more electronic mail messages or posts
and thereby damages or causes damage to a computer, computer data, computer
system, or computer network.
(10) Knowingly and without permission disrupts or causes the
disruption of government computer services or denies or causes the denial of
government computer services to an authorized user of a government computer,
computer system, or computer network.
(11) Knowingly accesses and without permission adds, alters,
damages, deletes, or destroys any data, computer software, or computer programs
which reside or exist internal or external to a public safety infrastructure
computer system computer, computer system, or computer network.
(12) Knowingly and without permission disrupts or causes the
disruption of public safety infrastructure computer system computer services or
denies or causes the denial of computer services to an authorized user of a
public safety infrastructure computer system computer, computer system, or
computer network.
(13) Knowingly and without permission provides or assists in
providing a means of accessing a computer, computer system, or public safety
infrastructure computer system computer, computer system, or computer network
in violation of this section.
(14) Knowingly introduces any computer contaminant into any
public safety infrastructure computer system computer, computer system, or
computer network.
(d)(1) Any person who violates any of the provisions of
paragraph (1), (2), (4), (5), (10), (11), or (12) of subdivision (c) is guilty
of a felony, punishable by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section
1170 for 16 months, or two or three years and a fine not exceeding ten thousand
dollars ($10,000), or a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in a county
jail not exceeding one year, by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000), or by both that fine and imprisonment.
 
(Pen. Code § 502.)
 
Nothing in the motion establishes a private cause of action.
Even assuming such a cause of action exists, the court finds no argument
supporting a finding that the intention of the statute in any way presents a
separate and distinct interest from the underlying misappropriation cause of
action. 
 
Penal Code § 496 cites to a standard for receipt of stolen
property:
 
“(a) Every person who buys or receives any property that has
been stolen or that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or
extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals,
sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property
from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be
punished by imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one year, or
imprisonment…
 
c) Any person who has been injured by a violation of
subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual
damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable
attorney’s fees.”


(Pen. Code § 496.)
 
The court again both lacks a finding of argument
distinguishing the claim from one either supporting injunctive relief or
something uniquely separate and distinct from the claim involving the
misappropriation of the trade secrets. Even if the court considered the
possibility of relief. The motion only makes an assumptive declaration
regarding theft, without sufficient articulation of the standard. The court
declines to make the argument for relief.


The court only makes these findings for purposes of the
injunction itself, and otherwise declines to consider any potential challenges
to the validity of the causes of action. The court notes contract based claims,
however, remain exempt from preemption. “CUTSA includes a specific provision concerning preemption. That
provision, section
3426.7, reads in
pertinent part as follows: ‘(a) Except as otherwise expressly provided, this
title does not supersede any statute relating to misappropriation of a trade
secret, or any statute otherwise regulating trade secrets. [¶] (b) This title
does not affect (1) contractual remedies, whether or not based upon
misappropriation of a trade secret, (2) other civil remedies that are not based
upon misappropriation of a trade secret, or (3) criminal remedies, whether or
not based upon misappropriation of a trade secret.’ Section
3426.7 thus
‘expressly allows contractual and criminal remedies, whether or not based on
trade secret misappropriation.’ (Citation.) ‘At the same time, § 3426.7 implicitly preempts alternative
civil remedies based on trade secret misappropriation.’” 
 
This exception is notable in that the terms of
the operating agreement may directly impact the rights and duties of the
shareholders in access to information. ALMS discusses this issue in opposition,
but again, the motion lacks address of this standard. ALMS challenges any such
basis in opposition as well based on a challenge of the operating agreement
terms. Again, the court declines to address this argument given the lack of
argument on the subject matter.
 
Given
the finding of CUTSA preemption for purposes of this motion, the court
therefore concludes that SLS is barred from seeking any prohibitory relief
under the statute, and may only seek mandatory relief under the
misappropriation of trade secret claim itself. (Civ.
Code § 3426.2; FLIR Systems, Inc. v. Parrish, supra, 174
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1279–1280.) SLS single conclusive sentence in reply citing
to allowable prohibitory injunctions in Civil Code § 3426.2(a) insufficiently
addresses the actual authority interpreting the statute. The court declines to
make the argument for SLS, and relies on the established authority. 
 
As
addressed in the standard above, mandatory injunctions are held to a higher
standard. (Teachers Ins.
& Annuity Assn. v. Furlotti, supra,
70 Cal.App.4th at p. 1493.) “As our Supreme Court noted many years ago, ‘[t]he
granting of a mandatory injunction pending the trial, and before the rights of
the parties in the subject matter which the injunction is designed to affect
have been definitely ascertained by the chancellor, is not permitted except in
extreme cases where the right thereto is clearly established and it appears
that irreparable injury will flow from its refusal. [Citations.]’” (Board of
Supervisors v. McMahon (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 286, 295.)
 
SLS
requires a clear showing of ownership of the proprietary information, which
remains challenged by the Cook-Wang defendants as co-founders of the company,
and therefore entitled to the information. Again, the court finds the information
remains a trade secret, but the entitlement to the information constitutes a
different showing. The motion itself only relies on the declaration of Spencer
and citation to Delaware state law. The court finds insufficient argument
establishing an exclusive right to control of the data on behalf of the
corporate entity. The court therefore declines to find a sufficient showing for
a pre-trial mandatory injunction under the heightened standards required to
prevail.
 
Irreparable Harm
The legal hurdles in establishing an exclusive right
to the data and required mandatory return of the information compromises any
showing of irreparable harm/inadequate legal remedy. Even assuming SLS states a
claim for misappropriation of trade secrets, the court finds the lack of
support for the control of the data undermines the required showing. The motion
itself references potential impacts to business operations if families and
surrogates are contacted, with a more substantive response in the reply. The
court finds the authority and argument relied upon by SLS however involves
employee misappropriation rather than shareholder available information. The
difference remains material enough that the court declines to find a sufficient
showing simply based on the potential to business revenue caused by competition
from former shareholders at least arguably entitled to rely on the same data.
(See ReadyLink Healthcare v. Cotton (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1023; Alliant Ins. Services, Inc. v. Gaddy (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1292, 1311.)
 
Note, the court otherwise provides no address of any
potential anti-competition clauses in the operating agreement. Any such
argument was not sufficiently raised and addressed.
 
Balance of Equities
Given the failure to establish a
probability on the merits to mandatory relief, and an insufficient showing of
irreparable harm/inadequate legal remedy, the court also finds no support for
the balance of equities favoring SLS.
 
Finally, on the “motion to strike” filed with the reply, the
court “denies” this motion. Court policy generally
requires all hearings either specially set or reserved through the computer
reservation system. Furthermore, the language of the operative statute
states: “Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof … (b)(3) A
notice of motion to strike a demurrer, or a portion thereof, shall set the
hearing thereon concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer.” (CCP § 435.) The
statute effectively allows the setting of a motion to strike the demurrer at
the time of the filing of the opposition due date—nine (9) court days before
the hearing. The timing of the motion to strike itself is not disputed. The
court therefore advised counsel to utilize the computer reservation system, and
if necessary, seek ex parte relief to concurrently set all hearings. SLS is
otherwise directed to the rules regarding evidentiary objections.
 
The motion is therefore DENIED in
its entirety.
 
Case Management Conference and (second) Motion to Compel
Arbitration filed by Jay Cook-Wong, Danny Cook-Wong, and All Love Surrogacy as
to the cross-complaint set for March 13, 2024.
 
SLS to give notice.