 Case Number:  24STCV16027    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JENNIFER J WALTER, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
STERLING JEWELERS INC.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV16027
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 31, 2024
 Calendar Number:  7



 
 
 
Defendant Sterling Jewelers Inc. moves for an order staying
proceedings in this case pending the resolution of the case Jennifer J.
Walter v. Sterling Jewelers Inc., Case No. 2:24-cv-05581 MWF(PVCx) (the
“Federal Action”) in the United States District Court for the Central District
of California.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion and stay’s this action
pending the outcome of the Federal Action. 
The Court sets a status conference in the current action for December
18, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.
 
Background
 
This is a Private Attorney General Act (“PAGA”) case.
 
 
 
 
Plaintiff filed the Federal Action in the Los Angeles County
Superior Court on April 17, 2024. (Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, Ex.
A.) 
 
Plaintiff filed this case on June 26, 2024, raising one
claim for enforcement of Labor Code, sections 2698, et seq. The conduct
complained of includes failure to timely pay all wages (including minimum wage
and overtime wages); failure to provide meal periods; failure to permit rest
breaks; failure to reimburse business expenses; failure to provide accurate
itemized wage statements; failure to maintain accurate and complete records
showing daily hours worked by and wages paid to employees; and failure to timely
pay all earned wages upon separation.
 
Defendant removed the Federal Action to federal court on
July 1, 2024. (Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. B.)
 
On August 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint
(“FFAC”) in the Federal Action, which is currently the operative complaint in
that proceeding. (Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. C.) The FFAC
raises claims for (1) failure to pay minimum wages; (2) failure to pay overtime
wages; (3) failure to provide meal periods; (4) failure to permit rest breaks;
(5) failure to reimburse business expenses; (6) failure to provide accurate
itemized wage statements; (7) failure to pay all wages due upon separation of
employment; and (8) unfair competition.
 
Defendant filed this motion on September 17, 2024. Plaintiff
filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.
 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants the parties’ requests for judicial notice
and takes notice of the submitted public records.
 
Legal Standard
 
“[A] court ordinarily has inherent power, in its discretion,
to stay proceedings when such a stay will accommodate the ends of justice.” (People
v. Bell (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 323, 329.) 
 
“It is black letter law that, when a federal action has been
filed covering the same subject matter as is involved in a California action,
the California court has the discretion but not the obligation to stay the
state court action.” (Caiafa Prof. Law Corp. v. State Farm Fire & Cas.
Co. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 800, 804.) “ ‘In exercising its discretion the
court should consider [1] the importance of discouraging multiple litigation
designed solely to harass an adverse party, and [2] of avoiding unseemly
conflicts with the courts of other jurisdictions. It should also consider
whether the rights of the parties can best be determined by the court of the
other jurisdiction because of [3] the nature of the subject matter, [4] the
availability of witnesses, or [5] the stage to which the proceedings in the
other court have already advanced.’ [Citation.] The California Supreme Court
also has isolated another critical factor favoring a stay of the state court
action in favor of the federal action, a factor which happens to be present in
this case—[6] the federal action is pending in California not some other state.”
(Ibid.)
 
Discussion
 
            As
demonstrated by Defendant’s table comparing Plaintiff’s claims here against
those in the Federal Action, Plaintiff’s claims in this case are almost
entirely duplicative of those in the Federal Action. (Motion at p. 2:1-20.)
 
This is a routine employment collective action that can be
competently handled by either state or federal court. Because the Federal
Action is located in the Central District of California, the availability of
witnesses and convenience to the parties is likely to be the same in either
court. Because the two cases allege nearly identical conduct, there is a
substantial risk of unseemly conflicts between the state and federal court. The
two cases’ similarity also creates a high risk that Defendant will be unduly
burdened by litigating the same issues in two courts. Finally, as stated above,
the Federal Action is pending in California, and not some other state.
 
Furthermore, staying this action would prevent much
duplicative litigation. While the two actions will ultimately need to be
litigated separately, conducting them in sequence will reduce duplicative
discovery and allow the parties to engage in more realistic settlement
negotiations in the latter case.
 
Plaintiff contends that a stay is not appropriate because
the two cases do not involve the same parties. Plaintiff argues that the cases
do not involve the same parties because the State of California is the real
party in interest in PAGA actions. Plaintiff cites Howitzon v. Evans Hotels,
LLC (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 475, 482-488, where the Court of Appeal permitted
a plaintiff who had already settled a class action to proceed with a PAGA
action on the same subject matter because the state, and not the plaintiff, was
the real party in interest. (Id. at p. 488.) This case is
distinguishable. First, Howitzon involved a resolved class
action, and not a pending one, and did not address the issue of a stay at all.
Second, the core issue in Howitzer was one of claim preclusion, not
concurrent litigation. The Howitzer court dealt with the question of
whether a resolved class action precluded a subsequent PAGA claim, finding that
it did not. (Id. at pp. 487-488.) If anything, such a holding militates
in favor of a stay, because it would permit the class action to be resolved
while preserving the PAGA claims.
 
 Further, although the
state is the real party in interest in a PAGA claim, the parties do not have to
be absolutely identical for a stay to be appropriate.  Perfect symmetry of parties is not required –
“ ‘[t]he assumption underlying most of these authorities is that the two
related lawsuits are between the same or substantially identical parties.’ ” (Caiafa
Prof. Law Corp. v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co., supra, 15
Cal.App.4th 800, 807 fn. 5.) The same is true regarding Plaintiff’s argument
that the legal rights in the two cases are distinct – the cases need only share
the same subject matter for a stay to be permissible. (Id. at p. 804.)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant attempts to litigate the
PAGA claims in a more favorable forum. However, Defendant has not attempted to
remove this case to federal court. Presumably, the PAGA claims will be
litigated here.
 
Plaintiff argues that a stay is improper because PAGA
provides that “[n]othing in this part shall operate to limit an employee's
right to pursue or recover other remedies available under state or federal law,
either separately or concurrently with an action taken under this part.” (Lab.
Code, § 2699, subd. (g)(1).) 
 
Paragraph (g)(1), in full, reads as follows:
 
“Except as provided
in paragraph (2), an aggrieved employee may recover the civil penalty described
in subdivision (f) in a civil action pursuant to the procedures specified in
Section 2699.3 filed on behalf of himself or herself and other current or former
employees against whom one or more of the alleged violations was committed. Any
employee who prevails in any action shall be entitled to an award of reasonable
attorney's fees and costs, including any filing fee paid pursuant to
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) or subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of Section 2699.3. Nothing in this part shall
operate to limit an employee's right to pursue or recover other remedies
available under state or federal law, either separately or concurrently with an
action taken under this part.”
 
(Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (g)(1).)
 
            Taken
in its full context, the portion that Plaintiff quotes is a clarification that
a PAGA claim does not replace any other claims an employee may have against
their employer. It is not a rule against judicial stays.
 
            Based
on its analysis of the Caiafa factors, the Court determines that it is
in the interest of justice to stay this proceeding pending the outcome of the
Federal Action.
 
            The
Court grants Defendant’s motion and stay’s this action pending the outcome of
the Federal Action.