 Case Number:  21STCV22508    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JAY HOOPER, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
JOHN ALEXANDER GIANOUTSOS RIGAS,
  et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 21STCV22508
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: October 31, 2024
 Calendar Number: 2



 
 
 
Defendants John Alexander Gianoutsos Rigas (“Rigas”) and
Mission n95 Holdings, LLC (“Mission”) (collectively, the “Rigas Defendants”)
move for an award of attorney’s fees against Plaintiffs Jay Hooper (“Hooper”),
UW International Corp. (“UW”), and Crown Estate Holding LLC (“CEH”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) in the amount of $730,293.50.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion in the amount of $722,309.50.
 
Background
 
This case relates to a business venture whereby Xenofon Ted
Stavropoulos (“Stavropoulos”), John Alexander Rigas (“Rigas”), and Hooper,
(collectively, the “Principals”) formed Mission n95 Holdings, LLC (“Mission”) in
the spring of 2020 to procure and provide personal protective equipment during
the Covid-19 pandemic.  Plaintiffs
subsequently filed this lawsuit against Defendants Rigas and Mission
(collectively, the “Rigas Defendants”), and Stavropoulos (collectively with
Rigas and Mission, “Defendants”).
 
The following facts are taken from the parties’ separate
statements relating to the Rigas Defendants’ motion for summary judgment.
 
On May 6, 2020, the Principals executed Mission’s Operating
Agreement. (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 6; Rigas Decl. in Support of
Motion for Summary Judgment, Ex. 1 (“Operating Agreement”).) The Operating
Agreement provided that each of the Principals would be members of Mission.
(UMF 7.) Rigas also served as Mission’s Chief Executive Officer (UMF 8.)
 
Mission’s largest deal in 2020 was a purchase order from the
State of California. 
 
On June 11, 2020, the Principals executed an agreement (the
“General Agreement”) which set forth the terms by which UW and Mission would
cooperate regarding the California order. (UMF 9; Rigas Decl., Ex. 2 (“General
Agreement”).) The parties also used Hooper’s warehouse, owned by CEH, to store
certain goods, which storage Plaintiffs allege Defendants did not pay for.
 
According to the Rigas Defendants, Hooper failed to
contribute to the business by failing to source suppliers for the necessary
product or secure financing that he had committed to provide. The Rigas
Defendants also argue that Hooper had misappropriated funds that were to be
used in connection with fulfilling the California order. Hooper asserts that
the other two principals were improperly withholding Mission profits that were
owed to him.
 
Near the end of December 2020, the Principals executed
several agreements (collectively, the “December Agreements”):
 
1. The Mutual
General Release Agreement (“Mutual General Release”), dated December 29, 2020,
signed by Hooper, his wife Rebecca Hooper (consenting to her husband’s
execution of the agreement), Stavropoulos, and Rigas individually and on
Mission’s behalf;
 
2. The Rescission
Agreement, dated December 29, 2020, signed by the same four people in their
same capacities as the Mutual General Release;
 
3. The First
Amendment to General Agreement (“Amended General Agreement”), dated December
29, 2020, signed by Hooper on behalf of UW and Rigas on behalf of Mission; and 
 
4. The Employment
Agreement, which was dated as of May 6, 2020, signed by Rigas on behalf of
Mission and Hooper as an Employee of Mission.
 
(UMF 10.)
 
            Each
of the Mutual General Release, Rescission Agreement, and Employment Agreement
contained a provision whereby the parties acknowledged that they had the
opportunity to be represented by independent legal counsel in the negotiation
and execution of the agreement and were entering into the agreement
voluntarily, freely, and with full consent. (UMF 11.)
 
            The
December Agreements rescinded Mission’s Operating Agreement (thereby eliminating
Hooper and Stavropoulos’s interests in Mission and share in the company’s
profits), wound down the General Agreement between Mission and UW to confirm
that they no longer had any obligations to each other, memorialized Hooper and
Stavropoulos’s roles as employees of Mission and provided for their
compensation (including a payment to Hooper of more than $5.5 million), and had
the parties release each other from any past, existing, or future claims
connected in any way with their business. (UMF 10.)
 
            The
Mutual General Release contained a provision whereby each of the parties
released the others from any and all past, present, or future claims, lawsuits,
or other liabilities, whether known or unknown and whether suspected or
unsuspected, based on any actions or omissions taken prior to its effective
date. (Rigas Decl. in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment, Ex. 3 (“Mutual
General Release”) at pp. 1-2.) The Mutual General Release contained a clause
waiving Civil Code, section 1542, under which parties cannot ordinarily waive
unsuspected claims that would have materially affected the settlement. (Rigas
Decl., Ex. 3 (“Mutual General Release”) at p. 2.)
 
Plaintiffs filed this action on June 16, 2021. The operative
complaint is now the FAC, which raised claims for (1) breach of partnership
agreement; (2) breach of contract; (3) fraud – intentional misrepresentation;
(4) fraud – concealment; (5) conversion; (6) theft under Penal Code sections
496, 484(a), and 532; (7) breach of fiduciary duties; (8) breach of fiduciary
duty by attorney; (9) breach of contract; (10) fraud – intentional
misrepresentation; (11) conversion; (12) theft under Penal Code sections 496,
484(a), and 532; (13) breach of fiduciary duties; (14) breach of fiduciary duty
by attorney; (15) breach of contract; (16) fraud – intentional
misrepresentation; (17) conversion; (18) heft under Penal Code sections 496,
484(a), and 532; (19) breach of fiduciary duties; and (20) declaratory relief.
Claims 1-8 are alleged by Hooper against Defendants. Claims 9-14 are alleged by
UW against Defendants. Claims 15-19 are alleged by CEH against Defendants.
Claim 20 is alleged by all Plaintiffs against Defendants.
 
The Rigas Defendants moved for summary judgment on February
15, 2024 (the “Prior Motion”). On June 21, 2024, the Court issued an order granting
the Rigas Defendants’ motion for summary judgment on the grounds that the
General Release in the December Agreements barred Plaintiffs’ claims.
 
            On
July 5, 2024, judgment was entered for the Rigas Defendants and against
Plaintiffs.
 
            On
August 21, 2024, the Court granted Stavropoulos’ motion for summary judgment on
substantially similar grounds. Judgment was entered for Stavropoulos and
against Plaintiffs on September 3, 2024.
 
            The
Rigas Defendants filed this motion for attorney’s fees on September 6, 2024.
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, and the Rigas Defendants filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court overrules Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections.
 
Legal Standard
 
“In
any action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides that
attorney's fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall
be awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the
party who is determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he
or she is the party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to
reasonable attorney's fees in addition to other costs.
 
Where
a contract provides for attorney's fees, as set forth above, that provision
shall be construed as applying to the entire contract, unless each party was
represented by counsel in the negotiation and execution of the contract, and
the fact of that representation is specified in the contract.
 
Reasonable
attorney's fees shall be fixed by the court, and shall be an element of the
costs of suit.”
 
(Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
Discussion
 
Entitlement to Fees
 
Generally
 
            The
Mutual General Release, the Rescission Agreement, and the Employment Agreement
each provide for the award of attorney’s fees to the prevailing party in an
action to enforce the agreement. (Rigas Decl., Ex. 1 at ¶ 5, Ex. 2 at ¶ 17, Ex.
3 at ¶ 20.)
 
            The
General Agreement did not provide for awards of attorney’s fees, but instead
provided that parties to the General Agreement would pay their own costs and
expenses, including legal fees, in connection with the General Agreement.
(Rigas Decl. in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment, Ex. 2 at ¶ 12.)
 
            Plaintiffs
filed suit under the Operating Agreement and the General Agreement, inter alia.
However, it was the December Agreements – including the Mutual General Release,
Rescission Agreement, and Employment Agreement – that were dispositive.
Defendants successfully obtained summary judgment in this case by enforcing the
claim waivers created by the December Agreements. Thus, this case was an action
to enforce the December Agreements. As a result, parties bound by the December
Agreements are subject to their attorney fee provisions.
 
            Hooper
does not contest that he is bound by the December Agreements, each of which he
signed. 
 
UW and CEH
 
UW and CEH contend that they are not bound by the Mutual
General Release, the Rescission Agreement, or the Employment Agreement, none of
which they signed.
 
In its order granting summary judgment, the Court found that
Defendants, including UW and CEH, were bound by the December Agreements as
alter egos of Hooper. 
 
Plaintiffs did not contest Defendants’ alter ego contention
there, nor do they attempt to relitigate it here. Instead, Plaintiffs argue
that the agreements that they did not sign do not apply to them because they
are not third-party beneficiaries. The Mutual General Release states that it
“shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Parties  hereto, their … agents, … alter egos and
assigns.” (Rigas Decl., Ex. 1 at ¶ 18.) Thus, the Mutual General Release,
including its attorney fee provision, is binding on UW and CEH.
 
The Court therefore finds that the Rigas Defendants are
entitled to an award of attorney’s fees against Plaintiffs, including UW and
CEH.
 
Amount of Fees
 
“It is well established that the determination of what
constitutes reasonable attorney fees is committed to the discretion of the
trial court, whose decision cannot be reversed in the absence of an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.] …. The trial court makes its determination after
consideration of a number of factors, including [1] the nature of the
litigation [and] its difficulty, [2] the amount involved, [3] the skill
required [and employed] in its handling, … [4] the attention given, [5] the
success or failure, and [6] other circumstances in the case.” (Melnyk v.
Robledo (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 618, 623-624.)
 
This litigation has proceeded for over three years in spite
of the preexisting agreements settling Plaintiffs’ claims. Plaintiff sought
over $18 million in compensatory damages in the FAC’s prayer for relief, in
addition to punitive damages. Under these circumstances, the devotion of great
time to this case by defense counsel is understandable. Significant discovery
was conducted, which eventually resulted in Hooper’s deposition testimony that was
considered and relied upon in the summary judgment determination. Defense
counsel’s efforts in this case obtained a complete success, dispensing of
Plaintiffs’ claims on summary judgment. Thus, these factors do not push for a
lower fee award.
 
The Rigas Defendants request an hourly rate of $790.00
Lawrence Silver, their previous counsel. The Rigas Defendants additionally
request hourly rates of $670.00 for Paul Derby, $580.00 for Hajir Arebili,
$550.00 for Mane Sardaryan, and $925.00 for Scott Dixler. In light of each
attorney’s experience and qualifications, as set forth in their declarations,
the Court finds these rates to be reasonable.
 
The Rigas Parties have provided the billing records for
their attorneys. (Derby Decl., Ex. 4; Silver Decl., Exs. 12-15; Dixler Decl.,
Ex. 16.) 
 
Plaintiffs do not specifically object to any items in the
billing records. Plaintiffs argue that Dixler, who was retained in addition to
the Rigas Parties’ primary firm Skiermont Derby and performed 26.10 hours of
work, should not be counted because “all the work he conducted while Defendants
had separate counsel of record was duplicative, excessive, and otherwise unnecessary.”
(Opposition at p. 5:18-19.) The Court disagrees. A party may retain lawyers
from multiple firms who cooperate in the litigation without the second firm’s
work necessarily being duplicative. Plaintiffs have not identified a particular
problem with Dixler’s billing records here, and so the Court will not comb the
record for issues.
 
Plaintiffs contend that the number of hours claimed is not
reasonable because the billing records contain redactions. However, the Court
did not find the redactions unreasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
 
Plaintiffs contend that the lodestar should be reduced
because the Skiedmont Derby invoices contain duplicative charges for team
communications. Again, the Court disagrees. There is a difference between
proper communication within a team of attorneys and duplicative work that could
be more efficiently performed by a single attorney. Strategy and communication
are a vital part of a litigation team’s effort. The high stakes of this case
and duration of the litigation render the use of multiple attorneys at a time
reasonable, along with the attendant communication between those attorneys
which would necessarily follow.
 
Plaintiffs object to $12,629.00 relating to the preparation
of the substitution of attorney and transfer of the file from Lawrence Silver
to Skiedmont Derby. Plaintiffs have not identified the entries that they argue
give rise to this figure. The Court cannot discern from its review of the
invoices which charges are being challenged and therefore does not reduce the
fees for this asserted item.
 
Plaintiffs argue that defense counsel billed excessive time
for discovery-related work. Plaintiffs employed an aggressive discovery
strategy, serving 113 special interrogatories, 74 requests for production, and
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, which asked for a substantiation of every RFA
response that was not an unqualified admission. Plaintiffs additionally issued
third-party subpoenas which Defendants spent substantial time addressing.
 
As touched on above, defense counsel’s expenditure of
substantial time on the motion for summary judgment and preparation for the
deposition of Hooper was also warranted. The deposition involved extensive
testimony and was necessary for the similarly extensive litigation of the
summary judgment motion.
 
Plaintiff objects to $7,984.00 billed for a different
matter, The October Group, et al. v. UW International Corp., et al., Case
No. 23STCV09742. Defendants state that these hours’ inclusion was a clerical
error and agree to deduct them.
 
The Court reduces the requested fee award by $7,984.00.   