 Case Number:  23STCV09616    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ANITRIA MICHELLE TOMLIN, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV09616
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 31, 2024
 Calendar Number: 3



 
 
 
Plaintiff Anitria Michelle Tomlin (“Plaintiff”) moves for an
order compelling the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department to provide
discovery into complaints of misconduct made against Defendant Kresimir Kovac,
as well as the names and contact information of any attendant complainants and
witnesses. 
 
The Court DENIES the motion without prejudice. Plaintiff has
not met her burden of showing that in camera review of the requested materials
is appropriate. Plaintiff may refile the motion setting forth more specific
requests under the correct legal standard. 
 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this employment case against Defendants
County of Los Angeles (“County”), Kresimir Kovac, Brian Yanagi, John Burcher,
and Lewis Lim (collectively, “Defendants”). The following facts are taken from
the allegations in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
 
Plaintiff is currently a sworn Lieutenant for the Los
Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, assigned to the Records and Identification
Bureau (“RIB”). 
 
The RIB is responsible for fingerprint identification for
the Sheriff’s Department and a number of other law enforcement agencies. The
fingerprint process is a 24/7 operation. Tomlin herself is not trained in the
identification process but relies on the technicians and supervisors in the
department to conduct identification. 
 
When an individual is arrested, the arrestee’s fingerprints
are taken and uploaded to a central database for verification of the
fingerprints. If the fingerprints are not recognized by the system, the
fingerprints are forwarded to RIB. In RIB, the fingerprints are reviewed by
technicians specially trained by the County. Results that match are then
transmitted to the California Department of Justice.
 
To protect the public from false identification of a
person’s fingerprints, the identification process performed by Plaintiff’s unit
requires two technicians to verify the match and a supervisor to handle any
discrepancies between the two verifiers. Each of these positions require
technical expertise and specialized skills.
 
Due to understaffing, the RIB was ordered to continue
operating at times with fewer than two technicians or without a supervisor
present. Plaintiff repeatedly reported her concerns about this process to her
superiors, including Yanagi and Kovac, stating that she believed the short
staffing violated arrestees’ due process rights and caused fingerprint
technicians to offer false or misleading testimony. Plaintiff requested at
different times that the operating hours be reduced to 16 hours a day, 5 days a
week, that additional supervisors be funded, and that overtime be funded.
Plaintiff’s requests were denied. This staffing shortage resulted in Plaintiff
having to work overtime on weekends and evenings, although Plaintiff alleges
that she was not paid overtime compensation.
 
Plaintiff alleges that she was addressed in a demeaning and
condescending manner in briefings concerning these issues. On January 10, 2023,
Burcher also informed Plaintiff that she would be responsible for any issues
related to the fingerprint identification process.
 
From November 2022 to January 2023, Yanagi ordered
Plaintiff’s supervisor to cancel a personnel loan agreement which would have
loaned an employee to RIB to fill a vacant Assistant Director position. As a
result, Plaintiff had to perform the duties of the Assistant Director in
addition to her own.
 
On January 23, 2023, Plaintiff was served with a notice that
she was the subject of an internal investigation regarding a disciplinary
meeting she had with a subordinate manager in October 2022. Plaintiff contends
that the subordinate manager falsely accused Plaintiff and a fellow supervisor
of bullying and harassing them, leading to the investigation. Plaintiff alleges
that Kovac and Yanagi conspired to improperly institute the investigation
against her. Plaintiff contends that Kovac should have recused himself because
Tomlin had previously interviewed Kovac when Kovac was under investigation for
alleged criminal activity.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on May 1, 2023. On September 6,
2023, the Court sustained a demurrer to the Complaint with leave to amend. The
operative complaint is now the FAC, which raises claims for (1) whistleblower
retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 1102.5 (against County); (2)
intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”) (against all Defendants);
and (3) conspiracy (against Kovac, Yanagi, and Burcher.
 
On December 19, 2023, the Court sustained a demurrer with
leave to amend as to Plaintiff’s IIED claim. Plaintiff did not amend.
 
Plaintiff filed this motion on September 16, 2024.
Defendants filed an opposition and Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
Discussion
 
Discovery Sought
 
Plaintiff seeks the following discovery related to Kovac:
 
(1) All complaints from any sources relating to acts of
violation of constitutional rights, fabrication of charges, fabrication of
evidence, fabrication of reasonable suspicion or probable cause, illegal search
or seizure, false arrest, perjury, dishonesty, writing of false police reports,
false or misleading internal reports, and any other evidence of misconduct
amounting to moral turpitude within the meaning of People v. Wheeler
(1992) 4 Cal.4th 284. Plaintiff requests the names, addresses, dates of birth,
and telephone numbers of all persons who filed complaints, who may be
witnesses, or who were interviewed by Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department
personnel.
 
(2) Any discipline imposed on Kovac as the result of the
investigation of any citizen complaint described in the first item, pursuant to
City of San Jose v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 47.)
 
(3) Any other material which is exculpatory or impeaching
within the meaning of Brady v. Maryland (1963) 373 U.S. 83. Plaintiff
contends that evidence is favorable and must be disclosed if it will either
help the plaintiff or hurt the prosecution. (People v. Coddington (2000)
23 Cal.4th 529, 589, overruled on other grounds in Price v. Superior Court
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 1046, 1069, fn. 13.) Plaintiff contends that trial courts are
empowered to examine police personnel files for Brady material without
regard to the five-year limitation applicable to Pitchess discovery. (City
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2001) 29 Cal.4th 1; Abatti v. Superior
Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th, 52-56.)
 
(4) The names, addresses, contact information, and
transcripts of testimony of all persons who testified at any Board of Rights
hearings wherein Kovac was accused of any of the misconduct sought in items 1
and 3. Plaintiff seeks copies of all evidence submitted to the Board of Rights
panel (where practical) or a list of all evidence items submitted to the Board
of Rights panel or Hearing Officer. Plaintiff additionally seeks all findings,
rulings, and statements made by the Board of Rights panel, its members, and its
hearing officer relevant to the discipline of Kovac.
 
(5) The statements of all police officers who are listed as
either complainants or witnesses within the meaning of items 1 and 3.
 
Analysis
 
“Except as provided in subdivision (b), the personnel
records of peace officers and custodial officers and records maintained by a
state or local agency pursuant to Section 832.5, or information obtained from
these records, are confidential and shall not be disclosed in any criminal or
civil proceeding except by discovery pursuant to Sections 1043 and 1046 of the
Evidence Code. This section does not apply to investigations or proceedings
concerning the conduct of peace officers or custodial officers, or an agency or
department that employs those officers, conducted by a grand jury, a district
attorney's office, or the Attorney General's office.” (Pen. Code, § 832.7,
subd. (a).)
 
Thus, in order to obtain information on Kovac’s personnel
records, Plaintiff must show that an exception applies.
 
“(a)
In any case in which discovery or disclosure is sought of peace or custodial
officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of
the Penal Code or information from those records, the party seeking the
discovery or disclosure shall file a written motion with the appropriate court
or administrative body upon written notice to the governmental agency that has
custody and control of the records, as follows:
 
….
 
(b) The motion
shall include all of the following:
 
(1)
Identification of the proceeding in which discovery or disclosure is sought,
the party seeking discovery or disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose
records are sought, the governmental agency that has custody and control of the
records, and the time and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure
shall be heard.
 
(2) A description of
the type of records or information sought.
 
(3)
Affidavits showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting
forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending
litigation and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency
identified has the records or information from the records.”
 
(Pen. Code, § 1043.)
 
Penal Code, section 1046 provides additional requirements
for cases where excessive force is alleged.
 
A motion pursuant to section 1043 is known as a Pitchess
motion. (Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1017.) “On a
showing of good cause a criminal defendant is entitled to discovery of relevant
documents or information in the personnel records of a police officer accused
of misconduct against the defendant.” (Id. at p. 1016.) “To determine
whether the defendant has established good cause for in-chambers review of an
officer's personnel records, the trial court looks to whether the defendant has
established the materiality of the requested information to the pending
litigation. The court does that through the following inquiry: [1] Has the
defense shown a logical connection between the charges and the proposed
defense? [2] Is the defense request for Pitchess discovery factually specific
and tailored to support its claim of officer misconduct? [3] Will the requested
Pitchess discovery support the proposed defense, or is it likely to lead to
information that would support the proposed defense? [4] Under what theory
would the requested information be admissible at trial?” (Id. at pp.
1026-1027.) “[T]o obtain in-chambers review a defendant need only demonstrate
that the scenario of alleged officer misconduct could or might have occurred.”
(Id. at p. 1016.)
 
            Plaintiff
characterizes her motion as a Pitchess motion.
 
            Plaintiff
contends that she is entitled to discovery exculpatory evidence under Brady,
and that exculpatory evidence is any evidence that will help the plaintiff or
hurt the prosecution, citing People v. Coddington, supra, 23
Cal.4th at p. 589. However, People v. Coddington contains no such
statement as to evidence that will help a plaintiff in a civil case.
(Ibid.) Nor does Brady, which established a criminal defendant’s
right to obtain exculpatory evidence in a criminal proceeding, and not a civil
one. (Brady v. Maryland (1963) 373 U.S. 83, 87.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
other cases cited as a basis for this motion were similarly criminal cases. (City
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 5; Abatti
v. Superior Court, supra, 112 Cal.App.4th at p. 42; City of San
Jose v. Superior Court, supra, 5 Cal.4th at p. 50; People v.
Wheeler, supra, 4 Cal.4th at p. 287; City of Santa Cruz v.
Municipal Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 74, 78.)
 
This is a civil action. Plaintiff has not provided authority
indicating that Brady applies to a civil action, or that evidence that
would help a civil plaintiff is considered exculpatory.
 
This is not fatal to Plaintiff’s motion. Section 1043, subd.
(a)(1) explicitly contemplates that the statute will be applied in civil
actions as well as criminal ones. However, Plaintiff must demonstrate good
cause outside of the more generous Brady framework.
 
The Court therefore proceeds with the analysis prescribed by
Warrick.
 
Logical Connection
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Kovac assisted in retaliating
against her. Plaintiff relatedly alleges that Kovac should have recused himself
from Plaintiff’s disciplinary process because Plaintiff had previously
investigated him for alleged criminal activity. However, Plaintiff has not
explained what she expects to find as a result of the requested discovery, and
how she expects it to support her legal theories that Kovac retaliated against
her. 
 
Factual Specificity and Tailoring
 
In addition to the problems with establishing a logical
connection between Plaintiff’s claims and the discovery sought, there is the
problem that Plaintiff’s requests are far from being tailored or factually
specific. Rather, Plaintiff seeks information regarding nearly every possible
type of misconduct by Kovac. This discovery request has a strong appearance of
being a fishing expedition, particularly because Plaintiff does not provide the
Court with any information about what she expects to find.
 
Relevance of Discovery to Plaintiff’s Legal Theories
 
The relevance prong appears to be similar to the logical
connection prong. As discussed above, Plaintiff has not clearly explained what
she expects to find, or why she expects that it will support her retaliation
and conspiracy claims.
 
Admissibility at Trial
 
There are no clear admissibility issues with the requested
evidence.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden of
showing that in camera review of the requested materials is appropriate. The
Court’s denial is without prejudice and Plaintiff may file another motion that
makes the appropriate showing. 