 Case Number:  24STCV11374    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  72   SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES   DEPARTMENT 72  

SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

 

DEPARTMENT 72

 

TENTATIVE
RULING

 




JOHN B. SCHRIMPF, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
PANAVISION INTERNATIONAL, L.P., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV11374
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 31, 2024
 Calendar Number:  8




 

 

 

Defendants Panavision International, L.P. (“Panavision”),
Panavision GP Inc. (“GP Inc.”), and Panavision GP LLC (“GP LLC”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) demur to the first, third, fourth, eighth, ninth, tenth,
eleventh, and thirteenth claims in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed by
Plaintiff John B. Schrimpf (“Plaintiff”). Defendants additionally move to
strike portions of the FAC regarding Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages.

 

The Court OVERRULES the demurrer.

 

The Court DENIES the motion to strike.

 

Background

 

This is an employment case. The following facts are taken
from the allegations of the Complaint, which the Court accepts as true for the
purposes of the demurrer.

 

Plaintiff was employed by Defendants for 39 years. Plaintiff
was terminated on May 5, 2023, at the age of 71. At the time of his
termination, Plaintiff held the title of “VP US Regional Operations Manager.”

 

Over the course of several years prior to 2022, Plaintiff
developed medical problems with his hip, but delayed treatment so that he could
continue working for Defendants. In 2022, Plaintiff was finally forced to deal
with his medical issues, which required various surgeries and leaves of
absence. 

 

Plaintiff planned to undergo hip surgery in August 2022, but
underwent an emergency surgery prior to August 2022 which delayed this plan.
Plaintiff informed his executive team and provided medical records regarding
his condition and treatment.

 

A September 27, 2022 note submitted to Defendants from
Plaintiff’s medical care provider indicated he may return to work “once he is
sitting over 4 hours twice daily on 10-3-22 and may return to full time work
when he is sitting at least 8 hours twice daily on 10-10-22.” (Complaint ¶ 32.)
After recovering from the emergency surgery, Plaintiff returned to work.

 

Plaintiff underwent the hip surgery on February 28, 2023.
Approximately one week later, he suffered severe complications including
intestinal Covid-19 and Ketoacidosis. As a result of the complications,
Plaintiff nearly died and was in a coma for several days. During this period,
James Fin, Defendants’ Marketing/Sales Executive, regularly visited Plaintiff’s
bedside and kept Defendants up to date regarding Plaintiff’s condition.

 

On March 27, 2023, Plaintiff was authorized by his medical
provider to work light duty, working from home for up to 4 hours daily
beginning March 28, 2023. These restrictions remained in place through the date
of Plaintiff’s termination.

 

On May 1, 2023, Defendants scheduled a meeting with
Plaintiff where Plaintiff was informed that his employment would be terminated
due to “reorganization.” (FAC ¶ 36.) Plaintiff alleges that the termination
decision was made in California. (FAC ¶ 37.) Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s
employment effective May 5, 2023.

 

Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants on May 6,
2024, raising claims for (1) disability discrimination under FEHA; (2) age
discrimination under FEHA; (3) failure to accommodate under FEHA; (4) failure
to engage in a timely and good-faith interactive process under FEHA; (5)
retaliation under FEHA; (6) failure to prevent/remedy discrimination,
harassment, or retaliation under FEHA; (7) wrongful discharge under FEHA; (8)
age discrimination under ADEA; (9) retaliation under ADEA; (10) disability discrimination
under ADA; (11) retaliation in violation of ADA; (12) wrongful discharge in
violation of public policy; and (13) intentional infliction of emotional
distress (“IIED”).

 

On July 3, 2024, Defendants demurred to the Complaint and
moved to strike portions of the Complaint related to punitive damages. The
Court sustained the demurrer in part and granted the motion to strike. The
Court sustained the demurrer to Plaintiff’s third, fourth, and thirteenth
claims with leave to amend. The Court overruled the demurrer to the remaining
claims.

 

The operative complaint is now the FAC, which raises claims
for (1) disability discrimination under FEHA; (2) age discrimination under FEHA;
(3) failure to accommodate under FEHA; (4) failure to engage in a timely and
good-faith interactive process under FEHA; (5) retaliation under FEHA; (6)
failure to prevent/remedy discrimination, harassment, or retaliation under FEHA;
(7) wrongful discharge under FEHA; (8) age discrimination under ADEA; (9)
retaliation under ADEA; (10) disability discrimination under ADA; (11)
retaliation in violation of ADA; (12) wrongful discharge in violation of public
policy; and (13) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).

 

Defendants filed the demurrer and motion to strike on
September 20, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition to each, and Defendants filed
a reply in support of each.

 

Legal Standard

 

Demurrer

 

“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has
been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to
the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:

 

(a) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.

(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have the
legal capacity to sue.

(c) There is
another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of action.

(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties.

(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.

(f) The pleading is
uncertain. As used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and
unintelligible.

(g) In an action
founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.

(h) No certificate was filed as required by Section 411.35.”

 

(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)

 

As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)

 

Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).

 

Motion to Strike

 

The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)

 

Discussion

 

Arguments Available in Previous Demurrer

 

“A party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after
a demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not demur
to any portion of the amended complaint, cross-complaint, or answer on grounds
that could have been raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the
complaint, cross-complaint, or answer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).)

 

Defendants raise a large number of new arguments as to the
sufficiency of the first, eight, ninth, tenth, and eleventh claims. These
arguments were available to Defendants when they demurred to the Complaint.
Defendants did not demur at all to the eighth, ninth, tenth, or eleventh claims
in their first demurrer. Further, in their first demurrer, Defendants did not
raise any arguments against the first claim other than the issue of FEHA
standing, which the Court discusses below.

 

Defendants argue that their demurrer to these claims is
permissible because the legislative history of section 430.41(b) indicates that
the bill would prohibit a party from demurring again to the same cause of
action, unless the cause of action was amended. Defendants argue that these
claims were amended because Plaintiff added new general allegations, which were
incorporated by reference into these claims.

 

The Court is not persuaded. 
It is the final language of the statute that is controlling. While the
legislators supporting the bill may have described it as prohibiting demurrers
against unamended claims as a shorthand, the text of the statute is clear: a
party may not raise arguments against an amended pleading that were available
to it in a previous demurrer. None of the new arguments Defendants raise to
these claims are founded in any of Plaintiff’s new allegations. Defendants do
not argue that Plaintiff has pled himself out of a claim. Rather, they argue
that Plaintiff has not pled enough facts to state a claim. This argument
was certainly available against the original Complaint, which had fewer
factual allegations.

 

The Court therefore finds that Defendants’ new argument
against the first, eight, ninth, tenth, and eleventh claims.

 

The Court overrules the demurrer to the first, eight, ninth,
tenth, and eleventh claims.

 

Failure to Accommodate – Third Claim

 

Under Government Code, section 12940, it is an unlawful
employment practice “to fail to make reasonable accommodation for the known
physical or mental disability of an applicant or employee” unless the employer
demonstrates doing so would impose an undue hardship. “The essential elements
of a failure to accommodate claim are: (1) the plaintiff has a disability
covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or
she can perform the essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer
failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff's disability.” (Wilson v.
County of Orange (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1192.)

 

Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not alleged denial of
accommodations and has not alleged his ability to perform his job with
accommodations.

 

Plaintiff has alleged that he was able to perform his job
with accommodations. (FAC ¶ 61.) Defendants argue that a detailed description
of Plaintiff’s job duties is required. Defendants cite only to unpublished
federal cases for this proposition. The Court disagrees. FEHA does not create a
heightened pleading standard requiring detailed pleading of a plaintiff’s job
duties and exactly how the plaintiff was able to perform them. Plaintiff’s
allegation that he was able to adequately perform his job duties is sufficient
to put Defendants on notice of his claims – particularly because Defendants, as
Plaintiff’s former employers, would know what Plaintiff’s job duties were.

 

The Court previously sustained a demurrer to this claim
because Plaintiff did not specify what accommodations he was denied. Here, Plaintiff
alleges that he needed to be accommodated by being permitted at various times
to work from home and engage in light work only. (FAC ¶ 35.) Plaintiff alleges
that, although Defendants initially provided this accommodation, Defendants
decided not to continue to accommodate Plaintiff and thus terminated him rather
than providing continued accommodations. (FAC ¶ 83.) 

 

In ruling on the previous demurrer, the Court expressed
skepticism as to Plaintiff’s argument that a Plaintiff may assert a separate
failure to accommodate claim in addition to a disability discrimination claim
where the only failure to accommodate was the plaintiff’s termination.
Plaintiff has provided additional case law in support of this proposition. 

 

In Moore v. Regents of the University of California
248 Cal.App.4th 216, 243, the Court of Appeal reversed a grant of summary
judgment where the plaintiff “was terminated prior to any denial of her request
for time off for her surgery,” but that a failure to accommodate claim could be
sustained where “[the defendant] terminated [the plaintiff] before either
providing her with the requested accommodation or engaging with her further”. (Moore
v. Regents of University of California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 243.)
“[A] pretextual termination of a perceived-as-disabled employee's employment in
lieu of providing reasonable accommodation or engaging in the interactive
process does not provide an employer a reprieve from claims for failure to
accommodate and failure to engage in the interactive process.” (Id. at
pp. 243-244.)

 

“Unlike
a simple failure to accommodate claim, an unlawful discharge claim requires a
showing that the employer terminated the employee because of his disability.
[Citation.] Often the two claims, are, from a practical standpoint, the same.
For the consequence of the failure to accommodate is, as here, frequently an
unlawful termination. In this case, [the Defendant’s] stated reason for [the
Plaintiff’s] termination was absenteeism and tardiness. For purposes of the
ADA, with a few exceptions, conduct resulting from a disability is considered
to be part of the disability, rather than a separate basis for termination.”

 

(Humphrey v. Memorial Hospitals
Ass'n (9th Cir. 2001) 239 F.3d 1128, 1139–1140.)

 

            The
Court notes that Humphrey’s analysis flowed in the opposite direction,
finding that termination based on poor performance after a failure to
accommodate could state a separate claim for wrongful termination, rather than
finding, as Plaintiff requests the Court to do here, that discharging an
accommodated plaintiff could then constitute a failure to accommodate. However,
the Court believes that the same logic may apply – Plaintiff has raised two
alternate theories of recovery for the same underlying conduct. The fact that
the two claims overlap here, as they do in many other circumstances, does not
render one of the claims per se invalid at the pleading stage.

 

The Court therefore overrules the demurrer to this claim.

 

Failure to Engage in a Timely and Good-Faith Interactive Process – Fourth
Claim

 

“FEHA requires an informal process with the employee to
attempt to identify reasonable accommodations, not necessarily ritualized
discussions.” (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359,
379.)

 

Once initiated, the employer has a continuous obligation to
engage in the interactive process in good faith. “Both employer and employee
have the obligation ‘to keep communications open’ and neither has ‘a right to
obstruct the process.’” [Citation.] Each party must participate in good faith,
undertake reasonable efforts to communicate its concerns, and make available to
the other information which is available, or more accessible, to one party.
Liability hinges on the objective circumstances surrounding the parties’
breakdown in communication, and responsibility for the breakdown lies with the
party who fails to participate in good faith. [Citation.] (Swanson v.
Morongo Uni¿ed School Dist. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 971–972.)

 

Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants failed to continue
engaging in a timely, good faith interactive process with Plaintiff at all
required times. If Defendants subsequently decided that the then-existing
accommodations were not working, it should have, but failed to, engage in a
further interactive process to find reasonable accommodations allowing
Plaintiff to continue performing his essential job functions. Instead, it
terminated [Plaintiff].” (FAC ¶ 90.)

 

The Court previously found that Plaintiff had not adequately
stated facts indicating when Defendants failed to engage in an interactive
process. Plaintiff now contends that Defendant failed to engage in the
interactive process by terminating Plaintiff so that it would not have to
accommodate him instead of continuing to engage with him to determine if
alternate accommodations would be viable.

 

The Court agrees based on the case law that Plaintiff has
provided. “The point of the interactive process is to find reasonable
accommodation for a disabled employee, or an employee regarded as disabled by
the employer, in order to avoid the employee's termination. Therefore, a
pretextual termination of a perceived-as-disabled employee's employment in lieu
of providing reasonable accommodation or engaging in the interactive process
does not provide an employer a reprieve from claims for failure to accommodate
and failure to engage in the interactive process.” (Moore v. Regents of
University of California, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at pp. 243–244.)

 

As discussed above, a breakdown in communication is just as
actionable as an initial failure to engage. (Swanson v. Morongo Uni¿ed
School Dist., supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at pp. 971–972.) In alleging
that Defendants terminated him rather than raise any issues they had with
Plaintiff’s then-existing accommodations, Plaintiff has alleged as much here.

 

The Court therefore overrules the demurrer to this claim.

 

Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress – Thirteenth Claim

 

“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.
Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson
v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)

 

Plaintiff’s basis for alleging extreme and outrageous
conduct by Defendants is that Defendants terminated Plaintiff based on his age
and disability. Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants did not even have the
decency to have Chief Human Resources Officer, Sandy Ferguson, conduct the termination
meeting, and instead had a new VP Plaintiff did not even know participate.”
(Opposition at p. 10:7-9.)

 

“Managing personnel is not outrageous conduct beyond the
bounds of human decency, but rather conduct essential to the welfare and
prosperity of society. A simple pleading of personnel management activity is
insufficient to support a claim of intentional infliction of emotional
distress, even if improper motivation is alleged. If personnel management
decisions are improperly motivated, the remedy is a suit against the employer
for discrimination.” (Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46
Cal.App.4th 55, 80.) 

 

The Court previously found that Plaintiff had not adequately
alleged extreme and outrageous conduct. Here, Plaintiff has alleged additional
facts. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants knew that he was relying on his
employer-provided health insurance to support ongoing medical treatment. (FAC ¶
45.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants knew that Plaintiff relied on their
health insurance benefits. (FAC ¶ 51.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants knew
that he could die if he lost his health insurance because Plaintiff had nearly
died and been in a coma two months prior. (FAC ¶¶ 34, 51.) Defendants’
marketing and sales executive regularly visited Plaintiff’s bedside during the
previous hospitalization. (FAC ¶ 34.) These facts, combined with Plaintiff’s
allegations of discriminatory termination, rise above mere personnel management
decisions to the level of extreme and outrageous conduct – especially given
that Defendants did not give Plaintiff a grace period so that he could provide
for his medical coverage. (FAC ¶ 45.)

 

Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not alleged that
Defendants intended to cause him emotional distress. That is not the standard.
As discussed above, reckless disregard is adequate. Plaintiff has pled facts
adequate to support an inference that Defendants recklessly disregarded the
risk that Plaintiff’s termination would cause him extreme emotional distress.

 

The Court therefore overrules the demurrer to this claim.

 

Motion to Strike

 

Punitive damages are appropriate when a defendant acted with
malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is
defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of
others. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent.
Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable
conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious
disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.)
“Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,
rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)


 

“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of
punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must
be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion
to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike
as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Ibid.)
“In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.”
(Ibid.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are
insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud
or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)

 

“An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to
subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (b).)

 

Plaintiff has adequately pled oppressive conduct. As
discussed above, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants discriminatorily terminated
Plaintiff, ending his health insurance, at a time when Defendants knew that
Plaintiff needed consistent medical coverage and could have been in danger of
death without it. Plaintiff has therefore alleged that Defendants acted with
conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights.

 

Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not met the requirements
for holding a corporate defendant liable for punitive damages. Here, Plaintiff
was Defendants’ “VP US Regional Operations Manager.” (FAC ¶ 18.) Plaintiff
persuasively argues that all of the individuals who supervised him were high
level executives of Defendants. Defendants’ COO, Michael George, knew about
Plaintiff’s medical issues. (FAC ¶¶ 28, 39.) Plaintiff has alleged that the
other members of the executive team were aware of these facts. (FAC ¶ 39.)
Plaintiff has alleged that the VP of Human Resources personally conducted
Plaintiff’s termination meeting. (FAC ¶ 36.) Plaintiff has alleged that his
termination decision was made by Defendants’ managing employees. (FAC ¶ 50.)
Plaintiff has adequately alleged that Defendants’ managing agents authorized or
ratified the oppressive conduct.

 

The Court therefore denies the motion to strike.  TENTATIVE  RULING      JOHN B. SCHRIMPF,                                      Plaintiff,             v.     PANAVISION INTERNATIONAL, L.P., et al.,                                     Defendants.      Case No:     24STCV11374            Hearing Date:  July 31, 2024  Calendar Number:  8          Defendants Panavision International, L.P. (“Panavision”),  Panavision GP Inc. (“GP Inc.”), and Panavision GP LLC (“GP LLC”) (collectively,  “Defendants”) demur to the first, third, fourth, eighth, ninth, tenth,  eleventh, and thirteenth claims in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed by  Plaintiff John B. Schrimpf (“Plaintiff”). Defendants additionally move to  strike portions of the FAC regarding Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages.   The Court OVERRULES the demurrer.   The Court DENIES the motion to strike.   Background   This is an employment case. The following facts are taken  from the allegations of the Complaint, which the Court accepts as true for the  purposes of the demurrer.   Plaintiff was employed by Defendants for 39 years. Plaintiff  was terminated on May 5, 2023, at the age of 71. At the time of his  termination, Plaintiff held the title of “VP US Regional Operations Manager.”   Over the course of several years prior to 2022, Plaintiff  developed medical problems with his hip, but delayed treatment so that he could  continue working for Defendants. In 2022, Plaintiff was finally forced to deal  with his medical issues, which required various surgeries and leaves of  absence.    Plaintiff planned to undergo hip surgery in August 2022, but  underwent an emergency surgery prior to August 2022 which delayed this plan.  Plaintiff informed his executive team and provided medical records regarding  his condition and treatment.   A September 27, 2022 note submitted to Defendants from  Plaintiff’s medical care provider indicated he may return to work “once he is  sitting over 4 hours twice daily on 10-3-22 and may return to full time work  when he is sitting at least 8 hours twice daily on 10-10-22.” (Complaint ¶ 32.)  After recovering from the emergency surgery, Plaintiff returned to work.   Plaintiff underwent the hip surgery on February 28, 2023.  Approximately one week later, he suffered severe complications including  intestinal Covid-19 and Ketoacidosis. As a result of the complications,  Plaintiff nearly died and was in a coma for several days. During this period,  James Fin, Defendants’ Marketing/Sales Executive, regularly visited Plaintiff’s  bedside and kept Defendants up to date regarding Plaintiff’s condition.   On March 27, 2023, Plaintiff was authorized by his medical  provider to work light duty, working from home for up to 4 hours daily  beginning March 28, 2023. These restrictions remained in place through the date  of Plaintiff’s termination.   On May 1, 2023, Defendants scheduled a meeting with  Plaintiff where Plaintiff was informed that his employment would be terminated  due to “reorganization.” (FAC ¶ 36.) Plaintiff alleges that the termination  decision was made in California. (FAC ¶ 37.) Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s  employment effective May 5, 2023.   Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants on May 6,  2024, raising claims for (1) disability discrimination under FEHA; (2) age  discrimination under FEHA; (3) failure to accommodate under FEHA; (4) failure  to engage in a timely and good-faith interactive process under FEHA; (5)  retaliation under FEHA; (6) failure to prevent/remedy discrimination,  harassment, or retaliation under FEHA; (7) wrongful discharge under FEHA; (8)  age discrimination under ADEA; (9) retaliation under ADEA; (10) disability discrimination  under ADA; (11) retaliation in violation of ADA; (12) wrongful discharge in  violation of public policy; and (13) intentional infliction of emotional  distress (“IIED”).   On July 3, 2024, Defendants demurred to the Complaint and  moved to strike portions of the Complaint related to punitive damages. The  Court sustained the demurrer in part and granted the motion to strike. The  Court sustained the demurrer to Plaintiff’s third, fourth, and thirteenth  claims with leave to amend. The Court overruled the demurrer to the remaining  claims.   The operative complaint is now the FAC, which raises claims  for (1) disability discrimination under FEHA; (2) age discrimination under FEHA;  (3) failure to accommodate under FEHA; (4) failure to engage in a timely and  good-faith interactive process under FEHA; (5) retaliation under FEHA; (6)  failure to prevent/remedy discrimination, harassment, or retaliation under FEHA;  (7) wrongful discharge under FEHA; (8) age discrimination under ADEA; (9)  retaliation under ADEA; (10) disability discrimination under ADA; (11)  retaliation in violation of ADA; (12) wrongful discharge in violation of public  policy; and (13) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).   Defendants filed the demurrer and motion to strike on  September 20, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition to each, and Defendants filed  a reply in support of each.   Legal Standard   Demurrer   “The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has  been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to  the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:   (a) The court has  no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. (b) The person who filed the pleading does not have the  legal capacity to sue. (c) There is  another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of action. (d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties. (e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action. (f) The pleading is  uncertain. As used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and  unintelligible. (g) In an action  founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the  contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct. (h) No certificate was filed as required by Section 411.35.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)   As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects  must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial  notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.  Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading  alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,  Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth  of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is  concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of  action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)   Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be  allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,  348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be  amended successfully. (Ibid.;  Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f  there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause  of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.  (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).   Motion to Strike   The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its  discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or  improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The  court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in  conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the  pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or  filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving  to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   Discussion   Arguments Available in Previous Demurrer   “A party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after  a demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not demur  to any portion of the amended complaint, cross-complaint, or answer on grounds  that could have been raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the  complaint, cross-complaint, or answer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).)   Defendants raise a large number of new arguments as to the  sufficiency of the first, eight, ninth, tenth, and eleventh claims. These  arguments were available to Defendants when they demurred to the Complaint.  Defendants did not demur at all to the eighth, ninth, tenth, or eleventh claims  in their first demurrer. Further, in their first demurrer, Defendants did not  raise any arguments against the first claim other than the issue of FEHA  standing, which the Court discusses below.   Defendants argue that their demurrer to these claims is  permissible because the legislative history of section 430.41(b) indicates that  the bill would prohibit a party from demurring again to the same cause of  action, unless the cause of action was amended. Defendants argue that these  claims were amended because Plaintiff added new general allegations, which were  incorporated by reference into these claims.   The Court is not persuaded.   It is the final language of the statute that is controlling. While the  legislators supporting the bill may have described it as prohibiting demurrers  against unamended claims as a shorthand, the text of the statute is clear: a  party may not raise arguments against an amended pleading that were available  to it in a previous demurrer. None of the new arguments Defendants raise to  these claims are founded in any of Plaintiff’s new allegations. Defendants do  not argue that Plaintiff has pled himself out of a claim. Rather, they argue  that Plaintiff has not pled enough facts to state a claim. This argument  was certainly available against the original Complaint, which had fewer  factual allegations.   The Court therefore finds that Defendants’ new argument  against the first, eight, ninth, tenth, and eleventh claims.   The Court overrules the demurrer to the first, eight, ninth,  tenth, and eleventh claims.   Failure to Accommodate – Third Claim   Under Government Code, section 12940, it is an unlawful  employment practice “to fail to make reasonable accommodation for the known  physical or mental disability of an applicant or employee” unless the employer  demonstrates doing so would impose an undue hardship. “The essential elements  of a failure to accommodate claim are: (1) the plaintiff has a disability  covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or  she can perform the essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer  failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff's disability.” (Wilson v.  County of Orange (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1192.)   Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not alleged denial of  accommodations and has not alleged his ability to perform his job with  accommodations.   Plaintiff has alleged that he was able to perform his job  with accommodations. (FAC ¶ 61.) Defendants argue that a detailed description  of Plaintiff’s job duties is required. Defendants cite only to unpublished  federal cases for this proposition. The Court disagrees. FEHA does not create a  heightened pleading standard requiring detailed pleading of a plaintiff’s job  duties and exactly how the plaintiff was able to perform them. Plaintiff’s  allegation that he was able to adequately perform his job duties is sufficient  to put Defendants on notice of his claims – particularly because Defendants, as  Plaintiff’s former employers, would know what Plaintiff’s job duties were.   The Court previously sustained a demurrer to this claim  because Plaintiff did not specify what accommodations he was denied. Here, Plaintiff  alleges that he needed to be accommodated by being permitted at various times  to work from home and engage in light work only. (FAC ¶ 35.) Plaintiff alleges  that, although Defendants initially provided this accommodation, Defendants  decided not to continue to accommodate Plaintiff and thus terminated him rather  than providing continued accommodations. (FAC ¶ 83.)    In ruling on the previous demurrer, the Court expressed  skepticism as to Plaintiff’s argument that a Plaintiff may assert a separate  failure to accommodate claim in addition to a disability discrimination claim  where the only failure to accommodate was the plaintiff’s termination.  Plaintiff has provided additional case law in support of this proposition.    In Moore v. Regents of the University of California  248 Cal.App.4th 216, 243, the Court of Appeal reversed a grant of summary  judgment where the plaintiff “was terminated prior to any denial of her request  for time off for her surgery,” but that a failure to accommodate claim could be  sustained where “[the defendant] terminated [the plaintiff] before either  providing her with the requested accommodation or engaging with her further”. (Moore  v. Regents of University of California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 243.)  “[A] pretextual termination of a perceived-as-disabled employee's employment in  lieu of providing reasonable accommodation or engaging in the interactive  process does not provide an employer a reprieve from claims for failure to  accommodate and failure to engage in the interactive process.” (Id. at  pp. 243-244.)   “Unlike  a simple failure to accommodate claim, an unlawful discharge claim requires a  showing that the employer terminated the employee because of his disability.  [Citation.] Often the two claims, are, from a practical standpoint, the same.  For the consequence of the failure to accommodate is, as here, frequently an  unlawful termination. In this case, [the Defendant’s] stated reason for [the  Plaintiff’s] termination was absenteeism and tardiness. For purposes of the  ADA, with a few exceptions, conduct resulting from a disability is considered  to be part of the disability, rather than a separate basis for termination.”   (Humphrey v. Memorial Hospitals  Ass'n (9th Cir. 2001) 239 F.3d 1128, 1139–1140.)               The  Court notes that Humphrey’s analysis flowed in the opposite direction,  finding that termination based on poor performance after a failure to  accommodate could state a separate claim for wrongful termination, rather than  finding, as Plaintiff requests the Court to do here, that discharging an  accommodated plaintiff could then constitute a failure to accommodate. However,  the Court believes that the same logic may apply – Plaintiff has raised two  alternate theories of recovery for the same underlying conduct. The fact that  the two claims overlap here, as they do in many other circumstances, does not  render one of the claims per se invalid at the pleading stage.   The Court therefore overrules the demurrer to this claim.   Failure to Engage in a Timely and Good-Faith Interactive Process – Fourth  Claim   “FEHA requires an informal process with the employee to  attempt to identify reasonable accommodations, not necessarily ritualized  discussions.” (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359,  379.)   Once initiated, the employer has a continuous obligation to  engage in the interactive process in good faith. “Both employer and employee  have the obligation ‘to keep communications open’ and neither has ‘a right to  obstruct the process.’” [Citation.] Each party must participate in good faith,  undertake reasonable efforts to communicate its concerns, and make available to  the other information which is available, or more accessible, to one party.  Liability hinges on the objective circumstances surrounding the parties’  breakdown in communication, and responsibility for the breakdown lies with the  party who fails to participate in good faith. [Citation.] (Swanson v.  Morongo Uni¿ed School Dist. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 971–972.)   Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants failed to continue  engaging in a timely, good faith interactive process with Plaintiff at all  required times. If Defendants subsequently decided that the then-existing  accommodations were not working, it should have, but failed to, engage in a  further interactive process to find reasonable accommodations allowing  Plaintiff to continue performing his essential job functions. Instead, it  terminated [Plaintiff].” (FAC ¶ 90.)   The Court previously found that Plaintiff had not adequately  stated facts indicating when Defendants failed to engage in an interactive  process. Plaintiff now contends that Defendant failed to engage in the  interactive process by terminating Plaintiff so that it would not have to  accommodate him instead of continuing to engage with him to determine if  alternate accommodations would be viable.   The Court agrees based on the case law that Plaintiff has  provided. “The point of the interactive process is to find reasonable  accommodation for a disabled employee, or an employee regarded as disabled by  the employer, in order to avoid the employee's termination. Therefore, a  pretextual termination of a perceived-as-disabled employee's employment in lieu  of providing reasonable accommodation or engaging in the interactive process  does not provide an employer a reprieve from claims for failure to accommodate  and failure to engage in the interactive process.” (Moore v. Regents of  University of California, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at pp. 243–244.)   As discussed above, a breakdown in communication is just as  actionable as an initial failure to engage. (Swanson v. Morongo Uni¿ed  School Dist., supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at pp. 971–972.) In alleging  that Defendants terminated him rather than raise any issues they had with  Plaintiff’s then-existing accommodations, Plaintiff has alleged as much here.   The Court therefore overrules the demurrer to this claim.   Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress – Thirteenth Claim   “The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of  intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous  conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard  of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s  suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate  causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.  Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually  tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson  v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)   Plaintiff’s basis for alleging extreme and outrageous  conduct by Defendants is that Defendants terminated Plaintiff based on his age  and disability. Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants did not even have the  decency to have Chief Human Resources Officer, Sandy Ferguson, conduct the termination  meeting, and instead had a new VP Plaintiff did not even know participate.”  (Opposition at p. 10:7-9.)   “Managing personnel is not outrageous conduct beyond the  bounds of human decency, but rather conduct essential to the welfare and  prosperity of society. A simple pleading of personnel management activity is  insufficient to support a claim of intentional infliction of emotional  distress, even if improper motivation is alleged. If personnel management  decisions are improperly motivated, the remedy is a suit against the employer  for discrimination.” (Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46  Cal.App.4th 55, 80.)    The Court previously found that Plaintiff had not adequately  alleged extreme and outrageous conduct. Here, Plaintiff has alleged additional  facts. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants knew that he was relying on his  employer-provided health insurance to support ongoing medical treatment. (FAC ¶  45.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants knew that Plaintiff relied on their  health insurance benefits. (FAC ¶ 51.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants knew  that he could die if he lost his health insurance because Plaintiff had nearly  died and been in a coma two months prior. (FAC ¶¶ 34, 51.) Defendants’  marketing and sales executive regularly visited Plaintiff’s bedside during the  previous hospitalization. (FAC ¶ 34.) These facts, combined with Plaintiff’s  allegations of discriminatory termination, rise above mere personnel management  decisions to the level of extreme and outrageous conduct – especially given  that Defendants did not give Plaintiff a grace period so that he could provide  for his medical coverage. (FAC ¶ 45.)   Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not alleged that  Defendants intended to cause him emotional distress. That is not the standard.  As discussed above, reckless disregard is adequate. Plaintiff has pled facts  adequate to support an inference that Defendants recklessly disregarded the  risk that Plaintiff’s termination would cause him extreme emotional distress.   The Court therefore overrules the demurrer to this claim.   Motion to Strike   Punitive damages are appropriate when a defendant acted with  malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is  defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct  carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of  others. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent.  Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable  conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious  disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.)  “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a  material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,  rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)     “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of  punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must  be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67  Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion  to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike  as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Ibid.)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are  insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud  or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court  (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)   “An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to  subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the  employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed  him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or  authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded  or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a  corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,  ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an  officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,  subd. (b).)   Plaintiff has adequately pled oppressive conduct. As  discussed above, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants discriminatorily terminated  Plaintiff, ending his health insurance, at a time when Defendants knew that  Plaintiff needed consistent medical coverage and could have been in danger of  death without it. Plaintiff has therefore alleged that Defendants acted with  conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights.   Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not met the requirements  for holding a corporate defendant liable for punitive damages. Here, Plaintiff  was Defendants’ “VP US Regional Operations Manager.” (FAC ¶ 18.) Plaintiff  persuasively argues that all of the individuals who supervised him were high  level executives of Defendants. Defendants’ COO, Michael George, knew about  Plaintiff’s medical issues. (FAC ¶¶ 28, 39.) Plaintiff has alleged that the  other members of the executive team were aware of these facts. (FAC ¶ 39.)  Plaintiff has alleged that the VP of Human Resources personally conducted  Plaintiff’s termination meeting. (FAC ¶ 36.) Plaintiff has alleged that his  termination decision was made by Defendants’ managing employees. (FAC ¶ 50.)  Plaintiff has adequately alleged that Defendants’ managing agents authorized or  ratified the oppressive conduct.   The Court therefore denies the motion to strike.