 Case Number:  23STCV24738    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



OSCAR MACIAS, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
PFC MANAGEMENT LLC, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV24738
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 31, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Plaintiff Oscar Macias (“Plaintiff”) moves for approval of
his proposed Belaire-West discovery opt-out notice provided to Defendants PFC
Management LLC (“PFC”), Pacific Fertility Centers, Inc. (“Pacific”), and Hatch
Fertility Egg Donation and Surrogacy (“Hatch”) (collectively, “Defendants”) to
be disseminated to potential aggrieved employees in this Private Attorney
General Act (“PAGA”) action.
 
The Court determines that the form and contents of
Plaintiff’s proposed notice, to which Defendants do not substantively object
to, are proper. The Court determines that Plaintiff’s proposed notice resolves
any privacy objections that Defendants may raise to the disclosure of the names
and contact information of potential aggrieved employees. The Court does not
yet order the issuance of Plaintiff’s proposed notice because Defendants have
not, in fact, raised any such privacy objections at this time. However, if the
apparent discovery dispute between the parties results in a motion to compel or
to compel further discovery responses where Defendants raise such a privacy
objection, the Court will order Defendants to issue the proposed Belaire-West
notice in order to resolve the privacy issue. 
 
The Court requests that the parties meet and confer in good
faith in light of this order. “[I]n a PAGA action, … a complaint that alleges
[violations of the Labor Code] makes any employee allegedly aggrieved a
percipient witness and his or her contact information relevant and
discoverable.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
547–548.) The Court will follow this rule and the parties should take it into
account during the meet and confer process. 

 
Background
 
This is a PAGA action.
 
Plaintiff filed this case on October 10, 2023. The operative
complaint is now the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which raises claims for
(1) failure to pay minimum wages; (2) failure to furnish wage and hour
statements; (3) failure to maintain payroll records; (4) failure to provide
meal and rest period compensation; (5) failure to pay overtime compensation;
(6) waiting time penalties; (7) unfair competition; (8) retaliation in
violation of Labor Code, section 1102.5; and (9) wrongful termination.
 
On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff provided Defendants with a
proposed opt-out notice pursuant to Belaire-West Landscape, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 554, 561. (LaCour Decl. ¶ 5.) Belair-West
provides that privacy concerns regarding the disclosure of potential aggrieved
employees’ personal contact information can be resolved by the employer’s
provision of a notice to the employees that their information will be disclosed
in litigation and that they may opt out of this disclosure. (Belaire-West Landscape,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 554, 561.)
 
Counsel for Defendants did not respond to Plaintiff’s
proposed notice. Plaintiff’s counsel followed up twice, on March 26, 2024.
(LaCour Decl. ¶¶ 6.)
 
On March 27, 2024, counsel for Defendants emailed
Plaintiff’s counsel stating that the proposed notice had been received. (Mallet
Decl., Ex. E.) Defendants’ counsel stated that they were willing to meet and
confer regarding the substantive discovery served, but did not make any other
statement as to the proposed notice. (Mallet Decl., Ex. E.) Plaintiff’s counsel
replied on the same day, asking why Defendants’ counsel had not addressed the
issue of the proposed notice. (Mallet Decl., Ex. E.)
 
On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel followed up again,
asking if Defendants took issue with the proposed notice and stating that
Plaintiff would move to compel the Belaire-West notice if Defendants did
not timely reply. (Mallet Decl., Ex. E.) On the same day, Defendants’ counsel
replied:
 
“We
will absolutely meet and confer about privacy issues and how best to address
them after the discovery requests to which the contemplated privacy-protecting mechanisms
may apply is ripe and we have determined that such requests are otherwise
appropriate and non-objectionable.”
 
(Mallet Decl., Ex. E.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel replied on the same day, stating that Plaintiff would request an
informal discovery conference and discuss the issue with the Court. (Mallet
Decl., Ex. E.)
 
            The
parties thereafter engaged in mediation. (LaCour Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.) The parties
agreed to narrow pre-mediation discovery, and Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to
extend Defendant’s deadline to respond to Plaintiff’s PAGA discovery requests
to 30 days after the date of mediation if mediation was unsuccessful. (LaCour
Decl. ¶¶ 9-10.) Plaintiff did not seek an IDC. (LaCour Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)
 
            Plaintiff
filed this motion on September 5, 2024. 
 
            The
mediation was held on September 10, 2024 and did not result in a settlement.
(LaCour Decl. ¶ 14.) Plaintiff contends that the mediation was unsuccessful.
Defendants contend that the mediation was suspended so that both sides could
conduct depositions.
 
Defendants filed an opposition to this motion and Plaintiff
filed a reply.
 
Discussion
 
In an employment class action or collective claim, any
potential privacy concerns regarding the disclosure of potential aggrieved
employees’ personal contact information can be resolved by requiring the
defendant employer to send the potential aggrieved employees stating that their
address and phone numbers will be given to counsel unless they timely return an
enclosed post card. (Belaire-West Landscape, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 554, 561.) This type of opt-out notice adequately
protects an employee’s right to privacy. (Ibid.)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s motion as to Pacific and
Hatch, which they assert have no employees, is harassing. However, if those
entities have no employees, then a court-ordered notice requires nothing of
them.
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s motion is premature
because Plaintiff did not seek an IDC. Although Plaintiff’s counsel stated to
Defendant that he would do so, an IDC is not a prerequisite for approval of a Belaire-West
notice. It is an informal mechanism for streamlining the discovery process.
Further, the Court did not order an IDC on this issue here. The Court
determines that Plaintiff’s failure to seek an IDC is not a bar to this motion.
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s motion is not ripe
because Plaintiff has not yet filed a motion to compel further discovery
responses from Defendants. Defendants contend that Plaintiff could not file a
motion to compel, because the mediation was suspended, and not unsuccessful,
and that the 30-day discovery deadline therefore has not been triggered.
Defendants contend that an email from the mediator confirms this, but do not
provide the email because they state that it contains confidential information.
(Opposition at p. 5, fn. 2, 3.) The Court does not make a determination as to
whether mediation was unsuccessful or merely suspended because this is not a
motion to compel that discovery.
 
In Belaire-West and Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, both cited by Plaintiff regarding the appropriateness of
an opt-out notice, the procedural posture was discovery motion brought by the
plaintiff where the defendant objected to disclosure of employees’ personal
information on privacy grounds. (Belaire-West, supra, 3 Cal.5th
at p. 556 [motion to compel further]; Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 337-538 [motion to compel].)
 
Although the typical procedural posture where courts rule on
potential Belaire-West notices appears to be a motion to compel
discovery, Defendants do not point to any authority that such a motion is a requirement
for approval of a Belair-West notice. Under the facts in this case, the
Court is inclined to approve Plaintiff’s proposed notice. Plaintiff repeatedly
attempted to meet and confer in good faith regarding Defendants’ potential
privacy objections as to their employees in order to preemptively resolve such
privacy concerns without requiring objections or a motion to compel.
 
That said, this is not a motion to compel. It is unclear
whether Defendants do in fact raise privacy objections. However, Defendants
have been in possession of Plaintiff’s PAGA-related discovery requests for
months now, and are surely aware of whether they believe a privacy objection to
be proper. 
 
The Court rejects Defendants’ argument that this motion
infringes on their due process rights due to not being associated with a motion
to compel. Any privacy objection raised by Defendants would be for the purpose
of preserving their employees’ privacy rights – not their own. The Belaire-West
notice protects those rights.
 
The Court determines that the form and contents of Plaintiff’s
proposed notice, to which Defendants do not substantively object to, are proper.
The Court determines that Plaintiff’s proposed notice resolves privacy
objections that Defendants may raise to the disclosure of the names and contact
information of potential aggrieved employees. The Court does not yet order the
issuance of Plaintiff’s proposed notice because Defendants have not, in fact,
raised any such privacy objections at this time. However, if the apparent
discovery dispute between the parties results in a motion to compel, and
Defendants raise such a privacy objection, the Court will order Defendants to
issue the proposed Belaire-West notice in order to resolve the
privacy issue. 
 
The Court requests that the parties meet and confer in good
faith in light of this order. “[I]n a PAGA action, … a complaint that alleges [violations
of the Labor Code] makes any employee allegedly aggrieved a percipient witness
and his or her contact information relevant and discoverable.” (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 547–548.) The parties should keep this
in mind during their meet and confer.
 
 