 Case Number:  23STCV10720    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARIA ELENA GRADO, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
ANTELOPE VALLEY COUNTRY CLUB
  IMPROVEMENT COMPANY, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV10720
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 31, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiff Maria Elena Grado seeks terminating, issue, and
evidentiary sanctions against Defendant and Cross-Complainant Antelope Valley
Country Club Improvement Company (“Antelope”). Grado additionally seeks $17,760.00
in monetary sanctions.
 
The Court DENIES Grado’s motion for terminating sanctions.
 
The Court DENIES Grado’s motion for issue sanctions.
 
The Court GRANTS Grado’s motion for evidentiary sanctions IN
PART as follows. Antelope may not introduce any documents requested by Grado that
Antelope has not already produced. In addition, Antelope may provide a list of
the members that it intends to call, along with their names and addresses,
within 15 days of the issuance of this order in response to Form Interrogatory
12.1. Antelope may not call any other witnesses that were not explicitly
identified by name, address, and telephone number in response to Form
Interrogatory 12.1.
 
The Court ORDERS Antelope to provide code-compliant supplemental
responses compliant with the Court’s April 2, 2024 discovery order and the July
9, 2024 sanctions order within 30 days of the issuance of this order. If
Antelope fails to do so, the Court will consider elevated sanctions.
 
The Court GRANTS Grado’s motion for monetary sanctions in
the amount of $17,760.00. Antelope shall pay this amount to Grado’s counsel
within 30 days of the issuance of this order.
 
Background
 
This case concerns work done by Plaintiffs Bob and Me
Productions, Inc. DBA The Lemon Leaf (“Lemon Leaf”) and Grado (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) as food service contractors for Antelope, a country club. On July
23, 2020, the parties entered a contract (the “Agreement”) whereby Plaintiffs
provided food services for Antelope. Plaintiffs occupied and operated a kitchen
on Antelope’s premises as part of the Agreement. The agreement ran for a
three-year term, with automatic three-year extensions up to three times unless
either party delivered a notice of cancelation four months in advance of the
end of the term.
 
On February 13, 2023, Antelope served a “Notice of
Non-Renewal of Agreement” on Plaintiff. The parties dispute whether this notice
validly ended the agreement.
 
As of the filing of this motion, Plaintiffs retained
possession and use of the kitchen.
 
Plaintiffs filed this action against Antelope and other defendants
on May 12, 2023, alleging (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (3) declaratory relief; (4) injunctive relief; (5)
negligence; (6) fraudulent promises without intent to perform; (7) negligent
promises without intent to inform; and (8) intentional infliction of emotional
distress (“IIED”). Plaintiffs subsequently dismissed their third claim for
declaratory relief.
 
Antelope filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs on June
22, 2023. The operative cross-complaint is the Second Amended Cross-Complaint
(“SACC”), which raises claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) wrongful
interference; and (3) declaratory relief.
 
On September 29, 2023, Grado served Antelope with written
discovery requests that included form interrogatories, special interrogatories,
inspection demands, and requests for admission.
 
On December 18, 2023, Grado filed motions to compel further
responses to the interrogatories and inspection demands.
 
On February 8, 2024, the Court continued the hearings on
both motions to April 2, 2024. At the February 8, 2024 hearing, counsel for
Antelope represented that although Plaintiff had not filed a motion to compel
further responses to the RFAs, Antelope would provide further responses so that
there would be no need for Grado to file another motion to compel.
 
On April 2, 2024, the Court granted Grado’s motions to
compel further responses to the interrogatories and inspection demands.
 
On July 9, 2024, the Court granted Grado’s motion for
monetary sanctions and denied Grado’s motion for terminating, issue, and
evidentiary sanctions. The Court stated that it would impose evidentiary
sanctions if Antelope did not comply with the April 2, 2024 order within 15
days.
 
On July 29, 2024, Antelope served supplemental responses on
Grado. (Marcus Decl. ¶ 12, Exs. D, E, F.)
 
On August 1, 2024, Grado’s counsel sent Antelope a meet and
confer letter about the supplemental responses. Antelope’s counsel requested
additional time to provide further responses, which Plaintiff’s counsel
granted.
 
Grado contends that the responses that followed were not
code compliant and did not comply with the Court’s July 9, 2024 order.
 
Grado filed this motion on September 9, 2024. Antelope filed
an opposition and Grado filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Where a party misuses the discovery process, courts have
discretion to impose terminating, issue, evidence, or monetary sanctions. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(g), 2030.290(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative
Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495.) Misuse of the discovery
process includes failure to respond to an authorized method of discovery or
disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2023.010(d), (g).)        
 
Monetary sanctions may be imposed “ordering that one engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or
both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone
as a result of that conduct…unless [the Court] finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.030, subd. (a).) 
 
Issue sanctions may be imposed “ordering that designated facts
shall be taken as established in the action in accordance with the claim of the
party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process. The court may
also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims
or defenses.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (b).) 
 
Evidence sanctions may be imposed “by an order prohibiting any
party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing
designated matters in evidence.” (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.030, subd. (c).) 
 
In more extreme cases, the Court may also impose terminating
sanctions by “striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings,” “staying
further proceedings,” “dismissing the action, or any part of the action,” or
“rending a judgment by default” against the party misusing the discovery
process. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2030.030(d).) The court should look to
the totality of the circumstances in determining whether terminating sanctions
are appropriate.  (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77¿Cal.App.4th 1225,
1246.) Ultimate discovery sanctions are justified where there is a
willful discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and evidence showing
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with discovery rules. (Van
Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.) “[A] penalty as
severe as dismissal or default is not authorized where noncompliance with
discovery is caused by an inability to comply rather than willfulness or bad
faith.” (Brown v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 707.) Further,
preventing parties from presenting their cases on the merits is a drastic
measure; terminating sanctions should only be ordered when there has been
previous noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a less severe
sanction would not be effective. (Link v. Cater (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
1315, 1326.) 
 
Before any sanctions may be imposed the court must make an
express finding that there has been a willful failure of the party to serve the
required answers. (Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County
(1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) Lack of diligence may be deemed willful where
the party understood its obligation, had the ability to comply, and failed to
comply. (Deyo v. Killbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 787.) The party
who failed to comply with discovery obligations has the burden of showing that
the failure was not willful. (Id. at 788.) 
 
Discussion
 
Appropriateness of Sanctions
 
As an initial matter, Antelope’s responses were deficient.
In response to Plaintiff’s interrogatory requesting the names and contact
information of witnesses, Antelope did not identify a single witness by name,
but instead stated that the witnesses included all employees of the parties, as
well as members of Antelope’s board and Antelope club members. Antelope
provided a list of its members and contends in its opposition that “Plaintiff
continues to work at [Antelope’s] kitchen and is aware of the names of
[Antelope’s] employees.” (Opposition at p. 5:6-7.) This is not an adequate
response to an interrogatory that requested specific names and contact
information of witnesses.
 
The deficiencies extended to other portions of Antelope’s
responses. In response to Special Interrogatory No. 1, which asked for the
factual basis to Antelope’s breach of contract claim against Grado, Antelope
merely stated that Grado failed to vacate the premises – despite Antelope’s
cross-complaint asserting damages for Grado’s failure to properly perform
services under the contract. In response to Special Interrogatory No. 3, which
requested that Antelope identify documents supporting it’s cross-claim for
damages against Grado, Antelope did not identify any documents by name, but
instead referred generally to the declaration of A. J. Martinez and other
unnamed declarations and exhibits. In response to Special Interrogatory No. 4,
which requested facts in support of Antelope’s cross-claim for breach of
contract, Antelope appears to have copied and pasted the bullet-pointed
allegations of the First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
In response to twenty-six of Grado’s demands for production
of documents, Antelope simply responded “None.” “A representation of inability
to comply with the particular demand for inspection … shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed,
has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.230.) A one-word response does not meet this standard.
 
To many of the production demands to which Antelope did
provide documents, it merely stated the Bates number of the responsive
documents – and nothing more. “A statement that the party to
whom a demand for inspection … has been directed will
comply with the particular demand shall state that the production, inspection,
copying, … and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in
whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category
that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no
objection is being made will be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.220.) Again, Antelope’s minimalist responses are not code-compliant.
 
The Court has now twice ordered Antelope to provide
code-compliant responses to Grado’s discovery requests. In July 9, 2024 order,
the Court warned Antelope that it would impose evidentiary sanctions if
Antelope failed to comply.
 
Antelope’s counsel, Jeffrey Zinder, contends that Antelope’s
failure to adequately respond is due to his fault, and seeks permissive relief
for Antelope under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subd. (b). 
 
The trial court has discretion to “relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b).)
 
Mr. Zinder states in his declaration that his failure to
adequately respond to the discovery was due to serious side-effects caused by
medication which he was prescribed, as well as stress resulting from a number
of traumatic events.
 
The Court is sympathetic to Mr. Zinder’s situation. It will
not impose sanctions above and beyond the evidentiary sanctions that it
previously stated that it would impose. However, evidentiary sanctions remain
appropriate.
 
Gregory Cich, who is a shareholder and member of Antelope
and assisted Mr. Zinder in gathering the information for discovery responses,
declares that Mr. Zinder appeared to be back in control and responsive as of
the week leading up to October 18, 2024. (Cich Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.) Mr. Zinder
declares that his firm has hired a new partner who has taken on many files, and
that his associate is now back at the office as well. (Zinder Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
The problem is that despite Mr. Zinder’s recovery, Antelope
still contends that it is in compliance with the Court’s previous orders,
indicating that some escalation in sanctions is necessary. (Opposition at p.
4:1-2.) Antelope has not served formal supplemental responses nearly two months
since Grado filed this motion. The only further responses Antelope has offered
since then are a spreadsheet of costs associated with Plaintiff’s failure to
vacate the premises and a “more complete membership list”. (Cich Decl. ¶¶
18-19.) The Court does not wish to unduly punish Antelope for Mr. Zinder’s
troubles, for which Mr. Zinder also appears blameless. However, Antelope’s
continued failure to adequately respond cannot solely be attributed to Mr.
Zinder.
 
The Court will therefore issue evidentiary sanctions.

Terminating Sanctions
 
As discussed above, terminating sanctions are justified
where there is a willful discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and
evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules. (Van Sickle v. Gilbert, supra, 196 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1516.) Furthermore, terminating sanctions should only be ordered when there
has been previous noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a less
severe sanction would not be effective. (Link v. Cater, supra, 60
Cal.App.4th at p. 1326.) 
 
As discussed above, Mr. Zinder’s troubles, which do not
appear to even be his fault, appear to be a major cause of Antelope’s failure
to properly respond to discovery. This is not the kind of “willful, repeated
and egregious misuses of the discovery process” “permeat[ing] every single
significant issue in this case” to which terminating sanctions are intended to
respond. (Department of Forestry & Fire Protection v. Howell, supra,
18 Cal.App.5th at 197.)
 
The Court therefore denies terminating sanctions.
 
Issue Sanctions
 
For the reasons discussed above, the Court believes that
issue sanctions would be too harsh of a penalty at this time.
 
Evidentiary Sanctions
 
Grado requests that Antelope be prohibited from introducing
any documents not yet produced and from calling any witnesses not yet
identified.
 
The Court grant’s Grado’s request as to unproduced
documents. Antelope may not introduce any documents that it has not already
produced.
 
Regarding witnesses, the Court believes that Antelope’s
production of its member list represents a good-faith, if inadequate, attempt
to comply. However, the membership list provided in the Cich declaration is
enormous, and many members lack telephone or address information as requested.
Antelope may provide a list of the members that it intends to call, along with
their names and addresses, within 15 days of the issuance of this order.
Antelope may not call any other witnesses that were not explicitly identified
by name, address, and telephone number in response to Form Interrogatory 12.1 .
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
Grado requests $17,760.00 in attorney’s fees. 
 
Grado requests an hourly rate of $600.00 for attorney
Richard Marcus. The Court finds this rate to be reasonable.
 
Marcus spent 25.6 hours preparing this motion and attempting
to obtain compliance with the July 7, 2024 order. (Marcus Decl. ¶ 59.) Marcus spent
8.4 hours reviewing the opposition and drafting the reply, of which Grado
requests 4 hours. (Marcus Reply Decl. ¶¶ 51-53.) 
 
Antelope argues that the hours requested are significantly
greater than in Grado’s previous discovery and sanctions motions. Here,
however, Plaintiff requests not just time spent drafting them motion, but also
attorney time spent meeting and conferring to secure compliance with the
previous orders. The Court finds these hours to be reasonable, particularly
given the state of Antelope’s discovery responses.
 
The Court awards $17,760.00 in attorney’s fees.