 Case Number:  22SMCV01009    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Magali Alvarez v.
Emil Kohan, M.D. et al., Case No. 22SMCV01009
Hearing Date December
14, 2023 
Defendants Emil
Kohan M.D. and Emil Kohan, M.D., Inc.’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings (Continued
from 11/8/2023) 
 
Plaintiff Alvarez
sues for injuries from cosmetic surgeries in August 2018 and November 2020. On
September 13, 2023 the court granted defendants’ motion for summary judgment as
to claims arising out of the 2018 surgery, but denied summary judgment as to
the 2020 surgery. The court denied summary judgment as to the medical battery
claim arising out of the 2020 surgery, concluding “[t]his argument should be
made via motion for judgment on the pleadings[.]” 9/13/2023 minute order pg. 3.
Defendants Kohan and his corporation seek judgment on the pleadings as to the
medical battery claim. 
 
On November 8,
2023 the court issued a tentative ruling granting judgment on the pleadings. At
the hearing, the court noted the motion was untimely and continued the motion
hearing to allow Alvarez to file an opposition. 11/8/2023 minute order.
 
Alvarez objects to
the motion as untimely. Per Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §438(e), a motion for
judgment on the pleadings cannot be made “if a pretrial conference order has
been entered pursuant to Section 575 or within 30 days of the date the action
is initially set for trial, whichever is later unless the court otherwise
permits.” Under the statute, the court can permit an untimely motion for
judgment on the pleadings to be heard. Because the court encouraged Dr. Kohan
to file an MJP in its summary judgment ruling and because it continued the
initial hearing to allow Alvarez to file an opposition, it will rule on the
motion, as there is no prejudice. 
 
A cause of action
for medical battery lies when defendant performs a procedure without consent,
or if plaintiff consented to one procedure and defendant performed a
substantially different one. CACI 530A. Defendants argue the remaining
allegations do not support a cause of action for medical battery. The FAC
alleges defendant implanted a size and type of implant to which Alvarez did not
consent. FAC ¶26. The surgery was in August 2018. FAC ¶9. To the extent the
medical battery claim was based on the first surgery, it is subject to summary
judgment pursuant to the court’s 9/13/23 ruling. Allegations regarding the size
and type of implants cannot support Alvarez’s medical battery claim.
 
Alvarez’s
remaining battery allegations relate to the surgery’s outcome, not the nature
of the procedure. FAC ¶¶26-29. Alvarez alleges the surgeries produced
asymmetric breasts and buttocks. She does not allege these asymmetries were
caused by a nonconsensual surgery, but rather that defendant performed a
consensual surgery that resulted in physical harm.
 
Alvarez points to
aspects of the procedures she did not consent to, including the size of the
implants. While this might support a negligence claim, it does not support a
battery claim. Alvarez consented to the type of procedure performed. There is
no allegation he performed a “substantially different” procedure; rather, plaintiff
alleges the outcome did not conform to her expectation. Such allegations cannot
be the basis of a medical battery claim. GRANTED.