 Case Number:  23CHCV01929    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 2/20/24
Case #23CHCV01929
 
DEMURRER &
MOTION TO STRIKE TO THE ORIGINAL COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer & Motion to Strike filed on 11/17/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant K-W Properties
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
David Tchakerian, Alice Tchakerian (an adult), Mariam Hovannisyan, April
Tchakerian and Alice Tchakerian (a minor) 

NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire complaint:
1.     
Breach of Contract
2.     
Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
3.     
Breach of Warranty of Habitability
4.     
Negligence
5.     
Negligent Maintenance of Premises
6.     
Nuisance
7.     
Common Law Fraud
 
RELIEF REQUESTED IN MOTION TO STRIKE: An order
striking allegations regarding punitive damages in the
2nd, 3rd and 6th causes of action and the
prayer for punitive damages with regard to these causes of action.  
 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained with 30 days
leave to amend.  The motion to strike is
placed off calendar as moot.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiffs David Tchakerian
(David), Alice Tchakerian (an adult) (Alice Sr.), Mariam Hovannisyan (Mariam),
April Tchakerian (April) and Alice Tchakerian’s (a minor) (Alice Jr.) (collectively,
Plaintiffs) tenancy at the Townhomes at Lost Canyon, Unit 18185 from 2014 to
August 2022.  Defendant KW Santa Clarita
Townhomes (KW Santa Clarita) is the current owner of the property.  
 
In their complaint, Plaintiffs assert various
habitability claims without including specific facts as to when the issues
occurred, the role or acts of any specific defendant, the terms of any lease
which was breached or when they vacated the unit.  
 
On 7/3/23, Plaintiffs filed this action against K-W Properties
and various other defendants for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of the
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, (3) Breach of the Warranty of Habitability, (4)
Negligence, (5) Negligent Maintenance of Premises and (6) Nuisance.  Although the caption of the complaint lists a
7th cause of action for Common Law Fraud, no such cause of action is
included in the body of the complaint.  
 
After meet and confer efforts failed to resolve the
issues K-W Properties had with the complaint, on 11/17/23, K-W Properties filed
and served the instant demurrer to the entire complaint and motion to strike
which seeks to strike allegations regarding punitive damages in the 2nd,
3rd and 6th causes of action and the prayer for punitive
damages with regard to these causes of action. 
 
Plaintiff has filed a joint opposition to the demurrer
and motion to strike.  K-W Properties has
filed a joint reply to the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
K-W Properties  Request
for Judicial Notice (RJN) is granted.
 
Defendant K-W Properties is only specifically mentioned
twice in the complaint.  K-W Properties
is named as a defendant in the caption of the complaint.  (Complaint, p.1:20-21).  The only mention of this defendant in the
body of the complaint is the allegation that “Defendant 
K-W PROPERTIES is and was, at all material times relevant
to this action, a foreign entity registered in the State of California to do
business in the State of California.”  (See
Complaint ¶8).  K-W Properties is not
mentioned in the paragraph of the complaint wherein Plaintiffs set forth the
defendants they believe owned, operated, managed, and/or maintained the
property at issue in this action.  (See
Complaint ¶11).  Additionally, the entity
which acquired Townhomes at Lost Canyon in 2016 was KW Santa Clarita Townhomes,
LLC.  (RJN, Ex.1).
 
1st cause of action – Breach of Contract, 2nd
cause of action – Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment and 3rd
cause of action – Breach of Warranty of Habitability
 
A contract between the parties is a necessary element of
the 1st, 2nd and 3rd causes of action.  Richman (2014) 224 CA4th 1182, 1186; Civil
Code 1927; Green (1974) 10 C3d 616, 629, 631.  
 
There are no allegations in the complaint that indicate
that any of the Plaintiffs have a contractual relationship with K-W
Properties.  As such, the complaint fails
to allege sufficient facts to state these claims.  
 
4th cause of action – Negligence, 5th
cause of action – Negligent Maintenance of Premises and  6th cause of action - Nuisance  
 
The 4th, 5th and 6th
causes of action are all based on some duty allegedly owed by K-W Properties to
Plaintiffs and/or some wrongful conduct committed by K-W Properties.  However, Plaintiffs have failed to allege any
facts showing K-W Properties owed them any duty or committed any wrongful
conduct.
 
7th cause of action – Common Law Fraud
 
As noted above, the fraud cause of action only appears in
the caption of the complaint.  
 
The Court notes that the opposition fails to address any
of the specific arguments in the demurrer or motion to strike.  Instead, it merely quotes allegations and
concludes that they are sufficient to state the causes of action in the
complaint and claims for punitive damages. 
The opposition goes as far as claiming that the 7th cause of
action, which does not exist in the body of the complaint, has been properly
pled.  (See Opposition,
p.2:11-12).   
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is sustained.  Since this is only the original complaint and
due to the liberal policy of allowing leave to amend, Plaintiffs are given 30
days to try to cure the defects in their pleading.  The motion to strike is placed off calendar
as moot due to the ruling on the demurrer. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 