 Case Number:  24STCP03519    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  26 TENTATIVE RULING:
GMC Asset, LLC’s Petition to Release Property from
Mechanic’s Lien is DENIED.  
ANALYSIS: 
Petitioner GMC Asset, LLC (“Petitioner”) filed the instant
Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien against Respondent K-Tech Construction,
Inc. (“Respondent”) on October 28, 2024. No response to the Petition has been
filed to date.
Discussion
Petitioner moves to have the mechanic’s lien recorded
against their property by Respondent released. Under Civil Code section 8484
the petition for release order must be verified by the petitioner and allege
the following: (a) The date of recordation of the
claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the
petition. 
(a) The date of recordation of the
claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the
petition.
(b) The county in which the claim of
lien is recorded.
(c) The book and page or series number
of the place in the official records where the claim of lien is recorded.
(d) The legal description of the
property subject to the claim of lien.
(e) Whether an extension of credit has
been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for
commencement of an action to enforce the lien has expired.
(f) That the owner has given the
claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and
record a release of the lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do
so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found.
(g) Whether an action to enforce the
lien is pending.
(h) Whether the owner of the property
or interest in the property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is
another restraint that prevents the claimant from commencing an action to
enforce the lien.
(Civil Code, § 8484.) The Petition is defective in a number
of respects. First, the pleading is not verified by an officer of the
corporation, as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 446. Instead, the
verification is merely signed by an unnamed “authorized agent” of Petitioner.
(Pet., p. 5.) Second, the Petition does not show that Petitioner has not filed
for relief in bankruptcy or there is another restraint that prevents Respondent
from commencing an action to enforce the lien, as required by Civil Code
section 8484, subdivision (h). 
Civil Code section 8486, subdivision (b) requires service of
the Petition and Notice of Hearing to “be made in the same manner as service of
summons, or by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested . . . .” (Civ. Code, § 8486, subd. (b).) Petitioner has filed a
compliant proof of substitute service of the Petition and the Notice of the
Hearing Date. (Proof of Substitute Service, filed 11/06/24.) This complies with
the statute for service of process.
The Petition also seeks attorney’s fees and costs in
connection with the instant proceeding under Civil Code section 8488,
subdivision (c) but does not indicate the amount sought or provide proof of the
same. (Pet., Prayer, ¶¶3-4.)
Conclusion 
Therefore, GMC Asset, LLC’s Petition to Release Property
from Mechanic’s Lien is DENIED. 
Court clerk to give
notice.