 Case Number:  24STLC01233    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  26 Munoz v. Treystman, et al., Case No. 24STLC01233TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants Mark S. Treystman, DDS and New Century Dental Group’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.Defendants Mark S. Treystman, DDS and New Century Dental Group’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint is PLACED OFF CALENDAR AS MOOT.DemurrerANALYSIS:On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff Sandra Munoz (“Plaintiff”), in propria persona, filed the Complaint in this action against Defendants Mark S. Treystman, DDS (erroneously sued as Dr. Mark Treystman of New Century Dental Group (“Defendant Treystman”) and New Century Dental Group (“Defendant New Century Dental”). On October 9, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Demurrer to, and Motion to Strike Portions of, the Complaint. No opposition has been filed to date.Allegations in the ComplaintThe Complaint makes the following allegations, set forth at paragraph GN-1. In the summer of 2014, Plaintiff experienced severe pain on tooth #19 and consulted with Defendants. After taking an x-ray and examining the tooth, Defendant Treystman advised getting a root canal procedure done immediately. Defendant Treystman completed the procedure in the Summer of 2014 and informed Plaintiff that it went “perfectly.” Over the years, Plaintiff experienced minor discomfort in the area around the tooth and jaw but in February of 2023, experienced excruciating pain on that same tooth, #19. After examination and x-rays on February 13, 2023 with endodontists Dr. Sohn and Dr. Allyson Won of NYU Dentistry, Plaintiff was diagnosed with Symptomatic Apical Periodontitis and advised a root canal retreatment on tooth #19. On February 14, 2023, Dr. Sohn began the treatment. During the procedure, she shared her discovery of a separated instrument that was present in Plaintiff’s mesio-lingual canal from the original procedure done by Defendant Treystman. Dr. Sohn was unable to bypass the instrument and also noticed pus drainage from the messio-bucal canal. Dr. Sohn attempted to use the gentlewave machine to continue cleaning out the bacteria, but stopped because Plaintiff started experiencing unbearable pain. Dr. Sohn could not complete the root canal due to being unable to bypass the instrument.Plaintiff was informed that apicoectomy surgery would eventually be needed to properly clean the infection and extract the instrument in order to save the tooth. Plaintiff was prescribed antibiotics) on February 16, 2023, to help with the pain and swelling that continued, and to help keep the infection at bay. At the end of September of 2023, Plaintiff began feeling awful pain on tooth #19 once again. On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff went in for an apicoectomy surgery consultation with Dr. Rabitsky and Dr. Pierre Wohlgemuth, of the same clinic at NYU Dentistry, who agreed that Plaintiff would be a good candidate for the surgery. Plaintiff alleges that during this visit and the next week, she experienced the worst pain she has ever felt. On October 3, Plaintiff was prescribed antibiotics to keep the bacteria at bay until surgery on November 16, 2023.Demurrer to ComplaintThe Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Meet and Confer Decl., filed 09/25/24.) Defendants demur on the grounds that the Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) Specifically, that the Complaint demonstrates it was brought after expiration of the statute of limitations. The statute of limitations for a healthcare malpractice action is set forth at Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5: “the time for the commencement of action shall be three years after the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever occurs first. In no event shall the time for commencement of legal action exceed three years unless tolled for any of the following: (1) upon proof of fraud, (2) intentional concealment, or (3) the presence of a foreign body, which has no therapeutic or diagnostic purpose or effect, in the person of the injured person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.5.)The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff discovered the cause of her tooth pain was the separated instrument that was present in Plaintiff’s mesio-lingual canal from the original procedure done by Defendant Treystman during the procedure performed by Dr. Sohn on February 14, 2023. From that date, Plaintiff had one year to bring an action for negligence.It is said the statutory “foreign body” exception only tolls the three-year outside limitation period and not the one-year “discovery” period. (Hills v. Aronsohn, supra, 152 Cal.App.3d at p. 761, 199 Cal.Rptr. 816.) What this means, of course, is that the “foreign body” exception in section 340.5 lifts the three-year outside limit entirely if a non-therapeutic “foreign body” has been left inside a patient. It gives that patient an unlimited time to discover or to use reasonable diligence to discover the presence of the “foreign body.” But once the patient discovers or through reasonable diligence would have discovered the “foreign body” and its role in her injury she only has one year to file her lawsuit against the practitioners responsible for leaving the “foreign body” inside her. That is, the patient is not free to completely ignore the statute of limitations just because she finds out her doctor left something inside her body which is causing her harm. She must still act within one year of her discovery the “foreign body” exists and is the negligent cause of her injury. (Ashworth v. Memorial Hospital (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1046, 1058.) Whether calculated by the calendar year, or the number of days in a year (365), the last day for Plaintiff to file the instant action was Tuesday, February 14, 2024. The instant action, however, was not filed until Thursday, February 16, 2024. Based on the action being filed two days past the statute of limitations, as evidenced by the allegations in the Complaint, the action is barred by the statute of limitations.Defendants’ demurrer to the Complaint, therefore, is sustained.Motion to StrikeDefendants move to strike the portion of the Complaint where Plaintiff alleges an entitlement to punitive damages. The Motion is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, on the grounds that the Court may “strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) As with the Demurrer, Defendants have filed the required meet and confer declaration required by Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5. (Motion, Yu Decl., ¶3 and Exh. B.) In light of the ruling on the demurrer, however, the Motion to Strike is moot.Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment, however, the burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) As Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike, leave to amend is denied.ConclusionDefendants Mark S. Treystman, DDS and New Century Dental Group’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.Defendants Mark S. Treystman, DDS and New Century Dental Group’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint is PLACED OFF CALENDAR AS MOOT.Moving party to give notice.