  Case Number:  21STCV12444    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California¿ County of Los Angeles¿ Department 78¿ ¿ ENCINO NEWCASTLE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, Plaintiff(s), vs. DEL SOL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, INC., et al., Defendant(s).¿ Case No.:¿ 21STCV12444 Hearing Date:¿ July 11, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING TRIAL CONTINUANCE  I.  BACKGROUND & PROCEDURAL HISTORY On April 1, 2021, plaintiff Encino Newcastle Homeowners Association (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action against defendants Del Sol Property Management, Inc. (“Del Sol”), Lara Sinitsin, and Does 1 through 100 (collectively, “Defendants”) for breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, breach of fiduciary duty, accounting, conversion and theft, fraud, specific performance for return of Plaintiff’s books and records, and declaratory relief. On September 22, 2021, Plaintiff filed its First Amended Complaint against Defendants.  On September 28, 2022, Del Sol filed its cross-complaint against cross-defendants Encino Newcastle Homeowners Association, Kourosh Yaghoobian, Giv Bastanielahhabadi, and Allen Tabibi. On November 1, 2022, Encino Newcastle Homeowners Association, Kourosh Yaghoobian, Giv Bastanielahhabadi, and Allen Tabibi filed their Answers to Del Sol’s cross-complaint. The trial date is currently set for July 11, 2024.    Cross-Defendants Kourosh Yaghoobian and Giv Bastanielahhabadi (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) request the Court to continue the trial date and all related dates by approximately six months to January 29, 2025, or a date thereafter, in order for its motion for terminating sanctions to be heard, and for it to be able to file its MSJ prior to the current trial date.    Del Sol did not file an opposition to the motion to continue trial, but the Court notes that it did file an opposition to the ex parte application for a trial continuance on the grounds that Cross-Defendants have not named any specific discovery that would require a continuance, and that Cross-Defendants have not been diligent in terms of the desire to file a motion for summary judgment.   II.  LEGAL STANDARD Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)   Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application. (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  III.  DISCUSSION Here, the Court notes that there is a hearing on a motion to quash subpoena for business records, a motion for terminating sanctions, and a motion to compel discovery all set to be heard after the current trial date. Further, the Court recently continued Del Sol’s Motion For An Order To Show Cause Re: Contempt to the same date and time as the motion to quash due to the relationship between the motions. Based on the number of motions currently set after the hearing date, and the circumstance of this case matter’s recent reassignment effective July 5, 2024, the Court finds good cause to briefly continue the trial date by six months in order for all matters currently set to be heard, and to provide this Court sufficient time to familiarize itself with the issues.  However, the Court notes that this action, filed on April 1, 2021, has been fully at issue since November 2022, and there have been numerous continuances. Given the age and extensive history of this matter, the parties are on notice that the Court will not grant any further requests for a trial continuance.  IV. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Cross-Defendants’ motion to continue the trial date by approximately six months is GRANTED.  The July 29, 2024 trial date is continued to ______________ at 9:30 a.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The July 16, 2024 Final Status Conference is continued to _______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 31. All discovery and expert cutoff dates are continued to reflect the new trial date. The parties must plan all discovery and trial preparation accordingly.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: July 10, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim¿ Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 