 Case Number:  24STCV07729    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  49 MOTION TO STRIKE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendant Home Express Delivery Service dba Temco LogisticsRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Saul OlmosSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Saul Olmos worked for Defendant Home Express Delivery Service as a technician. Plaintiff alleges he injured his chest and shoulder while lifting a refrigerator at work, which required a leave of absence. Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant terminated his employment during medical leave. Defendant now moves to strike portions of the First Amended Complaint that seek punitive damages. Plaintiff opposed.The matter initially came for hearing on June 26, 2024, at which the court issued a Tentative Ruling granting the motion to strike. Following argument, the court continued the hearing to July 17, 2024, and invited Plaintiff to lodge a proposed Second Amended Complaint as an “offer of proof” as to whether there was a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. The court has read and considered Plaintiff’s [Proposed] Second Amended Complaint, and now rules as follows. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to punitive damages.  Hence, the Proposed Second Amended Complaint is stricken.Defendant is ordered to file an Answer to the FAC, as modified by this ruling, within 21 days, if it has not already done so.Defendant is ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Motion to StrikeA. Meet and ConferThe declaration of attorney Christine Diaz Reynolds reflects that the meet and confer requirement was satisfied.B. Legal StandardA motion to strike lies either (1) to strike any irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) to strike any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.)C. AnalysisDefendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s requests for punitive damages at various portions of the First Amended Complaint. (See Notice of Motion.) Defendant argues the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to support an award of punitive damages.Civil Code § 3294 provides that “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” As defined in § 3294(c):(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (3) “Fraud” means that a defendant intentionally misrepresented or concealed a material fact and did so intended to harm a plaintiff.“When the defendant is a corporation, ‘[a]n award of punitive damages against a corporation ... must rest on the malice of the corporation's employees. But the law does not impute every employee's malice to the corporation.’ [Citation.] Instead, the oppression, fraud, or malice must be perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation. (Civ.Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)” (Wilson v. S. California Edison Co. (2015) 234 Cal. App. 4th 123, 164.)Plaintiff alleges he worked for Defendant as a technician. (FAC ¶ 17) While lifting a refrigerator at work, Plaintiff “injured his shoulder which resulted in a swollen chest and torn shoulder muscles.” (Id. ¶ 22.) After consulting the company’s workers’ compensation doctor, Plaintiff was put on a leave of absence. (Id. ¶ 23.) Plaintiff remained on leave and was “regularly visiting the workers’ compensation doctor and providing Defendants with doctor notes mandating his leave until September 26, 2023, when Defendants terminated his employment without explanation.” (Id.) On these facts, Plaintiff alleges:[Defendant] exhibited a clear discriminatory animus and intent to cause harm to Plaintiff, who it knew was disabled and/or required a medical leave of absence. By terminating Plaintiff’s employment while Defendant Home Express Delivery Service, LLC knew Plaintiff was disabled and on an approved medical leave, Defendant Home Express Delivery Service, LLC’s conduct cannot be construed as anything other than intending to cause injury to Plaintiff or amounting to despicable conduct carried out with a willful and conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights. Moreover, this despicable conduct subjected Plaintiff to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of Plaintiff's rights. Being disabled is bad enough, but to be fired without any explanation when Plaintiff was at his most vulnerable is nothing less than despicable conduct. Plaintiff did not choose to be disabled, but Defendant Home Express Delivery Service, LLC deliberately chose to terminate his employment knowing full well the status of his medical condition. (Id. ¶ 25.)Here, beyond the general allegations that Defendant terminated Plaintiff in violation of the FEHA, Plaintiff has failed to allege the ultimate facts necessary to show the requisite malice, oppression, or fraud necessary to seek punitive damages. Additionally, Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient or specific facts of fraud, oppression, or malice “perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent” of Defendant. (CCP § 3294(b).) No officer, director, or managing agent of Defendant is named in the FAC.Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED. Generally speaking, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) In the Proposed SAC, Plaintiff alleges that his alleged termination during his medical leave was “undertaken and/or ratified by a director, officer, or managing agent of Defendant.” (Proposed SAC ¶ 23.) Plaintiff alleges, on information and belief, that “a director, officer, and/or a managing agent of Defendant had knowledge of Plaintiff’s injury and knew he had not recovered from his injury.” (Id. ¶ 24.) Plaintiff further alleges that “[w]hile Plaintiff does not know the name of that person at this pleading stage, on information and belief, a managing agent, director, or officer of Defendant would need to approve and/or ratify the decision to terminate Plaintiff and doing so under the aforementioned circumstances is malicious and/or oppressive.” (Id. ¶ 30.) Considering the offer of proof, Plaintiff has again not demonstrated that he possesses allegations that any director, officer, or managing agent acted with malice, oppression, or fraud. Plaintiff essentially alleges, only in conclusory fashion, that an unidentified director, officer, or managing agent must have approved or ratified the decision to terminate Plaintiff. This is insufficient. Therefore, Plaintiff has not demonstrated a reasonable possibility of successful amendment, and the motion to strike is granted without leave to amend.Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, as to punitive damages.  [FN 1] IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   July 17, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - However, if in the future new evidence is discovered that may support a claim for punitive damages, consistent with this ruling, Plaintiff may seek leave to amend at that time. Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.