  Case Number:  24PSCV00945    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
RETAIL VENTURES ONE
LLC’S MOTION REQUIRING PLAINTIFF TO POST BOND is DENIED because
Section 1029.8 does not provide for the recovery of attorney fees under these
facts. 
 
Background
 
This case arises from a
contract for improvements to certain real property. Plaintiff P&K Builders LLC alleges the
following against Defendants RETAIL VENTURES ONE LLC (“Retail”) and KORTH
DIRECT MORTGAGE INC. (“Korth”): Plaintiff served as the construction manager on
the Project at issue in this litigation in conjunction with general contractor
SQS Contractors Inc. (First Amended Complaint (FAC) ¶2);[1] Defendant Retail was the owner of the
project; and Defendant Korth holds a security interest in the property as the
construction lender. In February 2022, “Plaintiff began its construction
management services at the subject Property pursuant to an oral agreement with
[Retail].” (¶15.) $526,270.45 has accrued in unreimbursed costs and associated
management fees based on Plaintiff's services. (¶30.) 
 
On March 26, 2024, P&K filed suit against Defendants
for: 
 
1.              
Breach of Contract (v. Retail)
2.              
Open Book Account (v. Retail)
3.              
Account Stated (v. Retail) 
4.              
Reasonable Value of Labor and Materials Furnished
(v. Retail) 
5.              
Foreclosure of Mechanic’s Lien (v. Retail and Korth)
 
On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a ‘Notice of Recorded Lis Pendens.’
 
On April 2, 2024, Retail filed
a ‘Notice of Related Case.’ That same day, Retail filed a
cross-complaint (CC) against Plaintiff for:[2] 
 
1.              
Disgorgement of Compensation pursuant to CAL. BUS. & PROF. CODE § 7031 (b)
2.              
Negligence
and 
3.              
Breach
of Contract
 
On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to
Complaint indicating that the correct name of Retail is RETAIL VENTURES ONE
LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, not Retail Ventures One LLC, a
California corporation.
 
On April 15, 2024, the court issued a minute order
regarding Notice of Related Case. The court stated the following: “The Court
finds that the following cases, 24PSCV00945 and 24PSCV00993, are related within
the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a). 24PSCV00945 is the
lead case. For good cause shown, said cases are assigned to Judge Christian R.
Gullon in Department O at Pomona Courthouse South for all purposes.” 
 
On April 26, 2024, the court issued its order regarding
Retail’s Motion to Remove Mechanic’s Lien, namely because there was no
admissible evidence that P&K served as a manager (which would serve as an
exception to the license requirement). Based on that ruling, the court advanced
the hearing on the Motion to Expunge the Lis Pendens and granted the motion as
absent a real property claim, pursuant to CCP section 405.31, the lis pendens
must have been expunged.
 
On May 6, 2024, P&K filed its answer to Retails’ CC.
 
On June 3, 2024, P&K filed its FAC asserting the
following COAs:
 
1.    
Breach
of Oral Contract
2.    
Constructive
Trust
3.    
Open
Book Account
4.    
Account
Stated 
5.    
Quantum
Meruit 
 
On August 16, 2024, P&K dismissed Korth without
prejudice.
 
On September 6, 2024, Retail filed the instant motion.
 
On September 12, 2024, Retail filed a DISC-030 form to
take a deposition outside of California; specifically, Retails issued a
deposition subpoena to produce documents upon Texas Gulf Bank (for generally
all financial statements for all accounts held by P&K). 
 
On September 23, 2024, P&K filed an opposition to the
motion (along with evidentiary objections).
 
On September 30, 2024, Retail filed its reply (along with
responses to P&K’s evidentiary objections).
 
Legal Standard
 
Defendant Retail brings forth this motion pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure (CCP)[3]
section 1030. The relevant portions of the statute are as follows:
 
(a) When the plaintiff in an action or
special proceeding resides out of the state, or is a foreign corporation, the
defendant may at any time apply to the court by noticed
motion for an order requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking to
secure an award of costs and attorney's fees which may be awarded
in the action
or special proceeding. For the purposes of this section, “attorney's
fees” means reasonable attorney's fees a party may be authorized to recover by
a statute apart from
this section or
by contract.
(b) The motion shall be made on the
grounds that the plaintiff resides out of the state or is a foreign
corporation and that there is a reasonable possibility[4] that
the moving defendant will obtain judgment in the action or special
proceeding. The motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit in support of the
grounds for the motion and by a memorandum of points and authorities. The
affidavit shall set forth the nature and amount of the costs and attorney's
fees the defendant has incurred and expects to incur by the conclusion of the
action or special proceeding.
(c) If the court, after hearing,
determines that the grounds for the motion have been established, the court
shall order that the plaintiff file the undertaking in an amount specified
in the court's order as security for costs and attorney's fees.
(d) The plaintiff shall file the
undertaking not later than 30 days after service of the court's order requiring
it or within a greater time allowed by the court. If the plaintiff fails to
file the undertaking within the time allowed, the plaintiff's action or special
proceeding shall be dismissed as to the defendant in whose favor the order
requiring the undertaking was made. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1030 subds. (a)-(d),
emphasis and italics added.) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant Retail moves for a $500,000 bond because
P&K continues to insist that it was a contract manager when the evidence
indicates that P&K was the general contractor and provided either its own
laborers or subcontracted out certain aspects of the job. Accordingly, Retail
“requires the protection of a bond to cover the attorney fees and costs it will
incur defending this frivolous action.” (Motion p. 1:17-18, emphasis
added.) 


A.    
P&K Resides Outside California
 
The first requirement for a bond is not disputed as
P&K is a Texas entity with its principal offices also located in
Texas.  (FAC ¶1.)
 
B.    
Whether Retail May Use Section 1030 if Retail Filed a CC? 
 
Before addressing the issue of whether there is a
reasonable possibility that Retail will obtain judgment (i.e., that
P&K—which does not dispute its lack of licensure—performed work or hired
others to perform work), the
court needs to address the main argument raised in opposition: that section
1030 does not apply to cross-complaints. For reasons to be explained,
the court disagrees with P&K’s interpretation Yao v. Superior Court (2002)
104 Cal.App.4th 327 and Section 1030. 
 
In Yao, the plaintiff (Lovell)—a California resident—sued
a defendant—a citizen of Hong Kong residing in Canda. (Id. a p. 330.)
The out-of-state defendant (Yao) then filed a cross-complaint against
the California plaintiff. In response, Lovell/plaintiff filed a section
1030 motion for Yao/defendant “to post security
in order to continue to prosecute her cross-complaint.” (Ibid,
emphasis added.) The trial court granted the plaintiff’s motion
reasoning that because a cross-complaint was filed, the plaintiff became a
defendant. (Ibid.) On appeal, the “only issue …is whether section 1030
applies to a nonresident cross-complaint.” (Id. at p. 331.) The
appellate court “decline[d] plaintiff's invitation to rewrite section 1030 to provide that
‘plaintiff’ includes cross-complainant.” (Id. at pp. 332-333,
emphasis added.) “The first is that section 1030 unambiguously
refers only to a “plaintiff”; when the Legislature intends for a specific
statutory provision to apply to both a plaintiff and cross-complainant, it
expressly indicates that intent. The second is that to construe the statute
to include an out-of-state cross-complainant would not promote the policy
served by the statute.” (Id. at pp. 331-332.) The statute’s goal “is to
protect California residents who are sued by out-of-state plaintiffs when there
is no reasonable possibility the out-of-state plaintiff will prevail. The
section protects California residents by requiring the out-of-state
plaintiff to post security to ensure payment of costs and attorney fees (if
recoverable) in the likely event the plaintiff's action is defeated.” (Id.
at pp. 333-334, emphasis added.)[5]
 
Plaintiff P&K argues that Yao stands
for the proposition that the statute is limited to plaintiffs and complaints;
not cross-complainants and cross-complaints. And because Defendant will merely
obtain a judgment of dismissal should it prevail on P&K’s complaint (i.e.,
no money judgment) and that the requested bond is based on the value of the
cross-complaint’s disgorgement and negligence claims, then the statute doesn’t
apply. (See generally Opp. pp. 4-6.) The court disagrees with Plaintiff’s
interpretation for multiple reasons.  
 
Here, as noted by Retail in Reply,
Retail, as a defendant, is filing the motion whereas in Yao the plaintiff
Lovell was, by way of a cross-complaint, attempting to characterize
himself as a defendant/cross-complainant to fall within the ambit of CCP
section 1030. What is more, unlike Yao wherein the plaintiff Lovell explicitly
sought bond to prosecute the cross-complaint, here, Retail is seeking
bond to defend itself on Plaintiff’s purportedly frivolous action. And defending
oneself from a frivolous claim is the very purpose of the
statute. Now, whether defending
is limited to the action or a CC was not contemplated in Yao, but
the Legislature did address the matter.[6]
Section 1030 subdivision (a) provides that attorney fees are recoverable “in
the action.” The statute does not provide that attorney fees are recoverable
in defending “against the complaint” nor does the statute does provide that
attorney fees are “not recoverable in simultaneously prosecuting a
cross-complaint.” Echoing the appellate court in Yao, “the
Legislature clearly knows how to indicate when it wants a statutory provision
to apply” (Yao, supra, 104 Cal.App.4th at p. 332), and here, the
Legislature by not limited the recovery of fees to the complaint “did so
deliberately…and [this court] should not read statutes ….to include omitted
language.” (Ib. at p. 333.) Furthermore, to accept P&K’s invitation—which is to bar an in-state
defendant from invoking section 1030 should the in-state Defendant file a
cross-complaint—that would strip the in-state defendant of due process (i.e.,
have the right to have its claims adjudicated) because the in-state defendant
would be barred from pursuing those related claims. (See Yao, supra, 104
Cal.App.4th at p. 332, fn. 4.) Finally, should Plaintiff be unpersuaded,
the court turns to Wada Farms, Inc. v. Jules and Associates, Inc. 2015
WL 13298572 (Wada) cited in opposition. In Wada, the plaintiff, which
farms, transports, and process potatoes, filed suit in Idaho against the
defendant corporation, which was presumably a California corporation based upon
the defendant’s filing a section 1030 motion. There, even though the defendant
pursued counterclaims against the plaintiffs (at *8), that was not a factor the
court found dispositive in denying the motion. Thus, Wada inherently supports this court’s finding
that a California resident/or corporation may invoke section 1030 against an
out of state defendant even if the California corporation pursues
counterclaims. 
 
Notwithstanding,
P&K has not addressed whether a statute or contract APART FROM section
1030 permits recovery of attorney fees. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1030 subd. (a).) Here, the court’s
review of the AIA contract does not provide a provision for attorney fees.
(See Defendant’s Evidence pp. 56-63 of 270 of PDF.) As for Retail’s seeming
reliance upon Section 1029.8 to permit recovery of fees, the court is unclear
how that even applies. (Motion p. 13.) Section 1029.8 applies when an
unlicensed person “causes injury or damage to another person.” (Code of
Civ. Proc., § 1029.8 (a), emphasis added.) Here, the motion explains that
P&K “horribly perform[ed] roofing work that resulted in significant damage
from water intrusion” (Motion p. 2:6-8); damage to property is not injury to a person. Thus,
section 1029.8 is not a statute that would allow for recovery of attorney fees.

 
With that, the court need not fully
address the second requirement of Section 1030 (reasonably possibility of
obtaining judgment).[7]

 
Briefly, however, the court would find this requirement
satisfied. 
 
The motion to expunge the mechanic’s lien was this
court’s first introduction to the facts and evidence of this case. Ultimately,
the court granted Retail’s motion for the following reasons: 
 
First, the Mechanics Lien recorded by P&K contains a description of
the “labor, services, equipment, or materials;" there is no mention of
management fees, manage, or management. Second, the 12/28/23 Mechanics Lien
recorded by Dons Retail Services’ provides that it was hired by P&K (not
SQS), which suggests that P&K was the direct contractor, not a manager.
Third, the 1/2/24 Mechanics lien recorded by Commercial Dock & Door, Inc.
provides that it too was hired by P&K (not SQS), which suggests that
P&K was a contractor, not a manager. Fourth, the declaration from P&K's
CEO does not affirmatively state that P&K was hired as a project manager…Fifth,
the declaration of SQS's officer does not provide the terms of the purported
oral agreement entered into with Retail nor the names of individuals who
entered into said purported agreement. (See 4/26/24 Minute Order.)
 
Now, in this motion, Retail heavily relies upon the AIA
agreement (between Retail and P&K) and SQS’s PMQ (Rosa Santillana).[8] As
for AIA agreement, Bryan Pyne’s declaration, who is the CEO of P&K, argues that the agreement was
never updated into a final version and used documents from other projects
P&K and Retail worked on together. (See Pyne Decl., ¶5; see also Reply p. 5, fn. 2.) But Pyne is not
disputing the existence of a written contract, notably when the identifies
P&K as the “contractor.” As for Santillana, even if she is an unreliable witness because
she now confirms that SQS had no contractual relationship with Retail
and that SQS never performed any contracting work or supervision on the project
(despite stating otherwise in her declaration on the mechanic’s lien motion), her
deposition is still evidence, and evidence that directly undermines P&K’s argument
that SQS was the general contractor. The standard is the reasonable possibility
of prevailing at trial. And against that evidence, P&K has not offered sufficiently
compelling evidence as it only provides Pyne’s declaration.
 
As for attorney
fees, should the court have granted the motion, the court would reduce the
hourly rates of $575 and $650. It is an attorney’s obligation to establish “reasonable rates in the
local community as a basis for [the fee] award.” (Nemecek & Cole v. Horn
(2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 641, 652; see also Graciano v. Robinson Ford Sales,
Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 140, 155 [explaining the reasonable hourly rate
is that prevailing in the community for similar work].) Here, absent evidence
that his rate is reasonable in the local community (Nichols v. City of Taft
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1243), the court would reduce the hourly fee to
$400/hour.
 
As for hours, they are limited to reasonable hours.
Here, Retail states that it has thus far incurred about $135,000 in attorney
fees (no hours provided) and it intends on expending over 600 hours on the
matter. To contend that
“the likely costs for proceeding with this case through trial are approximately
$800,000,” (Motion p. 15:2-3) is patently unreasonable. 
 
Conclusion
 
In sum, while Section 1030 would allow Retail to secure a
bond as it is an in-state Defendant being sued by an out-of-state
Plaintiff/corporation on an allegedly frivolous claim, the statute allows for
attorney fees and costs predicated upon a statute apart from Section
1030, which Retail has not provided. Notwithstanding, should the court have
granted the motion as Retail has met the second requirement of a reasonably
possibility of obtaining a judgment at trial, the court would heavily reduce
the attorney fees as both the hourly rate and incurred/projected hours are
unreasonable. Based on the foregoing, the motion is DENIED. 
 


