  Case Number:  22SMCV00063    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Cienega
Ventures LLC v. 730 N. La Cienega, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV00063
MOTION:                  Motion
to Consolidate 
HEARING DATE:   11/21/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
The trial court is authorized to consolidate pending
“actions involving a common question of law or fact…,” so as to “avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.” (CCP § 1048(a).) The decision to consolidate
pending actions is a matter wholly committed to the trial court’s discretion. (Nat’l
Elec. Supply Co. v. Mt. Diablo Unified Sch. Dist. (1960) 187
Cal.App.2d 418, 421.) LASC Local Rule 3.3(g)(1) further directs that
consolidation cannot occur until “[a] motion to consolidate two or more cases
[is] noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different
departments, have been related into a single department, or if the cases were
already assigned to that department.”  
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.350(a)(1), a notice
of motion to consolidate must: (A) List all named parties in each case, the
names of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys
of record; (B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated,
with the lowest numbered case shown first; and (C) Be filed in each case sought
to be consolidated. (2) The motion to consolidate: (A) Is deemed a single
motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but
memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in
the lowest numbered case; (B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all
non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and (C)
Must have a proof of service filed as part of the motion. Under Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.350(b), “[u]nless otherwise provided in the order granting the
motion to consolidate, the lowest numbered case in the consolidated case in the
lead case.” 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Cienega Ventures, LLC moves
for the third time to consolidate for all purposes case nos. 22SMCV00063 and
23SMCV05806. Plaintiff contends that the cases involve common factual issues
and substantially the same evidence and witnesses. Plaintiff argues that
consolidation would prevent waste from repetitive trials and would prevent a
risk of inconsistent judgments. The Court is not inclined to consolidate the
actions for the same reasons discussed in the prior two motions. Plaintiff
cites one common factual/legal issue between the cases, that Defendants’ liability
in the fraudulent transfer action (23SMCV05806) is dependent on 730 N. La
Cienega LLC’s liability in the breach of lease action (22SMCV00063). The Court
does not find this to be a persuasive reason to try the actions together.
Plaintiff does little to show that the fraudulent transfer action will be ready
for trial by February 2025. Plaintiff does not explain what efforts have been
made to advance discovery in the fraudulent transfer matter. Plaintiff does not
show a realistic risk of inconsistent verdicts. The Court still finds that the best
course of action is to try the breach of lease action as scheduled, which will completely
resolve the fraudulent transfer action either through judgment or settlement. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to
consolidate is DENIED.