 Case Number:  23SMCV05728    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Dorasco v. Toyota
Motor Sales USA Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV05728
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
HEARING DATE:    11/21/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The purpose of the law
of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in¿Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.”¿(CCP,¿§
437c(f)(1).)¿If a party seeks summary adjudication as an alternative to a
request for summary judgment, the request must be clearly made in the notice of
the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior Court¿(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542,
1544.)¿ “[A] party may move for summary adjudication of a legal issue or a
claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not completely
dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue of duty
pursuant to” subdivision (t). (CCP,¿§ 437c(t).)¿ 
 
To prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.¿(CCP, §¿437c(c).)¿The motion cannot succeed unless
the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts;
the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when¿a material fact is the witness’s¿state of mind and
“that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s] affirmation
thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).)¿ 
 
Once the moving party has met their burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §
437c(p)(1).) “[T]here¿is no
obligation on the opposing party... to establish anything by affidavit unless
and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every
element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”¿(Consumer Cause,
Inc. v.¿SmileCare¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿ 
¿ 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment
motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues and to¿frame¿the outer measure of materiality
in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.¿(2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the
burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she
negate plaintiff's theories of liability¿as alleged in the complaint;
that is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical
possibility not included in the pleadings.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Defendants’ objections to portions of Plaintiff Dorasco’s
deposition are OVERRULED.
 
Analysis
 
Defendants Toyota Motor Sales USA
Inc. and P.T. Automotive move for summary judgment/adjudication of the
following causes of action:
 
1. Plaintiff Israel Dorasco's
breach of express warranty claim under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
fails because no defect manifested in Plaintiff s vehicle and there was no
failure to conform the vehicle to warranty in a reasonable number of
opportunities;
 
2. Plaintiff's implied warranty of
merchantability claim under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act fails
because Plaintiff sustained no damages and no defect ever manifested in
Plaintiff s vehicle; and
 
3. Plaintiff's violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200 claim fails because Defendants did
not engage in unlawful conduct.
 
Breach of Express Warranty
 
The Song-Beverly Act requires that
a plaintiff prove the following elements: “(1) [T]he vehicle had a nonconformity
covered by the express warranty that substantially impaired the use, value or
safety of the vehicle (the nonconformity element); (2) the vehicle was
presented to an authorized representative of the manufacturer of the vehicle
for repair (the presentation element); and (3) the manufacturer or his
representative did not repair the nonconformity after a reasonable number of
repair attempts (the failure to repair element).” (Oregel v. American Isuzu
Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.)
 
An “express warranty” for purposes
of the Song-Beverly Act is, as relevant here, “a written statement arising out
of a sale to the consumer of a consumer good pursuant to which the
manufacturer, distributor, or retailer undertakes to preserve or maintain the
utility or performance of the consumer good or provide compensation if there is
a failure in utility or performance.” (Civ. Code, §¿1791.2(a)(1).) A
"nonconformity" is a defect that substantially impairs the use,
value, or safety of a vehicle to the buyer. (Civ. Code §1793.22(e).) 
 
Under the Act, “[a]ny buyer of
consumer goods who is damaged by a failure to comply with any obligation under
this chapter or under an implied or express warranty… may bring an action for
the recovery of damages and other legal and equitable relief.” (Civ. Code,
§¿1794(a).) Section 1793.2 defines warranting manufacturers’ duties under
the Act. The section provides, in relevant part:
 
(b) Where those service and repair
facilities are maintained in this state and service or repair of the goods is
necessary because they do not conform with the applicable express warranties,
service and repair shall be commenced within a reasonable time by the
manufacturer or its representative in this state. Unless the buyer agrees in
writing to the contrary, the goods shall be serviced or repaired so as to
conform to the applicable warranties within 30 days. Delay caused by conditions
beyond the control of the manufacturer or its representatives shall serve to
extend this 30-day requirement. Where delay arises, conforming goods shall be
tendered as soon as possible following termination of the condition giving rise
to the delay.
 
(c) The buyer shall deliver
nonconforming goods to the manufacturer's service and repair facility within
this state…
 
(d)(1) [I]f the manufacturer or its
representative in this state does not service or repair the goods to conform to
the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts,
the manufacturer shall either replace the goods or reimburse the buyer in an
amount equal to the purchase price paid by the buyer, less that amount directly
attributable to use by the buyer prior to the discovery of the nonconformity.
 
(2) If the manufacturer or its
representative in this state is unable to service or repair a new motor vehicle…
to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of
attempts, the manufacturer shall either promptly replace the new motor vehicle
in accordance with subparagraph (A) or promptly make restitution to the buyer
in accordance with subparagraph (B). However, the buyer shall be free to elect
restitution in lieu of replacement, and in no event shall the buyer be required
by the manufacturer to accept a replacement vehicle.
 
Plaintiff alleges that on June 25,
2022, Plaintiff acquired a 2022 Toyota Tundra (the “Truck” or “Vehicle”) from
Defendants. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Defendant Toyota is a “warrantor” and Defendant PTA is
a "manufacturer" and/or "distributor" under the Song-Beverly
Act. (¶¶ 11-12.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants violated the Act by failing
to conform the Vehicle to the express written warranties within a reasonable
number of repair attempts and by failing to promptly replace the Vehicle or
make restitution. (¶ 14.) “The defects, malfunctions, and nonconformities that
were presented to Defendant’s authorized repair facilities multiple times and
substantially impair the use, value, and/or safety of the Vehicle.” (¶ 15.) In
accordance with their obligations under the act, Defendants must refund the
price of the vehicle. (Id., ¶¶16-18.) Defendants’ failure to comply with the
Act was willful. (¶19.) 
 
Defendants present evidence of the
following undisputed material facts. On June 25, 2022, Plaintiff purchased a
2022 Toyota Tundra 4X2 from Culver City Toyota. (UMF 1.) Plaintiff received a
recall notice regarding Toyota Recall No. 23TA09 (Interim Notice 23TB09) in the
mail. (UMF 2.) When the recall was launched, it was in "interim"
status, meaning that the final remedy was not yet available for the subject
vehicle. (UMF 3.) The notice explained that "The subject vehicles are
equipped with a plastic fuel tube which could move and rub against a brake line
and develop a fuel leak. A fuel leak in the presence of an ignition source
could increase the risk of fire. (UMF 4, 6.) Consumers were advised to contact
their local Toyota dealer to answer any questions while a remedy was being
prepared. (UMF 5.) Consumers would be contacted once the remedy is available. (Id.)

 
In September 2022, the subject
vehicle underwent a warranty repair related to Recall 22TA11 Electronic Parking
Brake May Not Engage or Disengage Properly. (UMF 7.) The remedy was performed
relative to Recall 22TA11. (UMF 8.)
 
On August 29, 2023, the subject
vehicle was presented to Penske Toyota for service and
Plaintiff s wife was advised about Safety Recall 23TA09
(Interim 23TB09) — Certain model Year 2022-2023 Tundra and Tundra HV —
Increased Risk of Fire. (UMF 9.) A loaner vehicle at no charge was provided
while the subject vehicle was at Penske Toyota for the recall repair. (UMF 10.)
Around December 2023 or January 2024, the subject vehicle was picked up from
Penske Toyota because the interim remedy had been completed relative to Recall
23TA09. (UMF 12.)
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff
never experienced any “symptoms” with the Vehicle related to the increased risk
of fire. (UMF 11.) Plaintiff s only current complaint with the Vehicle is
safety because the Vehicle only had a provisional repair done relative to
Recall 23TA09. (UMF 13.)
 
Non-Conformity/Defect 
 
Defendant argues that no defect
actually manifested in Plaintiff’s vehicle. Strictly construing the evidence
presented, Defendants has not shown that the Vehicle did not have a defect as
defined by the Act. Defendants argue that the defect never truly materialized
because Plaintiff never smelled fuel emanating from the Vehicle, or otherwise detected
a gas leak. (UMF 11, 13.) With this argument, Defendants conflate the existence
of a defect (here, the plastic fuel tube which could move and rub against a
brake line) with symptoms of the defect (fire and/or odors emanating from the
Vehicle). While Plaintiffs did not experience these symptoms of a
defect, Plaintiffs did allegedly experience the fuel tube defect. 
 
Defendant presents no evidence the fuel
tube defect does not substantially impair the use, value, or safety of the
Vehicle. Defendants do not explain how an increased risk of a fuel leak and
fire would not “substantially” impair the safety of the Vehicle. Plaintiff
presents evidence showing that he considered the safety defect as substantially
impairing the use and value of the Vehicle. (Dorasco Depo, at pp. 31-32, 37.)
Thus, summary adjudication would be improper on this issue.
 
 
Reasonable Number of Attempts
(Repair Element) 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff
cannot establish the “failure to repair” element because there have not been a
reasonable number of repair attempts as required by statute and caselaw. The plural
phrasing of the statute requires an unreasonable number of repair “attempts” as
a prerequisite to relief. (Civ. Code §§¿1793.2, 1794(a); Silvio v. Ford
Motor Co. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1205; see Oregel v. American Isuzu
Motors, Inc., (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1103-1104 [re: reasonable
opportunities for repair]; see also CACI 3202 ["Repair Opportunities"
defined].) The text expressly states that “if the manufacturer or its representative in this state does not
service or repair the goods to conform to the applicable express warranties
after a reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer shall either
replace the goods or reimburse the buyer in an amount equal to the purchase
price paid by the buyer, less that amount directly attributable to use by the
buyer prior to the discovery of the nonconformity.”  (Civ. Code § 1793.2(d)(1), emphasis added.) 
 
Defendants cite the fact that the
defect was remedied on a single visit, and therefore was only presented one
time. The UMFs show that Plaintiff presented the Vehicle to authorized dealers
at least two times. First, on September 3, 2022, Plaintiff presented the Vehicle
after receiving Recall 22TA11 (re: parking brake). (UMF 7-8, see Def. Ex. 5
[Repair Order 492986].) Second, on August 29, 2023, the vehicle was presented to
Penske Toyota for service and Plaintiff’s wife was advised of Recall 23TA09.
(UMF 9, 11; see Def. Ex. 6 [Repair Order 1361206]; Ex. 7 [repair order 1361894].)
Even making all reasonable inference in favor of the non-moving party, the September
2022 presentation was an attempt or “reasonable opportunity” to repair the
subject defect. Simply put, the 2022 presentation did not regard the Subject
fuel defect. Plaintiff first presented the Vehicle for repair of the subject
defect, the fuel tube, in August 2023. The record does not disclose any other
presentations. Plaintiff does not submit a dispute as to any material fact to
show any more presentations. (UMF 1-13.) The AMFs only pertain to the defective
nature of the Vehicle and the fact that Plaintiff called Toyota to express his
dissatisfaction. (AMF 1-4.) Such facts are immaterial to the number of
presentations.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
as to issue no. 1. 
 
Implied Warranty
 
Under the implied merchantability
warranty, “every sale of consumer goods that are sold at retail in this state
shall be accompanied by the manufacturer's and the retail seller's implied
warranty that the goods are merchantable.” (Civ. Code § 1792.) “[F]itness is
shown if the product ‘is “in safe condition and substantially free of
defects”....’ (Mexia v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th
1297, 1303.) “[A] merchantable vehicle under the statute requires more than the
mere capability of “just getting from point ‘A’ to point ‘B.’ ” (Brand v.
Hyundai Motor America (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1538, 1546.) The implied
warranty thus ensures not simply a product substantially free of defects, but
in particular that a vehicle is in safe condition. (Ibid., citing Isip
v. Mercedes–Benz USA, LLC (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 19, 25; Carlson v.
General Motors Corp. (4th Cir. 1989) 883 F.2d 287, 297 [a
merchantable vehicle is “substantially free of defects” and “can provide safe,
reliable transportation”].)) 
 
Defendants argue that there is no
evidence of any manifestation of an increased risk of fire defect with
Plaintiff s vehicle. Defendants cite no undisputed material facts (UMF) for
this proposition. At best, UMF 13 provides that “Plaintiff’s only current
complaint with the subject vehicle is with the safety because the vehicle only
a provisional repair done relative to Recall 23TA09, despite the recall
symptoms never manifesting after the temporary remedy was completed.” Defendants
cite to the Dorasco deposition, which states that he was concerned about
safety, that the mechanics claimed that it was fixed but he wasn’t sure, and
that he hadn’t smelled any odors or gas leaks coming from the Vehicle since
having the vehicle back. (Dorasco Depo, p. 24:22-25:5; p. 25:18-21, p.
37:2-13.) This largely retreads the arguments concerning the existence of a
defect of non-conformity. The cited “symptoms” not “manifesting” are not the
defect or non-conformity. The fact that the Vehicle did not experience certain
symptoms does not necessarily mean that the Vehicle was free of the subject
fuel tube defect. The subject fuel tube defect allegedly poses a serious safety
risk. Therefore, the record does not support finding that vehicle was unmerchantable
or unfit for ordinary purposes.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED
as to issue no. 2, and summary judgment is DENIED.
 
Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff
cannot state a violation of Song Beverly or the Commercial Code, because there
was no breach of warranty or defect in the subject vehicle, and the defect symptoms
never manifested. This restates the same arguments rejected by the Court. As
discussed above, the claims under Song Beverly and the Commercial Code do not
fail for those reasons. As such, the section 17200 claim does not fail.  
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED
as to issue no. 3.