  Case Number:  22LBCV00045    Hearing Date:   February 27, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Adam Dolewski filed this
action against Defendants, Dollar Tree Stores, Inc., Berkshire Bakersfield,
LLC, and Brentwood Group, LLC for premises liability and negligence arising out
of an incident that occurred at a Dollar Tree location in Long Beach.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ negligence
caused him to be confined in a freezer for a substantial period of time, which
caused him injuries and damages.  
 
2.    
4/12/23 Hearing on Motion to
Compel Answers to Questions at Deposition
On 4/12/23, the Court heard
Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff to answer questions at deposition.  One of the issues at the hearing was whether
Plaintiff should be required to answer questions about past drug use and drug
use history during his deposition. 
Plaintiff raised Fifth Amendment concerns.  The Court, at the conclusion of the hearing,
ruled that Plaintiff must answer the questions, but that he could limit his
responses to his drug use history for the two weeks prior to the incident that
forms the basis of the lawsuit.  
 
3.     Renewed
Motion to Require Plaintiff to Answer Questions at Deposition
a.     Parties’
Positions
Defendant renews its request for an
order requiring Plaintiff to answer questions at deposition concerning his
history of drug use prior to the incident. 
Defendant contends that, subsequent to the prior hearing, it retained an
expert who opines that a long-term history of drug use affects decision-making
capacity, such that history of drug use is relevant to its defense of this
action.  Alternatively, it seeks an order
clarifying the prior order and making clear that Defendant could only ask
questions about drug use for two weeks prior to the incident applies only to
specific questions that were at issue on the prior motion and does not apply to
restrict general questioning about drug use at Plaintiff’s upcoming
deposition.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
motion, contends the prior order is clear and does not need clarification, and there
are no new or different facts that justify reconsideration of the prior
order.  He argues Defendant could and
should have brought expert testimony into evidence prior to the first hearing
on this issue if Defendant believed testimony concerning drug use was necessary
to its defense of this case.  
 
b.     Law
Governing New and Different Facts
The threshold issue is whether
Defendant provides new or different facts, circumstances, or law to support
renewing the prior motion.  The legislative intent was to restrict
motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the court
some fact or circumstance not previously considered, and some valid reason for
not offering it earlier.  Gilberd v. AC
Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500. 
The burden under §1008 “is comparable to that of a party seeking a new
trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such
that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or
produced it at the trial.”  New York
Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.
 
A party seeking reconsideration of a prior order based on “new or
different facts, circumstances or law” must provide a satisfactory explanation
for failing to present the information at the first hearing; i.e., a showing of
reasonable diligence.  Garcia v. Hejmadi
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.  A motion
for reconsideration is properly denied where based on evidence that could have
been presented in connection with the original motion. Morris v. AGFA Corp.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460.
 
c.     Analysis
re: New or Different Facts, Circumstances, or Law
Defendant argues its retention of
Dr. James Pratty, an expert who has reviewed Plaintiff’s medical records,
constitutes a new or different fact that supports renewal of the prior
motion.  Specifically, Dr. Pratty opines
that long-term drug use affects sensory perception, which could have caused
Plaintiff to enter the freezer and allow the door to close behind him without
realizing how cold he was.  Dr. Pratty
will also opine that long-term drug use can affect decision-making ability,
including the ability to properly make a decision about whether to walk into a
freezer.  
 
Plaintiff argues none of the above
is a new or different fact because Defendant could and should have retained an
expert prior to the first hearing and made these arguments at the first
hearing.  
 
The problem with Plaintiff’s
position is that Plaintiff’s prior objection to answering these questions was
on Fifth Amendment grounds.  Plaintiff
did not seek an order limiting the questions in duration.  It was the Court, at the hearing, that
balanced the parties’ interests and unilaterally imposed the duration
restriction.  Absent Plaintiff raising
the issue of duration, there was no reason Defendant should have retained an
expert to counter the restriction prior to the hearing.  The Court is therefore satisfied that new and
different facts exist that support reconsideration of the prior order.
 
d.     Analysis
re: Whether Questions Should be Permitted
Other than contending the prior
order is clear and there are no new and different facts, Plaintiff does not
meaningfully articulate any reason the questioning should not be allowed.  Plaintiff does not challenge Dr. Pratty’s opinions
and does not contend his previously discussed Fifth Amendment protection
continues to apply.  The Court recalls,
from the prior hearing, that the time for any drug-related charges to be
pressed was set to run shortly after the hearing, and because that was almost a
year ago, the Court presumes there is no longer a Fifth Amendment issue.  
 
The Court is swayed by Dr. Pratty’s
opinions, and finds in favor of Defendant. 
The renewed motion to require Plaintiff to answer questions about his
prior drug use is granted.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not
submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely
at the hearing on this matter.   