 Case Number:  23LBCV00172    Hearing Date:   February 27, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff filed this action against
Defendants for damages arising out of a slip and fall.  Plaintiff’s attorney has been relieved as
counsel, and Plaintiff is self-represented at this time.
 
Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s
deposition for 1/24/24.  Plaintiff failed
to appear at his properly noticed deposition and has not responded to
communication attempting to reschedule the deposition.  Defendants move to compel Plaintiff’s
deposition, to compel production of documents at deposition, and to recover
sanctions.
 
Defendants applied, ex parte, on
2/07/24, for an order advancing the hearing on the motion from 4/30/24 to
2/27/24, and the Court granted the application. 
The application was made on the ground that the trial date was scheduled
for 3/04/24, and having the hearing after the trial date would not permit
Defendants to obtain the relief sought.  While
the order does not expressly clarify that the moving papers could be filed with
less than sixteen court days’ notice, as required by CCP §1005, the application
did request an order shortening the notice period for the hearing, and the
Court’s intention was to grant that relief. 
The papers were therefore timely and properly filed, despite the lack of
statutory notice to Plaintiff of the request for relief.  
 
Despite the
order, the motion is scheduled for hearing in violation of CCP §2024.020, which
makes clear that parties have the right to have motions concerning discovery
heard on or before the 15th day before the trial date.  In this case, trial is scheduled for
3/04/24.  The hearing on this motion is
scheduled for 2/27/24.  Nothing in
Defendants’ ex parte application mentioned the discovery motion cut-off, or
sought an order extending that cut-off.  The
Court’s order does not extend the cut-off. 
Notably, this action has been pending since 1/30/23, and it is not clear
why Defendants waited until 1/09/24 to propound a notice of deposition, knowing
the trial date was fast approaching and the time to schedule a hearing on any
discovery motion would likely pass before any relief could be requested or
granted.  

 
The motion is denied.  The case remains scheduled for FSC on 3/01/24
and trial on 3/04/24.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   