 Case Number:  23LBCV00700    Hearing Date:   February 27, 2024    Dept:  S27 Laura D. Each., attorney for Castro
Diesel Service, filed this motion to be relieved as counsel and related papers
on 1/30/24.  The hearing on the motion is
scheduled on 2/27/24.  2/27/24 is 18
court days after 1/30/24.  
 
Counsel filed proof of service of
the “Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel; Declaration of Laura Each; Proposed
Order.”  The proof of service indicates
Counsel served Plaintiff and Client on 1/30/24, and indicates, “I enclosed a
true and correct copy of said document(s), in an envelope via and US Mail
postage prepaid eMail, addressed as follows.” 
The document then includes Client’s and Plaintiff’s attorney’s street
address and email address.  
 
The proof of service has three
problems.  First, CCP §1013a(1) requires “an
affidavit setting forth the exact title of the document served and filed in the
cause.”  Counsel’s proof of service does
not include the exact title of each document served.  
 
Second, to the extent the documents
were served by email on Client, CRC 3.1362(d)(2) permits service on the client
by email, and requires the motion to be accompanied by a declaration stating that
the email address is current.  Notably,
the mandatory judicial council form declaration has not been updated to reflect
this change in the Rules of Court.  Counsel’s
declaration is silent concerning confirmation of the email address.  
 
CCP §1010.6(a)(3)(B) makes clear that
any document served by email must be served an additional two court days prior
to the hearing.  Thus, when §1010.6(a)(3)(B)
is read with §1005(b), the moving papers must be served at least 18 court days
prior to the hearing.  If the declaration
had made clear that the email address was confirmed, and if the proof of
service was clear that the subject documents were served by email, then service
would have been timely.    
 
To the extent the moving papers
were also served by mail, they are not timely. 
CCP §1013(a) extends time for a motion served by regular mail by five
days, rendering mail service untimely.  
 
Because neither proper email service
nor proper mail service has been established, the motion is denied without prejudice.  
 
Counsel is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   