 Case Number:  23LBCV00024    Hearing Date:   February 27, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Motion
to Compel Deposition of PMK
This Court has, in the past six to
nine months, seen a dramatic increase in motions to compel further responses
and motions to compel PMK depositions in lemon law cases.  Similar issues are presented on all of the
motions, and the attorneys for both parties fail and refuse to meet and confer
in good faith in light of this Court’s prior rulings in order to resolve issues
relating to each case.  The Court’s
docket has been inundated with these motions, with discovery motions in lemon
law cases often taking up more than five motion hearing slots in a week.  
 
The Court finds Counsel, with the assistance
of this Court’s prior rulings, can easily resolve the issues on these discovery
motions.  The Court has ruled on
discovery motions relating to PMK depositions in the following lemon law cases
(among others):
22LBCV00901
22LBCV00761
22LBCV00456
23LBCV00126
21LBCV00261
 
The Court has read and considered Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326, 331-334,
wherein the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court’s award of sanctions
against BOTH attorneys on the case, which sanctions were ordered payable to the
other party directly.  The Court finds
the attorneys in these lemon law cases are acting in a way that does not
benefit their clients, constantly incurring attorneys’ fees in connection with
discovery disputes when they are already aware of how the Court will rule on
the motions.  
 
The Court is continuing the hearing
on this motion for one month to require the parties to meet and confer in good
faith in an attempt to resolve the issues posed by way of this motion.  Counsel must review the rulings in the
above-listed cases in an attempt to resolve the issues.  Counsel must not use rulings issued by other
trial courts to assist them in their meet and confer, as those rulings are not
relevant to how this courtroom will rule on the motions.
 
If Counsel are unable to resolve
all of their issues prior to the continued hearing on the motion, they must
file a joint statement of items that remain in dispute.  The joint statement must list each discovery item
in dispute, the most current response to that item, and each party’s statement
of why a further response should or should not be ordered.  The joint statement must make arguments
relevant only to the item in dispute, not to the other items, so the Court can
easily and quickly rule on each item.  
 
If the parties resolve their
issues, they must take the motions off calendar using the online reservation
system.  If they are unable to resolve
their issues, they must also file short (no more than five pages) briefs and
declarations detailing their efforts to meet and confer and making any argument
against imposition of sanctions that they wish to articulate.
 
The joint statement, briefs and
declarations are due at least ten court days prior to the continued hearing
date.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Vehicle Inspection
Honda moves to compel a vehicle
inspection.  Plaintiffs contend the motion
is moot because they have agreed to an inspection, which is set to occur on
2/23/24.  Honda, in reply, contends
Plaintiffs only provided a date for inspection once Honda filed this motion,
which was necessitated by Plaintiffs’ ongoing failure and refusal to provide
dates for inspection.
 
The Court is inclined to continue
this hearing for one month also, and to table the issue of sanctions for one
month.  If the inspection goes forward on
2/23/24, the Court asks Honda to take the motion off calendar.  If it does not, both parties must submit
briefs and declarations at least ten days prior to the continued hearing date
concerning why it did not go forward and whether sanctions should or should not
be imposed.  
3.     Motion
to Compel Deposition
Honda moves to compel Plaintiffs’
depositions.  Plaintiffs, in opposition
to the motion, contend their depositions have already gone forward, such that
the motion is moot.  Honda, in reply,
contends Counsel for Plaintiff, Victor Martinez was an hour late to the deposition
and it was not completed, and he has not communicated about new dates for
deposition.  Honda also contends
sanctions are necessary because Plaintiffs would not have provided deposition
dates but for the pending motion.
 
Again, the Court is inclined to
continue the hearing for one month.  Plaintiffs
must immediately meet and confer with Honda to agree on a date to conclude Martinez’s
deposition.  If the issues are not
resolved, briefs and declarations must be filed at least ten days prior to the continued
hearing date.
 
4.     Conclusion
The hearing on the three discovery
motions is continued one month, to Tuesday, 3/26/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department
S27.  
 
The FSC and trial date are
continued for one month, to 4/29/24 and 5/02/24, respectively.  Both are set for 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.
 
Honda is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s
email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on
the tentative.  If the parties do not submit
on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.