 Case Number:  23STCV02398    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Karen Bobadilla,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV02398




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Nordstrom Card Services, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January
23, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Discovery
Moving Party: Defendant Nordstrom
Card Services, Inc.
Responding
Party: Plaintiff Karen Bobadilla
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
The moving party on a motion to compel
further responses to requests for production of documents (“RPDs”) must submit
“specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand.”  (CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).)  If the moving party has
shown good cause for the RPDs, the burden is on the objecting party to justify
the objections.  (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.)
 
Defendant moves to compel further
responses to requests for production of documents and to compel Plaintiff to
sit for a second day of deposition. In opposition, Plaintiff represents that
supplemental responses have been served to most requests. 
 
The remaining requests at issue are for
Plaintiff’s internet browsing history, text messages, etc. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant failed to reimburse a percentage of her phone and internet bills that
were used for work purposes. Defendant asserts these documents are necessary to
determine this percentage of time. The Court disagrees. Plaintiff’s phone bills
range from $30.00 to $105.00 per month; her internet bill is under $45.00 per
month. The Court will not order Plaintiff to produce her entire internet and
phone history over at most $25.00 per month (a quarter of her bills as
calculated by Plaintiff in opposition). Plaintiff already has testified
regarding how often she used these services for work, and has produced her
phone bills. These requests are overbroad, and any further response would unnecessarily
intrude on Plaintiff’s privacy.
 
The Court also declines to order
Plaintiff to sit for a second day of deposition. As emphasized by Plaintiff in
opposition, Defendant never noticed a second day of deposition.
 
Defendants’ motion is DENIED.
 