 Case Number:  24VECV00851    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  W NICOLAS STEELE
v. BMW OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC
 
plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
plf’s request for production, set one 
 
Date
of Hearing:        December
31, 2024                                       Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        24VECV00851
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff Nicolas Steele

Responding
Party:     Defendant BMW of North America,
LLC 
Meet
and Confer:      Yes. (Inscoe Decl.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff
Nicolas Steele filed a complaint against Defendant BMW of North America, LLC
for violations of the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Plaintiff alleges on
November 19, 2021, Plaintiff purchased a new 2022 BMW M5 CS motor vehicle. The
purchase agreement included express warranties; however, Plaintiff alleges
since purchasing the vehicle and during the warranty period, Plaintiff has
experienced a variety of substantial nonconformities. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set One is GRANTED. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiff Nicolas Steele moves the court
for an order compelling Defendant BMW of North America, LLC to serve further
responses and documents responsive to Requests for Production Set One, Nos. 3,
7, 10 and 14. Plaintiff makes the motion on the grounds Defendant’s responses
were insufficient, including waived objections and withholding discoverable
documents. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Defendant and/or its counsel
in the amount of $6,285.00. 
 
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  (CCP §
2031.310(a).) A motion to compel further response to requests for production
“shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought by the inspection demand.” (CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).)
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant’s responses
to Plaintiff’s Request for Production indicates the existence of certain
documents that Plaintiff requested but was not produced, including
Documentation of Repairs/Inspections, Media re Subject Vehicle, Inspection
Evidence/Data/Reports, and Inspection Documents. When new counsel for Plaintiff
followed up regarding the insufficient responses, Defendant indicated they
would not supplement. Plaintiff argues Defendant is withholding documents
directly relevant to its violations of the Song-Beverly Act, including  (1) whether the brake disc failure was a warrantable
defect; (2) whether Defendant willfully refused coverage; (3) whether the
Vehicle would pass without objection in the trade; (4) whether the vehicle was
fit for its ordinary purpose; (5) whether Defendant conformed the Vehicle to
warranty within 30 days.  Plaintiff also
argues BMW improperly redacted information from the warranty vehicle inquiry.
The information redacted would be relevant to whether the Vehicle was delivered
to Plaintiff with defects breaching both the implied and express warranties. Moreover,
BMW has made no legally viable objections, rather BMW only made ineffective
“General Objections.”
 
In opposition, Defendant argues there
are no possible further responses to provide as full responses and documents
have already been produced and, to the extent any documents were not produced,
they are outside the scope of permissible discovery. Specifically, RPD Nos. 3
and 7 are grossly overbroad as they are not limited in time, scope or geography
and Plaintiff’s insistence that BMW provide “all” makes the requests impossibly
overbroad. Moreover, the information redacted in the Warranty Vehicle Inquiry
is regarding information before Plaintiff took possession and irrelevant. As
for the rest, BMW argues it has already produced all responsive documents. 
 
The court agrees the general objections
have been waived. As noted by Plaintiff, Code of Civil Procedure does not allow
for “General Objections” to requests for production of documents. (See CCP
§2031.210(1)(3).)  Because each response
is ‘subject to and without waiving its objections’, the court orders further
responses without objections.  Moreover,
the court finds that each of the requests is proper and all responsive
documents must be produced, not only the limited subset offered by
defendant.   If defendant has in its
possession, custody or control records of other repairs made to the vehicle
prior to or after the plaintiff took possession of the vehicle, such records
could lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.   As for
the redaction of information in the Warranty Vehicle Inquiry regarding prior
history before Plaintiff took possession of the vehicle, the court finds the
information relevant under the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set One is GRANTED.

Sanctions
 
Plaintiff also requests sanctions in the
amount of $6,285.00 against BWM for its failure to compromise, supplement or
produce responsive documents in light of Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts.
 
Defendant BMW also requests this court
impose sanctions for Plaintiff and their counsel’s misuse of the discovery
process. 
 
The court DENIES both requests for
monetary sanctions as neither party’s position was without substantial
justification.   