 Case Number:  23VECV00938    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  W MARIA PELMI
CALDERON v. JORDAN JAMES KELLY, et al.
 
demurrer to the complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        December
31, 2024                          Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV00938
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Bagrad Petrosian, Armine Z. Petrosian, and Bagrad Petrosian & Armine Z.
Petrosian, Trustees of the Bud & Armine Petrosian Trust U/D/T Dated 7/17/06
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Maria Pelmi Calderon 
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Jenkins Decl. ¶4-6.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action involves a dog bite
incident. On March 1, 2023, Plaintiff Maria Pelmi Calderon filed a complaint
against Defendants Jordan James Kelly, Bagrad Petrosian, Armine Z. Petrosian,
and Bagrad Petrosian & Armine Z. Petrosian, Trustees of the Bud &
Armine Petrosian Trust U/D/T Dated 7/17/06 for general negligence and premises
liability. Plaintiff alleges while working as a cleaning lady in Defendant’s
house, she was attacked and bitten by a dog that was walking in and out of the
defendants' house. 
 
On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff amended
Defendant Kelly’s name to the true name of Defendant, Jordyn Jones. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’ Bagrad Petrosian, Armine Z.
Petrosian, and Bagrad Petrosian & Armine Z. Petrosian, Trustees of the Bud
& Armine Petrosian Trust U/D/T Dated 7/17/06 Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants Bagrad Petrosian, Armine Z.
Petrosian, and Bagrad Petrosian & Armine Z. Petrosian, Trustees of the Bud
& Armine Petrosian Trust U/D/T Dated 7/17/06 demur to the complaint of
Plaintiff Maria Pelmi Calderon on the grounds the complaint fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendants. 
 
Civil Code section 3342 imposes strict
liability on the owner of any dog who has bitten a person while “in a public
place or lawfully in a private place . . . regardless of the former viciousness
of the dog or the owner's knowledge of such viciousness.”  (Civ. Code, § 3342(a).)¿However, a non-owner,
such as a landlord, is not automatically liable. (Chee v. Amanda Goldt
Property Management (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1360, 1369-1370.) For a
non-owner to be liable, they must have known of the dog’s vicious propensities
and had the ability to remove the dog. 
 
Defendants first argue the complaint is
void of allegations whether Defendants had previous knowledge of the dog's
alleged dangerous and vicious nature. The court agrees. The complaint is
unclear whether Moving Defendants had prior knowledge of the dog’s vicious
nature and failed to control their property. The opposition maintains by
allowing a dangerous and vicious dog to remain free on the premises implies
knowledge on the part of the homeowner; however, this is not alleged and even
so, a demurrer tests the factual allegations, not implications. 
 
Defendants further argue the complaint is
devoid of ultimate, material, or any facts which show that Defendants owned,
monitored, controlled, restrained, walked, or otherwise handled the subject dog.
There are multiple defendants in this action and Moving Defendants maintain
Plaintiff fails to allege which Defendants owned the dog, owned the property
and who allowed the dog to roam free outside the house. When alleging a
negligence cause of action against a landlord, there must be allegations of duty
to take reasonable care to control the dog's behavior, failure to meet that
duty and that the negligence caused the harm. (See Uccello v. Laudenslayer (1975)
44 Cal.App.3d 504, 514.) Again, the court agrees. Plaintiff seems to agree that
Defendants are the property owners. As such, Plaintiff must allege the duty
that exists and how that duty was breached. Plaintiff’s current allegations
group together all defendants. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Bagrad
Petrosian, Armine Z. Petrosian, and Bagrad Petrosian & Armine Z. Petrosian,
Trustees of the Bud & Armine Petrosian Trust U/D/T Dated 7/17/06 Demurrer
is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
 