  Case Number:  22VECV02589    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  W FED REPORTER,
INC. v. LESTER SNYDER
 
defendant/cross-complainant
lester snyder’s motion to strike portions of plaintiff/cross-defendant’s
complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        December
31, 2024              Trial
Date:       March
24, 2025
Department:              W                                            Case No.:        22VECV02589
 
Moving Party:            
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lester Snyder
Responding Party:      Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Fed Reporter Inc. 
Meet and Confer:      See
footnote[1]
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 28, 2022, Plaintiff Fed
Reporter, Inc. filed a complaint against Lester Snyder for breach of contract,
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and breach of
implied duty to perform with reasonable care. In October 2016, Fed Reporter
engaged Mr. Snyder as an independent contractor to serve as a consultant in
connection with Fed Reporter’s development and marketing of a software program.
Plaintiff alleges after lengthy prior negotiations, the parties memorialized
the terms of their agreement by executing a detailed written contract titled
“Consulting Service Agreement”; however, Defendant Snyder repeatedly failed to
perform his consulting services in a satisfactory manner and as contracted for
by Fed Reporter. Plaintiff further alleges thereafter Defendant Snyder
repudiated the express terms of the Consulting Agreement by falsely asserting:
that he was the owner of the Product’s intellectual property; that he had
licensed said Product to Fed Reporter; and that he was entitled to lifetime or
“evergreen” royalty payments for Fed Reporter’s licensing of the Product.
Following extensive settlement discussions, Defendant Snyder accepted a
settlement offer that was made by Fed Reporter. However, Defendant Snyder later
reneged on the settlement agreement, thereby forcing plaintiff to file suit.
 
On Marh 7, 2023, Snyder filed a
cross-complaint against Fed Reporter, Inc. for breach of contract, breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, breach of implied duty to
perform with reasonable care, unjust enrichment, and declaratory relief. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Lester Snyder’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s
Complaint is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lester
Snyder moves to strike portions of the complaint filed by Fed Reporter, Inc. on
the grounds portions of the complaint maintain improper and irrelevant matter.
Specifically, Defendant Snyder requests that the court strike all references to
purported settlement discussions and offers, including settlement discussions
that occurred on November 10, 2022. 
 
The court may, upon motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (CCP § 436(a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(b).)  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn
or filed in conformity with laws.  (CCP §
436.)  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (CCP §
437.)
 
Evidence Code section 1152(a) states
“Evidence that a person has, in compromise or from humanitarian motives,
furnished or offered or promised to furnish money or any other thing, act, or
service to another who has sustained or will sustain or claims that he or she
has sustained or will sustain loss or damage, as well as any conduct or
statements made in negotiation thereof, is inadmissible to prove his or her
liability for the loss or damage or any part of it.”¿¿ 
 
Defendant Snyder argues the court
should strike the portions of the complaint that improperly include allegations
related to November 10, 2022 settlement negotiations between Defendant Snyder
and Fed Reporter, Inc. (see Compl. ¶¶18, 22, 23, 25, 26, 29 and 30). Defendant
Snyder contends such references are clearly barred by Evidence Code § 1152,
which aims to promote the settlement of disputes by ensuring that discussions
and offers made during settlement negotiations cannot be used against a party
in subsequent litigation. (See Caira v. Offner (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 12.)
Moreover, the allegations attempt to use statements made during settlement
discussions as evidence of Mr. Snyder’s alleged breach of the Consulting
Agreement. Defendant Snyder contends this is not only irrelevant but also
constitutes an improper attempt to leverage privileged information.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion to strike.[2]
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant Snyder’s motion is untimely.
Plaintiff contends a motion to strike any pleading must be filed “within the
time allowed to respond to a pleading” (e.g., 30 days after service of the
complaint or cross-complaint unless extended by court order or stipulation). (CCP
§ 435(b)(1); see also CRC Rule 3.1322.) In the instant matter, the operative
complaint was filed on December 28, 2022, Defendant was served on January 25,
2023, and Defendant filed his answer on March 7, 2023. Accordingly, the
deadline for Mr. Snyder to file and serve his present motion to strike was back
on or about March 7, 2023—almost two (2) full years ago. 
 
Defendant Snyder maintains this
timeliness argument is flawed because the allegations Defendant seeks to strike
pertain to newly discovered improprieties identified during discovery and Plaintiff
fails to account for the court’s broad discretion under Code of Civil Procedure
section 436, which allows the striking of irrelevant or improper matter from
pleadings “at any time.” 
 
The court disagrees. First, Defendant
Snyder does not provide how he became aware that the complaint improperly
referenced the settlement discussions during the discovery process and is
unclear to the court how Defendant Snyder did not know the allegations in the
complaint were regarding the settlement negotiations until two years later. Second,
“at any time” is made at the court’s discretion. Plaintiff made this motion
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 435, which as noted by Plaintiff,
must be made within the time allowed to respond to the pleading. Even so,
nothing in the complaint asserts that the conduct or statements alleged were
made during settlement negotiations. Paragraph 18 alleges Defendant Snyder
reneged on the settlement agreement and thereby forcing Plaintiff to file suit;
however, the remaining allegations Defendant Snyder seeks to strike are all
alleged conduct prior to the settlement negotiations on November 10, 2022. Moreover,
Defendant Snyder has not demonstrated that Evidence Code 1152 is applicable to
pleadings. Evidence Code 1152 relates to admissibility. As such, the court
finds the motion to strike an improper vehicle. If allegations truly involve
the settlement negotiations, the court finds the issue would be better resolved
via motion in limine. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lester Snyder’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Complaint is DENIED.


