 Case Number:  23STCV16799    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



COLIN MARBELLA
  MONTEON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
APRO, LLC, a Delaware Corporation, dba
  UNITED PACIFIC; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV16799
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANT APRO, LLC’S MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION AND MOTION TO STAY PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES
 
Date: March 18, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant Apro, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:  Plaintiff Colin Marbella Monteon
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This is an employment dispute. On July 18,
2023, Plaintiff Colina Marbella Monteon (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendant Apro, LLC, a Delaware Corporation, dba United Pacific (“Defendant”),
and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for: (1) disability
discrimination; (2) failure to provide reasonable accommodation; (3) failure to
engage in good faith interactive process; (4) retaliation; (5) violation of
California Family Rights Act; (6) retaliation; (7) wrongful termination; (8)
failure to pay wages for rest break periods; (9) failure to pay wages for meal
break periods; (10) waiting time penalties; and (11) unfair business practices.
            
On
January 19, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration. On March 5,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On March 11, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
             The Court OVERRULES each of Defendant’s
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Colin Marbella Monteon.
 
DISCUSSION
            Legal Standard
Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the
court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to arbitrate between the
parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or controversies in the
parties’ dispute.¿(Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th
955, 961.) A party moving to compel arbitration has the burden of establishing
the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party opposing the
petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any
fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998)
62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.) A party seeking to compel arbitration meets their
initial burden of establishing the existence of a valid arbitration agreement
by attaching a copy to the motion or petition to compel arbitration. (Espejo v.
Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047,
1060.)
 
“California has a
strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast
Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that
arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an
arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This
is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements
under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to
arbitrate in contracts involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. § 2, et
seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)
 
FAA v. CAA
            “[T]he FAA's procedural provisions (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) do not
apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause expressly
incorporating them. [Citation.] [T]he question is not whether the parties
adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state's procedural
statutes (§§ 1281.2, 1290.2) apply by default because Congress intended the
comparable FAA sections (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) to apply in federal court.
The question, therefore, is whether the parties expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 337, 345, italics in original, internal citations and quotation
marks omitted.)
 
“[P]revious cases have held that when
an arbitration agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by
California law, the California Arbitration Act (CAA) governs a party's motion
to compel arbitration. It follows that when an agreement provides that its
‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party's motion to
compel arbitration.” (Victrola 89, LLC, supra, 46
Cal.App.5th at p. 346.)
Defendant
contends the FAA governs this motion to compel arbitration. The Court
disagrees. The arbitration provision at issue only indicates that arbitration
under that agreement is governed by the FAA. (Raynor Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 1.) This
is insufficient. Absent language in an arbitration agreement expressly
incorporating the FAA’s procedural provisions, the CAA applies by default to a
motion to compel arbitration filed in a California state court. (Victrola
89, LLC, supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 345.) This is a California state
court, and none of the language in the Arbitration Agreement (defined below) expressly
incorporates the procedural provisions of the FAA. (Raynor Decl., Ex. A.)
 
Accordingly,
the CAA governs this motion to compel arbitration.[1]
 
Existence
of Valid Arbitration Agreement and Covered Claims
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the
evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 413.) “If the party opposing the petition raises a defense to
enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory
defense of waiver or revocation [citation]—that party bears the burden of
producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact
necessary to the defense.” (Ibid.) The moving party meets their initial
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a
copy to the motion. (Espejo, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1060.)
 
Defendant
attached a copy of an arbitration agreement (the “Arbitration Agreement”) to
its moving papers, which contains an arbitration clause regarding disputes
arising out of Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant. (Raynor Decl., Ex. A.) Accordingly,
Defendant has met its initial burden. The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to
challenge the validity of the Arbitration Agreement.
 
Plaintiff
does not dispute the existence of the Arbitration Agreement or that it covers
Plaintiff’s claims. Plaintiff does, however, dispute the validity of the
Arbitration Agreement, contending that Plaintiff ticked the opt-out box on the
agreement and thereby rejected its terms. (Monteon Decl., ¶ 13; ¶¶ Chu Decl.,
Ex. A.) Plaintiff contends this is sufficient to avoid its enforcement.
 
In
its reply papers, Defendant contends that Plaintiff did not complete all
necessary steps to opt out of the Arbitration Agreement. Specifically, Plaintiff
did not send an email or separate written document to Defendant indicating her
intent to opt out per Paragraph 3 of the Arbitration Agreement. (Raynor Decl.,
Ex. A, ¶ 3; Monteon Decl., ¶¶ 7-9.) Defendant contends the plain language of
the Arbitration Agreement makes clear that its terms apply unless Plaintiff
completed the opt-out procedure. Defendant notes that Plaintiff does not
dispute she failed to send the email or separate written notice within 30 days
of her receipt of the Arbitration Agreement, and that by continuing to work for
Defendant, she assented to the terms of the Arbitration Agreement.
 
The
Court finds that on its face, Defendant is correct that the Arbitration
Agreement did require Plaintiff to provide a separate email or written notice
to Defendant indicating her rejection of the Arbitration Agreement beyond the
opt-out box she ticked on that agreement. (Raynor Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 3.) However,
the Court finds that Plaintiff’s opposition raises issues concerning unconscionability
as a defense to enforcement of the Arbitration Agreement, even if she does not
expressly claim it is unconscionable. For example, she contends she is
unsophisticated and uneducated, and that there was not much explanation or
guidance surrounding the events of her executing the Arbitration Agreement.
(Monteon Decl., ¶¶ 5-11.) Accordingly, the Court will analyze whether the
Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable.
 
Unconscionability
“[P]rocedural
and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) The courts invoke a sliding
scale which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract
formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves, i.e., the more
substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is unenforceable, and
vice versa. (Id., at p. 114.) 
Plaintiff bears the burden of proving that the provision at issue is
both procedurally and substantively unconscionable.
 
“Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.
[Citations] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which
results in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice … Surprise
involves the extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a ‘prolix
printed form’ drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position.’
[Citations]” (Roman v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462,
1469.)
 
“Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results’ [Citations] that
is, whether contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively
unreasonable or unexpected manner. 
[Citation] Substantive unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but
typically is found in the employment context when the arbitration agreement is
‘one-sided’ in favor of the employer without sufficient justification, for
example, when ‘the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the
employer’s claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration.’
[Citations]” (Roman, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1469-1470.)
 
As
noted above, Plaintiff contends that she ticked the opt-out box on the
Arbitration Agreement indicating that she was rejecting it, and that this
should be sufficient to avoid its enforcement. (Monteon Decl., ¶¶ 12-14; ¶¶ Chu
Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff also contends that she is unsophisticated and
uneducated, and that there was not much explanation or guidance surrounding the
events of her executing the Arbitration Agreement. (Monteon Decl., ¶¶ 5-11.) 
 
Defendant
contends the Arbitration Agreement is not unconscionable because it provides
for a neutral arbitrator, adequate discovery, all types of relief otherwise
available in court, a written arbitration award, and the employer must pay all
fees unique to arbitration. (Motion, 18:3-20.) Defendant also contends the
arbitration language was not hidden or buried among other documents, and that
it spells out the terms in great detail with clearly labeled subheadings. (Id.,
17:3-10.)
 
On
balance, the Court finds the Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable. Plaintiff
clearly manifested her rejection of its terms when she ticked the opt-out box
on the form, which expressly indicated that she was opting out of the agreement
and was not subject to its terms. (Chu Decl., Ex. A.) The Court finds no
reasonable justification for requiring Plaintiff to reiterate her rejection of
those terms in a separate email or written notice to Defendant within 30 days
of her receipt of the Arbitration Agreement, other than to lay a trap for
unsophisticated persons like Plaintiff. This requirement is objectively
unreasonable and one-sided in Defendant’s favor. (Roman, supra, 172
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1469-1470.)
 
The
Court further notes that Defendant does not dispute Plaintiff’s lack of
sophistication or education or the circumstances surrounding her execution of
the Arbitration Agreement, which the Court construes as a tacit admission that
Plaintiff’s argument is meritorious on this point. (Holden v. City of San
Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting
the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C,
¶ 9:105.10.)
 
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and motion to stay
Plaintiff’s complaint for damages.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 18th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






