 Case Number:  21STCV32886    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 
 



OLLYE G. INGRAM, et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
ANTHONY
  THOMPSON, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.
 


 


      CASE NO.: 21STCV32886
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DISCOVERY MOTIONS
 
Date:  March 18, 2024
Time:
  8:30 a.m.
Dept.
  56
 



AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Centaurus
Financial, Inc. (“Defendant”)
 
            The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises
out of alleged mishandling of Plaintiffs’ investment property.  The currently operative second amended
complaint (the “SAC”) alleges: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) California
financial elder abuse; (3) Illinois financial elder abuse; (4) breach of
contract; (5) breach of implied duty of good faith and fair dealing; (6) aiding
and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (7) negligence; (8) violation of
Business & Professions Code sections 17200 and 17500; (9) common law fraud;
and (10) negligent misrepresentation.  
On October 31,
2023, Plaintiffs filed: (1) a motion to compel further responses to Requests
for Admission, Set One (the “RFA Motion”) and (2) a motion to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One (the “SPROGS Motion”).  The Motions also request evidentiary and
monetary sanctions due to Defendant’s failure to comply with its discovery
obligations. 
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
Under California Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section
2030.300, on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party
may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party
deems that any of the following apply: (1) an answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; (2) an exercise of the option to
produce documents under CCP section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate; or (3) an objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
(CCP § 2030.300, subd. (a).)  As
to interrogatories: (1) if only a part of an interrogatory is objectionable,
the remainder of the interrogatory shall be answered; and (2) if an objection
is made to an interrogatory or to a part of an interrogatory, the specific
ground for the objection shall be set forth clearly in the response, and if an
objection is based on a claim of privilege then the particular privilege
invoked shall be clearly stated.  (CCP §
2030.240, subds. (a)-(b).)  The burden is
on the party responding to discovery to justify his or her objections to such
discovery.  (Coy v. Superior Court of
Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)  
 
“On receipt of a
response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move
for an order compelling a further response if that party deems … [a]n answer to
a particular request is evasive or incomplete[, and/or] [a]n objection to a particular
request is without merit or too general.” 
(CCP § 2033.290.)  
 
Analysis
On July 7, 2023, after holding an
Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”), the Court ordered Defendant to provide
complete further responses to the discovery requests at issue in the Motions by
August 7, 2023.  After receiving several
extensions, Defendant provided unverified responses to both the RFAs and SPROGS
on September 12, 2023.  (Declaration of
Marc S. Ehrlich (“Ehrlich Decl.”) ¶ 9.)  
 
Defendant’s oppositions (collectively,
the “Oppositions”) provide evidence that Defendant provided verifications to
its written discovery responses on November 13, 2023.  (See Declaration of Joshua Norton
(“Norton Decl.”) ¶ 14.)
 
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s
responses to the RFAs and SPROGS remain deficient because they contain improper
objections and fail to provide an “Admit” or “Deny” response.  
 
The unverified supplemental responses
that Defendant provided before Plaintiffs filed the Motions do not constitute
legally sufficient responses because unverified responses are tantamount
to no responses at all.  (Appleton v.
Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.)
Defendant’s failure to timely provide verifications
controverted the Court’s July 7, 2023 IDC order.   
 
The Court finds Defendant’s responses
to Plaintiffs’ RFAs to be insufficiently compliant with the standards set forth
by the CCP §§ 2033.210 – 2033.220, as well as the Court’s previous order
mandating complete, substantive, code-compliant, and verified responses.  Further, evidence presented by Plaintiffs
demonstrates a pattern of non-compliance by Defendant, beginning with the
serving of “objection-only” responses and continuing with the delivery of
unverified responses, contrary to the mandates of the Court and the Code of
Civil Procedure.  This pattern reflects
an intentional and sanctionable discovery abuse that undermines the integrity
of the legal process and prejudices the plaintiffs' ability to prepare for
trial.  Therefore, the court orders Defendant
to provide full and complete amended verified responses to Plaintiffs’ RFAs. 
 
The Court finds similar issues with
Defendant’s responses to SPROGS.  Defendant’s
responses reveal that it has failed to comply with a previous court order
requiring it to deliver complete, substantive, code-compliant, and verified
responses to Plaintiffs’ SPROGS. 
Plaintiffs have sufficiently demonstrated that Defendant’s responses were
evasive and lacked the necessary detail and substantiation required by the
discovery process.  
 
            Defendant’s
Oppositions fails to set forth facts that justify Defendant’s broad objections
to the SPROGS and RFAs.  
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the RFAs
and SPROG Motions.  Defendant is ordered
to provide supplemental RFA and SPROG responses without improper objections and
with proper statements of compliance within 20 days of the date of this
order.  
 
Monetary Sanctions
            Plaintiffs
request monetary sanctions in the amount of $8,000 in connection with each
Motion.  (See Ehrlich Decl. ¶ 18.)  This amount represents: (1) six hours
preparing the moving papers at a rate of $400 per hour; (2) one hour reviewing
Defendant’s opposition; and (3) two hours drafting Plaintiffs’ reply.  This amount also includes: (1) four hours
preparing the moving papers at a rate of $550 per hour; (2) one hour reviewing
Defendant’s opposition; and (3) one hours drafting Plaintiffs’ reply.  (See Ehrlich Decl. ¶¶ 14-18.)
 
            With
respect to each Motion, the Court exercises its discretion and grants
Plaintiffs monetary sanctions in the reasonable amount of $1,600 per motion,
which represents four hours preparing the moving papers at a rate of $400 per
hour.  (Moran v. Oso Valley Greenbelt Assn. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1029,
1034.)  Defendant and counsel are jointly
responsible for paying a total of $3,200 within 20 days of the date of this
order. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
     Dated this 18th
day of March 2024
 
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 
 
 