  Case Number:  22STLC06967    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  26 Gomez
Law, APC v. Mikhael, et al.JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS(CCP § 438, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Cross-Defendants Gomez Law, APC
and James Hornbuckle’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Gomez Law, APC (“Cross-Defendant
Gomez Law”) filed the instant action for breach of retainer agreement against
Defendant Abdelnour Mikhael (“Cross-Complainant”) on October 20, 2022. Cross-Complainant
filed an Answer and Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Gomez Law and
James Hornbuckle (“Cross-Defendant Hornbuckle”) January 23, 2023. The
Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) fraud; (2) constructive fraud;
(3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4) professional negligence; and (5) unjust
enrichment. 
 
On May 22, 2023, the Court
sustained Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint with respect to the
first, second and fifth causes of action. (Minute Order, 05/22/23.) The
Demurrer was overruled as to the third and fourth causes of action. (Ibid.)
Cross-Defendants filed their answer on July 11, 2023. 
 
Cross-Defendants filed the
instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings on May 15, 2024. Cross-Complainant
filed a declaration by its counsel in opposition on July 8, 2024 with no
opposition memorandum. The Court finds that the opposition declaration fails to
meet the requirements of Cal. Rules of Court rule 3.1113(b): “The memorandum
must contain a statement of facts, a concise statement of the law, evidence and
arguments relied on, and a discussion of the statutes, cases, and textbooks
cited in support of the position advanced.” The Court exercises its discretion
to deny consideration of the opposition declaration. (See Cal. Rules of Court
3.1113(a) [“The court may construe the absence of a memorandum as an admission
that the motion . . . is not meritorious”].) 
 
Discussion
 
The standard for ruling on a
motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable
to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with
matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian
v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v.
California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.)  Matters which are subject to mandatory
judicial notice may be treated as part of the complaint and may be considered
without notice to the parties. Matters which are subject to permissive judicial
notice must be specified in the notice of motion, the supporting points and
authorities, or as the court otherwise permits. (Id.)  The motion may not be supported by extrinsic
evidence. (Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.)
 
While a statutory motion for
judgment on the pleadings brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
438, et seq. must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, there is no
such requirement for a motion for judgment on the pleadings brought pursuant to
the common law. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 439 [moving party must file declaration
demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by telephone, at least
five days before the date a motion for judgment on the pleadings is filed].) 
 
The Motion is brought on the
grounds that the causes of action remaining in the Cross-Complaint—professional
negligence and breach of fiduciary duty—can only be proved by an expert witness
and that Cross-Complainant has failed to designate any expert witness. The
Motion, however, does not cite any allegation from the Cross-Complaint nor ask
the Court to take judicial notice of any matter outside the pleadings. Instead,
the Motion relies on case law and numerous unsupported arguments. (See Motion,
pp. 4:22-7:14.) Therefore, Cross-Defendants have not carried their burden of
proof to demonstrate that they are entitled to judgment based on the state of
the pleadings and/or matters of which the Court may take judicial notice. 
 
Conclusion
 
Cross-Defendants Gomez Law, APC and James Hornbuckle’s Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED. 
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 
 