  Case Number:  23VECV04179    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  W MARY ANN TAMAYO, et al. v. ALBERTSONS
COMPANIES, INC., et al.
 
plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend 
 
Date of Hearing:        October 3, 2024                     Trial Date:          
June 9, 2025
Department:              W                                             Case No.:            23VECV04179
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiffs Mary Ann Tamayo,
Danwel Ramirez, and Zayden Ramirez, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem,
Danwel Ramirez  
Responding
Party:     Defendant The Vons Companies,
Inc.    
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 20, 2023, Plaintiffs Mary Ann Tamayo, Danwel Ramirez,
and Zayden Ramirez, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Danwel Ramirez filed
a complaint against Albertsons Companies, Inc., The Vons Companies, Inc.,
Combined
Properties Incorporated, and Platinum Security, Inc. for premises liability,
negligence, negligent hiring supervision and retention, and loss of consortium.
On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff named CAM Property Services, Inc. as Doe 1. 
 
On November 8, 2023, The Vons Companies, Inc. filed a
cross-complaint against Combined Properties, Inc. for breach of contract,
express and implied indemnity, contribution and apportionment and declaratory
relief. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend is
GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiffs Mary Ann Tamayo, Danwel Ramirez, and Zayden Ramirez
move this court for leave to amend their complaint to include allegations of,
and a prayer for, punitive damages against Defendant The Vons Companies, Inc. 
 
Leave to amend is permitted under Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The policy favoring amendment and
resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case
in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. . ..” “Although courts are
bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial
[citations], this policy should be applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to
the adverse party . . .. [citation]. A different result is indicated ‘where
inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown.
[Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471,
487.)  
 
A complainant may obtain leave from the trial court to amend his
pleading beyond the number of amendments allowed under Code of Civil Procedure
section 472 (a) by filing a noticed motion. (CRC Rule 3.1324.) The motion must
be accompanied by a declaration stating: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request was not made
earlier. (CRC Rule 3.1324 (b).)¿The motion must also include (1) a copy of the
proposed and numbered amendment, and (2) specifications by reference to pages,
paragraphs, and lines of the allegations that would be deleted and/or added.
(CRC Rule 3.1324(a).) 
 
Plaintiffs seek to add punitive damages based on newly discovered
information that David Fair, supervisor and alleged managing agent at the Vons
grocery store located at 19333 Victory Blvd, Reseda, CA 91335, consciously
disregarded the dangerous condition that caused Plaintiff Mary Ann Tamayo’s
injuries. Specifically, Defendant Vons’ PMQ testified Vons had actual knowledge
of the hazardous condition through its supervisor, David Fair, before the
incident, and failed to take remedial steps according to Vons’ policies and
procedures. Plaintiffs provide a copy of the proposed amended complaint along
with a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment; why the amendment
is necessary and proper; when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and why the request was not made earlier.¿
 
In opposition, Defendant Vons argues Plaintiff’s proposed amended
complaint does not allege facts support to support a claim for punitive damages
and therefore, amendment would be futile. In particular, there are no
allegations Defendant Vons knew of the behavior before the incident or that it
ratified Mr. Fair’s conduct. Moreover, none of the actions alleged on the part
of Vons rise to the level of   oppression,
fraud or malice. 
 
The court finds on the face of the proposed amendment, it does
appear that there may be viable claims against Vons for punitive damages. Plaintiff
has alleged that Fair was a managing agent and that he consciously disregarded
a known risk, causing injury to plaintiff.  
As noted above, the policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters
in the same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of
leave to amend can be justified. . ..” (Magpali, supra, 48
Cal.App.4th at p. 487.) As such, the court declines to resolve the merits of a
claim on a motion for leave.  Defendant
is free to make merit-based arguments on a demurrer, summary judgment, or the
like.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to Amend is GRANTED. 