  Case Number:  21STCV01740    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  74 Mamdouh Habib, et al. v. A.L. Wilson
Chemical Company, Inc., et al.
Defendant’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
The court considered the moving
papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a dispute over Decedent Mamdouh Habib’s (Decedent) exposure
to chemicals.
            On
January 14, 2021, Decedent and Loris Attia filed a complaint against Defendant
Legacy Vulcan, LLC (Defendant) and others. In the complaint, Decedent and Loris
Attia alleged negligence, strict liability, fraudulent concealment, breach of
implied warranties, and loss of consortium.
            On
July 28, 2023, Plaintiffs Loris Attia, Jennifer Habib, Sara Habib, and
Stephanie Habib (Plaintiffs) filed a first amended complaint (FAC).
            On
August 29, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to strike portions of the FAC.
LEGAL STANDARD
            A court may strike any “¿irrelevant,
false or improper matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of a pleading
“¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule,
or an order of the court.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 436¿.) “¿The grounds for a
motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿     
DISCUSSION  
            In
its motion, Defendant first aims to strike page 5, line 10, of the FAC. That
portion of the FAC lists “other products to be determined during discovery” as
chemicals to which Decedent was supposedly exposed. To allege causation in
toxic injury cases, a plaintiff must, in part, identify each product that
caused the injury at issue. (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999)
21 Cal.4th 71, 80 (Bockrath).) If the precise causal mechanism is
unknown, a plaintiff may allege causation in a conclusory fashion. (Ibid.)
But even if the causal mechanism is unknown, the plaintiff must nevertheless
still identify the products that allegedly caused Decedent’s injury. (Ibid.)
Additionally, on June 3, 2021, this court held that Defendant has the right to
be presented with a pleading that places it on proper notice of all material
allegations against it, which includes allegations of the specific products
being challenged. Accordingly, the court grants Defendant’s motion to strike
page 5, line 10, of the FAC without prejudice. Plaintiffs may seek leave to
amend the FAC to add allegations about other products once Plaintiffs can
identify them.
            Defendant
also seeks to strike the following portions of the FAC: page 38, line 4; page
42, line 6; and page 46, line 19. Each portion alleges that all Plaintiffs are
entitled to punitive and exemplary damages. But punitive
damages are not available in a statutory wrongful death action. (Boeken
v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 796.) Consequently,
Decedent’s children—Plaintiffs Sara Habib, Jennifer Habib, and Stephanie
Habib—cannot recover punitive damages. However, Plaintiff Loris Attia is
Decedent’s wife. As the successor-in-interest, she may claim punitive damages.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.34.) Thus, the court grants Defendant’s motion to
strike the following portions of the FAC: page 38, line 4; page 42, line 6; and
page 46, line 19. The court also grants Plaintiffs leave to amend so the
allegations reflect that only Plaintiff Loris Attia is entitled to punitive
damages.
CONCLUSION 
            Based
on the foregoing, the court grants Defendant’s motion to strike with leave to
amend.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice.