 Case Number:  20STCV18978    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Bifurcate filed by Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc,
Rasier-CA, LLC, and Rasier, LLC.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Background
On May 18, 2020, Plaintiff Craig
Koenekoop (“Plaintiff”) filed his complaint against Uber Technologies, Inc.,
Rasier-CA, LLC, Rasier, LLC, James Thompson, and DOES 1 to 10 for the causes of
action of Motor Vehicle Negligence and General Negligence.
On January 3, 2024,
Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc, Rasier-CA, LLC, and Rasier, LLC, (“Moving
Defendants”) filed their motion to bifurcate. Plaintiff filed his opposition on
January 4, 2024. Defendant James Thopson filed his opposition on January 5,
2024. Moving Defendants filed their reply on January 11, 2024.
Legal
Standard
 
“The court, in
furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will
be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause
of action … or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or
issues…”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048 (b).)  The court has general
discretion to order certain issues tried before others “when the convenience of
witnesses, the ends of justice or the economy and efficiency of handling the
litigation would be promoted thereby.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)
 
Discussion 
 
Uber moves to bifurcate
this matter into two parts: (1) a trial to determine the liability of Defendant
Thompson and Plaintiff’s damages, and (2) a trial to determine if Uber is
vicariously liable for Defendant Thompson. (Motion, 2:2-6.)
 
In cases assigned
to the Personal Injury Hub, the case will be tried by a different judge than
the one assigned to rule on this motion. The Court finds that because of the
close relationship between bifurcation motions and trial management, it is appropriate
in this matter for the trial judge to determine whether bifurcation is
warranted.
 
A motion to
bifurcate is not a motion in limine. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule3.57(c).)
Nonetheless, as it relates to management of the trial proceedings, a motion to
bifurcate
has certain
attributes that are similar to motions in limine. And, in cases assigned
to the Personal
Injury Hub, the trial judge (not the judge in the Personal Injury Hub) rules on
all motions in limine. While this bifurcation request is not a motion in
limine, the logic of having the trial judge determine it here is similar. The
request for bifurcation here appears to be one for which the trial judge should
make a discretionary determination based on its role in managing the trial
proceedings.
 
Accordingly, the
Court rules that Moving Defendants may submit a motion for bifurcation at the
time that motions in limine are filed. Any other party may submit an opposition
when oppositions to motions in limine are filed. The Court orders that the bifurcation
briefing be included in the trial binders in Tab B along with any motions in
limine filed in the case. If there is any issue with regard to Rule of Court
3.57, Moving Defendants or any other party may direct the trial court to this
order (which of course does not impose any obligation on the trial judge with
regard to ruling on the motion).

 
Conclusion 
Based
on the foregoing, Moving Defendants motion to bifurcate is DENIED without
prejudice. Moving party to give notice.
 
 
 
 