 Case Number:  19STCV35626    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Answers at Deposition filed by Plaintiff
Shelly Engel.
Motion to Quash or Modify Subpoena filed by Plaintiff Shelly
Engel.
 
Tentative
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel answers at deposition.
On the motion to compel,
the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.  
The
Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash the subpoenas directed to Psychiatric Alternatives
and Wellness Center, Psychiatric Treatment Centers of California, Sally
Lijedahl, and Kristina Whittig. 
The Court MODIFIES the
subpoena directed to CVS Pharmacy and, as modified, otherwise DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion to
Quash the subpoena.
On the motion to quash, the
Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
BACKGROUND 
 
This case arises out of an
incident on October 17, 2018, in which Plaintiff Shelly Engel (“Plaintiff”)
while attempting to enter West Ranch High School in Valencia, California, to
attend a concert.  In the operative complaint
(the Third Amended Complaint), Plaintiff asserts causes of action for
negligence and a dangerous condition of public property against Defendants William
S. Hart Union High School District, West Ranch High School, and Does 1 through 100.  Defendant William S. Hart Union High School
District (“Defendant”) filed its Answer to the Third Amended Complaint on June
24, 2021.
Currently before the Court are
two motions.
First, with regard to the
deposition of Donna Manfredi, an assistant principal at the time of the
incident, Plaintiff took the deposition of Ms. Manfredi on January 17,
2023.  (Shihady Decl., ¶ 17 & Exh.
A.)  Defendant’s counsel represented the
witness and, during the course of the deposition, instructed the witness not to
answer certain questions.  On March 20,
2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel the witness to return for a second
session of the deposition and answer the questions as to which the instruction
was given.  Plaintiff also seeks monetary
sanctions.  Defendant filed its
opposition on December 28, and Plaintiff filed her reply on January 4.
Second, with regard to the subpoenas,
on or about October 6, 2023, Defendant issued subpoenas for medical and billing
records of Plaintiff, including to Psychiatric Alternatives and Wellness
Center; Psychiatric Treatment Centers of California; Sally Liljedahl, LCSW; Dr.
Kristina Whittig; and CVS Pharmacy (collectively, the “Subpoenas”).  On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff moved to
quash the Subpoenas.  Plaintiff also
seeks sanctions.  Defendant filed its
opposition on January 5, and Plaintiff filed her reply on January 11.
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Motion
to Compel
“If a deponent fails to answer any question … the party seeking
discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.
(a).)  “If the court determines that the answer … is subject to
discovery, it shall order that the answer be given … on the resumption of the
deposition.”  (Id., subd. (i).)  
“The court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel an answer …, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id.,
subd. (j).)
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that any person “engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.” A “misuse of the discovery process” includes (among
other things) failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery; making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious
objection to discovery; making an evasive response to a discovery request;
disobeying a court order to provide discovery; and making or opposing,
unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial justification. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Motion
to Quash 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 1987.1, subdivision (a), states:   
If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.  
“[I]n making an order pursuant to motion made … under Section 1987.1,
the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses
incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).)
The California Constitution recognizes that
all people have “inalienable rights,” including “pursuing and obtaining safety,
happiness, and privacy.”  (Cal. Const.,
art. 1, § 1.)
For discovery purposes, information is
relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.  (Gonzalez
v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)  Generally,
all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the
action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if
it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v.
Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.)  
DISCUSSION
Motion to Compel
Ms. Donna Manfredi, an employee of Defendant, was deposed on January
17, 2023.  Defendant’s counsel represented
the deponent.
At
the deposition, Plaintiff asked the deponent a commonly asked deposition
question: did you meet with your attorney prior to the deposition.  Defendant’s counsel objected on the grounds
of attorney-client privilege and the work product doctrine and instructed the
witness not to answer.  The witness
confirmed that she would not answer based upon her counsel’s instruction.  Defendant’s counsel confirmed that he would
instruct the witness not to answer any question regarding meeting with counsel.
Defendant’s
instruction was improper.  The fact of
whether there was a meeting between counsel and a client is not, in this
context, protected by the attorney-client privilege.  Although the content of the communication is
likely privileged, the basic foundational facts – including (for example) whether
attorney and client met and, if so, when, where, for how long, whether anyone
else was present, and if so, the identity of the other individuals present – are
not.  (See, e.g., State Farm Fire
& Casualty Co. v. Super. Ct. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 625, 640 [stating
that “the attorney-client privilege” does not “protect independent facts
related to a communication; that a communication took place, and the time, date
and participants in the communication”].) 
Foundational
facts regarding a meeting between counsel and a client’s employee prior to a noticed
deposition are also not protected by the work product doctrine.  Such facts do not reveal counsel’s “impressions,
conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030, subd.
(a).)  Nor do such facts reflect the
attorney’s “industry and effort” such that disclosure would allow Plaintiff’s
attorney to “tak[e] undue advantage of their adversary’s industry and efforts.”
 (Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.020, subd. (b);
Coito v. Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 501.)  None of the cases cited by Defendant (Opp.
at 5-6) support its position.
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel.
The
Court also GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.  Defendant’s position was not substantially
justified, and it would not be unjust to impose a sanction under these circumstances.  As a result of Defendant’s misuse of the
discovery process, Plaintiff incurred expenses, including attorney’s fees, in
bringing this motion to compel.  The Court
awards sanctions in the requested amount of $1,050, calculated based upon 3
hours of attorney time (which is reasonable, and indeed conservative)
multiplied by counsel’s reasonable billing rate of $350 per hour.  (Shihady Decl., ¶ 4.)   
Motion to Quash
In this action, Plaintiff claims extensive physical
injuries.  (Khoshnou Decl., Exh. A, at pp.
9-10.)  She is not claiming emotional
distress (beyond the general pain and suffering from her claimed physical
injuries) or any urological injury.  (Id.,
¶ 2.)
Plaintiff challenges a total of five
subpoenas.  Three seek information about
her mental health (subpoenas to Psychiatric
Alternatives and Wellness Center; Psychiatric Treatment Centers of California; and
Sally Liljedahl, LCSW); one seeks information about her urological health (to Dr.
Kristina Whittig); and one seeks information regarding her medications
generally (to CVS Pharmacy).    
Plaintiff argues (among other things) that these
subpoenas violate her right to privacy.  California’s
Constitutional right to privacy protects against the unwarranted, compelled
disclosure of various private or sensitive information regarding one’s personal
life.¿ (Britt v. Superior Court (1978)20 Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)¿¿This
includes such things as medical records, employment records, and financial
information.¿¿(John B. v. Super. Ct. (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1198
(medical records); Valley Bank of Nevada v. Super. Ct. (1975) 15 Cal.3d
652, 656 (financial records); l Dorado Savings & Loan Assn. v. Super.
Ct. (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 342, 345 (employment records); Board of
Trustees v. Super. Ct. (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 526 (employment records).)

In Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, Hill v. Nat'l Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal. 4th
1, and other cases, the California Supreme Court has established “a framework
for evaluating potential invasions of privacy.” (Williams, supra, 3
Cal.5th at p. 552.) First, a party asserting a privacy right must establish “a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is
serious.” (Id., citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp. 35-37.) In
response, the party seeking the information may raise “whatever legitimate and
important countervailing interests disclosure serves,” and “the party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.” (Id.,
citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp. 37-40.) The court must then
“balance these competing considerations.” (Ibid.) The party seeking the
information need not, however, establish a “compelling interest” unless the
disclosure would be “an obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal
autonomy.” (Id. at p. 556.)
Under
the Williams and Hill framework, Plaintiff here must first
establish a legally protected privacy interest and a reasonable expectation of
privacy. Plaintiff has done so.  The medical
records covered by the Subpoenas are protected by the right to privacy, and
Plaintiff has an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in these
records.  
Next, the Subpoenas appear on their face to be a
serious intrusion into Plaintiff’s right to privacy. Information regarding
mental health care, urological health, and medications are private, personal,
and sensitive.
At this point, under Williams and Hill,
Defendant must identify the “legitimate and important countervailing
interests” that disclosure would serve. For example, Defendant may attempt to
show that the discovery sought in the Subpoenas is “directly relevant” to the
claims or defenses in dispute and is “essential to the fair resolution of the
lawsuit.” (Lantz v. Super. Ct. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839, 1854.) 
With regard to four of the five Subpoenas, Defendant
has not done so.  Information regarding
Plaintiff’s mental and urological health is not, for example, directly relevant
to the claims in dispute or essential to fair resolution of this lawsuit.  
Accordingly, the motion to quash these four
subpoenas is GRANTED.
As to the fifth subpoena, to CVS regarding Plaintiff’s
medications, Defendant has made this showing in part.  On this record, including Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony and her inability to recall certain matters, Defendant has
a legitimate interest in the subpoenaed information.
Plaintiff has not identified any feasible
alternatives that would serve the same interests and diminish the loss of
privacy.  The parties agree to limit the
subpoena to the period of 10 years prior to the incident to the present.  (Mot., at p. 6; Opp., at p. 4.)
Finally, under the framework set out in Hill
and reaffirmed in Williams, the Court must balance the “competing
considerations” of the serious intrusion into Plaintiff’s privacy and
Defendant’s legitimate need for the information.  This balancing of competing considerations is
necessarily a difficult and delicate task, and it is particularly challenging
here as the Court does not know what the subpoenaed records will reveal.
Nonetheless, the Court must and will conduct the balancing based on the
information before it in the record. 
On
balance, and after considering all of the evidence in the record and the
arguments of both sides, the Court finds that Defendant’s legitimate interest
in obtaining the records subpoenaed from CVS, for the period of October
17, 2008 to the present, outweighs Plaintiff’s substantial privacy
interest.  Accordingly, the Court will limit
the time period of the CVS subpoena and, as limited, DENY the motion to quash
that subpoena.
Finally,
the Court also GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.  As to four of the subpoenas – to Plaintiff’s mental
and urological health providers – these subpoenas were oppressive, and
Defendant opposed the motion to quash without substantial justification. 
The Court awards sanctions in the amount of $1,061.65, calculated based
on 2.5 hours of attorney time, multiplied by counsel’s reasonable billing rate
of $400 per hour, plus a filing fee of $61.65. 
(Khoshnou Decl., ¶ 10.)
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel answers at deposition.
The Court
ORDERS Ms. Donna
Manfredi to appear for a second session of her deposition and answer basic
foundational questions relating to her meeting with counsel prior to the
deposition, such as whether such a meeting occurred, and, if so, when, where,
for how long, whether anyone else was present, and if so, the identity of the
other individuals present.  The
deposition must occur on a date to be noticed by Plaintiff’s counsel within 30
days of notice of this ruling.
On the motion to compel,
the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.  
The Court ORDERS Defendant
and counsel of record Carpenter, Rothans & Dumont,
jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act
to Plaintiff in the amount of $1,050, within 30 days of notice of this ruling.
The
Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash the subpoenas directed to Psychiatric Alternatives
and Wellness Center, Psychiatric Treatment Centers of California, Sally
Lijedahl, and Kristina Whittig. 
The Court MODIFIES the
subpoena directed to CVS Pharmacy to be limited to the period of October 17, 2008 to the present.  With this modification, the Court otherwise
DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash the subpoena to CVS Pharmacy.
On the motion to quash, the
Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
The Court ORDERS Defendant
and counsel of record Carpenter, Rothans & Dumont,
jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.2 to Plaintiff in the amount of $1,061.65, within 30 days of
notice of this ruling.
Moving party is ORDERED
to give notice.