  Case Number:  21TRCV34038    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
SHARON
  L. ANDERSON, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV34038




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          August 8,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Sharon L. Anderson
Responding Party:                  Defendant County of Los Angeles
Motion to Quash
Subpoena
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The subpoena to Victorian Care Medical Group
is quashed.
BACKGROUND
On September 14, 2021, Sharon L.
Anderson filed a complaint against County of Los Angeles and Christopher Earl
for (1) professional negligence, (2) negligence, (3) negligence per se, (4)
battery, and (5) IIED.
            On November 4, 2022, plaintiff filed
a FAC.
            On January 31, 2023, the case was
transferred from the PI Hub to Dept. M.
            On June 13, 2023, the court
sustained with leave to amend defendant County’s demurrer to the 1st
cause of action and overruled it as to the 3rd and 4th
causes of action.
            On July 3, 2023, plaintiff filed a
SAC for (1) professional/medical negligence, (2) negligence, (3) battery, and
(4) IIED.
            On March 21, 2024, counsel submitted
a joint report as to a hearing on March 8, 2024, indicating the sequencing of
the depositions.
            Trial is set for October 28, 2024.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
CCP § 1987.1(a) states, “[i]f a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein,
or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any
person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after
giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.  In addition, the court may make
any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable
or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of
privacy of the person.”
CCP § 1985.3(b) states that, prior
to the date called for in the subpoena duces tecum for the production of
personal records, the subpoenaing party shall serve or cause to be served on
the consumer whose records are being sought a copy of the subpoena duces tecum,
of the affidavit supporting the issuance of the subpoena, if any, and of the
notice described in subdivision (e) (notice to consumer), and proof of service
as indicated in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c).
“[U]pon motion reasonably made by
the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling
compliance with, subpoenas.”  Lee v. Swansboro Country Property Owners
Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal. App. 4th 575, 582-83. 
Either the nonparty witness who has been subpoenaed or any party to the
action may challenge the deposition subpoena.  
Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc.
Before Trial, ¶ 8:597.  
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
Sharon L. Anderson requests that the Court quash defendant’s subpoena to
Victorian Care Medical Group, plaintiff’s primary care physician.
The SAC alleges plaintiff alleges
that she is an African American woman who was demeaned, degraded, objectified,
and assaulted by defendant County’s mental health therapist, defendant
Christopher Earl, in her attempt to obtain crucial therapy through the County
of Los Angeles Department of Mental Health.  Plaintiff had been receiving therapy from
defendant Earl for ten years for mental health related issues, including issues
stemming from the tragic loss of her only child, her 19-year old son, who lost
his life to gun violence.  SAC, ¶18.  Defendant Earl’s motivations and actions in
assaulting plaintiff were generated by and an outgrowth of his workplace
responsibilities, conditions and events, including his use and misuse of a
generally 
recognized
therapeutic method known as transference and counter-transference in providing therapy
to plaintiff.  Id., ¶19.  In mid-October 2020, defendant Earl, a
licensed mental health counselor/therapist at the Coastal Asian Pacific
Islander Family Mental Health Clinic in Gardena, while acting at all relevant
times within the course and scope of his employment with County, victimized and
further traumatized plaintiff.  He was
not properly trained to be vigilant for the risks of establishing long-term
emotional bonds with clients he provided psychological counseling or therapy.  Id., ¶20.
The SAC further alleges that in
mid-October 2020, during an active counseling session, 
defendant,
without invitation or consent, smiled and gawked at her top and said, “Are
those piercing.”  She replied, “Yes, I
had those piercing a longtime.”  He then
stated that he liked her pierced nipples and asked her to lift her shirt and
“let me see your pierced titties.”  Id.,
¶21.  Plaintiff was shocked, mortified,
and completely blind-sided by his outrageous request.  Id., ¶22. 
After
plaintiff did not comment, he was persistent and conned her saying, “No, really
let me see. 
Ain’t
nobody in here.”  She was worn down by
his insistency and gave in and showed him.  Id., ¶23.  The following week, on October 22, 2020, she
decided to call about her scheduled 
appointment.
 She left a message, and he called her
back. Upon hearing his voice, she got sick to her stomach and told him that she
did not want the session and that she was about to get in the 
shower.
 Id., ¶25.  He hung up with her and then face-timed her
attempting to catch her in the 
shower.
 Id., ¶26. Plaintiff shared her Norco
prescription with him, and he bought her tennis 
shoes.
 Id., ¶27.  She vowed to be done with him but during this
period, her sister died suddenly in 
a
violent car accident.  Id., ¶28.  She was in crisis and scheduled an appointment
for the next day 
with
him.  Id., ¶29.  Upon her arrival, he put his arms around her
upper torso and waist and squeezed her tightly against his body and rubbing his
chest against her.  Id., ¶30.  Immediately 
thereafter,
his attitude changed, and he appeared disinterested and preoccupied with his
cell 
phone.
 Id., ¶32.  She abruptly stopped the session and told him
how insensitive, offensive, and 
cruel
he was being.  She stormed out.  Id., ¶33.  Within the next couple of days, she reached
out to 
him
to tell him that she was going to schedule a meeting with the clinic director,
Helen Chang, and tell her everything he had done to her.  He tried to dissuade her.  On October 30, Chang contacted plaintiff to
schedule a meeting for November 2.  Id.,
¶34.
The SAC also alleges that prior to
the meeting on Monday, defendant Earl called her and pleaded with her not to
tell Chang what had transpired over the past couple of weeks.  Id., ¶35. During the November 2 meeting,
plaintiff told Chang everything.  Id.,
¶37.  Afterwards, Chang called Earl’s
supervisor into the meeting and later defendant Earl.  Id., ¶38.  At the end of the meeting, Chang directed Earl
to go to his office and plaintiff to create a written statement, and stated
that she would assign a new counselor.  Id.,
¶39.  On November 15, while sitting in
the lobby, Earl “strutted into the lobby, walked pass her, turned and smirked
at her as to taunt her with the fact that he was still there.”  Id., ¶40.
On June 11, 2024, the County served
a subpoena to Victorian Care Medical
Group, plaintiff’s primary care physician, seeking “any and all medical
records.”  On June 18, 2024, plaintiff’s
counsel sent a meet and confer letter objecting to the subpoena.  Counsel exchanged meet and confer letters.
Plaintiff
argues that her medical records from her primary care physician are subject to
her constitutional right to privacy and that the subpoena is “wildly
overbroad,” irrelevant, unlimited in time and scope, and wholly unrelated to
“this sexual misconduct lawsuit.”  She
contends that this case revolves around “Earl’s predatory and despicable
conduct toward” her and the County’s negligent hiring, training, supervision,
and retention of Earl, and that the issues have “nothing whatsoever to do with”
plaintiff’s gynecological records, blood pressure evaluation and treatment,
respiratory illnesses during flu season, or any other medical conditions for
which a patient typically seeks treatment from her primary care physician.  She asserts that her separate evaluation and
treatment for her mental health related matters are well documented in
thousands of pages of medical records from the Los Angeles County Mental Health
Department, which have been obtained by the County.
In
opposition, defendant County argues that the records from Victorian Care are
highly relevant for defendant to assess the credibility and extent of
plaintiff’s claims in this case. 
Defendant explains that defendants took the deposition of plaintiff on
June 7, 2024, and that she was unable to answer the overwhelming majority of
the questions because she could not recall events, and that where she was able
to provide an answer, much of her testimony “stood in direct contradiction with
the statements recorded in her records from DMH.”  Defendant contends that her deposition raised
serious concerns over the credibility of her deposition testimony but also her
self-reported medical history provided to DMH over the past eighteen
years.  Further, defendant asserts,
during the deposition, plaintiff identified several medications that she took
and continues to take as prescribed by her primary care physician in addition
to those prescribed for her mental health conditions by her psychiatrists.  Defendant argues that medications taken
concurrently with certain psychiatric medications can have profound and
compounding medical and/or psychological effects on an individual.  Further, defendant contends, plaintiff has
been treating with her primary physician for “major depression” and is also
claiming it as an injury.  Thus,
defendant argues, it is necessary to obtain plaintiff’s records to ascertain
the complete list and dosages of medications that plaintiff was prescribed in
order to assess their effects on plaintiff’s psychiatric issues.  Defendant also contends that there is no
less-intrusive means of obtaining the requested information as plaintiff is
“not a reliable source of pertinent facts as to her own medical history.”
In reply,
plaintiff contends that defendant has made no showing of direct relevancy and
has made no showing of a compelling interest in the requested discovery.  Plaintiff argues that defendant is fully
aware that the only diagnoses, treatment, and medication prescriptions she has
received in nearly twenty years related to her psychological issues have come
from only physicians employed with the County of LA Department of Mental
Health.  Further, plaintiff asserts, her
primary care physician has never seen nor treated plaintiff for any of
plaintiff’s psychological or psychiatric issues.  Plaintiff further argues that “the truth of
plaintiff’s allegations has been acknowledged and accepted by the Program
Director, who in a sworn affidavit deemed plaintiff to be credible” and that
defendant Earl was terminated in May 2022 for sexual misconduct, although
reinstated.
The Court rules as follows:  Medical records are protected by the right to
privacy.  Although relevance is typically
construed liberally (see Pacific Tel.
& Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 169), the standard is
more stringent when a party is attempting to discover documents which are
constitutionally protected by the right to privacy, such as consumer
records:  
[E]ven when discovery of private
information is found directly relevant to the issues of ongoing litigation, it
will not be automatically allowed; there must then be a careful balancing of
the compelling public need for discovery against the fundamental right of
privacy.  . . . [I]f an intrusion on the
right of privacy is deemed necessary under the circumstances of a particular
case, any such intrusion should be the minimum intrusion necessary to achieve
its objective . . . [meaning] the least intrusive means to satisfy the
interest.  Mere convenience of means or
cost will not satisfy that test for that would make expediency and not the
compelling interest the overriding value.
Lantz
v. Superior Court
(1994) 28 Cal. App. 4th 1839, 1854-1855 (internal quotes and citations omitted).
This is true even where the party
asserting the right to privacy is the party who brought the suit.  See Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842 (“While the filing of a lawsuit
may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of one’s constitutional right of
associational privacy, the scope of such waiver must be narrowly rather than
expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not be unduly deterred from
instituting lawsuits . . . . [A]n implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional
rights encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim
and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.”.)  The burden is on the party seeking the
constitutionally protected information to establish direct relevance.  Harris
v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal. App. 4th 661, 665.
The Court finds that the subpoena
is overly broad as to time and scope. 
Further, defendant has not shown direct relevancy for plaintiff’s entire
medical history or a countervailing or compelling public need for the medical
records.  This is a sexual misconduct
case.  Whether plaintiff recalls her
medical history over the past eighteen years and the medications she has been
prescribed is of no direct relevance to her credibility.  Further, as the treating mental health
provider, defendant County is in possession of her mental health records,
including the medications prescribed for her mental health.  As to whether there are certain medications
that could reduce the effectiveness of her psychiatric medication, defendant
does not identify. 
The motion is thus GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED.  The subpoena to Victorian Care Medical Group
is quashed.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of ruling.