  Case Number:  23PSCV02788    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  G Petitioner City of Azusa’s Motion to Appoint a
Receiver
Respondent: Defendant
Flagstar Bank, N.A.
TENTATIVE RULING
Petitioner City of Azusa’s Motion to Appoint a
Receiver is GRANTED
BACKGROUND
This
is a nuisance action brought by the City of Azusa (the City) to appoint a
receiver. The subject of this action is a residential property in Azusa that
allegedly has a history of substandard conditions in violation of the Azusa
Municipal Code. Starting in October 2020, the City first issued a notice of violation
with regards to the Azusa property. After issuing multiple notices of violation
and five administrative citation fines, the City declared the Azusa property a
public nuisance at a hearing on March 24, 2022.
On September 11, 2023, the
City filed a complaint for nuisance and petition for the appointment of receiver
against Respondents Thomas Ybarra; Quicken Loans, Inc. (Quicken Loans); JPMorgan
Chase Bank, National Association (Chase Bank); and Does 1-25.
On October 3, 2023, the City
amended the petition to replace Doe 1 with Respondent Flagstar Bank, National
Association (Flagstar Bank).
On January 25, 2024, the City
amended the petition to replace Doe 2 with Respondent Cavalry SPV I, LLC
(Cavalry).
On February 13, 2024, the City
filed the present motion. On February 14, 2024, the City dismissed Quicken
Loans from the present action.
A hearing on the present
petition is set for May 16, 2024, along with a case management conference, OSC
Re: Failure to File Proof of Service, and OSC Re: Default.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
The City’s request for the
court to take judicial notice of provisions in the California Building Code and
Azusa Municipal Code are GRANTED. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (a), (b).)
ANALYSIS
The
City moves the court for the appointment of GS Strategies, Inc. (GS Strategies)
as receiver for the Azusa property. For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS the City’s motion.
Pursuant
to Health and Safety Code section 17980.7, the City may petition the court for
the appointment of a receiver in the following manner:
“In its petition to the court, the enforcement
agency, tenant, or tenant association or organization shall include proof
that notice of the petition was posted in a prominent place on the
substandard building and mailed first-class mail to all persons with a
recorded interest in the real property upon which the substandard building
exists not less than three days prior to filing the petition. The
petition shall be served on the owner pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with
Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil
Procedure.” (Health & Safety Code, § 17980.7, subd. (c) (emphasis added).)
In
this case, while the City’s petition states the City “has served all parties
with a recorded interest in the Subject Property with a three-day notice,” the
City’s petition fails to include any proof that notice of the petition was
posted and properly served at least three days prior to the filing of the
petition. (Complaint, Prayer, ¶ 10.) In a declaration filed in support of the
present motion, the City’s counsel does state that the three-day notice of the
petition was sent to Ybarra, Flagstar Bank, and Chase Bank on August 31, 2023,
via certified mail. (Gunzel Decl., ¶ 7.) But while a copy of the notice itself
states “Via Certified U.S. Mail and Posting,” counsel’s declaration fails to
state when, where, and if the notice was actually posted. (Gunzel Decl., ¶ 7,
Ex. E.)
On April
25, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on the City’s motion and ordered the
City to provide a supplemental declaration that established the City’s
compliance with the posting requirement of Health and Safety Code section
17980.7, subdivision (c) by May 3, 2024. (4/25/2024 Ruling, p. 2.) On May 8,
2024, the City filed a supplemental declaration stating the notice of petition
was posted at the Azusa property on August 30, 2023. (Gunzel Suppl. Decl., ¶
3.) While the supplemental declaration was filed untimely, the Court finds the
City established compliance with the posting requirements of Health and Safety
Code section 17980.7.
Next,
the Court considers whether Respondents failed to comply with the City’s
violation notices within a reasonable time. On October 13, 2020, the City
issued a notice of violation for the Azusa property that noted the following
violations: (1) trash and debris in front yard and driveway, (2) inoperable
vehicle/trailer in the driveway, (3) temporary blue dilapidated canopy over the
driveway, (4) tall weeds in front yard, and (5) an unpermitted roof extension
on south side of garage. (Barnes Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. A.) On May 11, 2021, the City
issued an administrative citation and notice of civil fine for continued violations
which included inoperable vehicles in the driveway, tall weeds in the front
yard, trash and debris in the front yard, and an unpermitted temporary canopy
over the driveway. (Barnes Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. B.)
On
March 24, 2022, the City held a public nuisance hearing and issued a public
nuisance hearing determination letter that found the Azusa property to be a
public nuisance due to trash and debris, inoperable vehicles, trash cans in the
public view, tall weeds, and an unlicensed vehicle and motorcycle repair
business. (Barnes Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. C.) The City ordered all repairs and
corrections to be made by April 1, 2022. (Barnes Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. C.)
Subsequently from April 2022 to July 2022, the City issued three additional
notices of a civil fine for the failure to the abate the declared public
nuisance. (Barnes Decl., ¶ 8-10, Ex. D-F.)
On
August 2, 2022, the City sent a compliance demand letter that ordered Ybarra to
abate the declared public nuisance within thirty (30) days. (Barnes Decl., ¶
11, Ex. G.) Presently, the Azusa property remains in noncompliance. (Barnes
Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. H.) Based on the City’s evidence and the numerous
opportunities to correct the alleged code violations over the course of more
than two years, the Court finds Respondents failed to comply with the City’s
violation notices in a reasonable time.
Last,
the Court determines whether GS Strategies is qualified to be appointed as
receiver. An applicant qualifies for appointment as a receiver if they have
“demonstrated to the court their capacity and expertise to develop and
supervise a viable financial and construction plan for the satisfactory rehabilitation
of the building.” (Health & Safety Code, § 17980.7, subd. (c)(2).) In this
case, Kevin K. Randolph provided a declaration on behalf of GS Strategies. Mr. Randolph
states he has been appointed as receiver or receiver’s representative in over
two hundred receivership cases that involve single-family, multi-family, and
retail/commercial properties. (Randolph Decl., ¶ 4.) Mr. Randolph also states he
is a member of the California Receivers Forum and has been licensed as a member
of the bar since 1990. (Randolph Decl., ¶ 3.) Mr. Randolph also states GS
Strategies will work with licensed real estate agents including John
Martindale, Anthony Mesa, and Michael Woods. (Randolph Decl., ¶ 14.) Based on
these averments, the Court finds GS Strategies is qualified to be appointed as
a receiver in this action.
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS the City’s motion for the appointment of a receiver.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, the City’s motion to appoint a receiver is GRANTED.  Mr. Kevin K. Randolph of GS Strategies is
appointed receiver.