 Case Number:  24PSCV00713    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants GM Coach Inc.  and Gary Meng’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING The Demurrer to First  Amended Complaint by Defendants GM Coach Inc. and Gary Meng is SUSTAINED  without leave to amend as to the third cause of action and with twenty (20)  days leave to amend as to the first, second, and fourth causes of action. BACKGROUND This  is a wrongful death action arising from the death of a tour bus operator. In  September 2023, Ziheng Li was operating a tour bus for Defendants Gary Meng and  GM Coach Inc. (GM Coach) in the Yellowstone National Park when Ziheng Li  suffered a fatal cerebral hemorrhage. Plaintiff Yonghong Li, Ziheng Li’s  mother, alleges Meng was overworking Ziheng Li by requiring Ziheng Li to drive  a bus from Los Angeles to the Yellowstone National Park while GM Coach’s other  drivers were allowed to travel by plane. At the time, Yonghong Li alleges Meng  was aware of Ziheng Li’s poor health condition. On  March 11, 2024, Yonghong Li filed a complaint against Meng, GM Coach, and Does  1-50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) negligence  per se, (3) wrongful death, and (4) intentional infliction of emotional  distress (IIED). On July 29, 2024, the court sustained Meng and GM Coach’s  demurrer to the Complaint with leave to amend. On  August 19, 2024, Yonghong Li filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the  same defendants alleging the same causes of action. On September  18, 2024, Meng and GM Coach filed the present demurrer. Prior to filing on September  13, 2024, Meng and GM Coach’s counsel met and conferred telephonically with Yonghong  Li’s counsel and was unable to reach a resolution. (Lin Decl., ¶ 4.) A hearing  on the demurrer is set for October 14, 2024, along with a case management  conference on October 15, 2024. ANALYSIS Meng  and GM Coach demur to Yonghong Li’s entire FAC. For the following reasons, the court  SUSTAINS  Meng and GM  Coach’s demurrer to Yonghong Li’s third cause of action without leave to amend  and to Yonghong Li’s first, second, and fourth causes of action with leave to  amend. Legal Standard A  party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn  v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering  demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT  Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,  the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial  notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,  994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other  extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face  of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court  (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing  is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.) Negligence Causes of  Action (First, Second, and Third Causes of Action) Meng  and GM Coach argue Yonghong Li’s first cause of  action for negligence, second cause of action for negligence per se, and third  cause of action for wrongful death are insufficiently pled. The court agrees. Legal Standard The  basic elements of a negligence claim are (1) duty, (2) breach, (3) causation,  and (4) damages. (Leslie G. v. Perry & Associates (1996) 43  Cal.App.4th 472, 480.) Because “[a]llegations of negligence have long been  exempted from the code pleading requirement to state the facts constituting the  cause of action,” it may be pleaded generally. (McCoy v. Gustafson (2009)  180 Cal.App.4th 56, 102.) A cause of action for wrongful death requires “a  tort, such as negligence, and resulting death.” (Lopez v. City of Los  Angeles (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.) “The  negligence per se doctrine, as codified in Evidence Code section 669, creates a  presumption of negligence if four elements are established: ‘(1) the defendant  violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the  violation proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the  death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the nature of which the statute,  ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering  the death or the injury to his person or property was one of the class of  persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or regulation was  adopted.’” (Spates v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208,  218, quoting Galvez v. Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1420.) Discussion As  an initial matter, Meng and GM Coach argue Yonghong Li lacks standing to bring  a cause of action for wrongful death. (Demurrer, p. 7:20-29.) Pursuant to Code  of Civil Procedure section 377.60, subdivision (a), a cause of action for  wrongful death may be asserted by “[t]he decedent’s surviving spouse, domestic  partner, children, and issue of deceased children, or, if there is no  surviving issue of the decedent, the persons, including the surviving spouse or  domestic partner, who would be entitled to the property of the decedent by  intestate succession.” Because the FAC alleges Yonghong Li was Ziheng Li’s  mother (FAC, ¶ 9), Yonghong Li is only entitled to standing pursuant to Code of  Civil Procedure section 377.60, subdivision (a) if Yonghong Li is entitled to Ziheng  Li’s property by intestate succession. But the FAC fails to allege sufficient  facts to establish Yonghong Li is entitled to Ziheng Li’s property by intestate  succession. In  addition to the above requirements, standing may also be established if Yonghong  Li was “dependent on the decedent, the putative spouse, children of the  putative spouse, stepchildren, parents, or the legal guardians of the decedent  if the parents are deceased.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.60, subd. (b)(1).) “A  parent may be considered ‘dependent’ on a child for purposes of subdivision (b)  only if the child provides financial support ‘which aids them in obtaining the  things, such as shelter, clothing, food and medical treatment, which one cannot  and should not do without.’” (Soto v. BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc. (2015)  239 Cal.App.4th 165, 189, quoting Perry v. Medina (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d  603, 610.) In this case, the FAC alleges Yonghong Li was dependent upon Ziheng  Li for financial support. (FAC, ¶ 9.) Thus, Yonghong Li has adequately  established standing to bring a cause of action for wrongful death pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure section 377.60, subdivision (b). Meng  and GM Coach next argue the FAC fails to establish the elements of duty and  causation required to maintain a cause of action for negligence. As to duty,  Meng and GM Coach argue the FAC fails to plead what duties Meng and GM Coach  owed to Yonghong Li. (Demurrer, p. 5:22-6:7.) While the FAC alleges Meng and GM  Coach owed duties to Ziheng Li, the court agrees the first cause of action for  negligence is devoid of any alleged duty that Meng and GM Coach owed to  Yonghong Li. And to the extent the FAC relies on allegations that Meng and GM  Coach were negligent per se because they did not comply with federal  regulations that limit driving hours, the FAC fails to establish how a driver’s  mother is one of the class of people the regulations were intended to protect.  (FAC, ¶ 27.) Thus, the first and second causes of action for negligence and  negligence per se are insufficiently pled. As  to the third cause of action for wrongful death, Meng and GM Coach argue these claims  arise from Ziheng Li’s work and are barred by the exclusivity of California’s  workers compensation statutes. (Demurrer, p. 8:18-26.) It is well established  that California’s workers compensation scheme provides the exclusive remedy for  employees injured in the course of their employment. (LeFiell Manufacturing  Co. v. Superior Court (2012) 55 Cal.4th 275, 283.) And this exclusivity  also applies to “certain third-party claims deemed collateral to or derivative  of the employee's injury.” (Id., at p. 284.) Here, Yonghong Li failed to  file a timely opposition that demonstrates how the present wrongful death claim  is not barred by the exclusivity of California’s workers compensation scheme. Accordingly,  the court SUSTAINS Meng and GM Coach’s demurrer to the first and second cause of action with  leave to amend and to the third cause of action without leave to amend. IIED (Fourth Cause of  Action) Meng  and GM Coach contend Yonghong Li’s fourth cause of action for IIED fails to  plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court agrees. Legal Standard To  establish a claim of IIED, one must show “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by  the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the  probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering  severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of  the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.” (Wilson v.  Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, quoting Cervantez v. J.C. Penney  Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 579, 593.) Extreme and outrageous conduct is defined  as exceeding “all bounds of decency usually tolerated by a decent society” and  intending to cause mental distress. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989)  214 Cal.App.3d 590, 618.) Discussion In  this case, the FAC alleges Meng deliberately overworked Ziheng Li in conscious  disregard of the risk to Ziheng Li’s health. (FAC, ¶ 42.) The FAC also alleges  Meng concealed the true circumstances of Ziheng Li’s death, falsified work  logs, instructed other employees to withhold information, and delayed notifying  emergency services. (FAC, ¶ 43.) But such conduct must be “directed at the  plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is  aware.” (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.) None  of the above actions are alleged to have been directed at Yonghong Li. And  while the FAC does allege Meng intentionally withheld information and personal  effects from Yonghong Li (FAC, ¶ 43), Yonghong Li fails to explain how  withholding information and personal effects is extreme and outrageous conduct  that exceeds all bounds of decency. Although the FAC claims “[t]he legal basis  for claiming IIED in this context is well-established in California jurisprudence,”  neither the FAC nor Yonghong Li’s nonexistent opposition provide any citation  to such jurisprudence. (FAC, ¶ 46.) Accordingly,  the court SUSTAINS Meng and GM Coach’s demurrer to this cause of action with leave to amend. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Meng  and GM Coach’s demurrer to Yonghong Li’s  FAC is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the third cause of action  and with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the first, second, and fourth  causes of action.