 Case Number:  23TRCV02002    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Thursday, March 28, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 13  



 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Phil
Stover, et al. v. Kyle Bergstresser, et al.   
23TRCV02002
1.     
Kyle
Bergstresser, et al.’s Demurrer to Complaint 
2.     
Kyle
Bergstresser, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint   
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Kyle Bergstresser, et al.’s Demurrer to Complaint is overruled.
 
Kyle Bergstresser, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions
of Complaint is denied, in part, and granted with 20 days leave to amend, in
part.   
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on June 20, 2023.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Defendant Kyle Bergstresser
(“Bergstresser”) owns a home (856 Cypress Ave. Hermosa Beach, California)
adjacent to Plaintiffs’ home (852 Cypress Ave.). Plaintiffs, through
misrepresentations of Defendants regarding the scope and completion time of Defendant’s
construction project, provided consent to demolish and restore Plaintiffs’
walkway. Plaintiffs were told that the demolition and reconstruction of the
stairs and walkway would take 4 to 6 weeks, and that the work would be fully
permitted. However, the work proceeded without permits and with undue delays
which hindered Plaintiffs’ ability to use or sell their home. Plaintiffs allege
the following causes of action: 1. Fraud; 2. Negligent Misrepresentation; 3.
Aiding and Abetting Fraud; 4. Negligence; 5. IIED. The first and second causes
of action are alleged against Bergstresser only. The third cause of action is
alleged against Mark Rolph and MCR Construction – the parties which completed
the construction work. The fourth and fifth causes of action are alleged
against all Defendants.
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendants filed meet and confer
declarations in sufficient compliance with both CCP § 430.41 and CCP §
435.5.  (Decls., Ara Joe Keropian.)
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Defendants demur to the Complaint and each
cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and uncertainty. CCP § 430.10(e)(f).  
            First
Cause of Action for Fraud 
            The
demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled. Plaintiffs state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action and the cause of action is not uncertain.

            “A
complaint for fraud must allege the following elements: (1) a knowingly false
representation by the defendant; (2) an intent to deceive or induce reliance;
(3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and (4) resulting damages.”  Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816. “[T]he elements of an action for fraud and
deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he has known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230,
248.
            “Every
element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner
and the facts constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient
specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the nature of the charge
made.”  Tarmann v. State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.  Plaintiffs must state facts which “show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.”  Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.
            Plaintiffs
have alleged specific facts as to how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representations and/or concealments were made. (Complaint, ¶¶ 11-13, 17-23.)
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant falsely represented that the work would be
completed within four to six weeks and then concealed the fact that the work
could not be completed within this timeline and concealed the fact that the
work proceeded without proper permits. (Id.) In addition, Plaintiffs have
alleged specific facts to meet the elements of knowledge of falsity, intent to
deceive, and justifiable reliance. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant knew that
the representation was false because he intended to procure Plaintiffs’ consent
for the work project and did not want Plaintiffs’ property to be sold to a
third party first. (Complaint, ¶¶ 25, 27-31, 38.)  Plaintiffs have alleged facts to demonstrate
intent to deceive, justifiable reliance, and damages. (Complaint, ¶¶ 35-40.)
            Defendant
argues that the alleged representations are mere non-actionable opinions
regarding potential future events. “Equally well recognized is that there may
be liability for an opinion where it is expressed in a manner implying a
factual basis which does not exist. Witkin explains how this rule is often
applied to statements about future events, describing it this way: “(3) Future
Events. As pointed out above ..., predictions or representations as to what
will happen in the future are normally treated as opinion; but sometimes they
may be interpreted as implying knowledge of facts that make the predictions
probable.” Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872,
893 (internal citations omitted). Here, a factual issue exists as to whether
Defendant’s predictions or opinions are actionable because he did or did not
have sufficient facts to make these opinions probable.
            Defendant
also takes issue with certain allegations made on information and belief. “[P]laintiff
may allege on information and belief any matters that are not within his
personal knowledge, if he has information leading him to believe that the
allegations are true and thus a pleading made on information and belief is
insufficient if it merely assert[s] the facts so alleged without alleging such
information that lead[s] [the plaintiff] to believe that the allegations are
true.”  Gomes v. Countrywide Home
Loans, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158–1159 (internal citations and
quotations are omitted; emphasis in original.)  Here, as noted above, not all the allegations
are made on information and belief. However, as to the allegations that were
made on information and belief, Plaintiffs have alleged a sufficient factual
basis for their belief that the matters alleged on information and belief are
true based on the full factual narrative of the history of events that were
made on Plaintiffs’ own personal knowledge.
            While
somewhat unclear, Defendants also appear to argue that the allegations merely
amount to conduct within the context of a contract. Thus, it appears that, on
this basis, Defendants believe that the tort claims are not properly alleged.  Initially, the Court notes that Plaintiffs did
not even allege a cause of action for Breach of Contract. 
            “[C]onduct
amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also violates a
duty independent of the contract arising from principles of tort law. An
omission to perform a contract obligation is never a tort, unless that omission
is also an omission of a legal duty.” Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21
Cal.4th 543, 551 (internal citations and quotations omitted).  Here, Plaintiffs have alleged that they were
induced to provide consent to this arrangement (again it does not appear that
Plaintiffs have even officially considered this to be a “contract”) in reliance
on the false representations and would not have otherwise entered into the arrangement.

            Defendant’s
demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled. 
            Second
Cause of Action for Negligent Misrepresentation
            Defendant’s
demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled. Plaintiffs state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action and the cause of action is not uncertain. 
            “For
a claim of negligent misrepresentation, [a] plaintiff must prove the following
in order to recover[:] [M]isrepresentation of a past or existing material fact,
without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to
induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth
and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was
directed; and resulting damage.” Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2016) 5
Cal.App.5th 154, 175.  Negligent
misrepresentation is a species of fraud and requires specificity in
pleading.  See Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th
167, 184-85.  
            Here,
for the same reasons noted above, Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts to meet
the elements of the cause of action. Alternatively, to the first cause of
action, with the second cause of action, Plaintiffs have alleged that the
representations and/or concealments were conducted without reasonable ground
for believing them to be true. (Complaint, ¶ 43.)
            The
demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled.
            Third
Cause of Action for Aiding and Abetting Fraud
            The
demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled. Plaintiffs state sufficient
facts to state a cause of action and the cause of action is not uncertain. 
            “Liability
may also be imposed on one who aids and abets the commission of an intentional
tort if the person (a) knows the other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty
and gives substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b)
gives substantial assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result
and the person's own conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of
duty to the third person. Despite some conceptual similarities, civil liability
for aiding and abetting the commission of a tort, which has no overlaid
requirement of an independent duty, differs fundamentally from liability based
on conspiracy to commit a tort. [A]iding-abetting focuses on whether a
defendant knowingly gave ‘substantial assistance’ to someone who performed
wrongful conduct, not on whether the defendant agreed to join the wrongful
conduct.”  Stueve Bros. Farms, LLC v. Berger Kahn (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 303,
324 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
            Here,
Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts to meet the elements of this cause
of action. (Complaint, ¶¶ 46-50.)  Defendants’
demurrer appears to require certain evidentiary facts that are not appropriate
at this stage in the proceedings and/or appears to argue the validity of the
facts which is also not appropriate.
            Thus,
Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled.  
            Fourth
Cause of Action for Negligence
            Defendants’
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled. Plaintiffs state facts sufficient
to state a cause of action and the cause of action is not uncertain.
            The
elements of a negligence cause of action are duty to use due care and breach of
duty, which proximately causes injury.” Lopez v. City of Los Angeles
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685. Here, Plaintiffs have adequately pled facts to
meet each element of the cause of action. (Complaint, ¶¶ 51-55.)
            The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled.
            Fifth
Cause of Action for IIED
            Defendants’
demurrer is overruled. Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a cause of
action and the cause of action is not uncertain.
            “The
elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.”  Miller
v. Fortune Commercial Corp. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 214, 228–29.
            Plaintiffs
have alleged facts to meet the elements of the cause of action. Based on the
conduct already alleged in paragraphs 11-34, the factual allegations are
sufficient to allege extreme and outrageous conduct with the intention or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress, as well as
causation of severe emotional distress. (Complaint, ¶¶ 56-62.) 
            Defendants
argue that emotional distress cannot be recovered where Defendants are simply
pursuing their own economic interests in good faith.  “It is well established that one who, in
exercising the privilege of asserting his own economic interests, acts in an
outrageous manner may be held liable for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.” Fletcher v. Western National Life Ins. Co. (1970) 10
Cal.App.3d 376, 395.  Here, a factual
issue exists as to whether Defendants pursued their own economic interests in a
good faith manner and not outrageously. Certainly, the allegations of
concealment and forgery could show that Defendants may not have acted in the
most righteous manner. “Where reasonable [minds] may differ, it is for the
jury, subject to the control of the court, to determine whether, in the
particular case, the conduct has been sufficiently extreme and outrageous to
result in liability.” Fuentes v. Perez (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 163,
172.  
            The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is overruled. 
            Motion
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendants move to strike the following
paragraphs of the Complaint: 13, 20, 36-41, 47, 48, 50, 52-54, 57, 58, 63, and
paragraphs 2 and 3 of the prayer for relief.
 
As to all items except for paragraph 3 of
the prayer for relief, the motion to strike is denied.  For the reasons noted above, the allegations
are sufficiently supported with facts and are not on their face irrelevant, false,
or improper. 
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant
part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
 
Plaintiffs set forth sufficient specific
facts that Defendants acted willfully,  maliciously,
intentionally, fraudulently, and/or recklessly to support Plaintiffs’
allegations and prayer for punitive damages.
As to paragraph 3 of the prayer for
relief, the motion to strike is granted with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs fail to state a statutory or
contractual basis for the requested attorneys’ fees.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of
this ruling.