 Case Number:  23TRCV00910    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                      Thursday,
March 28, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 12
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Junine Gonzalez v. CCS Los Angeles
Janitorial, Inc., et al.
            23TRCV00910
1.      CCS Los Angeles Janitorial, Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Action
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            CCS Los Angeles Janitorial, Inc.’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action is denied, in part.  
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March
27, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff is a former employee
of Defendant. Plaintiff alleges that she was subjected to discriminatory and
retaliatory conduct based on her pregnancy status. Plaintiff alleges the
following causes of action: 1. Sex and Pregnancy Discrimination in Violation of
FEHA Cal. Gov. Code § 12945 2. Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment,
or Retaliation in Violation of FEHA Cal. Gov’t Code § 12940 3. Retaliation for
Requesting Pregnancy-Related Accommodations in Violation of FEHA, Cal. Gov’t
Code § 12940 4. Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy 5. Failure
to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor Code § 226 6. Violation
of Labor Code § 1198.5.
 
            Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
Defendant moves for an order compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims, and for an order to stay the action pending completion of arbitration.  The motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §1281 et seq. and the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) on the grounds
Plaintiff is bound by a written agreement to arbitrate the subject matter of
the Complaint. 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 states, in relevant part: “On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement
to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to
arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists[. . .]” “Generally, an arbitration agreement
must be memorialized in writing. A party's acceptance of an agreement to
arbitrate may be express, as where a party signs the agreement. A signed
agreement is not necessary, however, and a party's acceptance may be implied in
fact or be effectuated by delegated consent. An arbitration clause within a
contract may be binding on a party even if the party never actually read the
clause.”  Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn.
v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236
(internal citations omitted). It is not an adequate defense to enforcement that
Plaintiff failed to read and understand the agreement before signing the
agreement. Caballero v. Premier Care Simi Valley LLC (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 512, 519.
 
Defendant has established the existence of a valid arbitration agreement between
Plaintiff and Defendant pursuant to a collectively bargained agreement. (Decl.,
Dana Holladay, ¶¶ 7-11, Ex. A.)  The agreement
states “[a]ny violation or alleged violation of any matter covered by this
collective bargaining agreement must be exclusively processed as a grievance in
the manner required by this Article XXIII.A, XXIV.A, or the Alternate Dispute
Resolution Protocol.” Defendant has shown that the collective bargaining
agreement may be enforceable and affects interstate commerce. (Id.) Defendant
has established the existence of an arbitration agreement and Plaintiff’s
refusal to submit to arbitration.  (Decl.,
David Krol, ¶ 2.)
 
Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that the arbitration
clause should not be enforced. Rice, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at 1223.  Plaintiff has met her burden to show that the
arbitration agreement should not be enforced as to the statutory causes of
action. 
 
Generally, there is a strong presumption of arbitrability of disputes
arising from a collective bargaining agreement (“CBA”). Unconscionability will
not be found unless the union itself breached a duty of fairness to the member.
 Dryer v. Los Angeles Rams (1985)
40 Cal.3d 406, 414. However, established California case law following U.S.
Supreme Court precedent has held that the arbitrability of statutory violations
must be particularly clear in order to enforce the arbitration clause. Vasquez
v. Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 430, 434, citing Wright v.
Universal Maritime Service Corp. (1998) 525 U.S. 70, 78-80. “Although
ordinarily a presumption of arbitrability applies to contractual disputes
arising out of a collective bargaining agreement, the presumption is not
applicable to statutory violations.  (Wright
v. Universal Maritime Service Corp., supra, 525 U.S. at pp. 78-79
[119 S.Ct. at pp. 395-396].)  A
requirement to arbitrate statutory claims “must be particularly clear.” Vasquez
v. Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 430, 434.
 
            The following passage in Vasquez
v. Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 430, 435 provides guidance and
clarity.
 
“Broad, general language is not sufficient to meet the level of clarity
required to effect a waiver in a [collective bargaining agreement]. In the
collective bargaining context, the parties 'must be particularly clear' about
their intent to arbitrate statutory discrimination claims.”  (Carson v. Giant Food, Inc. (4th Cir.
1999) 175 F.3d 325, 331.)  A waiver in a
collective bargaining agreement is sufficiently clear if it is found in an
explicit arbitration clause.  “Under this
approach, the [collective bargaining agreement] must contain a clear and
unmistakable provision under which the employees agree to submit to arbitration
all [state and federal statutory] causes of action arising out of their
employment.” (Carson, at p. 331.) A waiver in a collective bargaining
agreement may also be sufficiently clear if broad, nonspecific language in the
arbitration clause is coupled with “an 'explicit incorporation of statutory
antidiscrimination requirements' elsewhere in the contract. [Citation.] If
another provision, like a nondiscrimination clause, makes it unmistakably clear
that the discrimination statutes at issue are part of the agreement, employees
will be bound to arbitrate their [state and federal statutory] claims.” (Id.
at p. 332.)  A simple agreement not to
engage in acts violative of a particular statute will not suffice; the
agreement must establish the intent of the parties to incorporate “in their
entirety” the discrimination statutes. (Brown v. ABF Freight
Systems, Inc., supra, 183 F.3d at p. 322.) Compliance with a
particular statute must be an express contractual commitment in the collective
bargaining agreement.” (Id.) 


In Vasquez, the Court of Appeal reversed the trial court’s order
to grant a motion to compel arbitration because the CBA did not contain a clear
waiver of Plaintiff’s statutory claims. The instant action is similar to Vasquez.
 Like Vasquez, the instant action
also involves FEHA violations and statutory violations related to the
Plaintiff’s employment.  In Vasquez,
the CBA had general provisions that “[t]here shall be no discrimination by the
Union or the Employer of any kind against any applicant or employee on account
of race, color, religion, sex or national origin under applicable federal and
state law” and “the Employer and the Union shall make a good faith effort for
the Employer to be an equal opportunity Employer.”  Id. at 433.
 
The Court of Appeal analyzed the CBA and stated the following.
 
“Neither disability discrimination, the FEHA, nor the ADA is mentioned in
the CBA. Thus, we cannot conclude that the union clearly and unmistakably
waived Vasquez's right to a judicial forum for his statutory disability
discrimination claim. The general language of the CBA is simply insufficient.
Vasquez is entitled to a judicial forum for the resolution of his statutory
disability discrimination claim. (Deschene v. Pinole Point
Steel Co., supra, 76 Cal.App.4th at p. 48, fn. 9.) [¶] The national origin
discrimination claim is also not arbitrable. The CBA includes language which
states that the parties make a contractual commitment not to discriminate
against any employee on account of national origin “under applicable federal
and state law.” The CBA also contains the general language that all grievances
or disputes with respect to application of the terms of the CBA are subject to
the grievance and arbitration procedure. Thus, there is a contractual
commitment not to discriminate on the basis of national origin, but there is no
express provision that the antidiscrimination commitment is subject to the
grievance and arbitration provisions. Nor are the ADA and the FEHA explicitly
incorporated in the CBA. Indeed, these statutes are not even mentioned. There
is of course the general language making all contractual disputes subject to
the grievance and arbitration procedure. Wright, however, emphasized
that with respect to statutory discrimination claims, there is no presumption
of arbitrability and the waiver of a judicial forum must be clear and
unmistakable.” Vasquez v. Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 430, 436.
 
Similarly, in the instant action, Plaintiff asserts statutory claims
under FEHA and the Labor Code.  However,
nothing in the CBA provides specific language constituting a waiver of the
right to arbitrate these claims.  The non-discrimination
provision of the CBA does not have any reference to FEHA.  (Defendant’s Ex. A, Art. XIX.)  Later, the CBA states that “[a]ny violation or
alleged violation of any matter covered by this collective bargaining agreement
be processed as a grievance.”  (Id. at
XXIII, A1.)  However, such generalized
language without specific reference to waiver of the FEHA or Labor Code claims
does not constitute a sufficiently clear and unmistakable waiver of Plaintiff’s
right to pursue these claims through a judicial forum.  The mere fact that certain references to
matters that may constitute statutory rights, such as the CFRA, were stated in
the CBA does not constitute the type of specific waiver mandated by Vasquez
and its progeny. 
 
In addition, the same line of reasoning applies to the Labor Code
violation causes of action. Vasquez’s holding (and cases following Vasquez)
is not merely limited to discrimination claims. “Moreover, although Cortez
urges the Penn Plaza holding should be limited to antidiscrimination
statutes and held not to apply to statutory claims under the Labor Code,
nothing in Penn Plaza supports such a cramped interpretation. To the
contrary, in holding that statutory violations could be subject to arbitration
if clearly and unmistakably bargained for in the CBA, the Penn Plaza
Court distinguished the arbitration provision in Barrentine on the
ground it “did not expressly reference the statutory claim at issue” and was
thus not sufficiently clear and explicit to support a waiver. (Penn Plaza,
at p. 263, 129 S.Ct. 1456.) Of course, the necessary implication of that
holding is that a clear and explicit agreement to arbitrate wage and hour
claims would be enforceable.”  Cortez
v. Doty Bros. Equipment Co. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1, 12, fn. 1.
 
Defendant has failed to identify a provision in the CBA in which
Plaintiff specifically agreed to waive her right to pursue those statutory Labor
Code claims in a judicial forum. Again, mere generalized language predominates
the CBA. Thus, because the CBA does not contain the specific clear and
unmistakable language to waive Plaintiff’s right to a judicial forum as to all
her statutory causes of action (first through third, fifth, and sixth),
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration as to those claims is denied.
 
As to the fourth cause of action for Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy, it does appear that this cause of action would be subject to
arbitration. However, a ruling on the motion to compel arbitration as to this
cause of action is deferred at this time. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration clause is both procedurally and
substantively unconscionable.  A court
can invalidate an arbitration agreement when it is unconscionable or against
public policy.  See Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 99. 
Unconscionability contains two elements: 
procedural unconscionability and substantive unconscionability.  
 
“[U]nconscionability has both a procedural and a substantive' element,
the former focusing on ‘oppression' or 'surprise' due to unequal bargaining
power, the latter on 'overly harsh' or 'one-sided' results.  The prevailing view is that [procedural and
substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability." But they need not be present in the same
degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.  In other words, the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at
114.      
 
“The traditional standard of unconscionability . . . is that the
inequality amounting to fraud must be so strong and manifest as to shock the
conscience and confound the judgment of any man of common sense.   Subsequent decisions have defined an
unconscionable contract in varying but similar terms, such as a contract that
no man in his senses and not under delusion would make on the one hand, and as
no honest and fair man would accept on the other.”  See
California Grocers Assn. v. Bank of America (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th
205, 214-15 (internal citations omitted). 
 
Procedural unconscionability may be established by showing oppression and
surprise.  Oppression occurs where the
parties have unequal bargaining power, and the contract is not the result of
meaningful negotiations.  Surprise
recognizes the extent to which the agreed upon terms were hidden. 
 
 “In many cases of adhesion
contracts, the weaker party lacks not only the opportunity to bargain but also
any realistic opportunity to look elsewhere for a more favorable contract; he
must either adhere to the standardized agreement or forego the needed
service.”  Madden v. Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals (1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 711. Simply because a contract may have
elements of an adhesion contract does not render the agreement procedurally
unconscionable.  “The ultimate issue in
every case is whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in
view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold
enforcement.”  Sanchez v. Valencia Holding (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899,
912.  
 
As a threshold matter, Plaintiff, as a member of a collectively bargained
union agreement, is bound by those terms and cannot challenge the agreement
based on unconscionability principles unless there is a showing that the union
breached its duty of fair representation. “[C]ourts confine their inquiry to a
few threshold issues; they do not consider the substance of the grieving party’s
claims, nor do they scrutinize the agreed-upon arbitration procedures for
general fairness.” Dryer v. Los Angeles Rams (1985) 40 Cal.3d 406, 414.
Here, Plaintiff fails to argue or present evidence that the union breached a
duty of fair representation.
 
However, even assuming arguendo that the Court could consider the unconscionability
arguments, Plaintiff fails to meet her burden. To support her procedural
unconscionability argument, Plaintiff states that the arbitration clause was hidden
in a 147-page agreement and that the agreement was not in a language (English)
that Plaintiff could understand. However, the Court notes that Plaintiff
submitted no competent evidence to support the procedural unconscionability
argument - namely Plaintiff’s own first-hand declaration attesting to any
surprise or oppression.  The Court
further notes that Defendant has no obligation to highlight, explain, or
discuss the terms of the arbitration agreement as any such requirement would be
contrary to the FAA.  Sanchez v.
Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899, 914-15. 
 
“[C]ourts, including ours, have used various nonexclusive formulations to
capture the notion that unconscionability requires a substantial degree of unfairness beyond a
simple old-fashioned bad bargain. This latter qualification is important.
Commerce depends on the enforceability, in most instances, of a duly executed
written contract. A party cannot avoid a contractual obligation merely by
complaining that the deal, in retrospect, was unfair or a bad bargain. Not all
one-sided contract provisions are unconscionable; hence the various
intensifiers in our formulations: ‘overly harsh,’ ‘unduly oppressive,’
‘unreasonably favorable.’ The ultimate issue in every case is
whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in view of all
relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold enforcement.” Baltazar
v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1245 (internal citations
and quotations omitted; emphasis in original). 
 
As noted above, both procedural and substantive unconscionability must
exist for the Court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce the
arbitration provision. Plaintiff submitted no competent evidence to support the
procedural unconscionability element.  Plaintiff
merely set forth arguments in the points and authorities. Thus, the Court need
not even address the substantive unconscionability arguments.
 
Because the ruling states that some causes of action are not subject to
arbitration and one cause of action is subject to arbitration, the following
authority applies.
 
“[T]he court should have first determined the arbitrable and
nonarbitrable claims alleged in the complaint, ordered all of the arbitrable
claims to arbitration, and stayed all such claims pending arbitration. The
court would then have had discretion to delay its order to arbitrate the
arbitrable claims under section 1281.2(c), only if it first determined that the
adjudication of the nonarbitrable claims in court might make the arbitration
unnecessary. Absent that determination, the arbitrable claims would proceed to
arbitration and the nonarbitrable claims would continue to be litigated in
court unless a party moved successfully pursuant to section 1281.4, to stay
further litigation of such nonarbitrable claims.” RN Solution, Inc. v.
Catholic Healthcare West (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1511, 1521–22.
 
Here, the Court determines that the adjudication of the nonarbitrable
claims in the instant Court may make the arbitration of the fourth cause of
action unnecessary.  Thus, the Court
exercises its discretion to delay its order to arbitrate the fourth cause of
action. 
 
Therefore, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is denied, in part. The Court
determines that Plaintiff has successfully shown that Defendant has not met its
burden establish that the first through third, fifth, and sixth causes of
action are subject to arbitration. In addition, the Court elects to exercise
its discretion to delay its ruling with respect to the arbitration of the
fourth cause of action because the adjudication of the nonarbitrable claims may
make the ruling unnecessary.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.