  Case Number:  22TRCV00114    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                      Thursday, March 28, 2024  
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 2  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
South
Bay Aviation, Inc. v. Santa Monica Propeller, et al.   
22TRCV00114

1.     
South Bay
Aviation, Inc.’s Motion to Amend First Amended Complaint  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

South Bay Aviation, Inc.’s Motion to Amend First
Amended Complaint is granted.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on February 15, 2022,
and the First Amended Complaint was filed on May 9, 2022. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached the contract wherein
Defendant was required to service Plaintiff’s propellers. Defendant filed a
Cross-Complaint on June 30, 2022.   
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is granted
pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
Motion for Leave to Amend 
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  Code Civ. Proc., §§ 473 & 576.  Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature.  However, the court does
have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to
state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured
by further amendment.   Cal. Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281. 
 
The application for leave to amend should be made as
soon as the need to amend is discovered. 
The closer the trial date, the stronger the showing required for leave
to amend.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs
of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488. 
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to amend to file a Second
Amended Complaint to add a cause of action for fraud and to state a claim for
punitive damages against Defendant Santa Monica Propeller Service, Inc.  
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) states: “A motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to
the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the additional allegations are located.” Id. (emphasis added).
 
Plaintiff has now adequately complied with Rule
3.1324(a). (Motion, page 6:18 to 8:6.)
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(b) requires that the
moving party must submit a separate declaration specifying:
“(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.”
 
Plaintiff provided declarations meeting elements (1)
to (4) above. (Decl., Al West; Decl., Richard Seals.)  Plaintiff has now adequately explained why the
request for amendment was not made earlier. (Decl., Al West, ¶¶ 7-13; Decl.
Richard Seals, ¶¶ 11-13.) 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff should have discovered
the fraud claim earlier – as early as 2021. Defendant also argues that
Plaintiff has failed to meet its discovery obligations. The issue of whether
Plaintiff should have pursued the fraud claim earlier and/or whether the claim
is now barred by the statute of limitations is an issue that is not appropriate
for resolution with this motion. There is no showing that Defendant has been
unduly prejudiced by the delay.  Also, this
motion for leave to amend is not the appropriate method to adjudicate discovery
disputes between the parties. 
 
Defendant also opposes the
motion arguing that Plaintiff’s proposed pleading fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  However, when reviewing a motion for leave to
amend, the Court will usually not evaluate the viability or merits of the pleading.
The preferable practice is to test the legal sufficiency of the proposed pleading
with a proper motion or demurrer.  See,
Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048
(stating that, in the context of analyzing a motion for leave to amend a
pleading, that “the preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and
allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for
judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.”) 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend First
Amended Complaint is granted. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve the Second
Amended Complaint within three days of this date. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 