

Hearing Date:             July 11,
2024
Case Name:                Lee
Segura v. J.T. Wimsatt Contracting Co., Inc.
Case No.:                    24STCV02569
Motion:                       Motion
to Quash Deposition Subpoena
Moving Party:             Plaintiff
Lee Segura
Opposing Party:          Defendant
J.T. Wimsatt Contracting Co., Inc.
 

 
Tentative Ruling:      Plaintiff’s
motion to quash is granted.
 

             
            This
is an employment retaliation case. Plaintiff Lee Segura sued defendant J.T.
Wimsatt Contracting Co., Inc. on January 31, 2024, asserting two causes of
action: one for whistleblower retaliation (Labor Code section 1102.5), the
other for wrongful termination in violation of public policy.
 
            According
to the complaint, Plaintiff worked as defendant’s chief financial officer
beginning in October 2019. (Compl., ¶¶ 16-19.) Plaintiff discovered Defendant’s
executives were engaged in a self-dealing scheme to improperly benefit from tax
incentives intended for businesses owned by economically-disadvantaged women. (Id.,
¶¶ 30-42.)
 
            Plaintiff
brought the illegality of the scheme to Defendant’s executives’ attention in
April 2023. (Id., ¶¶ 67-73.) The following month, Defendant began
implementing a policy requiring all employees to sign confidentiality and
non-solicitation agreements. (Id., ¶ 86.) When Defendant presented the
agreement to employees for signature in October 2023, several employees –
including Plaintiff – objected. (Id., ¶¶ 91-99.) Defendant’s chief
executive suggested the agreement “could potentially be modified on a
case-by-case basis.” (Id., ¶ 100.) But on October 24, 2023, rather than
offering to modify Plaintiff’s agreement, Defendant fired him. (Compl., ¶ 101.)
Plaintiff sued.
 
            On
April 30, 2024, Defendant issued subpoenas for business records from four of
Plaintiff’s former employers. Each subpoena requested the same seventeen sets
of documents, quoted or paraphrased as follows:
 




1)


“Personnel File”




2)


“Performance Evaluations”




3)


“Wage Statements”




4)


Job applications




5)


Offers/acceptances of employment




6)


Signed onboarding materials




7)


Job descriptions




8)


All records of pay/benefits




9)


Total wages earned




10)


Medical leaves of absence




11)


Accommodation requests




12)


Records of termination




13)


Records of discipline




14)


Documents “related to ... performance”




15)


Performance reviews & improvement
  plans




16)


Complaints by Plaintiff to the employer




17)


Complaints to the employer about
  Plaintiff




 
            On
May 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a single motion to quash all four subpoenas. On
June 27, 2024, Defendant opposed. On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff replied.
 
Motion
to Quash Third-Party Subpoena
 
A party is entitled to obtain business records within
this state from “a person who is not a party to the action in which the
discovery is sought” through use of a deposition subpoena. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.) A deposition subpoena may be used to command “the production of
business records for copying” without requiring the testimony of the deponent.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020 (b).) When the deposition subpoena is one for a
nonparty’s business records, the custodian of records is the “deponent,” even
though he or she is merely delivering the records, and is not technically being
“deposed.” (Ibid.) 
 
A deposition subpoena is the only means by which
discovery may be obtained from a nonparty. (Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007)
156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127.) The obtaining of business records through a
deposition subpoena “is a ‘deposition’ within the plain meaning of the Civil
Discovery Act.” (Naser v. Lakeridge Athletic Club (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th
571, 578.) A deposition subpoena must be personally served with “sufficient
time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a reasonable
opportunity to locate and produce any designated business records, documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things . . . and, where
personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the place of
deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220(a)-(c).)
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of
a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things . . . at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare . . . .”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).)
 
The
Parties’ Arguments
 
            The parties agree on the relevant
facts: Defendant served four subpoenas on Plaintiff’s former employers. Each
requests the seventeen categories of documents indicated above.
 
            Plaintiff argues these overbroad
requests violate his constitutional right to privacy. He relies on Williams v.
Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531 (Williams) and Hill
v. National Collegiate Athletic Association (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1 (Hill), which govern how the courts should apply the right to privacy in civil
discovery disputes. Defendant argues Plaintiff has waived his right to privacy
protections, but even if he hadn’t, he can’t satisfy the tests in Williams
and Hill.
 
Plaintiff
Has Not Waived His Right to Privacy
 
            Defendant argues Plaintiff has
waived his right to privacy by detailing his “ ‘more than four decades of
experience’ ” in his complaint and “seeking damages for lost wages, benefits,
and emotional distress”. (Opp., 11:25-27.) Defendant cites case law that stands
for the general, common-sense principle that a Plaintiff cannot rely on certain
materials to prove his case but also protect them from discovery via privacy
objections. (See id., 12:1-6, citing Vinson v. Superior Court
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 844, City and County of San Francisco v. Superior Court (1951) 37 Cal.2d
227.) That broad principle does not control the issue here.
 
            Plaintiff
has not placed his past employment at issue merely by alleging that he was
employed in the past. Nor did Plaintiff waive his right to privacy in all his
prior employment records when he sued one of his former employers. His wages at
past jobs are not necessarily relevant to future lost wages. His past job
performance does not establish whether he performed satisfactorily for
Defendant. His physical and mental state and reasonable accommodations have no
relevance to any issue raised in this case. 

 
Plaintiff Satisfies his Threshold
Burden
 
            Under California law, the scope of discovery is broad. In general, information
is discoverable in litigation if it is (1) “not privileged,” (2) “relevant to
the subject matter” of the action, and (3) either itself admissible or
“reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
 
            However,
under certain conditions a responding party may protect materials from
disclosure during discovery by invoking California’s constitutional right to
privacy. (See Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 556 (Williams).)
If a responding party shows (1) a legally protected privacy interest, (2) an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy under the circumstances, and (3) a
serious intrusion on that privacy, then the propounding party must do more than
satisfy the “reasonably calculated” standard in Code of Civil Procedure section
2017.010. (See ibid., citing Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Ass’n (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 26 (Hill).)
 
            Plaintiff
has made his threshold showing of a legally protected interest, reasonable
expectation, and serious intrusion:
 
It is settled law
that employees enjoy a legally protected privacy interest in their employment
records. (Board of Trustees v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516,
528.) 
 
Defendant proposes
that Plaintiff forfeited his objective expectation of privacy in all prior employment
records because he sued his most recent employer. But Defendant cites no law
for this bold proposition. 
 
Finally,
Defendant’s extremely broad requests – for example, for information regarding
medical leave and reasonable accommodations – seriously and unnecessarily
intrude on Plaintiff’s privacy, with little connection to the issues in this
case.
 
            Plaintiff
has carried his threshold burden under Williams and Hill.
 
Defendant Does Not Satisfy Its
Burden
 
            Once
a party satisfies its threshold burden, the court must balance several
competing interests to determine whether disclosure is proper, and to what
extent. 
 
            “In
determining whether disclosure is required, the court must indulge in a
‘careful balancing’ of the right of a civil litigant to discover relevant
facts, on the one hand, and the right of the third parties to maintain
reasonable privacy regarding their sensitive personal affairs, on the other.
[Citation.] The court must consider the purpose of the information sought, the
effect that disclosure will have on the affected persons and parties, the
nature of the objections urged by the party resisting disclosure and
availability of alternative, less intrusive means for obtaining the requested
information. [Citation.] ... [T]he more sensitive the nature of the personal
information that is sought to be discovered, the more substantial the showing
of the need for the discovery that will be required before disclosure will be
permitted. [Citations.]” (Hooser v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th
997, 1004.)
 
Plaintiff asserts
Defendant must show a “compelling need” for the discovery; not so. The
“compelling need” requirement only applies in cases implicating rights
fundamental to an individual’s personal autonomy. (See Williams, supra,
3 Cal.5th at pp. 556-557.) This is not such a case.
 
            That
said, Defendant has not shown a specific need for this discovery, nor has it
shown that no less intrusive means are available to obtain the information it
seeks. Plaintiff’s past employment records are irrelevant to events that
allegedly occurred while he was employed with Defendant. Plaintiff’s medical
records from past employers and requests for accommodation do not relate to a
whistleblower retaliation claim, nor are they the best means for Defendant to evaluate
Plaintiff’s claims for damages. Although Defendant’s requests might implicate
some discoverable information, they are drafted so broadly that they
unnecessarily and impermissibly invade Plaintiff’s privacy. 
 
            The
motion to quash is granted.
 
Sanctions
 
            Where
a court grants a motion to quash a third-party subpoena, “the court may in its
discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or
opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds
the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2(a).)
 
            The
Court declines to award sanctions.  With
respect to issues of privacy, reasonable minds may differ on the balance to be
struck between privacy interests and the truth-seeking function of the courts.  There are cases when appropriately fashioned
discovery requests to a previous employer are allowable. The Court cannot say
that either party’s view of that balance lacks substantial justification.  
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to quash subpoenas to former employers is granted.  No sanctions are awarded.