  Case Number:  22SMCV00818    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants David S. Sibelman, Shahnaz Levyim, and Desiree Levyim’s Motion to Enforce Compliance with Request for Production of Documents is DENIED as MOOT.Defendants David S. Sibelman, Shahnaz Levyim, and Desiree Levyim’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.Defendants David S. Sibelman, Shahnaz Levyim, and Desiree Levyim to give notice. REASONINGDefendants David S. Sibelman, Shahnaz Levyim, and Desiree Levyim (“Defendants”) move the Court for an order compelling Plaintiffs Cornell Gillenwater and Bret Kadel (“Plaintiffs”) to comply with their promised production of documents responsive to certain identified requests. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (a) [“If a party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling . . . thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order compelling compliance”].) In opposition, Plaintiffs represent that they have produced all responsive documents, making this motion moot, and the motion was filed despite Plaintiffs’ representations that the document production was forthcoming. In reply, Defendants argue that the production is still missing necessary documents that are within Plaintiffs’ possession, custody, or control, and Plaintiffs only provided the supplemental documents after the motion was filed.As to the merits of the motion, the Court finds the motion to be moot. This does not moot the sanctions request, but as to Defendants’ contentions that the production did not include certain documents, the Court cannot order production of documents which Plaintiffs represent are no longer within their possession, custody, or control. Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have not conducted a reasonable search, but again, the Court cannot order the production of documents simply because Defendants subjectively do not credit Plaintiffs’ representations that they searched for the documents and could not find them. The Court notes that certain issue, evidentiary, monetary, or terminating sanctions may be proper if it is determined that responsive documents existed and were within Plaintiffs’ possession, custody, or control, but the Court lacks a basis to so order at this juncture. Accordingly, Defendants David S. Sibelman, Shahnaz Levyim, and Desiree Levyim’s Motion to Enforce Compliance with Request for Production of Documents is DENIED as MOOT.Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a), provides that “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct . . . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (See also Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (b) [“the court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust”].) The Court finds that sanctions are not proper here because the motion was made without substantial justification, i.e., the Court encourages informal resolution of discovery disputes, which can be done either with sufficient communication with the opposing party or a conference with the Court before filing a motion, but Defendants filed a motion despite assurances from Plaintiffs that documents were forthcoming. Thus, Defendants David S. Sibelman, Shahnaz Levyim, and Desiree Levyim’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.