 Case Number:  23STCV27034    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay or
Dismiss Judicial Proceedings
 
Moving Party: Defendant
West Covina Auto Retail, Inc. 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Kaitlyn Limpias
                                    
        
The Motion is DENIED.  
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On November 3, 2023,
Plaintiff Kaitlyn Limpias filed her Complaint against Defendant West Covina
Auto Retail, Inc. on causes of action arising from Plaintiff’s purchase of an
automobile from Defendant. 
 
On December 11, 2023,
Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
On January 19, 2024,
Defendant filed its Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay or Dismiss Judicial
Proceedings (“Motion”). Defendant concurrently filed its Proposed Order. 
 
On January 31, 2024,
Plaintiff filed her Opposition to the Motion. Plaintiff concurrently filed
Declaration of Michael A. Klitzke. 
 
On February 8, 2024,
Defendant filed its Reply in support of the Motion. 
 
On February 9, 2024,
Plaintiff filed her Objection. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Evidentiary
Objection
 
Plaintiff filed an objection
to portions of Defendant’s Reply. These allegedly objectionable portions of the
Reply are assertions in a memorandum; they are not evidence.
 
The
Objection is OVERRULED. 
 
II.      
Legal
Standard 
 
“A written agreement to submit to arbitration an
existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable
and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.)
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists [unless it
makes certain determinations].” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
“Under both federal and state law, arbitration
agreements are valid and enforceable, unless they are revocable for reasons
under state law that would render any contract revocable. . . . Reasons that would render any
contract revocable under state law include fraud, duress, and
unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
231, 239, citations omitted.)
 
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence the existence of an
arbitration agreement.¿The party opposing the petition bears the burden of
establishing a defense to the agreement's enforcement by a preponderance of the
evidence.¿In determining whether there is a duty to arbitrate, the trial court
must, at least to some extent, examine and construe the agreement.” (Tiri,
supra, at p. 239.)
 
III.     Discussion
 
A.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves the Court to: (1) compel Plaintiff to
arbitrate this matter with the American Arbitration Association; and (2) stay
this case pending the completion of arbitration. (Motion, p. 13:3–6.)
 
        Defendant argues: (1) that there is a
valid arbitration agreement which subjects Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration
under the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA); (2) that the arbitration agreement may
also be enforced through the procedures set forth in the California Arbitration
Act (CAA); (3) that the arbitration agreement is valid and enforceable; and (4)
that the case must be stayed during the period from when the application to
arbitration is pending through the conclusion of arbitration. (Motion, pp. 9:6,
10:1–2, 11:1, 12:12–13.)
 
        Plaintiff disagrees, arguing: (1) that
Defendant did not establish an arbitration agreement exists because Defendant
did not lay a proper foundation for its exhibit; (2) that Defendant did not
establish that they made a pre-motion demand for arbitration or that Plaintiff
refused to arbitrate as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2; and
(3) that grounds exist to revoke the purchase contract. (Opposition, pp. 2:1–2,
2:20–22, 3:14.)
 
        In its Reply, Defendant argues: (1) that
a valid arbitration agreement exists; (2) that the arbitration clause is not
procedurally or substantively unconscionable; and (3) that any provisions found
to be offending can be severed. (Reply, pp. 2:19, 3:12, 4:7, 5:9.)
 
B.      Whether
an Arbitration Agreement Exists
 
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence the existence of an
arbitration agreement.” (Tiri, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 239.)
 
Here, Defendant submits the Declaration of Gen
Balouev for the purposes of authenticating the purported arbitration agreement.
(Motion, Decl. Balouev and Exh. A.) However, as Plaintiff correctly notes, Gen
Balouev (who is the General Manager for Defendant) discusses the Retail
Installment Sale Contract (RISC) as having a “front” and a “back.” (Motion,
Decl. Balouev, ¶¶ 3–4; Opposition, p. 2:6–14.) This description of the contract
does not match the RISC submitted to the Court, which is six pages in length
and does not have a “front” or “back” demarcated. 
 
Further, Balouev never states that he observed
Plaintiff signing the agreement.  He
simply states that “it is the custom and practice of NR Honda to provide guests,
such as Plaintiff, with time to read and review a RISC before signing
same.  Such review would include all the
terms on the front of the contract and all of the terms on the back of the contract.”  (Balouev Declaration, ¶ 3.).  There is no declaration from anyone stating that
Plaintiff did, in fact, sign this document nor is there any evidence before
this Court that Defendant followed its “custom and practice” in this particular
case.
 
The Declaration of Gen Balouev does not sufficiently
lay a proper foundation for authentication of the purported RISC and the
arbitration agreement contained within it. 
 
Defendant has not met its initial burden of proving
by a preponderance of the evidence that an arbitration agreement exists. 
 
        The Court need not and does not reach the
further arguments made by the Parties. 
 
IV.     
Conclusion
 
The Motion is DENIED.  
 