 Case Number:  21STCV34711    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Strike Answer to Complaint and First Amended Cross-Complaint 
 
Moving Party: Burrell
Construction, Inc. and George Robles, Jr. 

Resp. Party:    None
 
 
The Motion to Strike and Enter
Default is GRANTED. 
 
The Answer to the Complaint filed
by The Dream @Tamarind, LLC is STRICKEN.
 
The First Amended Cross-Complaint
filed by The Dream @Tamarind, LLC is STRICKEN. 
 
Default is ENTERED on The Dream
@Tamarind, LLC.   
 
BACKGROUND:
        
On September 21, 2021, Burrell Construction, Inc. filed its Complaint
against The Dream @Tamarind, LLC on causes of action arising from construction
work and materials allegedly provided by Burrell Construction, Inc. for The
Dream @Tamarind, LLC. 
 
On September 27, 2021, Burrell Construction, Inc. filed its Notice of
Pending Action. 
 
On January 11, 2022, by request of Burrell Construction, Inc., the
Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice the doe defendants from the
Complaint. 
 
On February 7, 2022, The Dream @Tamarind, LLC filed: (1) Answer to the
Complaint; and (2) Cross-Complaint against Burrell Construction, Inc. and
George R. Robles, Jr.
 
On February 25, 2022, the Court found related cases 21STCV34711 and
22STCV02612, and designated case 21STCV34711 as the lead case. 
 
On June 20, 2023, The Dream @Tamarind, LLC filed its First Amended
Cross-Complaint against Burrell Construction, Inc.; George R. Robles, Jr.; A+
Electric Services, Inc.; Air Kool, Inc.; Gavina Plumbing, Inc.; Indigo
Construction Corp.; and Ramirez & Company LLC.
 
On August 25, 2023, the Court granted the Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel of Pamela Mozer, who was counsel for The Dream @Tamarind, LLC. 
 
On September 5, 2023, Burrell Construction, Inc. and George R. Robles,
Jr. filed: (1) Answer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint; and (2)
Cross-Complaint against A+ Electric Services, Inc.; Air Kool, Inc.; Gavina
Plumbing, Inc.; Indigo Construction Corp.; and Ramirez & Company LLC.
 
On February 15, 2024, Burrell Construction, Inc. and George R. Robles,
Jr. filed their Motion to Strike Answer to Complaint and First Amended
Cross-Complaint of The Dream at Tamarind, LLC (“Motion to Strike and Enter
Default”). They concurrently filed their Proposed Order. 
 
No opposition or other response has been filed to the Motion to Strike
and Enter Default. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall
not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1).)
 
“The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: 
 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
436.)
 
“The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
“A notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must
quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to
strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications
in a notice must be numbered consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1322(a).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Burrell Construction, Inc. and George R.
Robles, Jr. move the Court to: (1) strike the Answer to the Complaint filed by
The Dream @Tamarind, LLC; (2) strike the First Amended Cross-Complaint by The
Dream @Tamarind, LLC; and (3) enter default on The Dream @Tamarind. (Motion to
Strike and Enter Default, p. 6:3–5.)
 
Burrell Construction, Inc. and George R.
Robles, Jr. argue: (1) that the Dream @Tamarind, LLC is a corporate party that
has been unrepresented since September 8, 2023; (2) that the Court may strike
the pleadings of an unrepresented corporate party; and (3) that the Court
should strike such pleadings here and enter default on the corporate party.
(Motion to Strike and Enter Default, pp. 4:1–7, 4:14, 5:10–11.)
 
The Dream @Tamarind, LLC does not oppose
or otherwise respond to the Motion to Strike and Enter Default. 
 
The Court agrees with the arguments made
by Burrell Construction, Inc. and George R. Robles, Jr. Despite the Court
warning The Dream @Tamarind, LLC six months ago that it faced a significant
risk of proceeding without counsel, it appears that The Dream @Tamarind has not
retained new counsel. (Minute Order dated August 25, 2023, pp. 4–5.) Given that
Trial is less than one week away from the date of the hearing on this motion,
it is now appropriate to strike the pleadings of The Dream @Tamarind, LLC and
to enter default on it. 
 
III.     Conclusion

 
The Motion to Strike and Enter
Default is GRANTED. 
 
The Answer to the Complaint filed
by The Dream @Tamarind, LLC is STRICKEN.
 
The First Amended Cross-Complaint
filed by The Dream @Tamarind, LLC is STRICKEN. 
 
Default is ENTERED on The Dream
@Tamarind, LLC.   
 