  Case Number:  23STCV12319    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  40 
23STCV12319 Daniel
 E. Kelly v. Jonathan S. Kelly, et al. 
Monday,
 December 9, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING
IN PART AND OVERRULING IN PART DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT BY
DEFENDANTS, JONATHAN S. KELLY AND DAVHAN,
INC.
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The
first amended complaint (“FAC”) filed on June 26, 2024, alleges that Defendant,
Jonathan S. Kelly, (“Jonathan”), breached a 2015 written contract that would
guarantee Plaintiff £10,000
every month in exchange for Plaintiff ceding management and control of two
parcels of real property located in London, England. The first two conversion
claims arise from the alleged forgery and transfer of Plaintiff’s 15 percent interest
in Kellytoy Worldwide, Inc. (“KT Stock”) by Defendant, Jonathan (father) to his
children, Adam Kelly, Maya Kelly, and David Kelly (collectively, “Kelly
Defendants”). 
       The third
count for conversion arises from the alleged wrongful transfer of Plaintiff’s 35
percent interest in Hamilton Towers, LP (“Hamilton interest”) to Jonathan’s
mother. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants engaged in a coverup of these forged
transfers with Defendant, Citrin Cooperman, alleged to be a licensed certified
public accountant, who filed tax returns on Plaintiff’s behalf without
Plaintiff’s knowledge.
       The
fourth conversion count arises from Jonathan’s alleged wrongful distribution of
funds from the sale of 28 Lancaster Gate in London without distributing
Plaintiff’s share of the sale proceeds. Plaintiff alleges 15 causes of action related
to these events, including derivative claims for dissolution on behalf of the
Hamilton Partnership and 4811 S. Alameda Partnership (“Alameda Partnership”).  
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Defendants,
Jonathan and Davhan, Inc., (collectively, “Davhan”), demur to the conversion
claims (second, third, 14th, and 15th causes of action), and
the sixth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty on grounds these claims
are barred by the applicable statute of limitations. Plaintiff did not allege
delayed discovery or other facts to avoid the limitations bar. The alter ego
allegations are insufficient and render the claims uncertain. The claim for
violation of Penal Code, section 496(e) (15th cause of action) does
not allege facts to support all elements of the claim. 
       In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the statute of limitations is not clearly
barred based on the allegations of the complaint. Plaintiff does not have to
allege delayed discovery unless it affirmatively appears that the claims are
barred. Plaintiff alleges Defendant Jonathan concealed the transactions. The 15th
cause of action is adequately alleged. The allegations are not fatally
uncertain. Alternatively, Plaintiff asks for leave to amend.
       In
reply, Davhan argues that “on or about” allegations do not avoid the
limitations bar. Allegations regarding delayed discovery are equally
insufficient. The remaining claims at issue are defective for the reasons
previously asserted. Leave to amend should not be granted. 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) In testing the complaint’s sufficiency, the court must
assume the truth of the properly pleaded factual allegations as well as facts
that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly pleaded facts. The court
may also consider matters properly subject to judicial notice. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.)
       The court may not consider contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th
634, 638.) Plaintiff is required to allege facts sufficient to establish every
element of each cause of action. (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e); Zelig
v. County of Los Angeles
(2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1126.)
       Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity that is
sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and
extent of his cause of action.” (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  Whether the
Plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant. (Stevens
v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.) 
       A demurrer may also be sustained if a
complaint is “uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s factual
allegations are so confusing, they do not sufficiently apprise a defendant of
the issues it is being asked to meet. (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).)
       A pleading is required to assert general
allegations of ultimate fact. Evidentiary facts are not required. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty
Co. (1998) 19 Cal. 4th 26, 47; Lim
v. The.TV Corp. Internat.
(2002) 99 Cal. App. 4th 684, 690.) However, unlike federal courts, California
state courts are not a notice pleading jurisdiction, and notice alone is not a
sufficient basis for any pleading. California is a fact pleading jurisdiction.
Merely putting an opposing party on notice is not sufficient. (Bach
v. County of Butte (1983) 147
Cal.App.3d 554, 561; see Diodes,
Inc. v. Franzen (1968) 260
Cal.App.2d 244, 250.)
IV.   
DISCUSSION
A.     
Demurrer
is SUSTAINED as to the second, third, sixth, 14th, 15th
causes of action as the claims are clearly barred by the statute of limitations,
and Plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts to support delayed discovery to
avoid the limitations bar. 
       In
order for the court to sustain demurrer to the complaint based on a statute of
limitations defect, “the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on the
face of the complaint… . A demurrer will not lie where the action may be but is
not necessarily barred.” (Citizens for a Responsible Caltrans Decision
v. Department of Transportation
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 1103, 1117.) 
       The
statute of limitations for conversion is three years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 338
subd. (c).) The statute of limitations for breach of fiduciary duty is the same
as fraud (three years from the date of discovery). (April Enterprises, Inc. v. KTTV (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 805, 828.)
       The causes of action for conversion are based
on alleged forgeries that occurred on January 7, 2007; December 15, 2009;  and December 18, 2009. (Complaint, ¶¶ 25, 31,
41.) Plaintiff alleges he learned of the alleged conversions less than 12 months
prior to filing the complaint and could not have discovered these events
earlier because Defendants kept the events hidden from Plaintiff (Complaint, ¶¶
27, 31, 45.) The claim for breach of fiduciary duty is based on the alleged
forgeries and 2017 acts to cover up the alleged conduct. (Complaint, ¶ 72.)
       The 14th cause of action for
conversion arises from Jonathan’s failure to distribute Plaintiff’s interest in
the sale of London Choice Estates Limited, which was dissolved on May 7, 2011.
(Complaint, ¶ 130-131.) Plaintiff did not discover this until December 2022,
because of what Plaintiff was “led to believe.” (Complaint, ¶ 133.) 
       The 15th cause of action for
violation of Penal Code § 496(c) is based on the alleged forgeries (Complaint,
¶ 139.)
       If
Plaintiff claims that belated discovery applies, Plaintiff must allege it in
the complaint by stating when the discovery was made, the circumstances behind
the discovery, and the facts showing that the failure to discover was
reasonable, justifiable and not the result of a failure to investigate or act. (Bastian v. County of San Luis Obispo (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 520, 527.) Plaintiff has not
adequately alleged delayed discovery for each of these claims. 
 
B.     
Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the alter ego
allegations to support liability for the sixth, eighth, 10th, and 12th
causes of action 
       Liability based on an alter ego theory is
not itself a claim for substantive relief, but rather a procedural claim “to
disregard the corporate entity as a distinct defendant and to hold the alter
ego individuals liable on the obligations of the corporation where the
corporate form is being used by the individuals to escape personal liability,
sanction a fraud, or promote injustice." (Hennessey's
Tavern, Inc. v. American Air Filter Co. (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1359.)
       Liability based on an alter ego theory is
not itself a claim for substantive relief, but rather a procedural claim “to
disregard the corporate entity as a distinct defendant and to hold the alter
ego individuals liable on the obligations of the corporation where the
corporate form is being used by the individuals to escape personal liability,
sanction a fraud, or promote injustice." (Hennessey's
Tavern, Inc. v. American Air Filter Co. (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1359.)
“[W]hile it is the better practice to allege the facts upon which a plaintiff
seeks to hold a defendant on the alter ego theory, still it is
the law of California that that issue may be raised by a simple allegation that
the defendant sought to be charged had made the contract involved. (Pan
Pacific Sash & Door Co. v. Greendale Park, Inc. (1958) 166
Cal.App.2d 652, 655-656.)  “Had
petitioner elected to proceed by such a conclusionary but permissible
allegation, its right thereafter to seek by discovery the facts by which that
allegation might be proved would have been beyond question.” [emphasis
added].) (Los Angeles Cemetery Ass'n v. Superior Court
of Los Angeles County
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 492, 494.) Here, Plaintiff alleges “Jonathan
and DAVHAN acted without corporate separateness and Defendant Jonathan
exercised complete dominance and control over DAVHAN, and its assets, such that
the DAVHAN served as a mere shell and instrumentality for the conduct and
activities of Defendant Jonathan. On information and belief, Plaintiff alleges
that due to the commingling and diversion of funds and assets, treatment of
corporate assets as his own, failure to maintain corporate requirements and
disregard of legal formalities, and many other factors, there was a unity of
interest and ownership between DAVHAN and Defendant Jonathan such that the
separate personalities of DAVHAN and Defendant Jonathan do not in reality exist.”
[FAC ¶8] Accordingly, the alter ego theory is adequately pleaded. 
 
C.      Demurrer
is OVERRULED as to the 15th cause of action for violation of Penal
Code § 496 . 
       This cause of action is based on the
alleged forgeries, and concealment of such as previously alleged. Defendants
argue that Plaintiff must allege that Defendant Jonathan received or had
possession of the KT Stock. Plaintiff alleged that Jonathan’s children received
the interest.
       Section 496 of the Penal Code is commonly
referred to as receiving stolen property "(1) that the particular property
was stolen, (2) that the accused received, concealed or withheld it from the
owner thereof, and (3) that the accused knew that the property was
stolen." (Finton
Construction, Inc. v. Bidna & Keys, APLC (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th
200, 213.) The elements required for civil liability to
attach “are simply that (i) property was stolen or obtained in a manner
constituting theft, (ii) the defendant knew the property was so stolen or
obtained, and (iii) the defendant received or had possession of the stolen
property." (Switzer
v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126.)
        The
express language of the statute permits statutory liability against every
person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen "or who
conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any
property from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained … .”
(Pen.
Code, § 496.) The allegations previously identified states
that Both Jonathan and Citrin concealed or aided in concealing the transfer of
Plaintiff’s property interests. 
       Moreover, "the requisite possession
of the stolen property may be either actual or constructive and need not be
exclusive. In fact, physical possession is not required, as it is sufficient if
the defendant acquires a measure of control or dominion over the stolen
property.” (In
re Anthony J. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 718, 728.)  As previously noted above, Plaintiff
repeatedly alleges that both Jonathan and Citrin intentionally and wrongfully
exercised dominion and control over the KT Stock and Hamilton partnership
interests inconsistent with Plaintiff’s rights. (FAC ¶ 72, et seq.)
V.      CONCLUSION
       Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED in part as to the second,
third, sixth, 14th, and 15th causes of action as the
claims are clearly barred by the statute of limitations and Plaintiff does not
allege sufficient facts to support delayed discovery to avoid the limitations
bar. 
       Demurrer
to the 15th cause of action on grounds Plaintiff does not allege
Jonathan’s receipt of the allegedly stolen property interests is OVERRULED. 
       Demurrer to the sixth, eighth, 10th,
and 12th causes of action based on alter ego allegations is
OVERRULED. 
       The court grants 30 days leave
to amend. (Colvig v. RKO General, Inc. (1965) 232 Cal.App.2d 56, 69–70. [Leave to amend is proper where
Plaintiff has not had a fair opportunity to amend, and the defect is capable of
being cured.].)

 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER
TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT IN PART WITH RESPECT TO THE STATUTE OF
LIMITATIONS AND OVERRULING IN PART AND GRANTING THE MOTION TO STRIKE FILED BY
DEFENDANT, CITRIN COOPERMAN &
COMPANY, LLC
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
GRANTING THE MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT IN PART
AND DENYING IN PART FILED BY CITRIN COOPERMAN,
LLC
 
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT
I.       
ARGUMENTS
       Defendant,
CITRIN COOPERMAN & COMPANY, (“Citrin”), demurs to the sixth cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty, seventh cause of action for conversion, and the
15th cause of action for violation of Penal Code § 496(c) because
Plaintiff cannot allege facts that Citrin cause Plaintiff’s injuries and
because all claims are barred by the statute of limitations. Plaintiff has not
alleged a fiduciary relationship arose between Plaintiff and Citrin. 
       Citrin
argues that Plaintiff has not alleged the type of legal injury required to
state a claim for negligent tax preparation. Plaintiff did not allege that
Citrin had knowledge that the property (KT Stock and Hamilton partnership
interest) were stolen, or that Citrin received, withheld, or concealed the
property at issue. 
       In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the claims are not clearly barred by the
statute of limitations. Plaintiff alleged he did not discover the misconduct
until one year before Plaintiff filed the complaint. Plaintiff does not have to
allege delayed discovery unless it affirmatively appears that the claims are
barred. Plaintiff alleges that Citrin undertook to file Plaintiff’s tax returns
without Plaintiff’s knowledge and concealed them from Plaintiff. That Plaintiff
did not hire Citrin as his accountant does not negate that Citrin owed
Plaintiff a fiduciary duty at the moment Citrin undertook to prepare
Plaintiff’s taxes. Plaintiff does not allege a claim for negligent preparation
of tax returns that triggers an audit. The Penal Code violation is adequately
alleged.
       In
reply, Citrin reiterates that the FAC does not allege facts to toll the statute
of limitations. A fiduciary duty does not exist under the alleged facts. There
can be no legal injury unless Plaintiff has suffered a tax deficiency
assessment, which is not alleged. Leave to amend should not be permitted. 
II.      LEGAL STANDARDS
       The
court incorporates the legal standards previously articulated with respect to the
DAHAN demurrer. 
III.               
DISCUSSION
A.     
Demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the sixth, seventh, and
15th causes of action as the claims are clearly barred by the
statute of limitations and Plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts to
support delayed discovery to avoid the limitations bar. 
       In
order for the court to sustain demurrer to the complaint based on a statute of
limitations defect, “the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on the
face of the complaint… . A demurrer will not lie where the action may be but is
not necessarily barred.” (Citizens
for a Responsible Caltrans Decision v. Department of Transportation (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 1103, 1117.) 
       The
statute of limitations on a claim for injury caused by the wrongful act of
another is two years. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 335.1.) The statute of limitations for breach of fiduciary duty three years
from the date of discovery. (April
Enterprises, Inc. v. KTTV (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 805, 828.) This
claim arises from the alleged forgeries and 2017 acts to cover up the alleged
misconduct. (FAC, ¶ 72.)The 15th cause of action for receipt of
stolen property is based on alleged theft of Plaintiff’s property arising from
the 2007, 2009, and 2017 acts of alleged forgery. (FAC, ¶ 239.) Actions based
upon a liability created by statute including actions for the specific recovery
of personal property is three years. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 338.)
       Plaintiff
alleges he learned of the alleged misconduct less than 12 months prior to
filing the complaint and could not have discovered these events earlier because
Defendants kept the events hidden from Plaintiff (FAC, ¶¶ 27, 31, 45.) 
       Delayed
discovery of Plaintiff’s claims must be alleged in the complaint by stating
when the discovery was made, the circumstances behind the discovery, and the
facts showing that the failure to discover was reasonable, justifiable and not
the result of a failure to investigate or act. (Bastian v. County of San Luis Obispo (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 520, 527.) Plaintiff has not adequately
alleged delayed discovery for each of the claims at issue.
B.      Citrin has not persuasively
established that a fiduciary relationship did not arise between Plaintiff and
Citrin. 
       Citrin argues that tax
accountants are not fiduciaries as a matter of law and such a duty was not
created since Plaintiff alleges that Citrin operated without Plaintiff’s
knowledge or consent. Citrin contends that the client must deliberately create
a fiduciary relationship with his accountant. (Richard B. LeVine, Inc. v. Higashi (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 566, 586 ["The creation of a fiduciary
obligation or duty must, at a minimum, arise from facts demonstrating the
formation of a confidential relationship. None are present here.”].) Higashi
is distinguishable. Higashi addressed the issue of whether an
accountant’s fiduciary duty owed to a partnership that hired him extended to an
individual partner. Higashi answered that question in the negative. (Higashi at 586.)
       Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Citrin and Jonathan together created the alleged
forgeries and concealed them from Plaintiff, in part when Citrin undertook to
prepare Plaintiff’s tax returns without Plaintiff’s knowledge, as Plaintiff was
living in the United Kingdom at the time. (FAC ¶42.) 
       Plaintiff’s
case authority supports the contention that a fiduciary relationship can arise
where the alleged fiduciary "either knowingly undertake[s] to act on
behalf and for the benefit of another or must enter into a relationship which
imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.’ [Citation."].(Cleveland v. Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1338.) Plaintiff’s case authority does not
preclude the creation of a fiduciary relationship under the alleged
circumstances. 
C.      Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
elements of causation and legal damage allegedly suffered by Plaintiff in
support of each cause of action alleged against Citrin. 
       Citrin argues that for
all claims alleged against Citrin, Plaintiff failed to allege that any
misconduct caused harm to Plaintiffs, since the claimed injury was already
complete before Citrin’s alleged act or omission. Specifically, Plaintiff
cannot allege facts that Citrin’s post-2002 tax preparation services caused him
to lose the KT Stock or Hamilton shares between 2007 and 2017, or that Citrin
erred in its tax accounting or subjected Plaintiff to any sort of tax penalty
or tax overpayment flowing from Plaintiff’s loss of the KT stock or Hamilton
shares. 
       Citrin’s
argument fundamentally misconstrues the Plaintiff’s allegations as arising from
Citrin’s post-2020 tax preparation services. The alleged misconduct was both
Jonathan’s and Citrin’s exercise of dominion and control over the KT stock and
Hamilton shares and the transfer of ownership to other parties by hiring a
licensed CPA employed by Citrin to forge and conceal the transactions by
Citrin’s preparation of Plaintiff’s tax returns without Plaintiff’s knowledge
(FAC, ¶ 72.a. – h.) Plaintiff alleges he lost income and property as a result.
(Complaint, ¶ 73.) 
       Citrin’s
contention that Plaintiff failed to allege legal injury arising from Citrin’s
preparation of negligent tax preparation is inaccurate since Plaintiff does not
allege negligent tax preparation, but rather Jonathan’s and Citrin’s alleged
concerted conduct in effecting the ownership and transfer of Plaintiff’s
property rights and concealing the nature of those transactions by Citrin’s
filing of Plaintiff’s tax returns. 
       Citrin
relies on International Engine Parts, Inc. v.
Feddersen & Co. (1995)
9 Cal.4th 606, for the “bright
line rule” that the legal injury arising from a negligent tax preparation claim
does not occur until an IRS audit process is finalized and a tax deficiency is
assessed. (Dem. 11:22-12:1.) Fedderesen has no application here.  Plaintiff is not alleging negligent tax
preparation. 
       Citrin
contends that based on the allegations, any damage suffered by Plaintiff
occurred when Jonathan allegedly transferred Plaintiff’s interests to third
parties, such that anything Citrin could have done in preparing Plaintiff’s tax
returns did not cause damage. This argument is not based on what Plaintiff has
actually alleged, namely that Jonathan and Citrin intentionally exercised
dominion and control over Plaintiff’s property interests by preparing forged
documents and then concealing those transfers from Plaintiff by undertaking to
“forge and conceal” Plaintiff’s tax returns that evidence Plaintiff’s ownership
interests. (FAC ¶ 72.a-h.)
D.     Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the 15th
cause of action for violation of Penal Code § 496 (c). 
       This
cause of action is based on the alleged forgeries and concealment of such
misconduct as previously alleged. Citrin argues that Plaintiff did not allege
that Citrin received or had possession of the interests purportedly stolen, or
that Citrin had knowledge that the property was being stolen. 
       Section
496 of the Penal Code is commonly referred to as receiving stolen property:
"(1) that the particular property was stolen, (2) that the accused
received, concealed or withheld it from the owner thereof, and (3) that the
accused knew that the property was stolen." (Finton Construction, Inc. v. Bidna
& Keys, APLC
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 200, 213.) The elements required for civil liability to attach “are simply
that (i) property was stolen or obtained in a manner constituting theft, (ii)
the defendant knew the property was so stolen or obtained, and (iii) the
defendant received or had possession of the stolen property." (Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126.)
       As
the express language of the statute provides and as Citrin readily admits,
statutory liability is imposed against every person who buys or receives any
property that has been stolen "or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids
in concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner, knowing the
property to be so stolen or obtained … .” (Pen. Code, § 496.) The allegations previously
identified states that Citrin concealed or aided in concealing the transfer of
Plaintiff’s property interests. 
       Moreover,
"the requisite possession of the stolen property may be either actual or constructive
and need not be exclusive. In fact, physical possession is not required, as it
is sufficient if the defendant acquires a measure of control or dominion over
the stolen property.” (In re Anthony J. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 718, 728.) 
As previously noted above, Plaintiff repeatedly alleges that both
Jonathan and Citrin intentionally and wrongfully exercised dominion and control
over the KT Stock and Hamilton partnership interests inconsistent with
Plaintiff’s rights. (FAC ¶ 72, et seq.)        

 
IV.    CONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, the demurrer is SUSTAINED in part as to sixth, seventh, and
fifteenth, causes of action as the
claims are clearly barred by the statute of limitations and Plaintiff does not
allege sufficient facts to support delayed discovery to avoid the limitations
bar. In all other respects, demurrer is OVERRULED. 

       The court grants 30 days leave to amend. (Colvig v. RKO General, Inc. (1965) 232 Cal.App.2d 56, 69–70, [Leave to amend is proper where
Plaintiff has not had a fair opportunity to amend, and the defect is capable of
being cured.].)
 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
GRANTING THE MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT IN PART
AND DENYING IN PART FILED BY CITRIN COOPERMAN, LLP.
 
I.       
ARGUMENTS
       Citrin
moves to strike the demand for restitution, attorney’s fees, and exemplary and
punitive damages. The claim for restitution against Citrin is not supported
since Plaintiff does not allege that Citrin was unjustly enriched. The title
interests were alleged transferred to third parties, not Citrin. Plaintiff does
not allege sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages to support
corporate ratification of its employees alleged conduct (Bernard Golditch), who
allegedly took part in the alleged forgeries, concealment, and preparation of
Plaintiff’s tax returns. The prayer for attorney’s fees arising from the claim
for breach of fiduciary duty is not supported by any facts to support such
recovery based on contract or statute. 
       In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the motion is procedurally defective because
Citrin did not fully quote the phrases to be stricken. Plaintiff did not quote
the attorney’s fees portion of the FAC verbatim as required by the California
Rules of Court. The prayer should not be stricken since Plaintiff also seeks
recovery of punitive damages against Jonathan. Punitive damages are appropriate
in a claim for breach of fiduciary duty. Restitution is appropriate in a claim
for breach of fiduciary duty. 
       In
reply, Citrin reiterates the points made in its motion and requests that the
court not grant leave to amend. 
 
 
II.      LEGAL STANDARDS
       The
court may, upon motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems
proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of the pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the Court. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436 subd (a)-(b).) Grounds for the motion to strike are limited to matters
that appear on the face of the pleading or on any matter which the court shall
or may take judicial notice. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437.)
III.   
DISCUSSION
A.     
The prayer for attorney’s fees is proper as
alleged. 
       It is
not an abuse of discretion to refuse to strike a claim for attorney fees where
Plaintiff has not had a full opportunity to determine the basis for such fees.
(Camenisch
v. Superior Court (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1689, 1699 ; Yassin
v. Solis (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 524, 533, ["There is no requirement that a
party plead that it is seeking attorney fees, and there is no requirement that
the ground for a fee award be specified in the pleadings."].)
 
B.      Plaintiff has not alleged corporate
ratification to support imposition of punitive damages against Citrin.
Punitive damages will not be imposed
against a corporate employer absent proof of advance knowledge of an employee’s
unfitness or ratification of that employee’s conduct by an officer, director or
managing agent. (Civ. Code, § § 3294 subd. (b).) Plaintiff alleges that
liability against Citrin is vicarious since Citrin employed Bernard Golditch,
who allegedly engaged in the conduct of forging documents to support transfer
of Plaintiff’s rights and prepared Plaintiff’s tax returns without Plaintiff’s
knowledge in order to conceal those transfers. (FAC ¶ 4.) 
       Plaintiff
may recover on a claim for exemplary damages if Plaintiff establishes “by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294 subd. (a).) The predicate acts to support a claim for
punitive damages must be intended to cause injury or must constitute
“malicious” or “oppressive” conduct as defined by statute. “Malice” is defined
as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff
or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
(Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (c)(1); College Hospital Inc. v. Superior
Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 725 ["malice
involves awareness of dangerous consequences and a willful and deliberate
failure to avoid them"]. "Oppression" is defined as “despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294 subd. (a) subd. (c)(2).)
       Absent
an intent to injure the plaintiff, the conduct must be “despicable” which is
defined as “base, vile, or contemptible.” (College
Hospital Inc. at 725.) Plaintiffs must demonstrate that “the defendant
acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer
that he knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to
others." (Dawes
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 90.) Conduct
constituting negligence, gross negligence or recklessness is insufficient to
support a claim for punitive damages. (Dawes at 87.)
       While
the facts alleged against Golditch may suggest a finding that his conduct was
“despicable," Plaintiff does not allege a claim against Golditch,
individually. Liability against Citrin as employer for Golditch’s conduct must
comply with the requirements for corporate ratification. 
C.     
The prayer for restitution is not supported by the
FAC. 
       Relief
for restitution is proper where “the defendant obtained a benefit from the
plaintiff by fraud, duress, conversion, or similar conduct. In such cases, the
plaintiff may choose not to sue in tort, but instead to seek restitution on a
quasi-contract theory (an election referred to at common law as “waiving the
tort and suing in assumpsit”).” (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 388.) 
       While
Plaintiff may elect to pursue this equitable relief instead of damages in tort,
Plaintiff must still allege that Citrin unjustly obtained a benefit from the
plaintiff to support the claim. Accordingly, the prayer for restitution is not
supported without additional facts. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, the motion to strike is GRANTED in part as to the prayer for
restitution and the claim for punitive damages against CITRIN. In all other
respects, the motion to strike is DENIED. Plaintiff is GRANTED 30 days leave to
amend to allege additional facts to support the claim. 

 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER
TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT BY DEFENDANTS, ADAM KELLY, MAYA KELLY, AND DAVID
KELLY
 
 
I.       
ARGUMENTS
       Defendants,
Adam Kelly, Maya Kelly, and David Kelly (collectively the “Kellys”), who are
alleged to be Jonathan’s children , demur to the claims asserting conversion,
for unjust enrichment, and for violating Penal Code § 496(c) on grounds they
are barred by the statute of limitations. (FAC ¶ 25.) The conversion claims (in
two counts) fail for uncertainty. It is not clear what role the Kellys played
in the conversion, since they were young children at the time. The claim for
unjust enrichment is a remedy and not a cause of action.  The claim for stolen property fails because
Plaintiff does not allege the Kellys’ knowledge that their ownership interests
were stolen, which the Kellys deny. 
       In
opposition, Plaintiff alleges that the conversion claims are adequately stated
since the Kellys refused to return Plaintiff’s interests upon Plaintiff’s
demand. The claims are not fatally uncertain. While there is technically no
claim for unjust enrichment, Plaintiff alleges an adequate basis for
restitution. Plaintiff alleges that the Kellys had knowledge of their father’s
forgery and theft of Plaintiff’s interests and that they acted in concert with
him. 
       In
reply, the Kellys argue that Plaintiff has not alleged any acts by the Kellys
from which the two-count claims for conversion arose. Plaintiff alleges only
that the Kellys acted in concert with Jonathan; Plaintiff did not allege facts
that the Kellys acted intentionally to deprive the Plaintiff of his rightful
possession. A pre-lawsuit demand is not required to support the claims for
conversion under the circumstances alleged here. 
II.      DEMURRER
       The
court incorporates the legal standards on demurrer as previously articulated.
III.    DISCUSSION
A.      Demurrer to the conversion claims is
overruled. 
       The second and third causes of action for
conversion are alleged against the “Joint Defendants” who are Jonathan (father)
and his children, Adam, Maya and David Kelly. The children are referred to here
as “the Kellys.” (FAC ¶ 13.) Plaintiff alleges that on January 7, 2007, Jonathan
and the Kellys acted in concert without Plaintiff’s consent to intentionally
and wrongfully exercise dominion and control over Plaintiff’s 7.5 percent interest
in KT Stock by forging a letter signed by Plaintiff purporting to gift the
stock to the Kellys. (FAC ¶ 24). 
       The second conversion claim arises from the
alleged conduct on December 15, 2009, of Plaintiff’s remaining interest in KT
stock (7.5 percent) by Jonathan and his children (FAC ¶ 39.) The Kellys argue
that the conversion claims are fatally uncertain because they are conclusory. 
       The Kellys rely on a case stating the
general requirements of pleading requiring a “clearness and precision so that
nothing is left to surmise.” (Ankeny
v. Lockheed Missiles and Space Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 531, 537.)
       “Conversion” is defined as “the wrongful
exercise of dominion over the property of another.” (Duke
v. Superior Court (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 490, 501.) The
alleged facts must support the following elements: (1) the plaintiff's
ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant's
conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3)
damages. “It is the uniform law that shares of stock in a company
are subject to an action in conversion.” (Id.)
       Plaintiff allege he was the lawful owner
of 15% in Kellytoy Worldwide, which Jonathan and the Kellys, acting in concert
and without Plaintiff’s consent, intentionally and wrongfully exercised
dominion and control in a manner inconsistent with Plaintiff’s property rights.
(FAC ¶¶ 25, 39.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants accomplished this by forging
letters purporting to gift the stock to the Kellys. (FAC ¶ 39.) Plaintiff
attaches exhibits to the pleading which are the purportedly forged letters addressed
to Jonathan and signed by Plaintiff releasing Plaintiff’s shares in KT Stock.
(FAC, Exh. 3, 4.) 
       The Kellys claim of uncertainty arises
from their assertion that they were children at the time, and it is not clear
how they could have acted in concert with Jonathan to forge the letters. The
uncertainty arises from facts not alleged in the pleading. Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing, they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet. (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).)
       A
pleading is required to assert general allegations of ultimate fact.
Evidentiary facts are not required. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty
Co. (1998) 19 Cal. 4th 26, 47; Lim
v. The.TV Corp. Internat.
(2002) 99 Cal. App. 4th 684, 690.) Demurrers for uncertainty are strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, “because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
       Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the
case alleged "with reasonable precision and with particularity that is
sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and
extent of his cause of action.” (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  
       Plaintiff
has alleged facts to support the required elements. Whether the Plaintiff will
be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant. (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.) 
D.    
Demurrer to the claim for restitution is OVERRULED.

       Relief
for restitution is proper where “the defendant obtained a benefit from the
plaintiff by fraud, duress, conversion, or similar conduct. In such cases, the
plaintiff may choose not to sue in tort, but instead to seek restitution on a
quasi-contract theory (an election referred to at common law as “waiving the
tort and suing in assumpsit”).” (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 388.) 
       The
claim for restitution arises from the allegation that Plaintiff has been
deprived of property interests arising from the alleged wrongful acts of
Jonathan and the Kellys. A person who is unjustly enriched at the expense of
another is required to make restitution and is recognized as a cause of action.
(Professional Tax Appeal v.
Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230, 238 [“The elements of a cause of action
for unjust enrichment are simply stated as ‘receipt of a benefit and unjust
retention of the benefit at the expense of another.’”].)  
       Regardless,
the Kellys do not explain how the inclusion of this cause of action causes any
prejudice based on the assumption that restitution is not a formal cause of
action. The court must disregard errors in pleadings or
proceedings, which do not affect the substantial rights of the parties. (Code Civ. Code, §. Proc., § 475.) 
E.      Demurrer to the claim for violation of
Penal Code § 496(c) is OVERRULED. 
       This
cause of action is based on the alleged forgeries and concealment of such as
previously stated. Defendants argue that Plaintiff did not allege that the
Kellys knew the property was stolen and will not be able to “prove” the claim
because Defendants were minor children. (Dem. 4:14-18.)
       Section
496 of the Penal Code is commonly referred to as receiving stolen property
"(1) that the particular property was stolen, (2) that the accused
received, concealed or withheld it from the owner thereof, and (3) that the
accused knew that the property was stolen." (Finton Construction, Inc. v. Bidna
& Keys, APLC
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 200, 213.” The elements required for civil liability to attach “are simply
that (i) property was stolen or obtained in a manner constituting theft, (ii)
the defendant knew the property was so stolen or obtained, and (iii) the
defendant received or had possession of the stolen property." (Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126.)
       The
matter of Defendants’ infancy at the time of the alleged conversion is an
evidentiary matter affecting Plaintiff’s burden of proof, which the court does
not consider at the demurrer stage. Furthermore, liability is imposed under the
statute if the receiver knows the property to be stolen or obtained “or [the
person] conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or
withholding any property from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen
or obtained," (Switzer at 126.) 
       Accordingly,
the claim is sufficient as alleged. 
IV.    CONCLUSION.
       Based
on the foregoing, the Kelly Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s first amended
complaint is OVERRULED. 

 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
GRANTING
 PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO FIRST AMENDED
 COMPLAINT TO ADD ALL PARTNERS AS DEFENDANTS IN THE DISSOLUTION CLAIMS 
 
I.       
RELEVANT
BACKGROUND
       The
first amended complaint (“FAC”) filed on June 26, 2024, alleges that Defendant,
Jonathan S. Kelly, (“Jonathan”), breached a 2015 written contract that would
guarantee Plaintiff £10,000 every month in exchange for Plaintiff ceding
management and control of two parcels of real property located in London,
England. The first two conversion claims arise from the alleged forgery and
transfer of Plaintiff’s 15 percent interest in Kellytoy Worldwide, Inc. by
Defendants, Jonathan Kelly, Adam Kelly, Maya Kelly, and David Kelly
(collectively, the “Joint Defendants”). 
       The
third count for conversion arises from the alleged wrongful transfer of
Plaintiff’s 35 percent interest in Hamilton Towers, LP (“Hamilton Partnership”)
to Jonathan’s mother. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants engaged in a coverup of
these forged transfers with Defendant, Citrin Cooperman, alleged to be a
licensed certified public accountant, who filed tax returns on Plaintiff’s
behalf without Plaintiff’s knowledge.
       The
fourth conversion count arises from Jonathan’s alleged wrongful distribution of
funds from the sale of 28 Lancaster Gate in London without distributing
Plaintiff’s share of the sale proceeds. Plaintiff alleges 15 causes of action
related to these alleged events, including derivative claims for dissolution on
behalf of the Hamilton Partnership and 4811 S. Alameda Partnership (“Alameda
Partnership”).  
II.      ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiff
requests leave to add all partners as Defendants in the 12th and 13th
causes of action for involuntary dissolution and for an appointment of a
receiver. The partners are indispensable parties in the dissolution claims.
There is no prejudice to defendants who asserted in their respective answers
that Plaintiff failed to join necessary and indispensable parties as a second
affirmative defense. 
       In
opposition, Defendants argue that they have spent considerable time and effort
preparing their respective motions including a motion to compel arbitration and
a motion to stay the dissolution claims set for hearing on December 12, 2024.
Defendants contend they have a right to be heard. Defendants argue it makes no
sense for Plaintiff to amend the complaint again if the litigation will be
stayed pursuant to Defendants’ pending motions. The arbitrator can determine
who are the proper parties in this case. Alternatively, Defendants ask that the
court continue this hearing until after Defendants’ motions are heard on
December 12, 2024.
       In
reply, Plaintiff argues Defendants have not shown prejudice given their second
affirmative defense asserting failure to join indispensable parties.
Defendants’ motions to compel arbitration and stay the action set for December
12, 2024 will not render this motion moot. The arbitration motion has nothing
to do with the dissolution claims. The court cannot order a buyout without all
necessary partners included in the action. 
III.    LEGAL STANDARDS
       Leave
to amend is permitted at the court’s discretion upon any terms that may be
just. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 subd. (a)(1).) The statute is liberally
construed to permit amendment of the pleadings “unless an attempt is made to
present an entirely different set of facts by way of the amendment.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 760.) 
       If
the motion is timely made, and the granting of the motion will not result in
prejudice to the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend. (Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In
and For Los Angeles County (1959)
172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)
Where denial of the motion will result in a party being deprived of the right
to assert a meritorious cause of action, “it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.” (Id.) Amendments are permitted up to the date of trial or
during trial where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) 
IV.    DISCUSSION
       For
purposes of clarity, the court construes Plaintiff’s motion as a motion for
leave to file a second amended complaint. 
        The joinder of a party is compulsory where
complete relief cannot be accorded without that party or that party claims an
interest relating to the subject matter such that disposition in his absence
will impede that party’s ability to protect that interest. Under these
circumstances, the court must order joinder of that party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 389.)
       In
any suit for judicial dissolution of a limited partnership, “the other partners
may avoid the dissolution of the limited partnership by purchasing for cash the
partnership interests owned by the partners so initiating the proceeding … .” (Corp. Code, § 15908.02.) Accordingly, the partners Plaintiff
seeks to join have an interest in this litigation and are indispensable
parties. (Kraus v. Willow Park Public Golf
Course (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 354, 369
["Normally, in a suit to dissolve and wind up the affairs of a
partnership, all of the partners are considered indispensable parties to the
litigation.”]
       Defendants
have not shown any substantial prejudice to their rights resulting from the
amendment except for the time and resources they have spent preparing their
respective motions. The policy permitting amendments is liberally construed at
any stage of the proceeding so as to dispose of cases upon their substantial
merits where the authorization does not prejudice the substantial rights of
others.’" (Board of Trustees v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1163.) Permitting leave to amend will
bring all necessary parties before the court and will promote judicial
efficiency with respect to later motions that may potentially affect the new
parties. This is especially true of the Alameda Partnership, who seeks a stay
of the dissolution and proposes a buyout of Plaintiff’s interest. The proposed
buyout affects all of the partners in the partnership and cannot be fairly
considered without them.
V.      CONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to file a second amended complaint is
GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to file the proposed Second Amended Complaint
within 30 days. 
 
 
 
 
 