 Case Number:  24STLC01520    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  26  
Unaeze-Nze v. Jerome’s Socal Home Improvement, et
al.DEMURRER
(CCP §§ 430.31,
et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Jerome
Gardner, individually, and dba Jerome’s Socal Home Improvement’s Demurrer to
the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED AS TO THE FIRST CAUSE OFACTION FOR
NEGLIGENCE AND SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF
ACTION FOR NEGLIGENT INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Joy
Unaeze-Nze (“Plaintiff”), in propria persona, filed the instant action against
Defendant Jerome Gardner, individually, and dba Jerome’s Socal Home Improvement
(“Defendant”) (erroneously sued as Jerome’s Socal Home Improvement) on March 4,
2024. Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint on May 20, 2024. Defendant, in
propria persona, filed the instant Demurrer to the Complaint on August 12,
2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on September 3, 2024 and Defendant replied
on September 16, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
Allegations in First Amended Complaint
 
The First Amended Complaint alleges causes of action for negligence and
negligent infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges that they
contacted Defendant on February 20, 2023 regarding a bathroom and kitchen
remodel. (FAC, ¶8.) Defendant came out to Plaintiff’s property located at 6820
La Tijera Blvd., Suite 117, Los Angeles, California. (Ibid.) Defendant
gave Plaintiff a quote and on June 19, 2023, came to the Property with Guz
Mendez from American Home Center, whom Defendant said would be doing the
remodeling project. (Id. at ¶¶8-9.) The remodeling project was financed
through Finance of America, which gave Mendez the full $57,000.00 payment on
Plaintiff’s behalf. (Id. at ¶¶8-10.) At some point Defendant reached out
to Plaintiff and demanded that he be paid the $57,000.00. (Id. at ¶12.)
Plaintiff informed Defendant that the money had been paid to Mendez. (Id.
at ¶13.) Defendant placed a fraudulent mechanic’s lien on Plaintiff’s home,
seeking payment for work he never performed. (Id. at ¶15.) Plaintiff has
suffered emotionally and physically, due to fears that their home will be sold
to satisfy the fraudulent mechanic’s lien. (Id. at ¶16.) 
 
Defendant owed Plaintiff a duty pursuant to
Civil Code section 1714 for being responsible for the result of willfully
placing a fraudulent mechanical lien on Plaintiff’s home. (Id. at ¶22.)
As a result of the lien, Plaintiff has suffered serious emotional distress,
including not being able to fall asleep and fear of losing her home. (Id.
at ¶27.) 
 
Demurrer
 

The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration that
complies with Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Demurrer, Gardner Decl.,
¶¶3-4.) Defendant demurs to the First Amended Complaint for failure to allege
facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).) The Demurrer is also accompanied by a request for judicial notice
of what appear to be text messages regarding the remodeling project. (RJN, Exh.
A.) Defendant asks the Court to take judicial notice of the messages pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 452, subdivision (h). The text messages are
not the proper subject of judicial notice. Defendant does not explain what
facts, if any, are to be taken as true from the messages, or why the Court
should consider those facts indisputably true. (Sosinsky v. Grant (1992)
6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1564, citing 1 Witkin Cal. Evidence (3d ed.1986) §
80, p. 74 [“Under the doctrine
of judicial notice, certain matters are assumed to be indisputably true, and
the introduction of evidence to prove them will not be required. Judicial
notice is thus a substitute for formal proof. [Citation.]”.) The request for
judicial notice is denied.
 
The first cause of
action for negligence must allege the elements of duty, breach, causation, and
damages. (Peredia v. HR
Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.) The demurrer is
brought on the grounds that the First Amended Complaint does not set forth what
duty was owed by Defendant to Plaintiff, the breach of which caused Plaintiff’s
damages. The demurrer does not address the allegations based on Civil Code
section 1714 until the reply, in which Defendant argues that this statute only
applies to cases “involving injuries incurred as a result of furnishing
alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person.” (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (b).)
The statute, however, is not so limited. Civil Code section 1714 states in
relevant part: “Everyone is
responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for
an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in
the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter
has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.” (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a).) Subdivision (b) merely clarifies the
legislature’s intent with respect to the application of the rule from
subdivision (a) to cases “involving injuries incurred as a result of furnishing
alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person.” (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (b).) The
first cause of action, therefore, alleges facts sufficient to support the
element of duty. The demurrer to the first cause of action for negligence is
overruled.
 
The second cause of
action is for negligent infliction of emotion distress but there is no such independent
cause of action. (Ragland v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 182, 205.) There is only emotional distress damages arising from
negligence. (Ibid.) Recovery for emotional distress arising out of loss
of property is limited to cases where a preexisting relationship between the
parties creates a duty of care or where the damage arises out of an intentional
tort. (Ibid.) The First Amended Complaint does not allege a preexisting
relationship between the parties that would give rise to this type of duty or
an intentional tort. Therefore, the demurrer to the second cause of action is
sustained. 
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) Plaintiff has not shown in opposition
to the demurrer that it is possible to correct the defects with respect to the
second cause of action. Leave to amend is denied.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Jerome
Gardner, individually, and dba Jerome’s Socal Home Improvement’s Demurrer to
the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED AS TO THE FIRST CAUSE OFACTION FOR
NEGLIGENCE AND SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF
ACTION FOR NEGLIGENT INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 