  Case Number:  20STCV45208    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jack
Brown filed this action against Defendants, Daniel Capen, M.D., Philip Sobol,
M.D., Healthsmart Pacific, Inc., dba Pacific Hospital of Long Beach, and
Michael D. Drobot for medical malpractice and related claims.  Plaintiff filed the suit on 11/24/20.  
 
Plaintiff’s operative
complaint is his Third Amended Complaint, which he filed on 10/09/23.  HealthSmart has been dismissed from the action,
Capen has settled, and James L. Canedo has been added to the action.  The TAC includes causes of action for medical
negligence, medical battery, and fraud/intentional concealment.  
2.    
Motions
for Summary Adjudication

Summary
     of Issues Presented

There are three
summary adjudication motions on calendar today. 
They are brought by Sobol, Drobot, and Canedo.  Each of the motions seeks adjudication of the
fifth cause of action for fraud/intentional concealment.  The issues presented by way of the motions
can be summed up as follows:
·        
First, each of the
defendants contends the action against them is barred by the statute of limitations;
·        
Second, each of the
defendants contends there was no duty to disclose upon which a fraud by
concealment action can be prosecuted;
·        
Third, each of the
defendants contends Plaintiff cannot establish they committed fraud by
concealment in connection with Plaintiff’s surgery.  
 
While the issues
differ as to each of the three defendants in some minor respects, the overarching
issues are the same.  The Court, therefore,
will organize this ruling by issue, rather than by defendant, and will note,
when necessary, how the analysis differs as between the three moving defendants.  
 

Burdens on Summary Judgment

Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant
may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required
facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses
the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that
plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential
element of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 

Evidentiary
     Objections

Defendants each
filed evidentiary objections with their reply papers.  The ruling on Drobot and Canedo’s motions
does not turn on a ruling on their objections, and therefore the Court declines
to rule on them.  CCP §437c(q).
 
The crux of Dr.
Sobol’s objections to the Green (Plaintiff’s attorney) Declaration is that the
various documents attached thereto, all of which relate to the criminal
proceedings, revocation of medical license, etc., lack foundation, are hearsay,
and lack relevance.  The Court finds
Plaintiff’s attorney laid an adequate foundation for the documents.  The documents have non-hearsay value, as they
are not provided for the sole purpose of proving the truth of the matter
asserted therein; additionally, to the extent the documents are authored by
Sobol himself, such as his plea deal, they would constitute admissions against
interest.  Additionally, the Court’s
ruling, below, does not turn on these documents, and therefore a ruling on the
objections is not necessary to support denial of the motion.  §437c(q). 

 
Dr. Sobol’s
objections 15 and 16 to Plaintiff’s declaration are sustained.  The remaining objections are overruled.
 

Statute
     of Limitations

i.             
Parties’ Positions
The threshold
issue in this action is whether the statute of limitations bars Plaintiff’s
claims for fraud by concealment against Defendants.  The parties’ arguments can be summed up as
follows:
 
Defendants, in
their moving papers, contend the governing statute of limitations is CCP §340.5,
which governs the time (three years) within which a claim for injury or death
against a healthcare provider based on professional negligence must be
commenced (Dr. Sobol), or CCP §338(d), which governs the time (three years)
within which a claim for fraud must be commenced (Drobot and Caneda).  Plaintiff, in opposition to the motions,
argues the relevant statute of limitations is §340.3(a), which provides:
Unless a longer
period is prescribed for a specific action, in any action for damages against a
defendant based upon the defendant's commission of a felony offense for which
the defendant has been convicted, the time for commencement of the action shall
be within one year after judgment is pronounced.
 
Plaintiff also
argues the three-year SOL in §338(d) did not commence running until he received
the DOJ letter, and therefore he timely filed his action.  
 
In reply,
Defendants contend, alternatively, that §340.3(a) does not apply because
Plaintiff must be a victim on whose behalf the criminal action was prosecuted,
and/or because Plaintiff filed the action more than one year after judgment was
pronounced.
 
ii.            
Timeline 
In order to
evaluate this issue, the Court must consider the timeline of events leading up
to the filing of this lawsuit.  The timeline
is as follows:
·        
2004 – Plaintiff suffers
a workplace injury
·        
Prior to 7/23/07 – Dr. Sobol
refers Plaintiff to Dr. Capen for spinal surgery
·        
7/23/07 – Dr. Capen performs spinal surgery
·        
The surgery was unsuccessful,
which was known very quickly after the surgery
·        
Judgment against
Defendants in the criminal action was pronounced on 2/02/18
·        
Plaintiff received notice
of the judgment on or just after (due to mailing delay) 8/23/19
·        
Plaintiff filed this
action on 11/24/20.
 
iii.           
Analysis
No party provides
case citations or meaningful discussion of how CCP §340.3(a) works.  Plaintiff seems to take the position that the
§340.3(a) statute of limitations commences running once he receives notice of
the judgment against the defendants, and once it commences running, he then has
three years to file suit, because the longer statute of limitations for fraud
governs and not the one-year statute of limitations in §340.3(a) itself.  He also appears to take the position that,
because Defendants are health care providers, the statute is extended by 90
days once he gives notice of intent to sue.
 
The Court has reviewed
the Code Annotated on §340.3, as the Court has not previously encountered this
issue, and it is a novel one.  The Code
Annotated refers to Guardian North Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 963, which considered many of the issues presented by
the parties in this case.  
 
Initially, Dr.
Sobol, in his reply papers, contends Plaintiff cannot rely on §340.3(a) because
Plaintiff was not specified as a victim on whose behalf the criminal
proceedings were brought.  The Guardian Court
considered and rejected this issue.  The
plaintiffs in Guardian sued for elder abuse. 
The defendant elder care facility argued the SOL in §340.5 governed, and
the plaintiffs argued §340.3 governed.  The
elder care facility argued, among other things, that §340.3 did not apply because
the particular persons suing for elder abuse were not mentioned in the criminal
complaint.  The Court of Appeals rejected
this argument, noting that §340.3 contains broad language, and that any victim
of the criminal conduct is entitled to rely on its benefits.  
 
In Guardian, the
plaintiffs filed their suits within one year after judgment was pronounced in
the criminal action.  Thus, the Guardian
Court was not called upon to consider Plaintiff’s other arguments raised
herein, such as that the SOL begins running when he receives notice of the criminal
judgment and/or that the three-year SOL applies and commences running upon such
notice.  The Guardian Court did, however,
analyze the §340.3 SOL as follows:
Based on our
review, we discern that the purpose of section 340.3 is to encourage the victim
of a crime to obtain restitution by bringing an action for damages against the
perpetrator when the perpetrator has been convicted of a felony offense. The
minimum limitations period of at least one year from the judgment of conviction
allows the victim to sue the defendant when an otherwise applicable statute of
limitations has expired.
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff’s arguments are misplaced.  The
criminal judgment in this case was pronounced on 2/02/18.  On its face, §340.3 extends the SOL for one
year, to 2/02/19.  Even if the Court were
to use the date of notice, which was 8/23/19, Plaintiff still did not file suit
within one year thereafter. Plaintiff’s argument that the three-year SOL for
fraud must somehow be read into the one-year §340.3 SOL is nonsensical.  The plain language of the statute states, “Unless
a longer period is prescribed for a specific action, in any action for damages
against a defendant based upon the defendant's commission of a felony offense
for which the defendant has been convicted, the time for commencement of the
action shall be within one year after judgment is pronounced.”  
 
By way of example,
if a defendant committed a crime with a companion civil three-year statute of
limitations on 1/01/2000, and then was convicted of fraud on 1/01/2001, the plaintiff
would not be bound by the one-year SOL in §340.3 because “a longer period is
prescribed for a specific action,” and the plaintiff would still have until
1/01/2003 to file suit.  If, on the other
hand, the crime is committed on 1/01/2000 and then convicted on 1/01/2004, the
three-year SOL would have already expired, and a new one-year SOL would
commence running and expire on 1/01/2005. 

 
Applying the above
to this case, it is clear Plaintiff filed his lawsuit after the SOL
expired.  Again, judgment against
Defendants was entered on 2/02/18.  Even
if the Court uses the date of notice of the judgment, 8/23/19, Plaintiff still
filed suit more than a year later, on 11/24/20. 

 
iv.           
Delayed Discovery
Plaintiff conflates
his §340.3 arguments with his delayed discovery arguments, which renders ruling
on this issue difficult.  Plaintiff also appears
to be arguing that, even if the fraud SOL applies, the delayed discovery rule
means the SOL did not commence running until 8/23/19 and his lawsuit was timely
filed.  CCP §338(d) makes clear that a
claim for fraud does not commence running until the aggrieved party discovers
the facts constituting the fraud or mistake. 
§338(d) makes clear that an action for fraud has a three-year statute of
limitations, and the SOL commences running upon discovery of the fraud or
mistake.  
 
Neither Canedo nor
Drobot addresses §338(d) in his reply papers. 
Sobol addresses §338(d), and argues the SOL under §338(d) commenced
running when Plaintiff discovered Defendant concealed the fact that his spine
surgery was not successful, and this happened at or near the time of the surgery.  This is not, however, the nature of Plaintiff’s
action against Defendants.  The nature of
Plaintiff’s action against Defendants is that they concealed a kickback scheme
that allowed them to implant faulty and non-approved hardware into Plaintiff’s
back, and Plaintiff did not learn of the scheme or the faulty non-approved
hardware until he received the DOJ letter in 2019.  Issues relating to whether or not the
kickback scheme constitutes fraud against Plaintiff will be discussed below;
for purposes of the statute of limitations, the relevant discovery is of the
kickback scheme, as that scheme is the basis of the action for fraud by
concealment against Defendants.
 
The Court finds
there are triable issues of material fact concerning whether Plaintiff first
learned of the kickback scheme in 2019, such that the three-year SOL set forth
in CCP §338(d) would commence running in the fall of 2019 and the complaint was
timely filed.  The motions for summary
adjudication on the ground that their complaints against Defendants are barred
by the SOL Is therefore denied.
 

Duty
     to Disclose

i.             
Issue Presented
Plaintiff’s claim
against Defendants sounds in concealment. 
Plaintiff can only pursue his claim if Defendants had a legal duty to
disclose a fact to him and failed to comply with that duty.  Defendants contend they had no such duty, and
Plaintiff contends they did have a duty. 
Thus, the issue presented is whether Defendants had a duty to disclose
information about the kickback scheme to Plaintiff.  For purposes of the duty analysis, the Court
will assume the kickback scheme was relevant to Plaintiff’s decision to have the
surgery and he was injured by the scheme; analysis of the substantive
disagreements concerning those issues will be discussed further below.
 
ii.            
Law Governing Duty to Disclose
The elements of a fraud claim based
on concealment are: “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311.
 
There are “four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” Id. at 311. If a fiduciary relationship does not exist,
but the latter three circumstances are present, Plaintiff must still show “the
existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant from
which a duty to disclose can arise.”  Id.
at 311. 
 
iii.           
Relationships of Moving Defendants to Plaintiff
In order to
address the issue of duty, the Court must first consider the relationship of
the moving defendants to the plaintiff.  
 
Plaintiff was
referred to Dr. Sobol by his workers’ compensation lawyers to manage his
pain.  Dr. Sobol referred Plaintiff to Dr.
Capen (who has settled all claims against him) for surgery, and Dr. Capen
performed the surgery.  Drobot owned
Pacific Hospital, the hospital where the surgery was performed.  Capen was an executive at the hospital, and has
also been charged in connection with the scheme.  
 
Thus, the issue presented
is whether a referring doctor and/or a hospital executive who has knowledge of
a kickback scheme has a relationship with the patient that gives rise to a duty
to disclose.  
 
iv.           
Referring Doctor
As noted above,
Dr. Sobol was treating Plaintiff for pain management and referred Plaintiff to
Dr. Capen for back surgery.  Assuming,
for purposes of this analysis, that Dr. Sobol knew of the kickback scheme, knew
Plaintiff would not have the surgery if he knew those facts, and knew the
scheme would cause Plaintiff damage (and that it did cause him damage), the
Court must determine whether Dr. Sobol had any obligation to disclose the scheme
under the circumstances.  
 
Dr. Sobol relies
on Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 224-245 to support his position that he
had no such duty.  In Cobbs, the Supreme
Court held that a treating physician has a duty to disclose all relevant information
to a patient prior to performing surgery. 
Nothing in the opinion held or suggested that others who know of the
suppressed information lack such a duty. 
Dr. Sobol also relies on Moore v. Regents of University of California
(1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 131-132, wherein the Supreme Court held that a doctor’s
duty to disclose includes a duty to disclose personal interests unrelated to
the patient’s health, including research or economic interests.  Again, nothing in Moore precludes imposing
such a duty on a referring physician, especially when the referring physician
is alleged to have known of the scheme and participated in the scheme.  
 
As a matter of
common sense, a referring physician also has a fiduciary duty to his patients.  If a referring physician makes a referral with
a financial incentive, it seems the same violation contemplated in Moore is at
issue; the physician has a duty to disclose his financial interest in making the
referral, and violates that duty when he fails to do so.
 
v.            
Hospital Executives
The issue becomes
murkier as it relates to Drobot and Canedo, neither of whom ever treated Plaintiff.  Each of these persons is alleged to have been
an executive at the hospital where the surgery was performed, and to have
financially benefitted from the kickback scheme that forms the basis of this
lawsuit.  
 
Canedo and Drobot,
whose briefs are substantially the same in this regard, rely on Derrick v.
Ontario Community Hospital (1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 146, 154 to support his
position that he owed no such duty. 
Derrick, however, sounded in negligence. 
The allegation was that the hospital was negligent in failing to advise
the plaintiffs that they had contracted a contagious disease.  The Court of Appeals found that the hospital
could not practice medicine and had no duty to provide that information to the
patients.  
 
Plaintiff compounds
this issue by also failing to cite any case on point.  Plaintiff relies on Hoffman v. 162 North
Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187 to support his position
that this is a jury issue.  Hoffman held:
As noted, under
Civil Code section 1710, subdivision (3), fraud may consist of a suppression of
a material fact in circumstances under which the defendant has a legal duty of
disclosure. (See  Lingsch v. Savage (1963)
213 Cal.App.2d 729, 735, 29 Cal.Rptr. 201 [“the person charged with the
concealment or nondisclosure of certain facts” must be found to be “under a
legal duty to disclose them”].) As explained by the Fourth District Court of
Appeal, Division One, “There are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the
defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
facts. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” ( 
*1187  LiMandri v. Judkins (1997)
52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336, 60 Cal.Rptr.2d 539 ( LiMandri ).) As the court in  LiMandri explained further, other than the
first instance, in which there must be a fiduciary relationship between the
parties, “the other three circumstances in which nondisclosure may be actionable
presuppose[ ] the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff
and defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise.... ‘[W]here material facts
are known to one party and not to the other, failure to disclose them is not
actionable fraud unless there is some relationship between the parties which
gives rise to a duty to disclose such known facts.’ [Citation.]” ( Id. at pp.
336-337, 60 Cal.Rptr.2d 539, original italics, quoting BAJI No. 12.36 (8th ed.
1994).) A relationship between the parties is present if there is “some sort of
transaction between the parties. [Citations.] Thus, a duty to disclose may
arise from the relationship between seller and buyer, employer and prospective
employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual
agreement.” ( LiMandri, at p. 337, 60 Cal.Rptr.2d 539 original italics,
citing  Warner Constr. Corp. v. City of
Los Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294, 85 Cal.Rptr. 444, 466 P.2d 996; see Use
Note to CACI No. 1901 [indicating that for concealment claim not based upon
fiduciary relationship, “if the defendant asserts that there was no
relationship based on a transaction giving rise to a duty to disclose, then the
jury should also be instructed to determine **828 whether the requisite
relationship existed”].)11
 
Plaintiff takes
Hoffman out of context and suggests that, anytime concealment is alleged, the
jury must decide the issue of duty.  Notably,
the trial court in Hoffman granted summary adjudication of the fraud by
concealment claim, finding there was no duty running between the parties
(Hoffman at 1185), and the Court of Appeals affirmed the decision (Hoffman at
1193), finding there was no relationship between the parties and therefore no
duty to disclose.  
 
Ultimately, the
Court’s concern is that it does not appear Plaintiff had any relationship with
Defendants, let alone a relationship that would give rise to a duty to
speak.  The Court is therefore inclined
to grant summary adjudication of the fraud cause of action in favor of Drobot
and Canedo.  
 

Other
     Elements of Concealment

While Canedo and
Drobot make various other arguments that concealment of the kickback scheme does
not constitute fraud, such as that Plaintiff did not base his decision to have
surgery on the type of hardware being used, Plaintiff cannot show he was
damaged by the hardware that was used, etc., Dr. Sobol does not make those
arguments.  The Court therefore need not
consider those arguments at this time.
 

Conclusion

The Court finds no
defendant met his burden to show the claims against him are barred by the three-year
statute of limitations set forth in CCP §338(d), which was tolled until
Plaintiff learned of the subject fraud (receipt of the DOJ letter).  
 
The Court finds
Drobot and Canedo met their burden to show they had no relationship with
Plaintiff, fiduciary or otherwise, such that there would be a duty to
disclose.  They are therefore entitled to
judgment as a matter of law on the fifth cause of action for fraud pled against
them.  Notably, while Drobot and Canedo
both filed motions for summary “adjudication,” the fraud cause of action is the
sole cause of action pled against them in the operative Third Amended
Complaint, and therefore their motions are, in substance, motions for summary
judgment.  
 
The Court finds
Dr. Sobol failed to meet his moving burden to show he had no duty to disclose the
known facts to Plaintiff, and therefore his motion for summary adjudication is
denied.  
 
Drobot is ordered
to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   