 Case Number:  23LBCV01401    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Ann Shih filed this
action against Defendant, General Motors, LLC for fraud (concealment and
misrepresentation), negligent misrepresentation, unfair business practices, and
violations of the Song-Beverly Act.
 

Demurrer 

a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be taken],
and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action
within].  Specifically, a demurrer may be
brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he met and
conferred telephonically with Plaintiff prior to filing the demurrer, but the
parties did not resolve the issues.    
 
c.     Parties’
Positions
Defendant demurs to the fraud-based
causes of action, contending they are barred by the statute of limitations and are
not pled with the necessary specificity. 

 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues fraud
is pled with the requisite specificity.    
 
d.     Statute
of Limitations
CCP §338(d) provides for a
three-year statute of limitations on a fraud claim.  Plaintiff alleges she purchased the subject
vehicle on 6/23/20.  Complaint, ¶8.  She goes on to allege that the vehicle was
delivered to her with serious defects and nonconformities to the warranty.  Complaint, ¶10.  She filed her action on 7/26/23.
 
Defendant demurs to the complaint,
contending Plaintiff admits any fraud occurred on or before 6/23/20, and therefore
Plaintiff filed her fraud complaint after the SOL had already run, more than
three years later.  Plaintiff fails to
address this argument in opposition to the demurrer.  The Court finds the statute of limitations
bars the fraud-based claims (fraud and negligent misrepresentation), and the demurrer
to those claims is sustained.  In light
of the lack of opposition on this ground, leave to amend is denied.  
 
e.     BPC
§17200
The statute of limitations on an
unfair business practices cause of action is four years.  Defendant does not demur to the §17200 cause
of action on the ground that it is barred by the statute of limitations.  Instead, Defendant argues Plaintiff has not
pled a predicate claim for fraud, and therefore cannot state a claim for unfair
business practices.  The Court must
therefore consider the arguments relating to the fraud claims in order to rule
on the demurrer to the §17200 claim.  
 
i.             
Specificity
Defendant’s primary argument is
that Plaintiff failed to plead fraud with specificity.  Ordinarily, fraud claims are subject to
strict requirements of particularity in pleading which necessitate pleading
facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered." (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)  However, the specificity rule is intended to
apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to concealment. (Alfaro v.
Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 89 Cal.Rptr.3d
659).  Notably, the idea that a plaintiff
could allege who concealed something, where the thing was concealed, when it
was concealed, etc., is nonsensical; the nature of the claim is a failure to
speak, which cannot possibly include these details.
 
ii.            
Intent to Conceal
Defendant’s second argument is that
Plaintiff did not plead facts to show intent. 
Defendant relies on Linear Tech. Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 115, 132 to support this position.  Linear, however, expressly holds that a claim
of fraud by concealment is pled when the plaintiff pleads that the suppressed
facts were known or accessible only to the defendant, and the defendant knew
they were not known or reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff.  That is exactly what is pled here.  Plaintiff pleads that Defendant had exclusive
knowledge of the battery defect, and Defendant knew Plaintiff lacked that
knowledge.  
 
iii.           
Pleading of Concealment
The elements of a fraud claim based
on concealment are: “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311).  
 
There are “four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Id. at 311). If a fiduciary relationship does not exist,
but the latter three circumstances are present, Plaintiff must still show “the
existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant from
which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Id. at 311). 
 
            A duty to
disclose may arise as a result of a transaction between the parties. However,
the transaction "must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the
plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large." (Bigler-Engler at 312 [noting that the duty of a manufacturer
to warn consumers of a product’s hazards and faults applies in the context of
strict products liability actions but does not apply in a suit for intentional
misrepresentation.]).
 
            The Court is
aware of the Court of Appeals’ decision in Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc.
(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, wherein the plaintiffs sued Nissan North America,
Inc. (Nissan), alleging a transmission defect.  The plaintiffs alleged claims under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and a common law fraud claim alleging that
Nissan fraudulently concealed the defects and induced them to purchase a car.
(Dhital at 838). 
 
            The
California Supreme Court granted review of Dhital on February 1, 2023, however,
the request for depublication was denied. (Dhital v. Nissan North America (Cal.
2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82, 83). Since review is pending and the Supreme Court
did not otherwise order, Dhital does not having binding effect, however, “it
may be cited for potentially persuasive value only.” (Cal Rules of Court, Rule
8.1115 (e)(1). 
 
            The Dhital
court concluded that allegations were sufficient to support the existence of a
buyer-seller relationship between the parties as “Plaintiffs alleged that they
bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an
express warranty, and that Nissan's authorized dealerships are [the
manufacturer’s] agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to
consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim
is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose
known defects." (Dhital at 845).
 
iv.           
Conclusion
The Court finds the complaint adequately
states a claim for fraud by concealment, and therefore adequately states a claim
for violation of BPC §17200.  The
demurrer to the unfair competition cause of action is overruled.
 

Motion to Strike

Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages from the complaint. 
The prayer for punitive damages is made in connection with the fraud cause
of action only.  The motion to strike is
moot in light of the ruling on the demurrer. 

 

CMC

The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer, motion to
strike, and MTCF.  The Court asks Counsel
to make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing.  