  Case Number:  22STCV00186    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JUAN CASILLAS ROMERO,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
6317 FLORA AVE, LLC, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV00186
  Hearing Date:  December 2, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to disqualify 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            This action was initiated on January
3, 2022 by multiple individual Plaintiffs seeking injunctive relief and damages
for allegedly uninhabitable conditions in rental units maintained by Defendants.
The Defendants each allegedly owned or managed the property at various times
throughout Plaintiffs’ tenancy. The operative Fourth Amended Complaint was filed
on November 15, 2023. 
            The Fourth Amended Complaint adds
defendants Baks Investments LLC, Michael Bakhshi, AMA Flora LLC, and Goodland
Holding (collectively, Moving Parties) as the latest owners of the property. In
August 2023, Moving Parties brought unlawful detainer actions (UD case) against
various tenants and were represented by the Law Office of Dennis P. Block
(Block). The tenants were represented by Kenneth Chiate (Chiate), who also
represents Plaintiffs in this action. Moving Parties claim that on October 2,
2023, Chiate spoke with Defendant Michael Bakhshi (Bakhshi) for thirty-nine
minutes on the phone without an attorney present. Moving Parties contend that
Chiate obtained facts and admissions from Bakhshi during the phone call which
were used to file the Fourth Amended Complaint in this case. 
On November 4, 2024, Moving Parties filed
the instant motion to disqualify Chiate and his law firm, Quinn Emanuel.
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on November 15, 2024. Moving Parties filed
their reply on November 19, 2024.       
LEGAL STANDARD
“A trial court's authority to disqualify
an attorney derives from its inherent power to ‘control in furtherance of
justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in
any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter
pertaining thereto.’” (Clark v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
37, 47, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 128(a)(5).) “The power is frequently
exercised on a showing that disqualification is required under
professional standards governing … potential adverse use of confidential
information.” (Ibid.) “When ruling on a disqualification motion, the
paramount concern must be to preserve public trust in the scrupulous
administration of justice and the integrity of the bar. The important right to
counsel of one's choice must yield to ethical considerations that affect the
fundamental principles of our judicial process.” (Id. at pp. 47-48.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Prejudice to the Proceedings
“In representing a client, a lawyer shall
not communicate directly or indirectly about the subject of the representation
with a person the lawyer knows to be represented by another lawyer in the
matter, unless the lawyer has the consent of the other lawyer.” (Cal. Rules of
Prof’l Conduct, Rule 4.2(a).) Moving Parties contend that Chiate violated Rule
4.2 by communicating directly with Bakhshi without attorney consent. 
            However, even if Rule 4.2 has been
violated, a court may refuse to disqualify counsel if “there is no evidence
that any confidential information was disclosed to . . . counsel, and
disqualification is not otherwise necessary to preserve the integrity of the
judicial process.” (La Jolla Cove Motel & Hotel Apartments, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 773, 790.) “The purpose of
disqualification is not to punish a transgression of professional ethics.” (Baugh
v. Garl (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 737, 744.) “Disqualification is only
justified where the misconduct will have a continuing effect on judicial
proceedings.” (Ibid.)  
            Here, Moving Parties present no
evidence of the substance of the alleged conversation between Chiate and
Bakhshi. Bakhshi avers that “[d]uring the phone call, Mr. Chiate elicited facts
and admissions from me regarding the issues raised in the Plaintiffs’ Operative
Complaint under the guise of preventing the existing litigation.” (Bakhshi
Decl. ¶ 10.) However, Chiate denies that he obtained information from any
conversation with Bakhshi that was not already disclosed in other depositions
or discussions with counsel present. (Chiate Decl. ¶ 16.) Moving Parties do not
specify which facts from the Fourth Amended Complaint were obtained from the
alleged October 2, 2023 conversation, much less demonstrate that those facts
were confidential or not obtained through other discussions with counsel
present.  
Thus, assuming Chiate violated Rule 4.2 by
communicating directly with Bakhshi, there is no indication that Chiate
obtained any confidential information leading to an unfair advantage in this
action. Nor is there any indication that the violation will have a continuing
effect on the judicial proceedings.    
II.
Unreasonable Delay
       
Additionally, “a disqualification motion
can be waived if not timely filed.” (City and County of San Francisco v.
Cobra Solutions, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 468, 473.) “The delay has to
be extreme or unreasonable before it operates as a waiver. It has been held
that when the party opposing the motion has made a prima facie showing of
unreasonable delay causing prejudice, disqualification should not be ordered, and
the burden shifts to the moving party to justify the delay.” (Id. at pp.
473-74.) 
Here, Moving Parties waited one year after
the filing of the Fourth Amended Complaint to file this motion. Moving Parties
have known of the alleged phone call with Chiate from the outset, and have
known since November 2023 what allegations are contained in the operative
complaint. Waiting one year to file this motion is unreasonable. The delay is “an
indication that the alleged breach of confidentiality was not seen as serious
or substantial by the moving party.” (See Liberty National Enterprises, L.P.
v. Chicago Title Ins. Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 839, 847.) The fact that
Bakhshi did not inform Moving Parties’ counsel about the phone call until
October 25, 2024 is not an excuse. (See Ryan Decl. ¶ 3.) Bakshi, the moving
party, had knowledge of the phone call, and his knowledge is imputed to
counsel. Bakhshi cannot avoid waiver by simply withholding information from his
attorney. It would be prejudicial to Plaintiffs to have their attorney
disqualified mere months away from trial, on grounds that have been apparent
for at least a year. 
            In sum, disqualification is
unwarranted because there is no threat of ongoing harm to the proceedings, and
Moving Parties have waived their right to move for disqualification. 
CONCLUSION
            The motion to disqualify Kenneth
Chiate and Quinn Emanuel is DENIED. 
 
            