 Case Number:  22BBCV01016    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
carmen
  jimenez-Guzman,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
smart &
  Final stores, LLC, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
Case
  No.:  22BBCV01016
 
Hearing
  Date:  May 3, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to strike defendant’s improper supplemental expert
 



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiff Carmen
Jimenez-Guzman (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she was lawfully on Defendant Smart
& Final Stores, LLC’s (“Defendant”) property located at 6555 Foothill
Blvd., Tujunga, CA 91042 on December 24, 2020, when she tripped and fell on a
floor mat.  Plaintiff alleges that she sustained
bodily injuries.  
The complaint, filed
November 16, 2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) premises liability; (2)
general negligence.  
B.     Relevant
Background and Motion on Calendar 
On April 19,
2024, Plaintiff filed the motion to strike Defendant’s improper supplemental
expert.  
On April 29,
2024, Defendant filed an opposition brief. 
On April 30,
2024, the Court, on its own motion, set the hearing on the motion to strike
improper supplemental designation of expert witness to May 3, 2024.  
On May 1, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            CCP §
2034.210 states: 
After the setting
of the initial trial date for the action, any party may obtain discovery by
demanding that all parties simultaneously exchange information
concerning each other's expert trial witnesses to the following extent:
(a) Any party may
demand a mutual and simultaneous exchange by all parties of a list containing the name and address of
any natural person, including one who is a party, whose oral or deposition
testimony in the form of an expert opinion any party expects to offer in
evidence at the trial.
(b) If any expert
designated by a party under subdivision (a) is a party or an employee of a party, or has been retained by a party for the purpose of
forming and expressing an opinion in anticipation of the litigation or in
preparation for the trial of the action, the designation of that witness shall
include or be accompanied by an expert witness declaration under Section
2034.260.
(c) Any party may
also include a demand for the mutual and simultaneous production for inspection
and copying of all discoverable reports and writings, if
any, made by any expert described in subdivision (b) in the course of preparing
that expert's opinion.
(CCP § 2034.210.) 
            CCP § 2034.280 states: 
(a) Within 20 days after the exchange
described in Section 2034.260, any party who engaged in the exchange may submit a supplemental expert witness list
containing the name and address of any experts who will express an opinion on a
subject to be covered by an expert designated by an adverse party to the
exchange, if the party supplementing an expert witness
list has not previously retained an expert to testify on that subject.

(b) This supplemental
list shall be accompanied by an expert witness declaration under subdivision
(c) of Section 2034.260 concerning those additional experts, and by all
discoverable reports and writings, if any, made by those additional experts.
(c) The party
shall also make those experts available immediately for a deposition under
Article 3 (commencing with Section 2034.410), which deposition may be taken
even though the time limit for discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with
Section 2024.010) has expired.
(CCP § 2034.280.) 
            CCP § 2034.300 states:
Except as provided
in Section 2034.310 and in Articles 4 (commencing with Section 2034.610) and 5
(commencing with Section 2034.710), on objection of any party who has made a
complete and timely compliance with Section 2034.260, the trial court shall exclude
from evidence the expert opinion of any witness that is offered by any party
who has unreasonably failed to do any of the
following:
(a) List that
witness as an expert under Section 2034.260.
(b) Submit an
expert witness declaration.
(c) Produce
reports and writings of expert witnesses under Section 2034.270.
(d) Make that
expert available for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section
2034.410).
(CCP § 2034.300.) 
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order barring Defendant from making a supplemental designation of
experts due to its failure to comply with strict expert designation
requirements pursuant to CCP § 2034.210 et seq.  Plaintiff states that she had 2 injections
on: (1) November 5, 2022, which she disclosed to Defendant in her deposition
and document production on May 9, 2023; and (2) March 5, 2024, which she
disclosed through supplemental responses and production of documents on March
25, 2024.  Plaintiff states that she
produced documents showing approximately $40,339.90 in medical bills at her
deposition.  
Plaintiff argues
that Defendant served a demand for expert exchange on February 28, 2024 and on
March 25, 2024, both parties designated their experts.  (Mot., Exs. A-B.)  Plaintiff disclosed Amer Khalil, M.D., a
medical doctor, to testify about the medical aspects of Plaintiff’s injuries,
causation, damages, medical treatment, and costs.  (Kurdoghilian Decl., ¶4, Ex. A.)  In its initial Designation of Expert
Witnesses, Defendant stated under the heading “RETAINED EXPERTS”: 
Defendant reserve[s] the right to call as an expert witness
any and all experts who have been or subsequently are designated by any party
in this lawsuit, whether or not such party remains a party at the time of
trial. 
Defendant reserve[s] the right to supplement, add to, delete,
and/or amend its designation of experts. Defendant reserve[s] the right to call
as an expert witness such rebuttal and impeachment witnesses as may be
necessary to rebut the testimony offered by the other parties. 
Additionally, Defendant reserve[s] the right to call
any and all parties and their employees as expert witnesses.
(Mot., Ex. B.)  Defendant disclosed its non-retained experts,
which included 14 medical providers.  (Id.)  On April 12, 2024, Defendant “supplemented”
its expert list by adding its first retained expert, Wesley A King, a medical
expert, to testify about the nature and extent of Plaintiff’s injuries, the
reasonableness of medical bills, future treatment, etc.  (Id., Ex. C.)  Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s failure to
initially designate an expert in the area of “medical treatment” or “reasonable
costs” of treatment cannot be cured by surprise or excusable neglect of
Defendant and that Defendant should have engaged in a mutual exchange of
experts.   Plaintiff argues that she will
be substantially prejudiced if Defendant’s supplemental expert is allowed to
testify because Defendant did not initially disclose the expert at the time of
the simultaneous exchange and instead utilized a “wait and see” approach to put
off costs and designate a superior witness after seeing who Plaintiff
designated.  (Mot. at p.14.)  
            In
opposition, Defendant argues that after the parties exchanged their initial
expert designations, Plaintiff supplemented her own experts but is now arguing
that Defendant cannot supplement its own experts.  Defendant argues that it did not withhold its
expert until Plaintiff identified her experts, but rather discovery had not
been completed in this action and it was in the process of retaining Dr. King and
confirming his availability prior to the initial expert designations.  
            In
their papers, the parties dispute the applicability of Fairfax v. Lords
(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1019.  Plaintiff
argues that the case supports her position that the Court should strike
Defendant’s supplemental expert designation, while Defendant argues that the
case is distinguishable.  In the Fairfax
case, the plaintiff appealed from an adverse judgment in his lawsuit for
medical malpractice against defendant because defendant unilaterally delayed
his designation of retained expert witnesses until 20 days after the plaintiff
had designated his own.  (Fairfax,
supra, 138 Cal.App.4th at 1021.)  The
Court of Appeal found that the defendant’s belated designation of retained
experts should be stricken because when both sides can anticipate the issues
that will be disputed at trial, a “party cannot merely ‘reserve
its right’ to designate experts in the initial exchange, wait to see what
experts are designated by the opposition, and then name its experts only as
purported ‘rebuttal’ witnesses. Whether such a strategy is somehow beneficial
to defendants … is simply irrelevant.” (Id.)  At the time of the initial
expert designation exchange, the plaintiff named a medical doctor as a retained
expert; in contrast, the defendant stated he was not designating any retained
witnesses for the first exchange of expert witness information but he expressly
reserved the right to designate experts in rebuttal to the plaintiff’s
designations and named 26 medical professionals but none were designated as
“expected” witnesses.  (Id. at
1022.)  The defendant then arranged to
retain an expert (a podiatrist) to counter the plaintiff’s expert and also
contacted an expert that the plaintiff has previously contacted in connection
with the litigation.  (Id. at
1023.)  The Court of Appeal found that
the defendant had delayed his own list of “expected” witnesses until after he
has seen the plaintiff’s list and the defendant did not deny that this was his
express intent and even claimed it was prudent for him to do so to minimize
litigation costs.  (Id. at
1026.)  The Court of Appeal found that
the defendant’s argument was inconsistent with the statutory requirement of a
“simultaneous” exchange and that the defendant had “every reason to anticipate”
the plaintiff’s expert designation of a medical doctor.  (Id. at 1027.)  
The Court finds
the Fairfax case to be incorrect in its construction of the plain
language of the Code of Civil Procedure. The Code expressly permits a
designation of an expert where the party “supplementing an expert witness list
has not previously retained an expert to testify on that subject.” (CCP §
2034.280(a).)  For the Court to modify
this rule to require simultaneous submission where a party could “anticipate”
that an expert would be designated by the other side requires both the Court
and the parties to make assumptions regarding the mental process of opposing
counsel, which creates a dangerous, unworkable, and ambiguous rule—hopefully
the last thing for which the Legislature was aiming.  While Plaintiff argues that Defendant employed
the ”wait and see” approach, there is no showing that Defendant’s short delay
in disclosing its retained expert was for this express purpose and intent.  This is distinguishable from Fairfax
where the Court of Appeal stated: “The effect of [the defendant’s] expert designation was to delay his own
list of ‘expected’ witnesses until after he had seen the list put forth by [the
plaintiff]. [The defendant] does not deny that this was his express intent,
and instead argues it is only ‘prudent’ for a defendant to do so.”  (Fairfax
v. Lords (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1019, 1026
[italics added].)  Here, there is no
similar expression of intent by Defendant to delay the disclosure of its
retained expert; further, Defendant explains in its opposition that it was in
the process of retaining Dr. King when initial disclosures were being exchanged.
 While there appeared to be an abuse of
the statute in the Fairfax case, that same issue is not present in this
case.  
Moreover, this
Court believes there is no substantial prejudice to Plaintiff by going first in
its designation of an expert on an issue where it bears the burden of proof.  If Plaintiff had not designated an expert,
then Defendant would not have needed to do so.  Defendant’s designation of Dr. King in its
supplemental disclosure is appropriate as a rebuttal expert witness.  While in the normal case one would expect the
Plaintiff to designate such an expert, there is no such thing as completely
predictable behavior of a litigation opponent. Both experts should have the
benefit of the opposing expert’s reports and depositions before trial, and it
would be the unusual case where both experts did not have comments on the
analysis of the opposing expert. The parties should act to make sure both
experts’ opinions in this regard are disclosed prior to trial. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Plaintiff
Carmen Jimenez-Guzman’s motion to strike Defendant’s supplemental expert
designation is denied. 
Plaintiff
shall
give notice of this order.  
 
DATED:
May 3, 2024                                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court