 Case Number:  23BBCV00497    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
ladizlao rivera
  de la paz, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
toyota motor
  sales, u.s.a., inc.,
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00497
 
Hearing
  Date:  May 3, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel further responses 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Ladizlao Rivera De La Paz and
Lucila Rivera Munoz aka Lucila Rivera (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on July 7,
2019, they entered into a warranty contract with Defendant Toyota Motor Sales,
U.S.A., Inc. (“Defendant”) regarding a 2019 Toyota Tacoma.  Plaintiffs allege that defects and
nonconformities to the warranty manifested themselves within the applicable
express warranty period, including but not limited to exterior, structural,
transmission, and engine issues.  Plaintiffs
allege they delivered the subject vehicle to an authorized Toyota repair
facility for repair of the nonconformities, but Defendant was unable to conform
the vehicle to the applicable express warranty after a reasonable number of
attempts. 
The complaint, filed March 2, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of the Song Beverly Act – breach of
express warranty; and (2) violation of the Song Beverly Act § 1793.2.     
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On March 6, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to
Plaintiff’s request for production of documents, set one (“RPD”).  Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount of $1,830
against Defendant and defense counsel.  
On April 22, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition brief.
On April 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION

            Plaintiffs
move to compel Defendant’s further responses to RPD Nos. 15, 17-24, and 33-35.  
            RPD
No. 15 seeks the operative Franchise Agreement, if any, on the date of the
sale of the subject vehicle between Defendant and the dealership that sold the
subject vehicle to Plaintiffs.  Defendant
objected that the RPD was vague, overbroad, burdensome, and oppressive; assumed
facts that have not been established; violated the attorney-client privilege
and attorney work product and/or consulting expert privileges; was irrelevant
and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence;
and constituted an invasion of privacy and sought proprietary information.  Plaintiffs seek a further response, arguing
that the franchise agreement would show what obligations Defendant imposed on
the dealerships to report warranty repairs, the cost of repairs, and
pre-approval for repairs, etc.  In opposition,
Defendant argues that it is not disputing that the dealer was Defendant’s agent
or authorized dealer, such that the document need not be produced.  The Court will order a further response for
RPD No. 15, subject to a protective order. 
If Defendant claims that the Franchise Agreement is privileged, then it
should produce a privilege log to that effect.
            RPD Nos. 17-24 seek the following
documents: 
·        
RPD No. 17 seeks all documents describing Defendant’s
policies, procedures, or guidelines for determining whether a vehicle is
eligible for a vehicle repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act since 2019.
·        
RPD No. 18
asks for all training materials for Defendant’s employees or agents tasked with
determining whether a vehicle is eligible for a vehicle repurchase pursuant to
the Act since 2022.  
·        
RPD No. 19
seeks all scripts and flow charts that Defendant utilize in handling California
consumer requests for a vehicle repurchase or replacement since 2019.
·        
RPD No. 20
seeks all
documents describing Defendant’s policies, procedures, and parameters for determining
what constitutes a repair presentation to determine eligibility for a vehicle
repurchase pursuant to the Act since 2022.
·        
RPD No. 21
seeks all
documents describing Defendant’s policies, procedures, and parameters for determining
what constitutes a “substantial impairment” of a vehicle’s use, value, or
safety to determine eligibility for a vehicle repurchase pursuant to the Act
since 2022.
·        
RPD No. 22 all documents describing Defendant’s policies,
procedures, and parameters for defining what constitutes a “reasonable number
of repair attempts” to determine eligibility for a vehicle repurchase pursuant
to the Act since 2022.
·        
RPD No. 23
seeks all documents describing Defendant’s policies, procedures, and parameters
for establishing the turn-around time to respond to a vehicle repurchase
request pursuant to the Act since 2022.
·        
RPD No. 24 seeks all documents describing Defendant’s policies
and procedures from 2019 to the present for proactively complying with the Act
in California by offering a repurchase or replacement of a qualifying vehicle
without a consumer request to do so.
Defendant objected in a similar manner to these RPDs as it did to
RPD No. 15.  As currently drafted, Plaintiffs’
RPDs can potentially seek all documents for any type of vehicle ever
manufactured or distributed by Defendant without a limitation for geographical
location.  The RPDs as worded by
Plaintiffs are overbroad in scope and would, in part, seek irrelevant
information that is beyond the scope of this action.  At most, the RPDs are limited from 2019 or
2022 to the present.  The Court will
narrow the scope of the RPDs such that Defendant need only produce documents
regarding the 2019
Toyota Tacoma that constitute the policies, procedures, guidelines, scripts, flow charts, parameters,
training manuals, etc. used by Defendant and its employees/agents/repair
facilities/etc. in the State of California from 2019 to present in evaluating
the Toyota Tacoma at issue for repurchase. As such, the motion is granted as to
RPD Nos. 17 to 24 subject to these limitations stated above.  If there are legitimate claims of privileges
by Defendant, Defendant should produce a privilege log and/or the parties
should meet and confer regarding a protective order.
RPD Nos. 33-35 seek the following documents: 
·        
RPD No. 33
seeks Defendant’s policies and procedures for offering to repurchase a vehicle
pre-litigation in California as “goodwill.”
·        
RPD No. 34 seeks
Defendant’s template “goodwill” pre-litigation repurchase letter(s) in
California.
·        
RPD No. 35
seeks Defendant’s template pre-litigation repurchase letter(s) for a vehicle
being repurchased pursuant to the Act.
Defendant
responded to RPD No. 33, stating that it evaluates each case in good faith in
accordance with the provision of the Act. 
Defendant objected to RPD Nos. 33-35 on the grounds that the RPDs were
vague, overbroad, burdensome, and oppressive; violated the attorney-client
privilege and attorney work product and/or consulting expert privileges; were
not limited in time, or scope; were irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; and constituted an invasion of
privacy and sought proprietary information. 

Similar to the
analysis above, these RPDs are not limited in time, scope to the subject
vehicle, or geographical location.  The
Court denies the motion as to RPD Nos. 33-35.  Moreover, Plaintiff is seeking information
regarding cases other than the one in front of the court.  
Plaintiffs seek sanctions in the amount of
$1,830 against Defendant.  Defendant requests
sanctions against Plaintiffs for opposing this motion, but do not specify an
amount.  In light of the partial merit of
both the motion and the opposition briefs, the requests for sanctions are
denied. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
             Plaintiffs Ladizlao Rivera De La Paz and
Lucila Rivera Munoz aka Lucila Rivera’s motion to compel Defendant Toyota Motor
Sales, U.S.A., Inc.’s further responses to RPD Nos. 15 and 17-24 is granted,
but subject to the limitation stated in the Court’s written order.  The motion is denied as to RPD Nos. 33-35. 
            No sanctions shall be awarded on
this motion. 
Plaintiffs shall give notice of
this order.  
 
DATED: May 3, 2024                                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court    