 Case Number:  23BBCV01533    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
patrick chua, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
the camera division, llc, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.:  23BBCV01533
 
Hearing
  Date: May 3, 2024 (cont. from April 12, 2024)
 
  [TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion for judicial Determination of good faith settlement
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Patrick Chua (“Plaintiff”) alleges on April 4, 2023, he was
on the premises of Defendants The Camera Division, LLC (“TCD”), Lainer
Development, Inc. (“Lanier”), S & S Investments General Partnership
(“S&S”), located at 7351 Fulton Avenue, North Hollywood, CA.  He alleges that the premises were negligently
and carelessly owned, maintained, managed, controlled, inspected, and/or
repaired so as to cause a dangerous condition. 
Plaintiff alleges that the dangerous condition consisted of a bathroom
sink that became disengaged from the wall, fell, and shattered on Plaintiff,
thereby injuring him.  
The complaint, filed July 7, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) premises
liability; and (2) general negligence. 
B.    
Cross-Complaint
On August 25, 2023, TCD filed a
cross-complaint against Roes 1-100 for: (1) complete indemnity; (2) partial
indemnity; (3) equitable contribution; and (4) declaratory relief. 
C.    
Motion on Calendar 
On March 18, 2024, Lanier and S&S filed a
motion for judicial determination of good faith settlement.  
On March 29, 2024, TCD filed an opposition to
the motion.
On April 5, 2024, Lanier and S&S filed a
reply brief. 
The matter initially came for hearing on April
12, 2024.  The Court continued the
hearing to May 3, 2024, and ordered the moving parties to file a copy of the
settlement agreement and a supplemental brief regarding the amount of
Plaintiff’s claimed damages by the end of the business day on April 19, 2024,
and ordered TCD to file a supplemental brief in response by the end of the
business day on April 26, 2024.  
Although Lanier and S&S filed a Notice of
Ruling on April 15, 2024, Lanier and S&S did not file a supplemental brief
by April 19, 2024.  As such, TCD did not
file a responsive supplemental brief by April 26, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assoc. (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488, 499, the California Supreme Court articulated several factors to be
considered in determining whether a settlement is in good faith within the
meaning of section 877.6:
[T]he intent and the
policies underlying section 877.6 require that a number of factors be taken
into account including a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and
the settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement that he would if he were found liable after
trial.  Other relevant considerations
include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of the settling
defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants. [Citation.]  Finally, practical considerations obviously
require that the evaluation be made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.
(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d
at 499.)
            To determine whether a
settlement was in “good faith” the judge should inquire as to whether the
amount of the settlement is “within the reasonable range” of the settling
defendant’s proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff’s
injuries.  (Abbott Ford, Inc. v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 858, 872; City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court
(1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1262.) 
Generally, a settlement will be found to be in good faith unless the
objecting defendant shows it to be “grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person at the time of settlement would estimate the settlor’s
liability to be.”  (Abbott Ford, supra, 43 Cal.3d at 872.)  That is, a party opposing a good faith
settlement must demonstrate that “the settlement is so far ‘out of the
ballpark’ in relation to” the factors discussed above that it is “inconsistent
with the equitable objectives of the statute.” 
(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d
at 499-500.)
“A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”  (CCP § 877.6(c).)
DISCUSSION
Lanier and S&S move determination of good faith settlement between Lanier,
S&S, and Plaintiff.  TCD opposes. 
In making its determination on the good faith nature of the settlement,
the Court evaluates the Tech-Bilt
factors.    
1.     
Amount Paid in Settlement and Allocation of Settlement
Proceeds Among Plaintiffs
Lanier, S&S, and Plaintiff have agreed to settle this action for
$5,000.  (Berger Decl., ¶6.)  In exchange for the settlement sum, Plaintiff
has agreed to dismiss the complaint with prejudice against Lanier and
S&S.  (Id.)  
In opposition, TCD argues that Lanier and S&S have not discussed
how the $5,000 will be allocated between Lanier and S&S.  In the reply brief, Lanier and S&S argue
that this is a simple settlement agreement and there is no allocation or
non-monetary consideration involved in the settlement.   
There is only one Plaintiff in this action, such that the settlement
proceeds will not be allocated among multiple plaintiffs. 
2.     
Rough Approximation of Plaintiff’s Total Recovery and
Settlor’s Proportionate Liability
Lanier and S&S are the owners and managers of the premises.   (Lanier Decl., ¶3.)  Zachary Lanier, in-house counsel for Lanier,
states that on February 5, 1971, Franklin Orthober entered into a 55-year land
lease with Desert Land Managing Corporation for the premises and S&S
thereafter purchased Mr. Orthober’s ground lease interests.  (Id., ¶4.)  The lease includes a provision that “Lessor is to be free from all liability or loss by reason of
injury to persons or property, from whatever cause, while in or on the leased
premises, or in any way connected with the leased premises or with the
improvements or personal property therein, including any liability for injury
to the person or property of lessee, its agents, officers or employees. Lessee
hereby covenants and agrees to and shall indemnify lessor and save him harmless
from any and all liability, loss, cost, or obligations on account of, or
arising out, any such injury or losses however occurring.”  (Id., Ex. A [1971 Lease].)  On April 7, 2020, Desert Land Managing Corporation entered into
a lease with TCD for the premises, which include subsequent amendments.  (Id., ¶¶5-6, Ex. B [2000 Lease], Ex. C
[Amendments].)  Mr. Lanier states that
the leases with Desert Land Managing Corporation indicate the property was
turned over with fixtures and plumbing in good working order and that lessee
TCD was to keep in good order the condition and repair of the premises, including
plumbing and fixtures.  (Id.,
¶7.)  
Lanier and S&S argue that the $5,000 settlement is reasonable in
light of their potential liability because they have a complete defense to the
action as landlords who surrendered the premises (in good working order) to
their tenant TCD.  They argue that they
were not aware of any dangerous condition regarding the sink and that their
proportional share of liability is $0.  They
also argue that Plaintiff would likely be found to be contributorily negligent
when he was “engaging in hygiene” by the sink, lost his balance and landed on
the sink, which then broke and he fell on the floor bleeding.  (Mot. at p.5.)  They argue the $5,000 is thereby within the
reasonable range of potential liability for this reason and if they were to be
found liable at trial, they recognize this settlement amount should be
potentially less than any award at trial. 
In opposition, TCD argues that there are no calculations on how the
$5,000 settlement amount was calculated or any showing of how the proposed
settlement amount is proportionate to Plaintiff’s respective potential
recovery.  
Based on the moving, opposition, and reply papers, none of the parties
have provided the Court with any information on the amount of damages Plaintiff
is claiming.  None of the parties have
provided estimates of Plaintiff’s medical bills or other damages (whether by
documentation or discovery responses).  
Based on Tech-Bilt, “practical considerations obviously require
that the evaluation be made on the basis of information available at the time
of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499.)  It may very well be that such information
regarding Plaintiff’s damages were not yet discussed or disclosed at the time
of settlement.  However, out of the
abundance of caution, the Court will make inquiries at the hearing regarding
the amount of Plaintiff’s claimed damages to ascertain whether Lanier and
S&S’s settlement with Plaintiff is reasonable.  
3.     
Other
Factors: Financial Condition and Insurance Policy Limits of Settlor, and
Existence of Collusion, Fraud, or Tortious Conduct
Lanier and S&S have not provided their financial condition and
insurance policy limits in the moving papers. 
In their reply brief, they argue that this factor is inapplicable where
the settlement is not disproportionately low in relation to their potential
liability.  As stated in Tech-Bilt,
the financial conditions and insurance policy limits are other relevant
considerations but are not necessary factors to consider under CCP §
877.6.  
Lanier and S&S argue that the settlement was entered in good faith
without collusion or intent to defraud or tortiously injure non-settling
defendants.  Mr. Berger states that the
settlement was entered after arms-length negotiations.  (Berger Decl., ¶7.)  He states that upon settlement, he contacted
counsel for TCD to inform them about of the settlement and to determine if they
would stipulate in good faith, but they would not stipulate.  (Id., ¶10.)  
In opposition, TCD argues that the settlement agreement must be
produced to obtain a good faith settlement. 
A copy of the settlement agreement is not attached to the moving
papers.  However, “[i]f there is no dispute as to its terms, there
is no requirement that a written settlement be executed and presented to the
court. But, if a dispute exists, a court cannot confirm a settlement without
reviewing the written agreement. The court must be able to determine ‘what
settlement or settlements took place and what parties agreed to what
allocations.’ [Citations.]”  (Rutter
Guide, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial
(June 2023 Update) Ch. 12(II)-E, § 12:892.) 
Here, there does not appear to be a dispute about the terms of the
settlement.  The main provisions of the
settlement agreement have been provided in the moving papers.  In the reply brief, Lanier and S&S argue
that the settlement is a simple agreement and a written settlement agreement
need not be executed and present to the Court to comply with CCP § 877.6.  Nevertheless, the Court will order a copy of
the settlement agreement to be produced. 

CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants Lainer Development, Inc. and S & S Investments General
Partnership’s motion for determination of good faith settlement is continued
one final time to May 31, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  The moving parties are ordered to file and
serve by the end of the business day on May 14, 2024 a copy of the settlement
agreement and provide a supplemental brief (not to exceed 5 pages) regarding
the amount of Plaintiff’s claimed damages so that the Court may ascertain
whether the proposed settlement with Plaintiff is reasonable.  Defendant The Camera Division, LLC may file
and serve by the end of the business day on May 23, 2024, a supplemental brief in
response, not to exceed 5 pages.  If
supplemental filings are not made, the motion will be denied. 
Defendants shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 
DATED:  May 3, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court   