 Case Number:  23BBCV00991    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
jason
  david pineda, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
christopher
  j. sandoval, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV00991
 
  Hearing Date:  May 3, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion for protective order 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiffs Jason David Pineda and Felix
Mauricio Pineda (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on June 23, 2021, they were involved
in a motor vehicle accident with Defendants Christopher J. Sandoval and Romany
Sadek Metry, who were operating the other vehicle.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants’ vehicle
was owned by Defendants Hector Sandoval and Romany Sadek Metry and they
entrusted the vehicle to Christopher J. Sandoval and Romany Sadek Metry.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants negligently
owned, operated, used, drove, maintained, loaned, and/or entrusted their motor
vehicle such that it collided with the vehicle driven by Plaintiffs, thereby
causing injuries and damages. 
The complaint, filed May 3, 2023, alleges causes
of action for: (1) motor vehicle and (2) general negligence.  
On July 24, 2023, Plaintiffs dismissed
without prejudice Romany Sadek Metry only from the action.  
B.    
Motion
on Calendar
On April 8, 2024, Defendant Christopher J.
Sandoval filed a motion for protective order limiting the number of requests
for admission (“RFA”) that he must answer and for sanctions.
On April 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition brief.
On April 26, 2024, Defendant filed a reply
brief. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
            CCP §
2033.030 states:
(a) No party shall request, as a matter of
right, that any other party admit more than 35
matters that do not relate to the genuineness of documents. If the initial set
of admission requests does not exhaust this limit, the balance may be requested
in subsequent sets.
(b) Unless a declaration as described in
Section 2033.050 has been made, a party need only respond to the first 35
admission requests served that do not relate to the genuineness of documents,
if that party states an objection to the balance under Section 2033.230 on the
ground that the limit has been exceeded.
(c) The number of requests for admission
of the genuineness of documents is not limited except as justice requires to
protect the responding party from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,
oppression, or undue burden and expense.
(CCP §
2033.030.)  However, “[a]ny party who is requesting or who has already
requested more than 35 admissions not relating to the genuineness of documents
by any other party shall attach to each set of requests for admissions a
declaration” that conforms to section 2033.050. 
(CCP § 2033.050.)  
            CCP § 2033.040 states: 
(a) Subject to the right of the responding
party to seek a protective order under Section 2033.080, any party who attaches
a supporting declaration as described in Section 2033.050 may request a greater
number of admissions by another party if the greater number is warranted by the
complexity or the quantity of the existing and potential issues in the
particular case.
(b) If the responding party seeks a
protective order on the ground that the number of requests for admission is
unwarranted, the propounding party shall have the burden of justifying the
number of requests for admission.
(CCP §
2033.040.)  
DISCUSSION

            Defendant
Christopher J. Sandoval (hereinafter, “Defendant”) moves for a protective order
directing that he need only respond to: (1) RFA Nos. 1-35 in Plaintiff Felix
Mauricio Pineda’s RFA, set one; and (2) RFA Nos. 26-35 in Plaintiff Jason David
Pineda’s RFA, set two.  Defendant seeks
$662.28 in sanctions against Plaintiffs and their counsel of record.  
            Defendant
argues that: (a) Plaintiff Jason David Pineda served on him RFA, set one, Nos.
1-25 on November 28, 2023 (which Defendant objected to); (b) Plaintiff Felix
Mauricio Pineda served him with RFA, set one, Nos. 1-90 on March 11, 2024; and
(c) Plaintiff Jason David Pineda served him with RFA, set two, with 79
additional requests.  Defendant argues
that the parties met and conferred, wherein Defendant requested that the RFAs
be limited to Plaintiff Felix Mauricio Pineda’s RFA, set one, Nos. 1-35, and to
Plaintiff Felix Mauricio Pineda’s RFA, set two, Nos. 26-35 (as Defendant
already responded/objected to RFA, set one, Nos. 1-25).  Defendant argues that Plaintiffs have refused
to withdraw any of the 194 RFAs, despite this being a “run-of-the-mill” auto
accident case. 
            Defendant
argues that the number of RFAs propounded by Plaintiffs is excessive and that
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration in support of the excessive RFAs is not
code-compliant.  Specifically, Defendant
takes issues with paragraph 8, wherein Plaintiffs’ counsel stated that the
number of RFAs is warranted because “of the complexity and the quality of
issues in the instant lawsuit warrant this number of requests for admissions.”  (See Eisaeian Decl., ¶¶11-12, Ex. H [3/11/24
Cinela Aziz Declaration for Add’l Discovery re Plaintiff Felix Pineda’s RFA,
set one, Nos. 1-90, ¶8], Ex. I [3/12/24 Cinela Aziz Declaration for Add’l
Discovery re Plaintiff Jason Pineda’s RFA, set two, Nos. 26-104, ¶8].)  
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the amended declaration of Ms. Aziz (dated
April 22, 2024—the same date as the opposition) satisfies the requirement under
CCP § 2033.050.  (See Aziz Decl. re Opp.,
Exs. 5-6.)  In the amended declaration,
Ms. Aziz further states in paragraph 8 that the RFAs seek admissions regarding
matters that were not previously asked and that are essential for trial, as
they seek to uncover Defendants’ position with regard to Plaintiffs’ injuries,
the impact of the injuries on Plaintiffs’ lives, Plaintiffs’ medical diagnoses
and treatment, Plaintiffs’ underlying medical conditions, pre-and-post incident
vehicular collisions of each Plaintiffs, specific facts about how the collision
occurred, whether Plaintiffs are perceived as repeat-litigants, and whether
Defendants conducted sub rosa investigation of Plaintiffs or their family
members.  (Id.)  
            Ms.
Aziz’s amended declarations may arguably comply with the code for the RFAs in
excess of the 35-request limit.  However,
the amended declarations were filed with the opposition papers and are dated on
the same date as the opposition.  Thus,
they were not provided at the time the RFAs were initially propounded.  
            Based
on the Court’s review, the additional RFAs are not justified by the alleged
complexity of the litigation. In this case, Plaintiffs have the benefit of the
Form Interrogatories and additional Special Interrogatories which are
sufficient in the normal motor vehicle accident to get Plaintiffs the
information they need. There is nothing that suggests that this case is unduly
complex, or complex at all. Moreover, most of these additional RFAs are
directed to the issue of Plaintiffs’ medical condition, an issue as to which
Defendants do not have any information aside from what Plaintiffs themselves
have provided and the expert analysis, which is not yet due under the normal
schedule for a case like this. Therefore, it is anticipated that Defendants
will be providing denials, but essentially useless denials since Plaintiffs already
know the universe of information upon which those denials are based. These RFAs
thus add an essentially useless layer of costs to a matter that has
approximately $20,000 in medical specials. 
            In
light of the issues presented by the motion, Defendant’s counsel met and
conferred sufficiently. Defendant
requests $662.28 in sanctions for filing the motion.  Plaintiffs request $1,310 for filing the
opposition. The Court grants Defendant’s request and denies that of the
Plaintiffs. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendant Christopher J. Sandoval’s
motion for protective order limiting the number of RFAs that he must answer is granted.
Sanctions in the amount of $662.28 are awarded and are payable by Plaintiffs
and their counsel to Defendant within 20 days of notice of this order. 
            Defendant
is ordered to provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  May 3, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 