 Case Number:  24BBCV00455    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
lena
  mestrandrea,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
nancy ming ling
  chen, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  24BBCV00455
 
Hearing
  Date:  May 3, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to strike
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Lena Mestrandrea (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on August 22, 2023 at approximately 1 P.M. at or near 4041 Whitset
Avenue in Studio City, she was attacked and bit by Defendant Nancy Ming Ling
Chen’s (“Defendant”) German Shepherd Mix dog. 
Plaintiff alleges that she was jogging past Defendant on a public street
when Defendant was unable to control her dog and, without warning or
provocation, the dog viciously attacked and bit Plaintiff.  
The complaint, filed February 23, 2024,
alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence; and (2) strict liability. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On April 3, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
to strike the allegations and prayer for punitive damages in the
complaint.    
On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
On April 26, 2024, Defendant filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant moves to strike the
allegations for punitive damages in paragraph 12, 16, 17, 23, and 27 from the complaint,
as well as in the prayer for damages as item no. 4.  
            A complaint including a request for
punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is entitled
to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and
allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and
malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that
the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
In the 1st cause of action for
negligence, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant had a duty to manage and control
the dog with reasonable care and with due regard to other persons, like
Plaintiff, and prevent it from attacking and biting persons on public property.  (Compl., ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached
this duty by allowing the dog to charge at, attack, and bite Plaintiff on a
public street, which constitutes negligence per se pursuant to the Los Angeles
Municipal Code and County Code.  (Id.,
¶11.)  Plaintiff alleges that she is
entitled to general, special, actual, compensatory, and punitive damages, etc.  (Id., ¶¶12, 16.)  She alleges that Defendant’s conduct was
malicious, oppressive, despicable, and carried out with a willful and conscious
disregard for the rights and safety of others because Defendant knew or should
have known about the dangerous propensity of her dog and she did nothing to
control her dog.  (Id., ¶17.)  In the 2nd cause of action for
strict liability, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant owned and controlled the dog
and Defendant knew or should have known about the dog’s dangerous propensities
but took no measures to abate or eliminate the danger to Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶¶20-22.)  Plaintiff alleges that she is entitled to
general, special, actual, compensatory, and punitive damages.  (Id., ¶¶23, 27.)  
The allegations in support of the request
for punitive damages are not pled with the requisite specificity.  The allegations are generalized and do not
allege particular facts showing that Defendant acted with oppression, malice,
or despicable conduct.  At most, the
allegations rise to the level of negligence—that Defendant failed to control
her dog when Plaintiff was jogging past Defendant and her dog.  However, there are no allegations that
Defendant acted intentionally or with willful and conscious disregard of
Plaintiff’s right or safety.  Further,
the allegations that Defendant knew or should have known that the dog had
dangerous propensities is not alleged with particularity or supporting facts.  
The motion to strike the allegations for
punitive damages is granted with leave to amend. In the alternative, Plaintiff
may wish to see whether discovery produces any evidence that Plaintiff knew or
should have known of the dangerous propensities of her dog. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Nancy Ming Ling Chen’s motion to
strike the allegations and prayer for punitive damages in the complaint is granted
with 20 days leave to amend.  
Defendant shall provide notice of this
order.  
 
DATED: May 3, 2024                                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  