  Case Number:  22BBCV00794    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
akaby
  abajian, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
n&N auto
  collection inc.,
  et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22BBCV00794
 
  Hearing Date:  May 3, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to transfer and to
  consolidate for all purposes 



 
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Akaby Abajian (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on February 28, 2022, she was involved in a motor vehicle accident
with Defendant Armen Crstijian (“Crstijian”) who was operating a motor vehicle
that was owned by Defendant N&N Auto Collection Inc. (“N&N”).  Plaintiff alleges that Crstijian failed to
exercise reasonable care, which caused Plaintiff to suffer bodily injury.  
            The complaint, filed on October 19,
2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle; and (2) general
negligence.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On April 9, 2024, Defendants N&N and
Crstijian (“Defendants”) filed a motion to transfer and to consolidate for all
purposes. 
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            Defendants
move to transfer this action to the Superior Court of California, County of Los
Angeles – Burbank Courthouse on the grounds that: (1) this action (LASC Case
No. 22BBCV00794, Abajian v. N&N Auto Collection Inc. et al., filed
October 19, 2022) and the action filed in the Alhambra Courthouse Department V
(LASC Case No. 23BBCV02843, Hurd v. Crstijian et al., filed December 1,
2023) involve the same multi-car motor vehicle accident that took place on
February 28, 2022; (2) the plaintiffs in both actions allege they suffered
bodily injury and personal property damage in Shadow Hills, such that the cases
should be filed in the Burbank Courthouse; and (3) the convenience of witnesses
and the ends of justice would be promoted by the transfer. 
            “Cases may not be
consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate
two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in
different departments, have been related into a single department, or if the
cases were already assigned to that department.” (Local Rule 3.3(g).)  Since Case Nos. 22BBCV00794 and 23BBCV02843 are not assigned to the same
department, the Court cannot grant Defendants’ request to consolidate without
first relating the cases.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.300.)  Here, the two cases
have not yet been related, which is required prior to consolidating the
cases.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.300.)  Rule 3.300(d) states that the
“Notice of Related Case must be filed in all
pending cases listed in the notice and must be served on all parties in those
cases.”  A Notice of Related Case was
filed only in Case No. 23BBCV02843,
but not in this instant action.  As such,
the Court will not, at this time relate, the cases.  In turn, the cases cannot be consolidated
until the procedural requirements are met. 
As the procedural requirement for relating cases and the prerequisite to
consolidating cases have not been met, the Court denies the motion to
consolidate. 
CCP § 1048(a) provides that the Court may
order a joint trial on matters that “involv[e] a common question of law or
fact.” 
Both matters involve the same motor vehicle accident that occurred
on February 28, 2022.  This action (22BBCV00794) involves the allegations between
Abajian against driver Crstijian and vehicle owner N&N.  The 23BBCV02843 action is brought plaintiff
Derek Hurd against defendants Armen Crstijian and N&N for the same motor
vehicle accident that occurred on February 28, 2022.  Accordingly, these matters involve
common questions of law and fact such that consolidation would be proper.  Thus, once the procedural requirements are
met regarding the filing of the Notice of Related Cases in all actions, the
Court would be inclined to relate these cases so consolidation of various
proceedings can be considered.   
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
As a Notice of
Related Cases has not been filed in this action, the Court is inclined to deny
without prejudice Defendants N&N Auto Collection Inc. and Armen Crstijian’s
motion to transfer and consolidate for all purposes.  Once a proper notice of related cases is
filed, the Court would be inclined to consider consolidating the cases for at
least some proceedings. The parties are ordered to attend the hearing to discuss
the status of the case. Personal appearance is always appreciated, but an
appearance through the current video system is sufficient. 
Defendants shall provide
notice of this order.  
 
 
 
DATED:
May 3, 2024                                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court