 Case Number:  23PSCV03091    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Cyntia Valle’s Application for Default Judgment
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Cyntia Valle’s Application for Default
Judgment is CONTINUED to a date to be
determined at the case management conference set in Department G.
BACKGROUND
This
is a premises liability action. In October 2022, Plaintiff Cyntia Valle was
walking along Main Street in El Monte when Valle tripped and fell on an
allegedly uneven sidewalk. Valle alleges the sidewalk was jointly owned,
maintained, managed, and operated by Defendants City of El Monte (the City) and
La Barca Restaurant Inc (La Barca).
On October
6, 2023, Valle filed a complaint against the City, La Barca, and Does 1-50, alleging
the following causes of action: (1) general negligence and (2) premises
liability. On October 23, Valle’s process server personally served the City in
El Monte. On the same day, Valle’s process server also served La Barca with
substitute service in Los Angeles.
On December
6, 2023, the City filed an answer.
On January
22, 2024, default was entered against La Barca. On March 7, Valle submitted the
present application for default judgment.
A case
management conference is set for March 14, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
Code
of Civil Procedure section 585 permits entry of a default judgment after a
party has filed to timely respond or appear.  A party seeking judgment on
the default by the court must file a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a
brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in
support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4)
a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a
dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application
for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for
each judgment; (7) exhibits as necessary; and (8) a request for attorneys’ fees
if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1800.)
ANALYSIS
Valle
seeks default judgment against La Barca in the total amount of $385,667.21,
including $385,000 in damages and $667.21 in costs. But while Valle provided a
declaration in support of the application for default judgment, Valle failed to
attach copies of the exhibits referenced in Valle’s declaration. Accordingly,
the court finds Valle’s application is incomplete and CONTINUES the hearing to a date to be determined at the case management
conference set in Department G.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Valle’s
application for default judgment is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at
the case management conference set in Department G.