  Case Number:  22PSCV01852    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Paola Carcamo Cotero’s Motion to  Strike Punitive and Exemplary Damages   Respondent: Plaintiff Dejuan Antwaun Haney   TENTATIVE  RULING  Defendant  Paola Carcamo Cotero’s Motion to Strike Punitive and Exemplary Damages is  GRANTED.   BACKGROUND  This is a personal injury action arising from  a motor vehicle collision. In July 2022, Plaintiff Dejuan Antwaun Haney was  backing a vehicle out of a garage in Claremont when Defendant Paola Carcamo  Cotero collided with Haney’s vehicle. Haney alleges Carcamo Cotero was driving  at unsafe speeds on the driveway in excess of the five miles per hour speed  limit.   On November 16, 2022, Haney filed a complaint  against Carcamo Cotero and Does 1-20, alleging (1) motor vehicle negligence and  (2) general negligence.   On January 5, 2024, Carcamo Cotero filed a  motion to strike. On January 18, Haney filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC)  against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.   On February 16, 2024, Carcamo Cotero filed  the present motion. Prior to filing on February 16, Carcamo Cotero’s counsel attempted  to telephonically meet and confer with Haney’s counsel but was unable to get in  contact with counsel. (Mackey Decl., ¶ 5.)   A hearing on the present motion to strike is  set for March 14, 2024, along with a case management conference.   ANALYSIS  Carcamo Cotero moves to strike punitive  damages from Haney’s FAC. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Carcamo Cotero’s motion.   Legal Standard  Motion to Strike   Upon a party’s motion or the court’s own  motion, the court may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted  in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike  out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the  laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 436, subd. (b).) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face  of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to  take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)   An immaterial or irrelevant allegation  includes “(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim  or defense,” “(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported  by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense,” or “(3) A demand for  judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or  cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10.)   Punitive Damages   Civil Code section 3294 allows punitive damages when a  plaintiff establishes by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is  guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) For the  purposes of determining punitive damages, malice is defined as “conduct which  is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable  conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious  disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.  (c)(1).) Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to  cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) Lastly, fraud is defined as “an intentional  misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the  defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving  a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code,  § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)   “In addition to the requirement that the operative  complaint set forth the elements as stated in section 3294, it must include  specific factual allegations showing that defendant’s conduct was oppressive,  fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for punitive damages.” (Today’s  IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)  83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) Furthermore, “[p]unitive damages may not be pleaded generally.” (Ibid.)   Discussion  In this case, Carcamo Cotero argued Haney failed  to allege sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages. The FAC  alleges Carcamo Cotero was “driving considerably faster than the driveway speed  limit of 5 miles per hour.” (FAC, p. 5.) Based on the residential nature of the  area, the FAC alleges Carcamo Cotero’s actions were taken in conscious  disregard for the safety of Haney and others. (FAC, ¶ 5.) Carcamo Cotero argues  it is insufficient to allege Carcamo Cotero acted in conscious disregard of  Haney’s safety as the FAC fails to allege Carcamo Cotero’s actions were  despicable.   Despicable conduct is defined as “conduct  which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it  would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Tomaselli  v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) While driving  considerably faster than the speed limit anywhere can be considered negligent, Plaintiff  failed to allege facts with sufficient specificity where a factfinder could  reasonably find that such conduct rises to the level of despicable justifying  punitive damages. Thus, the court finds the allegations in Plaintiff’s First  Amended Complaint are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages as  to Defendant Carcamo Cotero.   Accordingly, Carcamo Cotero’s motion is GRANTED and the punitive damages allegations are stricken from the First Amended  Complaint.   CONCLUSION  Based on the  foregoing, Carcamo Cotero’s motion to  strike punitive damages from Haney’s FAC is GRANTED.   The court will  hear from the parties on whether the court should grant leave to amend.