  Case Number:  22CHCV01114    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  F51  APRIL 30, 2024    MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 22CHCV01114    Motion Filed: 2/20/24   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Karah Sullivan; and Ryan  Macis (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants  Stewart Silver; and Oceans 11 RV Park, LLC, dba Cali Lake RV Resort  (collectively, “Defendants”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Reconsideration  of the Court’s 2/8/24 Order dismissing Doe Defendants 1 and 2 from the action  without prejudice.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied. Defendants’ request for judicial notice  is granted. Defendants’ evidentiary objection is sustained.   Plaintiffs are  reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended General Order Re Mandatory  Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing documents, parties must comply with  the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set forth at page 4, line 4 through page  5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First Amended General Order Re Mandatory  Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly bookmarking declarations and exhibits).  (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Failure to comply with these requirements in the future may  result in papers being rejected, matters being placed off calendar, matters  being continued so documents can be resubmitted in compliance with these  requirements, documents not being considered and/or the imposition of  sanctions.   BACKGROUND    This is an  action involving Plaintiffs, the owners and residents of a recreational vehicle  (“RV”) allegedly situated and connected to power on a rented space located at  Defendants’ business. (Compl. ¶¶ 9–11.) Plaintiffs allege that in October 2022,  Defendants removed Plaintiffs’ RV to an unsecured location, purportedly for  nonpayment of rent, where the RV was thereafter broken into and ransacked. (Id.  at ¶¶ 12–15.) “Nearly all of Plaintiffs’ personal property in the RV was either  damaged or stolen.” (Id. at ¶ 13.)   On  11/10/22, Plaintiffs filed their complaint against Defendants, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) Statutory Violation re Moving RV; (2) Trespass  to Chattel; (3) Conversion with Statutory Penalties; (4) Negligence; and (5)  Unfair Business Practices. On 12/20/22, Defendants filed their Answer.   On 2/8/24,  the Court dismissed unserved Doe Defendants 1 (Edward Esperanza) and 2 (Kevin  Tanigawa) from the action without prejudice. On 2/20/24, Plaintiffs filed the  instant motion for reconsideration of the Court’s 2/8/24 order. On 4/17/24, Defendants  filed their opposition and request for judicial notice. No reply has been filed  to date.   ANALYSIS   “When an application for an order has been made to a judge,  or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted  conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days  after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based  upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the  same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,  amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state  by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what  order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,  or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008, subd. (a).)   Here, the Court dismissed the Doe defendants at the 2/8/24  Case Management Conference and Order to Show Cause re: Dismissal as to All Does  and Unserved Defendants. (2/8/24 Min. Order.) “Plaintiffs ask this Court to  reconsider the dismissal based on the new information that was not before the  Court at the status conference, namely the discovery responses that had been  mentioned and the email report of the process service company.” (Pls.’ Mot.  2:15–17.)   Plaintiffs proffer a 2/7/24 email from their process  server, which states that although service of process on Doe Defendants 1 and 2  was attempted on 1/27/24, “an employee at the office … stated Edward  Esperanza used to be an employee here 7 months ago and Kevin used to live here  4 months ago [but] … multiple residents moved out. They do not have a  forwarding address for the defendants.” (Ex. 2 to Decl. of Gary Kurtz.)  Defendants properly object to this exhibit as “double hearsay” “evidence of a  statement that was made other than by a witness while testifying at the hearing  and that is offered to prove the truth of the matter stated.” (Defs.’ Evid.  Obj.; Evid. Code § 1200, subd. (a).)   Plaintiffs  also base this motion on Defendants’ 2/21/23 responses to Plaintiffs’ Special  Interrogatories, Set One, in which Defendants identified the names and  addresses of Doe Defendants 1 and 2. (Ex. 1 to Kurtz Decl.) The purportedly  unsuccessful service of process was based on the addresses provided in  Defendants’ interrogatory responses. However, as Defendants note in opposition,  here, “there is no ‘new’ information. Plaintiffs were given 15 months to serve  Esperanza and Tanigawa. Plaintiffs were given numerous warnings to serve. The  Court was correct in dismissing Esperanza and Tanigawa and all other (possible)  Does on February 8'", as it had warned it would do.” (Defs.’ Opp.  5:12–17.)   The Court  notes that Plaintiffs have failed to file any reply explaining their delay in  attempting to serve Doe Defendants 1 and 2 with process following their receipt  of Defendants’ interrogatory responses. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds  no basis to reconsider its 2/8/24 order dismissing the unserved Doe defendants  from the instant action without prejudice. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion is  denied.   CONCLUSION    The motion is  denied.