  Case Number:  23STCV14275    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
25, 2024                           TRIAL
DATE:  May 5, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Liberty Mutual
Group, Inc. v. Sanjiv K. Jain, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                      23STCV14275
 





















 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES FROM DEFENDANTS SANJIV K. JAIN AND SHUBHA
M. JAIN
 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES FROM DEFENDANTS SANJIV K. JAIN
AND SHUBHA M. JAIN
 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PROUCTION OF DOCUMENTS FROM SANJIV K. JAIN
AND SHUBHA M. JAIN



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Liberty Mutual Group, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
                            
            On August 19,
2024, Plaintiff Liberty Mutual Group, Inc. filed six discovery motions: two (2)
motions to compel responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, from Defendants
Sanjiv K. Jain and Shubha M. Jain; two (2) motions to compel responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, from Defendants Sanjiv K. Jain and Shubha M. Jain; and
two (2)  motions to compel responses to Request
for Production of Documents from Defendants Sanjiv K. Jain and Shubha M. Jain.  Plaintiff requests sanctions against
Defendants.[1]
 
            The motions
are unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            If
a party to whom interrogatories or inspection demands were directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order to compel
responses without objections.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b);
2031.300, subd. (b).) ¿ Failure to timely serve responses waives objections to
the requests. ¿(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a); 2031.300, subd.
(a).)   
 
A party moving to compel discovery
responses under these statutory provisions is not required to meet and confer
prior to filing the motion.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b); 2031.300,
subd. (b); see also Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411 [citing Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 906 for the proposition that
“meet and confer” requirement “did not apply when propounding party sought
order compelling responses to interrogatories and sanctions for responding
party's failure to respond ‘within the statutorily permitted
time’”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
¿           Monetary
Sanctions¿ 
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery
sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes (without
limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification
making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.010.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If sanctions are sought, Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity
of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction
requested, that the motion be supported in the points and authorities, and the
facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount of any monetary
sanction.¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If the court finds that a party
has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel responses to
interrogatories, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff moves for an order
compelling Defendants Sanjiv K. Jain and Shubha M. Jain to provide verified,
objection-free responses to Plaintiff’s first set of Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents.
 
            It is undisputed Plaintiff served
Defendants with the at-issue discovery on January 4, 2022.  Responses were due on February 4, 2022.  After Defendants failed to serve responses,
Plaintiff attempted to meet and confer about the outstanding discovery
responses.  However, to date, Defendants
have not provided discovery responses or responded to Plaintiff’s attempt to
meet and confer.  (See Levinson Decls.)  Accordingly, all objections to the discovery
requests are waived.¿ Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling responses to
the interrogatories and production requests. 
            
Monetary Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff requests sanctions against
Defendants Sanjiv K. Jain and Shubha M. Jain.¿ Given that Defendants have not
provided responses to discovery propounded over eight months ago, or even responded
to Plaintiff’s attempt to meet and confer, the court finds sanctions are
warranted. Accordingly, sanctions are imposed as follows: against Defendant
Sanjiv K. Jain in the sum of $844.95, consisting of three hours at plaintiff’s
counsel’s hourly rate and $184.95 in filing fees; and against Defendant Shubha
M. Jain in the amount of $844.95 consisting of 3 hours at plaintiff’s counsel’s
hourly rate and $184.95 in filing fees.  
 
 IV.       CONCLUSION
            
Plaintiff’s motions to compel are GRANTED.  Defendants Sanjiv K. Jain and Shubha M. Jain
are ordered to provide verified, objection-free responses to Plaintiff’s first
set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for
Production of Documents. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions against Defendants is
GRANTED.  Defendant Sanjiv K. Jain is
ordered to pay sanctions in the sum of $844.95 to Plaintiff, by and through
Plaintiff’s counsel.  Defendant Shubha M.
Jain is ordered to pay sanctions in the sum of $844.95 to Plaintiff, by and
through Plaintiff’s counsel. ¿ 
 
Discovery responses are to be provided and sanctions are to
be provided within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 25,
2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


