 Case Number:  24STCV00908    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
25, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Sunna Kim, et al. v. Young Chul Lee, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      24STCV00908

 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE
      


 
MOVING PARTY:              Defendant The Crème Shop, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Plaintiff Sunna Kim  
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            This action arises from a shareholder derivative dispute.  The Crème Shop, Inc. (the Company or
Defendant) is a cosmetics and skincare brand and manufacturer which was founded
in South Korea.  Plaintiff Sunna Kim (Kim
or Plaintiff) and her family were the sole owners of the company.  In 1988, the Company relocated to Los
Angeles.  Thereafter, Kim and her mother,
Christina Kim, became the sole owners of the Company’s stock.  In 2022, Kim and her mother sold a majority
interest in the Company to LG H&H Co. Ltd. (LG).  In exchange, Kim served as co-CEO of the
Company with Young Chul Lee (Lee).   Kim also served on the board of directors with
Lee, Hye Young Moon, and Hong Gi Kim (collectively, Majority Director Defendants).  As reflected in an employment agreement
between Kim and LG, Kim had a “put option” whereby Kim and her mother could
compel LG to purchase their minority interest in the Company at any time
provided Kim resigned from her position as co-CEO with good reason or was
terminated by the Company or LG without cause. 

 
Conflict arose between Kim and Lee.  On July 1, 2023, Kim submitted a notice of
resignation with good reason.  The
resignation was to take effect on October 6, 2023.  The notice triggered Kim’s put option.  Days before the effective resignation date, on
September 27, 2023, the Company purported to notify Kim she would be terminated
for cause without ability or opportunity to cure.  LG, Kim, and Kim’s mother are currently in
arbitration in the International Chamber of Commerce concerning whether Kim resigned
or was terminated for cause.  Kim also
alleges that Majority Director Defendants used the Company as an
instrumentality to engage in a wasteful and tortious campaign of harassment
against Kim and others, in breach of the fiduciary duties of loyalty and care
owed by the Majority Director Defendants to the Company.
 
On January 12, 2024, Kim commenced this action individually
and derivatively on behalf of the Company. 
On May 10, 2024, Kim filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC).  In the FAC, Plaintiff asserts (1) a derivative
action for breach of fiduciary duty against Majority Director Defendants, and
(2) an accounting cause of action against the Company.
 
On July 12, 2024, the Company filed a Demurrer to the Second
Cause of Action for Accounting in the FAC.  
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  The Company replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            A demurrer
for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿ When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged
facts as true.¿ (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)¿ “Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of
the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside the pleading that are
subject to judicial notice.”¿ (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Defendant argues the second cause of action for accounting fails
for two reasons: (1) Plaintiff admits there is no amount that Defendant owes to
Plaintiff, and (2) there is no explanation why Plaintiff cannot obtain the
information she seeks through third-party discovery.
 
“An action for an accounting has two elements: (1) that a
relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting and (2) that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting.  (Sass v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th
861, 869 (cleaned up).)  ‘An action for accounting is not available where
the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a sum that can be
made certain by calculation.’” (Fleet v. Bank of America N.A. (2014) 229
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1413 (quoting Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 179).)   “Generally, an underlying fiduciary
relationship, such as a partnership, will support an accounting, but the action
does not lie merely because the books and records are complex. [Citations.] Some
underlying misconduct on the part of the defendant must be shown to invoke the
right to this equitable remedy.”  (Prakashpalan
v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1137 (Prakashpalan)
[citing Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 594 (Union
Bank)].) 
 
The court finds Plaintiff’s accounting cause of action is
defective.  As alleged here, Plaintiff
alleges wrongdoing on the part of Majority Director Defendants only.  The FAC alleges, “Majority Director
Defendants owe the Company and its shareholders fiduciary duties. [¶] Majority
Director Defendants have abused the process that they were given to the
company’s accounts be engaging in wasteful and conflicted transactions which
were not for the benefit of the Company. [¶] The amount of money due from
Majority Director Defendants to Company is presently unknown and cannot be
ascertained without an accounting of the receipts and disbursements of the
aforementioned transactions.” (FAC, ¶¶ 57-59.) 
There are no allegations the Company engaged in any wrongdoing.
 
Plaintiff attempts to avoid demurrer by raising two points:
(1) the FAC alleges the Majority Director Defendants used the Company as its
instrumentality for wrongful conduct, and (2) the authority upon which the
Company relies for the proposition some wrongful conduct must be alleged
against the defendant to support an accounting claim is distinguishable. 
 
Plaintiff’s arguments do not persuade the court.  The analysis begins and ends with inquiry whether
an accounting cause of action can lie against a defendant for whom no wrongful
conduct is alleged.  The answer is no.  The Company correctly cited Union Bank,
supra, in support of this proposition.  Plaintiff argues Union Bank does not
apply here because that case arose from the granting of summary judgment in
favor of the defendant on an accounting cause of action, among others, where
there was no evidence (such as factually deficient discovery responses) to
create a triable issue of fact.  In other
words, Plaintiff attempts to distinguish the procedural posture of this
case.  Although a court does not consider
extrinsic matters when ruling on a demurrer, Plaintiff fails to contend with
the general proposition that, even on demurrer, wrongful conduct must be
alleged against the defendant to support an accounting cause of action.  (See, e.g., Prakashpalan, 223
Cal.App.4th at. p 1137 (reversing trial court’s order sustaining a demurrer
without leave to amend to an accounting cause of action because there were
allegations of a wrongdoing by the defendant against whom the plaintiff sought
an accounting).)  
 
This result makes sense. 
After all, an accounting claim is a derivative claim.  “A right to an accounting is derivative; it
must be based on other claims.”  (Janis
v. California State Lottery Com. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 824, 833.)  Here, Plaintiff’s accounting claim is
derivative of her breach of fiduciary duty claim.  That claim is asserted against Majority
Director Defendants only.  If an
accounting claim exists, Plaintiff must assert it against Majority Director
Defendants. 
     
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED.   Leave
to amend is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve her Second Amended
Complaint within 15 days of the date of this order.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   September 25,
2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 