 Case Number:  BC665977    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki
Department
58

Hearing Date:             January
25, 2024

Case
Name:                Serrano v. Citrus
Community College District
Case
No.:                    BC665977
Matter:                        Motion to Bifurcate
Moving
Party:             Defendant Citrus
Community College 
Responding Party:      Plaintiff Crisanta
Serrano

Tentative Ruling:      The motion to bifurcate is granted. 

 
This is a case alleging employment
discrimination. On June 22, 2017, Plaintiff Crisanta Serrano (Plaintiff) filed the operative
First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging causes of action for (1) FEHA
discrimination on the basis of pregnancy, (2) FEHA harassment on the basis of
pregnancy, (3) FEHA retaliation for complaining of discrimination and/or
harassment on the basis of pregnancy, (4) FEHA discrimination on the basis of
taking CFRA leave, (5) FEHA harassment on the basis of taking CFRA leave, (6)
FEHA retaliation for taking CFRA leave, and (7) FEHA harassment on the basis of
gender. 
 
As of December 12,
2017, all causes of action other than the first, third, fourth, and sixth
causes of action were dismissed pursuant to demurrer. All Defendants other than
Citrus Community College District were also dismissed.
 
On February 28, 2019,
the Court granted Defendant Citrus Community College District’s motion for
summary adjudication as to the third cause of action. Only the first, fourth,
and sixth causes of action remain.
 
On August 2, 2019, Defendant
Citrus Community College filed a
motion to bifurcate. Plaintiff opposed the motion. On August 26, 2019, the
Court, before the Honorable John Doyle, denied the motion. The Court did not
specify the reasons for why it denied the motion to bifurcate.
 
Now, Defendant
Citrus Community College again moves to bifurcate. Plaintiff opposes the
motion.
 
            The
Court grants the motion to bifurcate. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (b)
provides: “The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or
when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a
separate trial of any cause of action, ..., or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States.” Trial courts have broad discretion under Code of Civil Procedure section
1048 to determine the order of proof in the interests of judicial economy. (Grappo
v. Coventry Financial Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 496, 504.) 
 
Likewise,
“[t]he court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or
the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted
thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no
later than the close of pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial
conference is to be held, or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the
trial date, that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the
trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case, except for special
defenses which may be tried first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 598.)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant
moves to bifurcate trial to first adjudicate its three affirmative defenses of res
judicata, collateral estoppel, and failure to exhaust judicial remedies. 
 
            Specifically,
Defendant argues that, after Plaintiff’s dismissal, she requested a formal
hearing pursuant to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, Article 22; thereafter,
the Board then unanimously voted in favor of dismissing Plaintiff from her
employment in January 2016. Plaintiff never challenged the Board’s findings by
filing a writ of mandate. Defendant, citing Johnson v. City of Loma Linda
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 61, argues that Plaintiff’s failure to challenge this
decision renders those findings binding in this instant lawsuit. (Id. at
pp. 69-70 [stating that “unless a party to a quasi-judicial administrative
agency proceeding challenges the adverse findings made in that proceeding, by
means of a mandate action in superior court, those findings are binding in
later civil actions”].) 
 
            Thus,
Defendant argues the claims are barred under the doctrines of res judicata,
collateral estoppel, and failure to exhaust judicial remedies.
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff citing Ortega v. Contra Costa Community College Dist.
(2007) 156 Cal. App. 4th 1073, argues that she was not required to exhaust
because the internal grievance process under the collective bargaining
agreement qualifies as an arbitration with no final, preclusive effect.
 
            In Ortega v. Contra Costa Community College Dist.,
supra, 156 Cal.App.4th 1073, the court of appeal held the trial court had
erred in dismissing a former head football coach's FEHA action against the
community college district for failure to exhaust the internal grievance
procedures provided in the collective bargaining agreement between the union
representing the coach and the district, procedures that culminated in an
arbitration. The appellate court refused to give preclusive effect to a
grievance procedure provided by a collective bargaining agreement, where the
employee union exercised significant control over the process. (Id. at
pp. 1085-1086.) 
 
            Both
parties expend extensive pages arguing the merits of their defenses. The
relevant underlying facts are extensive and the legal authority governing these
defenses are complicated.
 
            Further, while Ortega is relevant to the
Court’s analysis, it is not necessarily dispositive. The court of appeal
carefully noted the statutory grievance procedure provided by Education Code
section 87610.1 was not at issue in Ortega: “Had Ortega
pursued the relief provided for in the Education Code, Johnson and Page
might well control the result, but he did not.” (Ortega, at p. 1085, fn.
8.) Thus, the extent to which Ortega controls the facts here depends on
the specific procedures of Defendant’s grievance process and the extent to
which the employee the opportunity to vigorously participate in the claim
presentation and fact-finding process.
 
            However,
as argued in the reply, the purpose of the bifurcation motion is not to
determine the merits of the defenses,[1]
but to determine how to marshal the court’s limited judicial resources most
efficiently for trial.
 
            With
this consideration in mind, bifurcation is warranted here. 
 
The
general rule is that where both legal and equitable claims are present in the
same action, the equitable claim may be tried by the court. (Raedeke v.
Gibraltar Sav. & Loan Assn. (1974) 10 Cal.3d 665, 671.) Similarly, an
equitable defense to a legal claim may be tried by the court sitting without a
jury. (Estate of Fincher (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 343, 351.)
 
The affirmative
defenses here would be dispositive to Plaintiff’s remaining underlying discrimination
claims, if proven. If Defendant prevails on its affirmative defenses, then a
jury trial – which is estimated to last up to three weeks and would include
expert testimony – would be moot and unnecessary. Therefore, bifurcation
promotes judicial economy and saves judicial resources. 
 
Even if the defenses
are ultimately unsuccessful, bifurcation would still promote judicial economy
because the two trials would involve different underlying evidence that could
confuse the jury. That is, the facts necessary to adjudicate these defenses are
entirely different from the facts related to Plaintiff’s claims for discrimination
based on her pregnancy. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
the motion to bifurcate is granted. 


