 Case Number:  24STCV01615    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
FERNANDO
  BARAJAS-SALOMON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
101 GRANITE COUNTERTOP
  LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV01615
  Hearing Date:  June 5, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant caesarstone usa, inc.’s
  demurrer and motion to strike (CRS# 6125)




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff
Fernando Barajas-Salomon filed this product liability action against various
defendants. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on March 18,
2024, asserting (1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3)
products liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of
implied warranties, and (6) loss of consortium. 
            According to the complaint, from
2005 to 2023, Plaintiff worked as a cutter, fabricator and/or installer of
Defendants’ stone products. (FAC ¶¶ 172-175.) As a result of this work,
Plaintiff came into contact with “inherently hazardous stone products
manufactured, imported, supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by
the named Defendants and Does 1-100.” (Id., ¶ 177.) Specifically,
Plaintiff was “exposed to and inhaled stone dust containing silica and other
toxins and carcinogens.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff allegedly developed lung
disease and is at increased risk of developing other silica-related diseases. (Id.,
¶ 178.) Plaintiff alleges that he “has had to receive substantial medical
treatment, including hospitalizations and surgeries, and will require lung
transplantation.” (Id., ¶ 179.) 
            On April 29, 2024, Defendant
Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike against
the FAC. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Brice Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
            a. Causation
            “In the ordinary personal injury
lawsuit, in which the complaint's factual recitations show plainly the
connection between cause and effect, it suffices to plead causation succinctly
and generally.” (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71,
78.) “But when, by contrast, the pleaded facts of negligence and injury do not
naturally give rise to an inference of causation, the plaintiff must plead
specific facts affording an inference the one caused the others.” (Ibid.)
The facts must show that “the defective products supplied by the defendant were
a substantial factor in bringing about his or her injury.” (Id. at p.
79.) In order for a complaint to satisfy the substantial factor test in a toxic
exposure case, the plaintiff must plead the following: 
(1) he was exposed to each of the toxic
materials claimed to have caused a specific illness;
(2) he must identify each product that
allegedly caused the injury;
(3) he must allege that as a result of the
exposure, the toxins entered his body;
(4) he must allege that he suffers from a
specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his body was a substantial
factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating that illness; and
(5) he must allege
that each toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied by a named defendant. 
(Id.
at p. 80.) These facts must be pled “in ordinary and concise language” and may
be pled “in a conclusory fashion if [the plaintiff’s] knowledge of the precise
cause of injury is limited.” (Ibid.)
            Here, the complaint identifies the
offending products attributable to moving Defendant Caesarstone and alleges
that Plaintiff was exposed to toxic chemicals, specifically silica, within
those products. (FAC ¶¶ 166, 171, 177, 1155-56.) Plaintiff alleges that the
exposure caused the toxins to enter his body. (Id., ¶ 1168.) Plaintiff
alleges that the toxins were a substantial factor in his illness, specifically silicosis.
(Id., ¶ 1169.) Plaintiff alleges that each hazardous stone product was “manufactured,
imported, supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by the named
Defendants.” (Id., ¶ 177.) Therefore, the complaint satisfies the
requirements of Bockrath, and Plaintiff has adequately pled causation. 
            b. Failure to Warn
            Defendant argues that the second
cause of action fails because there is no allegation that Defendant failed to
issue warnings about its products. However, the complaint alleges that each
product listed therein “lacked warnings adequate to apprise Plaintiff of their
toxic hazards and their serious effects upon the human body, and they lacked
instructions for handling and use.” (FAC ¶ 1179.) Therefore, the complaint
sufficiently alleges failure to warn. 
            c. Design Defect
            Defendant argues that there are no
allegations demonstrating that its products caused injury while being used in a
reasonably foreseeable way. (See Soule v. General Motors Corp. (1994) 8 Cal.4th
548, 560.) However, Plaintiff alleges that he was a cutter, fabricator and/or
installer of Defendants’ stone products, which led to the inhalation of stone
dust containing silica. (FAC ¶¶ 172-177.) For pleading purposes, it may be
inferred that cutting, fabricating, and installing the listed stone products
are reasonably foreseeable uses, and that inhalation of stone dust is a
reasonably foreseeable result of such use. Plaintiff has alleged causation by
specifying that he inhaled the stone dust, which contained toxic silica,
leading to silicosis. As discussed above, Plaintiff has satisfied the Bockrath
standard. Therefore, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that Defendant’s
products caused injury while being used in a reasonably foreseeable way. 
            d. Fraudulent Concealment
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff has
failed to plead fraud with the requisite specificity. However, the rule of
specificity “is intended to apply to
affirmative misrepresentations.” (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) “[I]t
is harder to apply this rule to a case of simple nondisclosure. How does one
show ‘how’ and ‘by what means’ something didn't happen, or ‘when’ it never
happened, or ‘where’ it never happened?” (Ibid.) Plaintiff cannot
provide specific details on nonexistent statements. For pleading purposes,
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that Defendants had a duty to disclose the
hazardous nature of their stone products but failed to do so, thereby inducing
Plaintiff to purchase or use Defendants’ products, leading to his injuries.
(FAC ¶¶ 1219-1227.)
            Because
Defendant is a corporate entity, Defendant also argues that Plaintiff fails to
name the persons responsible for the alleged concealment. (See Tarmann v.
State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) However,
Plaintiff identifies Defendant’s officers and directors who allegedly had
knowledge of the defective products and concealed such information. (See FAC ¶
466.) The additional details which Defendant claims are missing are either not
necessary at the pleading stage or inapplicable to a case of concealment. (See Alfaro,
supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1384.) “Less specificity should be required of
fraud claims when it appears from the nature of the allegations that the
defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy.” (Ibid.) The precise authority and actions of the named
individuals are within Defendant’s knowledge or may be clarified in discovery.
Therefore, the complaint adequately pleads fraudulent concealment.      
 
 
II.
Motion to Strike
            a. Punitive Damages
            “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
            As discussed above, Plaintiff has
adequately pled the fraudulent concealment claim. Fraud is an independent basis
for punitive damages. Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew of
the hazardous nature of its products for an extended period of time yet
concealed the nature and extent of such hazards. (See, e.g., FAC ¶¶ 359,
361, 394, 395.) Even if this did not constitute fraud, it would constitute a
conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights and safety. Therefore, the complaint
adequately pleads punitive damages. 
            b. Additional Products to be
Identified in Discovery
            Defendant seeks to strike the phrase
“and other silica-containing stone products to be identified during the course
of discovery.” (FAC ¶ 171.) As discussed above, the heightened standard under Bockrath
requires Plaintiff to “identify each product that allegedly caused the injury.”
(Bockrath, supra, 21 Cal.4th at p. 80.) The catchall allegation in the
FAC would allow Plaintiff to base liability on any number of unidentified
products, thereby contravening Bockrath. Plaintiff has no response to
this contention in his opposition. Therefore, the phrase is stricken. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Caesarstone USA, Inc.’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED as to the phrase
“and other silica-containing stone products to be identified during the course
of discovery” (FAC ¶ 171) and DENIED as to punitive damages. 