 Case Number:  23STCV11529    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MARIA DEL SOCORRO
  RAMIREZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ELIZABETH CRISTINA RAMIREZ CAMACHO, et
  al., 
 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV11529
  Hearing Date:  June 5, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion for protective order 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 22, 2023, Plaintiff Maria del
Socorro Ramirez filed this action against Defendants Elizabeth Cristina Ramirez
Camacho (Mrs. Camacho) and Davian Camacho (Mr. Camacho). Plaintiff is the
mother of Mrs. Camacho and mother-in-law of Mr. Camacho. The action concerns
real property located in Los Angeles. 
            Plaintiff alleges that she is the
owner of the home. Plaintiff is an 84-year-old widower with multiple health
issues and only speaks Spanish. In early 2022, Defendants allegedly proposed
that in exchange for Plaintiff selling the property to Defendants, Defendants
would assist in renovating the property and care for Plaintiff for the
remainder of her life. Defendants’ alleged true motive was to flip the house
for profit and place Plaintiff in an elderly home. Defendants allegedly induced
Plaintiff into an agreement to sell the property but did not pay Plaintiff the
amounts owed to her. After Defendants acquired title and renovated the
property, they worked to remove Plaintiff from the property and then put it up
for sale. Plaintiff does not currently live at the property. Plaintiff filed
this action to quiet title to the property and recover damages from Defendants’
alleged wrongdoing. 
            On April 9, 2024, Defendants issued
subpoenas to Wells Fargo for records pertaining to a joint account belonging to
Plaintiff, Raul Ramirez, and Martha Ramirez for the period of January 1, 2023
to present. (Kantor Decl., Ex. 1.) The subpoenas seek any and all writings
related to bank statements, deposits, withdrawals, signature cards, powers of
attorney, beneficiaries, accountholders, and the deposit of a specific
cashier’s check for $239,487.70. (Ibid.) 
            On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to quash the subpoenas. Defendants filed their opposition on May
22, 2024. Plaintiff filed her reply on May 29, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of
a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things …, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a
party] . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a), (b).) Good
cause must be shown to compel a nonparty to produce documents. (See Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)   
DISCUSSION
I.
Procedural Defect
             “The officer for a deposition seeking
discovery only of business records for copying under this article shall be a
professional photocopier registered under Chapter 20 (commencing with Section
22450) of Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code, or a person exempted
from the registration requirements of that chapter under Section 22451 of the
Business and Professions Code. This deposition officer shall not be financially
interested in the action, or a relative or employee of any attorney of the parties.
Any objection to the qualifications of the deposition officer is waived unless
made before the date of production or as soon thereafter as the ground for that
objection becomes known or could be discovered by reasonable diligence.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.420.) 
            Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas
violate Section 2020.420 by seeking records of personal bank accounts, which
are not “business records.” (Mtn. 4:15-20.) Plaintiff also argues that the
subpoenas violate Section 2020.420 by requesting the delivery of a copy of the
records rather than instructing the custodian to make the original records
available for inspection at its location. (Mtn. 2:7-13.) 
            These arguments are without merit. Neither
Section 2020.420 nor any other authority provides that only records of business
accounts may be subpoenaed from a bank. The law clearly provides for
subpoenaing “personal records” from “any ‘witness,’” including a “state or
national bank.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3(a)(1).) The party issuing the
subpoena is required to provide a notice to the consumer whose records are
being sought (id., § 1985.3(b)), but there is no outright bar on
obtaining personal records from a bank. Plaintiff also cites no authority for
the proposition that subpoenaed documents may only be directly inspected
onsite. The law clearly provides for production of subpoenaed records by
delivery. (See id., § 2020.430.) Therefore, the subpoena is not
procedurally defective. 
II.
Undue Burden and Reasonable Particularity 
            “The court shall restrict the
frequency or extent of use of a discovery method . . . if it determines . . .
[t]he selected method of discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive, taking
into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2019.030(a)(2).) “A deposition subpoena that commands only the production of
business records for copying shall designate the business records to be
produced either by specifically describing each individual item or by
reasonably particularizing each category of item.” (Id., §
2020.410(a).)  
Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas are
unduly burdensome and not reasonably particularized due to the broad
definitions of the terms “writing,” “electronically stored information,” and
“related to.” (Mtn. 4:23-6:13.) Defendants utilized the statutory definitions
of “writing” and “electronically stored information” set forth in Evidence Code
section 250 and Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.920. (Kantor Decl., Ex.
1.) “Related to” was defined as “supporting, relating to, referring to,
constituting, evidencing, reflecting, describing, pertaining, or otherwise
concerning.” (Ibid.) These definitions ascribe a typical and reasonable
meaning to the respective terms. The terms do not make the subpoena unduly
burdensome. Defining three terms in less than half a page does not constitute “grossly
excessive use of ‘definitions’ and ‘instructions.’” (See Calcor, supra,
53 Cal.App.4th at p. 223 [finding six pages of definitions to be “particularly
obnoxious”].) The requests are reasonably particularized to specific bank
records for a single account during a limited time period. Therefore, the
subpoenas are reasonably particularized and not unduly burdensome. 
III.
Relevance
            “[A]ny party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) “‘Relevant’ evidence is evidence ‘having any tendency
in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the
determination of the action.’” (D.Z. v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist.
(2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 210, 229.) 
            Plaintiff argues that Defendants are
using the subpoenas to perform an unwarranted “fishing expedition,” citing Greyhound
Corp. v. Superior Court of Merced County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355. However, the
court in Greyhound acknowledged that “there is nothing improper about a
fishing expedition, per se.” (Id. at p. 384.) A discovery request
may be improper in a particular case for reasons including “insufficient
identification of the requested information to acquaint the other party with
the nature of information desired, attempt to place the burden and cost of
supplying information equally available to both solely upon the adversary,
placing more burden upon the adversary than the value of the information
warrants.” (Id. at pp. 384-85.) In this case, the subpoenas are
reasonably particularized and sufficiently identify the nature of the
information desired. The subpoenas do not seek to place the burden and cost of
equally available information on Plaintiff. The information is not equally
available, and Plaintiff is not burdened because the subpoena is directed at
Wells Fargo. 
The information is relevant because Plaintiff
alleges that “Mrs. Camacho took two-hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) from
Plaintiff that was not rightfully Defendant’s.” (Compl. ¶ 18.) “Additionally,
thirty-thousand dollars ($30,000.00) that belonged to Plaintiff was wrongfully
wired by Defendant Mrs. Camacho to Defendant Mrs. Camacho related to a property
in Mexico belonging to Plaintiff.” (Ibid.) “Mrs. Camacho has possession
of more monies rightfully belonging to Plaintiff as Plaintiff did not provide
consent.” (Ibid.) Defendants have allegedly “not paid all or most of the
money rightfully belonging to Plaintiffs per the [sale] Agreement.” (Id.,
¶ 24.) Plaintiff further testified in deposition that she “didn't get any money
or anything” from the sale. (Zamora Decl., Ex. A (Plntf. Depo.) 73:18-25.) Defendants
are entitled to obtain evidence proving that Plaintiff received money from the
sale and that they did not take Plaintiff’s money. Therefore, the subpoenas
seek relevant information.
IV.
Breadth
The requests are not overbroad because the
pertinent evidence may be found in a variety of records. It is not per se
improper for a propounding party to “not know precisely what he seeks” and to
therefore “obtain all possible information for the purposes of his case.” (Greyhound,
supra, 56 Cal.2d at p. 384.) As discussed above, the subpoenas are properly
limited to one account and are limited in time. 
Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas
improperly seek post-judgment discovery normally conducted upon judgment
debtors. However, the subpoenas do not seek discovery for the purpose of
enforcing a judgment. Rather, the records are relevant to the merits of the
case. The transfer of Plaintiff’s money is an issue that Plaintiff brought
forth through her own allegations. Having accused Defendants of failing to pay
her for the house and absconding with her money, Plaintiff cannot prevent
Defendants from obtaining evidence proving otherwise. Therefore, the subpoenas
are not overbroad. 
V.
Privacy
“The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.” (Williams v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) If
the court finds a privacy interest, the court must balance the privacy concerns
against the need for the information. (Id. at p. 552.) Discovery of
private information is governed by the more stringent standard of direct
relevance in order to prevent a fishing expedition of “tangentially pertinent
sensitive information.” (Boler v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 201 Cal.App.3d 467,
472.) “The burden is on the party seeking the constitutionally protected
information to establish direct relevance.” (Davis v. Superior Court
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.) 
For the reasons articulated above, the
information sought by the subpoenas is directly relevant to the merits of the
case. Defendants’ need for the information outweighs the privacy interests of
the accountholders. Therefore, the production is not precluded by privacy. 
VI.
Punitive Damages
            Civil Code section 3295 precludes
discovery of a defendant’s financial information until the plaintiff
establishes entitlement to punitive damages. However, Section 3295 does not
preclude discovery where the information sought is fundamental to the case and
is not used solely for assessing punitive damages. (Rawnsley v. Superior
Court (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 86, 91.) As discussed above, the information is
relevant to the underlying merits of the case. The information is not being
sought in relation to punitive damages. Therefore, the subpoenas are not barred
by Section 3295. 
VII.
Service
            Lastly, Plaintiff argues that “[t]he
individual mailing out the Subpoena Created on April 9, 2024 failed to sign a
Proof of Service of the NOTICE TO CONSUMER to either Buxbaum Chakmak Wynder or
Martha Patricia Ramirez making this service defective and improper.” (Mtn.
9:14-17.) However, Plaintiff’s own evidence shows that each Notice to Consumer
was accompanied by a corresponding proof of service signed by J. Adrian Zamora.
(Kantor Decl., Ex. A.) None of the accountholders deny receiving the Notice to
Consumer. Therefore, service was proper. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to quash is
DENIED. Production shall be subject to a protective order.
  