  Case Number:  22VECV02109    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  W YVONNE
JOHNSON, AKA YVONNE MANESH v. SAFEBUILT INSURANCE SERVICES, LLC, et al.
 
motion for leave to file third
amended complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        August 14, 2024                    Trial Date:       N/A
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV02109
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Yvonne Johnson aka Yvonne Manesh 
Responding Party:     Defendant
United Specialty Insurance Company   
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Yvonne Johnson brought a
prior action (via a cross-complaint) against defendant United Specialty
Insurance Company’s insured, Arina Builders, who she claimed had damaged her
property. That action resulted in a judgment in plaintiff’s favor for $261,120.
Plaintiff subsequently sought attorney’s fees against the insured, which were
granted. The judgment and the fees were not paid. Plaintiff then brought the
instant suit against the insurance company (United), and Golden State Claims
Adjusters (GSCA), a third party claims administrator, seeking the full amount
of the judgment and attorneys fees. The first six causes of action in the First
Amended Complaint are against United only, for 1) Judgment Creditor’s action
against the Insurer; 2) Failure to Pay a Covered Claim; 3) Unreasonable Failure
to Defend; 4) Bad Faith Failure to Investigate a Claim; 5) Breach of the
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and 6) Violation of Bus. & Prof.
Code Section 17200, et seq. Plaintiff also stated claims against GSCA and
United for Intentional and Negligent Misrepresentation (the Seventh and Eighth
Causes of Action).
 
On November 14, 2023, Plaintiff
dismissed United from the 7th and 8th causes of action and dissed GSCA from the
7th and 8th causes of action. Upon sustaining of a demurrer to the FAC,
Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint for 1) Judgment Creditor’s action
against the Insurer; 2) Breach for Failure to Pay a Covered Claim; 3) Breach of
the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and 4) Violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code Section 17200, et seq. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to File Third Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff Yvonne Johnson aka Yvonne
Manesh moves the Court for leave to file a Third Amended Complaint in the
instant action on the grounds that the proposed causes of action contained in
the Third Amended Complaint contain a series of acts of occurrence logically
interrelated and thus, are related causes of action subject to forfeiture if
not pleaded in this action. 
 
The courts have a strong policy of
allowing motions for leave to amend. “If the motion to amend is timely made and
the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error
to refuse permission to amend….” (Morgan
v. Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527.) 
A court can deny leave to amend after long, inexcusable delay, where
there is cognizable prejudice, such as discovery needed, trial delay, critical
evidence lost, or added preparation expense. (Solit v. Tokai Bank (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448; Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 739, 761; Green v. Rancho
Santa Margarita Mortgage Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 686, 692; Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) Notably, “it is not required to accept an amended
complaint that is not filed in good faith, is frivolous, or sham.” (American Advertising & Sales Co. v.
Mid-Western (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 875, 878.)
 
Under California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, a motion to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).) A separate supporting declaration specifying (1) the effect of
the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier must accompany the
motion. (Id., rule 3.1324(b).)  
 
Plaintiff asserts upon the sustaining of
Defendants’ demurrer with motion to strike Plaintiff’s complaint, Plaintiff
timely filed a Second Amended Complaint. After Defendant United Specialty
Insurance Company filed a Declaration of Demurring Party in Support of
Automatic Extension, the parties met and conferred regarding Plaintiff’s SAC
and Plaintiff agreed to file a Third Amended Complaint. However, upon filing
the TAC, Plaintiff received a Notice of Rejection from the filing clerk
indicating that, “a court order is required in order to file this amended
complaint.” However, USIC has refused to stipulate to Plaintiff filing a TAC.
Plaintiff argues the TAC simply alleges a new cause of action for Bad
Faith-Unreasonable Failure to Defend and Breach of Implied Obligation of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing and that the amendment is related to the facts
originally pleaded in this action so no prejudice will result against Defendant
USIC. Moreover, no trial date has been set. 
 
In opposition, USIC first argues this
court has already sustained USIC’s demurrer to the third cause of action for
bad faith – unreasonable failure to defend. (Exh. A.) USIC is correct. However,
Plaintiff now alleges Plaintiff is an additional insured under the USIC policy.
For the purposes of the motion, the court finds these allegations sufficiently
pled. While the arguments may have been briefly touched upon in their
opposition to the demurrer, it was not the basis of the court’s consideration
and Plaintiff may take the position in their TAC.  
 
USIC next argues the proposed third and
fourth causes of action are barred by the statute of limitations on the grounds
the statute of limitations for any tort-based bad faith claim ran by April of
2020 at the latest – over four years ago. Even if Plaintiff were asserting a
contractual bad faith claim based on her “additional insured” theory, the statute
of limitations on that claim ran in April of 2022, over two years ago. USIC
contends Plaintiff cannot use the relation back doctrine because these claims are
premised on an entirely new set of facts, namely Plaintiff’s purported status
as an additional insured. “Whether a plaintiff may amend the complaint to
change a party's description or characterization ‘after the statute of
limitations has run depends on whether the misdescription or
mischaracterization is merely a misnomer or defect in the description or
characterization, or whether it is a substitution or entire change of parties.
In the former case an amendment will be allowed; in the latter, it will not be
allowed.’” (Hawkins v. Pacific Coast Bldg. Products, Inc. (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 1497, 1504.)  On the face of the complaint, the court
finds the relation back doctrine applies. The same general facts are alleged –
USIC denied the claim under the policy and not alleging them as the additional
insured of the policy was a defect in their allegations. 
 
Defendant is
free to make merit-based arguments on a demurrer or the like.
 
The court briefly notes USIC’s argument
on Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for violation of Business and Professions
Code 17200. USIC contends it is barred by the statute of limitations and even
if it did relate back to the original filing of the complaint, the claim would
still be time barred because Plaintiff didn’t file the original Complaint until
November of 2022, eight months after the statute of limitations expired. USIC
did not address this contention in their demurrer to the complaint.  This argument is better raised at the demurrer
stage once the new complaint has been filed.  

 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File Third Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
 