  Case Number:  22STCV08759    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
CLARE P. SASSOON, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
AIR VENEZIA, LLC, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV08759
  Hearing Date:  September 18, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiffs’ motion for attorney’s fees 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 10, 2022, Plaintiffs Clare
Sassoon and Thomas Kielty initiated this action arising from a landlord-tenant
dispute. The operative Second Amended Complaint, filed March 15, 2023, asserts
causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, (3) tenant harassment, (4) contractual interference,
(5) declaratory relief, (6) negligence, and (7) unfair competition. 
            According to the SAC, a prior
dispute between the parties resulted in a Tenant Settlement Agreement (TSA),
which essentially granted Plaintiffs tenancy for life at the subject premises.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants attempted to work around the TSA by falsely
accusing Plaintiffs of breaching their lease. Specifically, Defendants claimed
that Plaintiffs improperly sublet their unit to another individual while
Plaintiffs themselves lived elsewhere. Plaintiffs maintain that this individual
was a preapproved roommate and that they did not violate the lease. Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants have wrongfully threatened eviction, invaded their
privacy, refused to accept rent, and failed to articulate the residency
requirements under the lease. 
            On April 28, 2023, the Court
partially granted Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion, striking portions of the SAC
that were based on Defendants’ service of a notice to quit and other threats of
eviction.    
            On April 24, 2024, Plaintiffs
dismissed all causes of action except declaratory relief.
            On May 3, 2024, the matter came on
for a court trial, after which the Court found that Plaintiffs did not sublet
their unit in violation of the TSA and were not required to use the unit as
their primary residence. Judgment was entered accordingly on June 11, 2024. 
On August 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the
instant motion for attorney’s fees. Defendants filed their opposition on
September 3, 2024. Plaintiffs filed their reply on September 11, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“Except as otherwise expressly provided by
statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs
in any action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032(b).) Attorney’s fees are
recoverable as costs under section 1032 when authorized by contract, statute,
or law. (Id., § 1033.5(a)(10).) “Thus, recoverable litigation costs do
include attorney fees, but only when the party entitled to costs has a legal
basis, independent of the cost statutes and grounded in an agreement, statute,
or other law, upon which to claim recovery of attorney fees.” (Santisas v.
Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 606.)
“In any action on a contract, where the
contract specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are
incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the
parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the
party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in
the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in
addition to other costs.” (Civ. Code, § 1717(a).) “Reasonable attorney’s fees
shall be fixed by the court, and shall be an element of the costs of suit.” (Ibid.)
“[S]ection 1717 applies to contracts
containing reciprocal as well as unilateral attorney fee provisions, including
provisions . . . authorizing recovery of attorney fees by a ‘prevailing
party.’” (Santisas, supra, 17 Cal.4th at p. 614.) “[S]ection 1717
applies only to actions that contain at least one contract claim.” (Id.
at p. 615.) “If an action asserts both contract and tort or other noncontract
claims, section 1717 applies only to attorney fees incurred to litigate the
contract claims.” (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION
            The TSA contains an attorney’s fees
provision stating: “In any action or proceeding to enforce any of the
provisions of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall recover all costs and
expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs and expert fees,
expended or incurred in connection therewith.” (Plntf.’s Ex. A.) 
            “[A]n attorney who chooses to
litigate in propria persona and therefore does not pay or become liable to pay
consideration in exchange for legal representation cannot recover
‘reasonable attorney’s fees.’” (Trope v. Katz (1995) 11 Cal.4th
274, 292.) “Courts have declined to award attorney fees to lawyers who have a
personal pecuniary interest in the litigation, in the absence of evidence that
the attorney spent extra time representing other parties.” (Gillotti v.
Stewart (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 875, 905.)
            Plaintiffs argue that “Attorney
Kielty is entitled to half of the fees expended for representing his spouse,
Clare Sasson, while also representing himself, pro per.” (Mtn. 3:23-25.) The
court in Gorman v. Tassajara Development Corp. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 44
rejected this precise argument: 
 
“There is no
indication that Cheng suffered any damages apart from those suffered by her
husband. Their interests in this matter appear to be joint and indivisible. There
is no claim that Gorman spent extra time in this case representing his wife in
addition to the time he spent representing himself. There is no claim that
each of them owes half his fees. Their community estate is liable for their
contracts. (Fam. Code, § 910, subd. (a).) Since Gorman’s billable hours appear
to be entirely attributable to representing his common interests with Cheng, we
conclude that the rule of Trope applies to this situation.”
(Id.
at p. 95.)  
Here too, Plaintiffs’ interests in the
matter were joint and indivisible, and there is no evidence that Kielty spent any
extra time representing Sassoon than he did representing himself. Under these
circumstances, the rule of Trope applies to bar recovery of attorney’s
fees. 
Plaintiffs cite to Rickley v.
Goodfriend (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 1528, where the court held that an
attorney-client relationship may have existed between spouses to justify an
award of attorney’s fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 1218. The matter
was remanded to the trial court for a determination of whether an attorney-client
relationship existed. (Id. at pp. 1538-39.) However, “Rickley is
not controlling here, because here there is no statutory provision and no
public interest being vindicated.” (Gillotti, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at
p. 906.) Specifically, “Code of Civil Procedure section 1218, authorizes an
award of attorney fees to encourage parties to prosecute contempt proceedings,
which are quasi-criminal in nature.” (Ibid.) When the spouses in Rickley
initiated the contempt proceeding, “they were, at that point, ‘assisting the
court and public interest by seeking to enforce a court order.’” (Ibid.)
“The homeowner-attorney vindicated an important public interest and risked not
being compensated for her time. That is why the appellate court held she should
recover attorney fees.” (Ibid.) 
Unlike Rickley, Plaintiffs’ claim
for attorney’s fees stems from a contract (the TSA), not a statute.
Additionally, Plaintiffs seek attorney’s fees incurred in vindicating their own
interests, not an important public interest. Therefore, Rickley is
inapplicable. Gorman and Gillotti are directly on point and
preclude attorney’s fees for a pro per plaintiff who simultaneously represents
their spouse or another person with identical interests.  
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’ motion for attorney’s
fees is DENIED.