  Case Number:  20STCV01489    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 13, 2020, Plaintiff Gloria Edel (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendant City of West Hollywood (“City”) and Does 1-50 for negligence,
negligence under Government Code section 815.2, subdivision (a), and dangerous
condition of public property. 
On
December 1, 2021, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against the City
and Does 1-50 for premises liability, dangerous condition of public property under
Government Code section 835 et seq., negligence under Government Code sections 815.2,
subdivision (a), and 835, and negligence per se. 
On February
8, 2022, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against the City and Does
1-50 for dangerous condition of public property under Government Code section
835 et seq. and negligence under Government Code sections 815.2, subdivision (a),
815.4, and 820, subdivision (a). 
On
April 1, 2022, the Court sustained the City’s demurrer to the second amended complaint
with leave to amend. 
On
April 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint against the City and
Does 1-50 for dangerous condition of public property under Government Code
section 835 et seq. and negligence.  On July 28,
2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendants Delta Scientific
Corporation as Doe 1 and Perimeter Security Group, LLC as Doe 2. 
On
May 25, 2022, the City filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
Roes 1-50 for implied indemnity, express indemnity, declaratory relief, breach
of contract – duty to indemnify, and breach of contract – duty to defend. 
On
January 20, 2023, the City filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication to be heard on September 26, 2023. On
September 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On September 21, 2023, the City filed a
reply.  
Trial
is scheduled for October 30, 2023. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
The
City requests that the Court grant summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.
     Summary judgment 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be
taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that
conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Public entity liability for
dangerous condition of public property 
Government
Code section 835 provides: 
“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: 
“(a) A negligent or
wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope
of his employment created the dangerous condition; or 
“(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.” 

(Gov. Code, § 835.) 
          Government Code section 835.2 provides: 
“(a) A public entity had actual notice of a dangerous
condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 if it had actual
knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should have known of
its dangerous character. 
“(b) A public entity had constructive notice of a
dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 only
if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for such a period
of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the
exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and its dangerous
character. On the issue of due care, admissible evidence includes but is not
limited to evidence as to: 
“(1) Whether the existence of the condition and its
dangerous character would have been discovered by an inspection system that was
reasonably adequate (considering the practicability and cost of inspection
weighed against the likelihood and magnitude of the potential danger to which
failure to inspect would give rise) to inform the public entity whether the
property was safe for the use or uses for which the public entity used or
intended others to use the public property and for uses that the public entity
actually knew others were making of the public property or adjacent property. 
“(2) Whether the public entity maintained and operated
such an inspection system with due care and did not discover the condition.” 
(Gov. Code, § 835.2.) 
C.  Public entity liability for tort of
independent contractor 
          Government Code section 815.4 provides: 
“A public entity is liable for injury proximately
caused by a tortious act or omission of an independent contractor of the public
entity to the same extent that the public entity would be subject to such
liability if it were a private person. Nothing in this section subjects a
public entity to liability for the act or omission of an independent contractor
if the public entity would not have been liable for the injury had the act or
omission been that of an employee of the public entity.” (Gov. Code, § 815.4.)
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE:  
Denied.  Although Plaintiff describes the 1978 Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices as a “regulation” Plaintiff has not shown
the manual’s standards became regulations. 
In addition, Plaintiff’s summary judgment opposition refers to the “California
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices,” but the manual which Plaintiff asks
the Court to judicially notice was issued by the U.S. Department of
Transportation’s Federal Highways Administration.  
Under
the heading “Implementation,” the manual states: “It is expected that basic uniformity
will be obtained in the visible features and functioning of traffic control
devices on all highways in accordance with this Manual.  Implementation of standards contained in this
Manual on all highways open to public travel will be governed by Federal
directive.”  (Manual p. 3.)  Plaintiff has not cited a federal directive making
the manual’s standards applicable here. 
CITY’S EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS: 
Overruled:   7, 8, 9, 11, 12Sustained:    1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s claim for dangerous condition of public
property 
1.    Undisputed facts 
On
November 14, 2018, at approximately 9:05 a.m., Plaintiff was driving her motor
vehicle on Hammond Street in West Hollywood, California when Plaintiff collided
with a concrete bollard protruding from the street.  (UMF 1.) Plaintiff
alleges that the City owns, controls, and/or maintains the street and location
where the accident took place.  (UMF 2.) 
At her deposition, Plaintiff admitted she does not
know how long the concrete bollard was protruding from the street.  (See UMF 3.) 
In discovery responses, Plaintiff asserted that the condition existed
for “at least two hours.”  (UMF 3.)  Plaintiff alleges that the dangerous condition of the
concrete bollards was created by an “Independent Contractor” to which the City
delegated the installation of the bollards. 
(UMF 6.) 
The
City had not received any reports prior to the accident that the concrete
bollards at that location had unexpectedly risen.  (UMF 4.)  The City
regularly inspects its roadways, including the accident location.  (UMF 5.) 
2.    The City has carried its initial summary judgment burden 
Based
on the undisputed facts, the City argues Plaintiff cannot prove a dangerous
condition of public property.  Under
Government Code section 835, Plaintiff must prove either “(a) A negligent or
wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope
of his employment created the dangerous condition” or “(b) The public entity
had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section
835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect
against the dangerous condition.”  (Gov. Code, § 835.) 
Plaintiff
does not allege that an employee of the City acting within the scope of
employment created the dangerous condition.  Instead, Plaintiff alleges that the dangerous condition – the protruding concrete
bollard – was created by an “Independent Contractor” to which the City
delegated the installation of the bollards. 
(UMF 6.)  Therefore, to prove the
City is liable for a dangerous condition of public property, Plaintiff must show
that the City had actual or constructive notice of the alleged defect – here,
the bollard protruding from the street at the time of the accident.  (See Gov. Code,
§ 835.) 
It
is undisputed that the City had not
received any reports prior to the accident that the concrete bollard at that
location had unexpectedly risen.  (UMF
4.)  It is also undisputed that the City
regularly inspects its roadways, including the accident location.  (UMF 5.) 
In
addition, Plaintiff has admitted she does not know how long the concrete
bollard was protruding from the street. 
(See UMF 3.)  
Based
on these facts, the Court finds that the City has carried its initial burden on
summary judgment of proving lack of actual or constructive
notice, shifting the burden to Plaintiff on the claim for dangerous condition
of public property. 
3.    Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact 
In
her summary judgment opposition, Plaintiff argues the City had constructive
knowledge of a dangerous condition because its employees visited the bollard
twice a day to raise and lower it and would have seen that the bollard did not
have reflective red bands at four-inch intervals.  Plaintiff submitted a drawing of a proposed
bollard, evidently prepared before the bollards were installed, showing a bollard
with reflective red bands at four inch intervals.  According to Plaintiff, the purpose of
reflective red bands is to alert drivers to the presence of the bollard.  The absence of the reflective red tape,
according to Plaintiff, caused or contributed to the bollard’s dangerousness. 
The
absence of red tape does not create a triable issue of fact.  Plaintiff’s theory of the case is that the
bollard she struck was a dangerous condition because, due to a malfunction, it
was protruding into the street at a time when it should have been retracted
below ground.  City employees visiting the bollard to raise and lower it would have no
reason to consider the lack of red tape a dangerous condition because the
bollard was supposed to be below ground when a driver might drive in its
direction.  Therefore, Plaintiff has failed
to raise a triable issue of fact on the issue of actual or constructive notice. 
B.   Negligence claim 
The City
argues Plaintiff cannot state a claim for negligence under Government Code
section 815.4 because her exclusive remedy for a claim based on a dangerous
condition of public property is under Government Code section 935.  The Court agrees and grants summary judgment
on this claim. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the City of West Hollywood’s motion for summary judgment. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.