 Case Number:  20STCV13795    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 8, 2020, Plaintiff Bennett Falaughn (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”)
and Does 1-250 for “public entity liable for tort of public employee in course
and scope of public employment [Govt. Code §§815.2(a), 820(a)].” 
On
June 5, 2020, LACMTA filed an answer.  On
June 12, 2020, LACMTA filed an amended answer. 
On
October 14, 2020, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Javier
Orozco as Doe 1 (“Orozco”).  On November
24, 2020, Orozco filed an answer. 
On
August 10, 2023, the Court granted LACMTA’s ex parte application to continue
the trial to January 2, 2024.  The Court
denied the request to continue or reopen discovery without prejudice to filing
a noticed motion. 
On
August 21, 2023, LACMTA filed a motion to re-open discovery to be heard on
September 26, 2023.  No opposition has
been filed. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 2, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
LACMTA
requests that the Court re-open discovery. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On motion of any party, the court may grant leave
to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery
heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new
trial date has been set. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(b) In exercising its discretion to grant or deny
this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the
leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party
seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons
that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier. 
“(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or
hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the
date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in
prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any
date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen
discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050.) 
DISCUSSION 
LACMTA
requests that the Court re-open discovery because LACMTA needs additional time to
evaluate and investigate the extent of Plaintiff’s injuries.  LACMTA states: “In his Mediation Brief for the mediation on August 1, 2023, Plaintiff,
for the first time, alleges that his back surgery failed, and that he installed
a spinal cord stimulator as a result of the subject incident. . . . [LACMTA],
its attorney, and its expert witnesses have not had any opportunity to subpoena
and review the relevant medical records and billing records.”  (Ashour Dec. ¶ 3.) 
LACMTA
also asserts: “The total medical specials to date are now alleged to be
$477,917.91, which is almost twice the amount [LACMTA] was aware of. The future
medical specials are alleged to be $753,969.46, which is also new to [LACMTA].”
(Ashour Dec. ¶ 4.) 
LACMTA
plans to file a motion for a subsequent deposition of Plaintiff to investigate
the “new facts” which have emerged.  (Ashour Dec. ¶
4.)  In addition, LACMTA propounded new
discovery on Plaintiff after the mediation in light of the new information
Plaintiff disclosed. 
The
Court has considered the factors laid out in Code of Civil Procedure section
2024.050 and finds good cause to re-open discovery.  LACMTA has shown why it needs the additional
discovery and acted diligently after learning about Plaintiff’s recently-disclosed
information.  Reopening discovery is
unlikely to prejudice Plaintiff or prevent the case from going to trial on the
date currently set.  The Court grants the
motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s
motion to reopen discovery.  Fact
discovery is reopened.  All related dates
will trail the new trial date of January 2, 2024. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.