 Case Number:  21STCV34485    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  28         Having considered the moving papers,
the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
          On September 17, 2021, Plaintiff Alexander Lockett
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”), City of Los Angeles (“City”),
County of Los Angeles (“County”) and California Department of Transportation
(“CDT”) for premises liability. 
          On September 9, 2022, the County filed an answer. On
January 4, 2023, the Court dismissed the County, without prejudice, at
Plaintiff’s request. 
          On September 14, 2022, CDT filed an answer. On October 31,
2022, the Court dismissed CDT, without prejudice, at Plaintiff’s request. 
          On September 16, 2022, the Court dismissed the City,
without prejudice, at Plaintiff’s request. 
          On September 26, 2022, LACMTA filed an answer. 
          On May 30, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s
motion to be relieved as counsel. 
          On July 10, 2023, LACMTA filed motions to compel
Plaintiff’s responses to LACMTA's demand for production and identification of
documents, set one, special interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories, set one, and for monetary
sanctions.  Plaintiff did not file an
opposition.  The motions were set for
hearing on August 29, 2023.  On August 29,
2023, the Court continued the hearing to September 26, 2023. 
 On September 5, 2023, LACMTA
filed amended motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses to LACMTA's demand for
production and identification of documents, special interrogatories, and form
interrogatories, and for monetary sanctions. 
Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
          Trial is currently scheduled for March 27, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
          LACMTA requests that the Court compel Plaintiff to serve
full and complete verified responses to the demand for production and
identification of documents, special interrogatories, and form interrogatories,
and award monetary sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          A.   Inspection
demand 
       “Within 30 days after service of a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the party to whom the
demand is directed shall serve the original of the response to it on the party
making the demand, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have
appeared in the action, unless on motion of the party making the demand, the
court has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the party to
whom the demand has been directed, the court has extended the time for
response.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260,
subd. (a).)  
 “If
a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the following rules shall
apply: 
 “(a)
The party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
 “(1)
The party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280. 
 “(2)
The party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
 “(b)
The party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the
demand. 
 “(c)
Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. If a
party then fails to obey the order compelling a response, the court may make
those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to this sanction, the court may
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). 
 “(d)
(1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent exceptional circumstances, the
court shall not impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for
failure to provide electronically stored information that has been lost,
damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of the routine, good faith
operation of an electronic information system. 
 “(2)
This subdivision shall not be construed to alter any obligation to preserve
discoverable information.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300.) 
          B.  
Interrogatories 
 “Within 30 days after service
of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall
serve the original of the response to them on the propounding party, unless on
motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the time for response,
or unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for
response.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.260.)  
 “If
a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the following rules apply: 
 “(a)
The party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise
the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection
to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection
for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court,
on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that
both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
 “(1)
The party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and 2030.240. 
 “(2)
The party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
 “(b)
The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling
response to the interrogatories. 
 “(c)
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. If a
party then fails to obey an order compelling answers, the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the court may
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290.) 
          C.   Discovery
sanctions 
          “The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may also impose this
sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged in the misuse
of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that assertion, or on
both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the
court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
 “Misuses of the discovery
process include, but are not limited to . . . 
* *
*
 “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
          On September 26, 2022, LACMTA served a request for production
and identification of documents, special interrogatories, and form interrogatories
on Plaintiff. 
          Plaintiff did not serve responses by November 7, 2022, the initial
deadline.  Afterward, the parties agreed
to extend Plaintiff's time to respond to December 22, 2022, with the understanding that
LACMTA believed Plaintiff had waived objections to the discovery requests.  
 On December 23, 2022,
Plaintiff served unverified responses. “Where a verification is required
[citation], an unverified response is ineffective; it is the equivalent of no
response at all.”  (L. Edmon & C.
Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶
8:1113, p. 8F-54.) 
          The Court grants the motion to compel responses to the
request for production and identification of documents and orders Plaintiff to
provide verified code-compliant responses and to produce the documents,
electronically stored information, and/or other things requested without
objections by October 20, 2023. 
          The Court grants the motions to compel responses to the
form and special interrogatories and orders Plaintiff to provide verified
code-compliant responses to the interrogatories without objections by October 20,
2023. 
 LACMTA is entitled to
sanctions due to Plaintiff’s misuse of the discovery process.  On each motion, counsel requests $1,347.50
based on 5.5 hours of attorney time consisting of the following: .5 hours for
meeting and conferring; .5 hours for research; .5 hours for reviewing file
materials; 1.5 hours to draft the motion; .5 hours to review Plaintiff’s opposition;
.5 hours to research the issues presented in Plaintiff's opposition; 1 hour to
draft the reply; and .5 to appear at the hearing.  Counsel’s billing rate is $245 per hour. 
          The motions are unopposed. 
They are substantially similar and are to be heard together. The Court
awards sanctions of $980.00 for all three motions, based on 4 hours of
attorney’s work. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority to compel Plaintiff Alexander Lockett to
respond to LACMTA’s request for production and identification of documents, set
one.  The Court orders Plaintiff to
provide verified code-compliant responses and to produce the documents,
electronically stored information, and/or other things requested without
objections by October 20, 2023. 
          The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority to compel Plaintiff Alexander Lockett to
respond to LACMTA’s special interrogatories, set one.  The Court orders Plaintiff to provide
verified code-compliant responses to the interrogatories without objections by October
20, 2023. 
          The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority to compel Plaintiff Alexander Lockett to
respond to LACMTA’s form interrogatories, set one.  The Court orders Plaintiff to provide
verified code-compliant responses to the interrogatories without objections by October
20, 2023. 
          The Court GRANTS the request of Defendant Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority for sanctions and orders Plaintiff
Alexander Lockett and his attorney to pay Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority $980 by September 27, 2023. Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 