  Case Number:  22CHCV00676    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43Date: 6-3-24Case #22CHCV00676 , Sergey Vershinin vs. Janie CohenTrial Date: 2-10-25 MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant
Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage CompanyRESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Sergey Vershinin RELIEF
REQUESTEDAn Order compelling
Plaintiff’s responses to requests for admissions, special interrogatories, and
form interrogatories, as well as sanctions. RULING: Cross-Defendant’s
motion to compel responses is denied as moot. Sanctions will still be awarded. SUMMARY OF
ACTIONOn November 3,
2023, Cross-Defendant Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Company (Coldwell) served
Plaintiff Sergey Vershinin (Plaintiff) with Requests for Admission, Special
Interrogatories, and Form Interrogatories. On December 4, 2023, one day before Plaintiff’s
responses were due, Plaintiff’s attorney requested a three week extension. Coldwell’s
counsel denied the request because of the upcoming deadline for a motion for
summary judgment. The next day, Plaintiff served unverified responses to all of
Coldwell’s discovery requests. Coldwell’s counsel attempted to get the verified
responses through the meet and confer process, but Plaintiff’s counsel never
sent them, despite her indicating that she would provide the verified responses
within two weeks. Coldwell’s counsel indicates that Plaintiff’s counsel told
her that there had been a breakdown in communication between her and Plaintiff.
 Coldwell filed its
motions to compel responses on April 18, 2024. Coldwell seeks verified,
code-compliant answers to the discovery requests. Coldwell has also requested
sanctions in the amount of $1,950, $3,250, and $650 against Plaintiff and/or
his counsel of record for the three motions. On May 23,
2024, Plaintiff served further responses to the Requests for Admission, Special
Interrogatories, and Form Interrogatories. Coldwell’s counsel indicated at the
hearing on these motions on June 3, 2023, that the motions were now moot on
their merits because responses had been received. However, Coldwell still seeks
sanctions for having to bring the motions. ANALYSISColdwell’s
motions to compel further discovery are moot on the merits. SanctionsCCP § 2023.030
authorizes the Court to issue sanctions against a party engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process. Failure to respond to discovery,
evasive responses, and objections lacking substantial justification are
“misuses of the discovery process.” (CCP § 2023.010, subd. (d)-(f).) Coldwell has
requested sanctions in the amount of $1,950, $3,250, and $650 against Plaintiff
and Plaintiff’s counsel of record for having to bring these motions to compel
further discovery. The amount was based on Coldwell’s counsel spending 18 hours
total on the motion at an hourly rate of $325 an hour. (Salinas-Mendoza Decl.,
¶ 12.) Given that Plaintiff did eventually serve the responses, sanctions are
warranted, but not in the full amount requested. The Court will grant sanctions
for half of the amount originally requested, making the total $2,925.00. Coldwell’s
request for sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of record is
granted in the amount of $2,925.00. ORDER1.      Coldwell’s
motions to compel responses are denied as moot.2.      Plaintiff
and Plaintiff’s counsel of record are ordered to pay sanctions in the total
amount of $2,925.00. Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of record are ordered to
pay these sanctions to Coldwell’s counsel within thirty (30) days.



































































Dept.  F-43 Date:  6-3-24 Case  # 22CHCV00676, Vershinin v. Cohen & Cross-Action Trial  Date: 2-10-25   SUMMARY JUDGMENT   MOVING  PARTY:                Cross-Defendants  Coldwell Banker Commercial Realty and William Anthony Gilmore RESPONDING PARTY:       Cross-Complainant Jane Cohen   RELIEF  REQUESTED Motion  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication   RULING: Summary judgment  is granted.   SUMMARY  OF ACTION Plaintiff  Sergey Vershinin sued defendant Jane Cohen on August 23, 2022, for (1) breach  of contract, (2) intentional misrepresentation, (3) negligent  misrepresentation, and (4) violation of the Civil and Public Resources Codes.  Vershinin alleges he purchased a commercial property (Property) from Cohen in  November 2020. Before the parties executed their purchase agreement  (Agreement), Vershinin informed Cohen that he intended to use the Property to  build a fuel station, truck stop, and convenience store. Cohen did not disclose  to Vershinin that the Property is located on or near the San Andreas Fault,  rendering it largely unfit for this purpose.   On  January 20, 2023, Cohen cross-complained against cross-defendants Coldwell  Banker Residential Brokerage Company (Coldwell) and William Anthony Gilmore,  the moving parties here, alleging causes of action for (1) negligence and (2)  breach of fiduciary duty. Cohen alleges Coldwell and Gilmore represented both  her and Vershinin as their joint broker during the sale of the Property. The  parties’ escrow company, Chicago Title, prepared a “Natural Hazards Report” that  included information about the fault lines on the Property. Cross-Defendants  ensured that Chicago Title provided the Natural Hazards Report to Vershinin.  But they did not ensure Vershinin read or understood it. Cohen contends they were  duty-bound to do so, and if they had this litigation might have been avoided.   Cross-Defendants  filed their motion for summary judgment on December 12, 2023. Cohen filed her  opposition on May 21, 2024. Cross-Defendants filed their reply on May 29, 2024.   ANALYSIS   Evidentiary  Matters   Cross-Defendants’  Request for Judicial Notice: Cross-Defendants request that the Court take  judicial notice of three filings in this action. The Court grants the requests,  although they are unnecessary.   Cross-Complainant’s  Evidentiary Objections:   Cross-Complainant  has directed her objections to the facts within Cross-Defendants’ Separate  Statement rather than the evidence. This is procedurally improper. (See Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1354 [format of written objections].) The Court makes  best efforts to apply her objections as intended to the relevant evidence.   Objections Nos. 1-3  are moot. The Court regards Cohen’s Exhibit B as a true and correct copy of the  same agreement. It is identical in all relevant respects to the exhibit she has  objected to, and its admission does not undermine Cross-Complainants’ Separate  Statement.   Objection No. 4 is  overruled.   Objections Nos. 5-9  to Gilmore’s Exhibit 4 are overruled. Cross-Complainant cites no authority for  the proposition that an email with attachments is incomplete, for purposes of  Evidence Code section 1402, unless its proponent also proffers the attachments.  Moreover, Cross-Complainant’s objection is not based on proffered file  attachments, but hyperlinks to files hosted elsewhere. Her reasoning implies  that any document that contains hyperlinks must be excluded as incomplete  unless it appends all material linked to. This is unreasonable and illogical.  Perhaps most importantly, Cohen does not challenge the authenticity of the  email, or contend that she could not access the documents, or otherwise deny  they were sent or received.   Objection No. 10  is overruled.   Objection No. 11  is overruled. Cohen does not demonstrate how or why the Counter-Offer should  have been appended to the Property Purchase Agreement, such that the latter  should be excluded.   Objections Nos. 12-13  are overruled.   Objections Nos. 14-15  are sustained, except to the extent that paragraph 13 authenticates the  relevant exhibit.   Objections No. 16-17  are sustained. Cross-Defendants purport to authenticate the exhibit because  “Plaintiff Vershinin produced [the] documents ... in response to a request for  production”. (Ballesteros Decl., ¶ 2.) Cross-Defendants have not provided the  requests responded to or a verification from Vershinin, so the efforts to  authenticate it are inadmissible hearsay.   Objections Nos. 18  and 20 are sustained to the extent Gilmore’s statement is not based on personal  knowledge, but overruled to the extent he authenticates emails he received and/or  forwarded.   Objections Nos. 19  and 21 are overruled on the same basis as Objections Nos. 5-9.    Objections Nos.  22-26 are sustained on the same basis as Objections Nos. 16-17.   Objection No. 27  is overruled as to paragraph 20 of Gilmore’s declaration. As to Exhibit 12, the  objection is sustained for lack of foundation.   Objection Nos. 28-34  are overruled.   Objection No. 35 is  a subheading, not an objection.   Objection No. 36  is sustained.   Objection No. 37  is a subheading, not an objection.   Objections Nos.  38-40 are sustained, although the discovery responses are irrelevant.   Cross-Defendants’  Objection: Cross-Defendants did not file any written objections to  Cross-Complainant’s evidence. Confusingly, Cross-Defendants argue she cannot  prevail because “she did not present any admissible evidence in opposition.”  (Reply, 3:19, formatting omitted.) But she filed a declaration. Either  Cross-Defendants overlooked the declaration, or they so seriously failed to  comply with Rule of Court 3.1354 that the Court cannot make out their  objection(s).   Cross-Defendants’  Supplemental Evidence: Cross-Defendants filed a supplemental declaration from counsel  Daniel Ballesteros that proffers recently-received supplemental discovery  responses from plaintiff Vershinin. The Court appreciates that Vershinin’s  responses were not provided until shortly before Cross-Defendants filed their  Reply. Nonetheless, the Court cannot consider evidence newly introduced upon  reply.   Procedural  Matters   Cross-Defendants  gave timely notice of their motion, and it is set more than thirty (30) days  before the trial. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(a)(2).)    Cross-Complainant  filed and served her opposition thirteen (13) calendar days before the hearing,  which is one day late. (Id., subd. (b)(2).) The Court exercises its  discretion to consider the opposition regardless of the minor lapse.   Cross-Defendants’  reply was timely filed.   Discussion   Cross-Defendants  move for summary judgment, or summary adjudication of each cause of action, on  the grounds that (1) Cohen can establish none of the elements of negligence,  and (2) although Cross-Defendants owed Cohen a fiduciary duty, she cannot  establish they breached it.   Cohen  argues a triable issue exists with regard to each relevant element.   The  purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism  to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite  their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar  v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,  subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the  evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’  and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no  triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to  judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7  Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)   The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those  allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.  4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima  (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon  Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.)  “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving  party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of  material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes,  Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary  judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no  merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action .  . . cannot be established.”  (CCP §  437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts  to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material  facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)   “When  deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the  evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has  sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inference that may be drawn  form that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary  judgment.” (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at  467; see also CCP § 437c(c).) “An issue of fact can only be created by a  conflict in the evidence.  It is not  created by speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank  (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)   Cross-Defendants  first move for summary adjudication on Cohen’s first cause of action for  negligence. The elements of negligence are (1) duty, (2) breach, (3) causation,  and (4) injury. (Thomas v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.)   Cross-Defendants  argue they owed Cohen a contractual duty and a fiduciary duty, but no other  duty, and for the same reasons they did not breach any fiduciary duty, they  breached no ordinary duty of care even if they owed one.   Cohen  does not oppose the portion of Cross-Defendants’ motion directed to her first  cause of action. Her opposition pivots from facts and legal standard directly  to her argument that “Coldwell and Gilmore violated their fiduciary duties”.  (Opp., 3:11, emphasis added.) The remainder of her opposition refers to  fiduciary duties repeatedly, and never to any ordinary duty of care – which  comports with the law cited by Cross-Defendants.   Cohen  having waived opposition, the motion is granted as to her first cause of  action.   As  to the second cause of action: the elements of breach of fiduciary duty are “the  existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage proximately  caused by that breach.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 594,  604.)   The  issues in the cross-complaint must frame Cohen’s motion for summary judgment. (See  Scolinos v. Kolts, supra, 37  Cal. App. 4th at pp. 640-641.) In her cross-complaint, Cohen alleges only:   “The terms of [Cohen  and Vershinin’s] AGREEMENT were that certain disclosures were made by COHEN to  VERSHININ concerning environmental hazards such as earthquake fault lines. [¶] Escrow  prepared an environmental hazard report and provided it to COHEN and GILMORE which  indicated fault lines on the SUBJECT PROPERTY. [¶] GILMORE had a duty to  provide the environmental hazard report to VERSHININ but failed to do so. ... [Cross-Defendants’]  fiduciary duty required [them] to, among other things, act with the  utmost care,  integrity, honesty and loyalty in dealing with COHEN. [¶] COHEN is informed and  believes, and upon such information and belief alleges, that COLDWELL and  GILMORE, and each of them, breached their duties to COHEN by failing to act  with the utmost care, integrity, honesty and loyalty in dealing with COHEN.”   (Cross-Compl.,  ¶¶ 11-13, 25-26.)   Cross-Defendants  concede they owed Cohen (and Vershinin) fiduciary duties as the parties’ dual  agent.   As  to the only breach alleged in the cross-complaint: it is not reasonably disputed  that Cross-Defendants did ensure delivery of the Natural Hazards Report  to Vershinin. Cross-Defendants carry their burden with Gilmore’s testimony  authenticating two “Document Delivery Emails,” one to recipients including him and  Vershinin, another to him and Cohen, containing links to an Escrow Acceptance  Letter and the crucial Natural Hazards Report. (See Gilmore Decl., Exhs.  14-15.) This alone carries Cross-Defendants’ initial burden to negate Cohen’s  claim.   Cohen  does not deny any of this evidence, so she fails to raise a triable issue.  Although she disclaims knowledge of the fault line issue until Vershinin raised  it during escrow, she does not argue that Vershinin did not receive the Report,  or indeed that she did not receive it. For reasons discussed below, Gilmore  only needed to ensure it was sent. Cohen raises no triable issue suggesting he  did not.   Confining  Cross-Defendants’ motion to the issues raised in the cross-complaint, this finding  by itself entitles them to judgment. Cohen only alleged Gilmore failed to send  the Report. Cross-Defendants refuted this allegation and Cohen raised no issue  in response.   In  the moving and opposition papers, the parties seem to have shifted to an  argument not implicated in the cross-complaint: that Cross-Defendants were  obligated to ensure Vershinin received and understood the Natural  Hazards Report. The Court discusses this argument as well, although it is  unnecessary because the cross-complaint has already been defeated on its own  terms.   Cross-Defendants  argue that, particularly in a commercial real estate transaction, a broker has  no fiduciary duty to specially inspect and discover material facts for  disclosure to a buyer. (Smith v. Rickard (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1354,  1360.) A broker also cannot be ascribed constructive knowledge in a commercial  transaction; actual knowledge of undisclosed defects is required. (Assilzadeh  v. California Fed. Bank (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 399, 410 (Assilzadeh).)  Even if a defect is known, a broker need only disclose the simple fact, not  elaborate on its effect or ramifications. (Sweat v. Hollister (1995) 37  Cal.App.4th 603, 609.)   Cohen  argues “one email to a 3rd party without follow-up does not fulfill [a] broker’s  fiduciary duties” (Opp., 5:-23-24 [formatting omitted, edited for typos].) She  argues Gilmore, as her fiduciary, was at least obligated to ensure that  Vershinin had received and reviewed the report, or even to review it with him.  Cross-Defendants do not suggest Gilmore did anything other than attach the  report to an email.   Cohen  cites no case law in the portion of her opposition devoted to this issue. She  advances only the conclusion that Gilmore was neither diligent nor faithful. (Cohen  criticizes Gilmore for not specifically stating in his declaration that he  satisfied his fiduciary duty. This is not a defect; such testimony would be an  unnecessary and inadmissible conclusion.)   Assilzadeh, supra, and  later cases citing it carry Cross-Defendants’ motion.    In  Assilzadeh, a seller’s and a seller’s agent’s duties of disclosure were  satisfied where it informed the buyer of a commercial property that the  property had been involved in construction defect litigation. (Assilzadeh,  supra, at pp. 411-412.) The Court of Appeal found that, even where the  seller and agent knew that the specifics of the litigation likely affected the  property’s value, it did not have to relay this opinion to the buyer. As here,  delivering the information satisfied its obligation; the buyer was obligated to  follow up on the information it was given. (Ibid.)   Later  cases citing Assilzadeh clarified that a broker has a duty to learn and  disclose facts material to a property’s desirability, but the broker does not  need to investigate or further verify the information as long as it discloses  to the principal that it has not done so. (See Horiike v. Coldwell Banker  Residential Brokerage Co. (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1024, 1040-1041 (Horiike),  citing Assilzadeh, supra, at pp. 414-416 [“a dual agent  representing the seller and the buyer [has a] duty to learn and disclose facts”,  not to explain or interpret them] and Salahutdin v. Valley of California,  Inc. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 555, 562-563 [broker need only disclose that facts  are unverified].)   It  is not reasonably disputed that Vershinin and Cohen received the Natural  Hazards Reportr from Chicago Title, or that it revealed the fault line problems  with the Property. (See Gilmore Decl., Exhs. 14-15.) Gilmore was not obligated  to do an extensive investigation into how the report affected Vershinin’s  intended use of the Property. (The Court also fails to see how Gilmore was  obligated to inform Cohen that the results of a report might affect Vershinin’s  intended use.)   Cohen  also argues Gilmore neglected to inform either she or Vershinin that the other was  in default on the parties’ sale agreement when transaction deadlines passed,  and as a result neither of them prepared necessary payment demands (Cohen) or  demands to terminate the transaction (Vershinin). Cohen argues that if Gilmore  had been more diligent, the parties might have avoided this dispute.    None  of these claims are raised in the cross-complaint. And regardless, Gilmore’s  exhibits amply show he stayed in contact with both parties throughout the  fault-line dispute. (See Gilmore Decl., Exhs. 13-20.)   Finally,  Cross-Defendants raise a parenthetical argument that Cohen indemnified them in  their listing agreement. This is irrelevant to the motion and not discussed in  the opposition.   Cross-Defendants  are entitled to judgment on Cohen’s cross-complaint as a matter of law.   The  motion is granted in its entirety.