 Case Number:  21STCV43025    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  30 REBECCA CALE PERICO vs BONNIE BRAE INVESTMENT SERVICES, LLC, A CALIFORNIA CORPORATIONRe:  Motion to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted; Motion to Compel Discovery (not "Further Discovery"); Motion to Compel Discovery (not "Further Discovery")TENTATIVEDefendant’s Motions are GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified responses, without objections, to Defendant’s Request for Production, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One, within 20 days.  The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to deem Request for Admissions admitted.  The genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests are deemed admitted.  Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSIONDefendant timely served all the discovery requests on Plaintiff on May 8, 2023. (Hart Decl., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff had 30 days to respond but did not do so. Defense counsel contacted Plaintiff’s counsel on July 31, 2023, to inquire about the lack of responses. (Hart Decl., ¶ 7.)  To date, Plaintiff has not answered any of the discovery requests.  Because Plaintiff has failed to respond to the discovery requests, Plaintiff is compelled to respond to the request for production of documents and form interrogatories, without objection, including objections based on privilege or on the protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300 subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  Further, where there has been no timely response to requests for admissions, a “requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with section 2023.010).” The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests for admission admitted “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c).) 