 Case Number:  22STCV40951    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of
Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



HOWARD WEISS
               Plaintiff,
         
  vs.
 
SNF
  MANAGER, INC.
                             Defendant,
and 
 
MECEBAR,
  LLC
                 Nominal Defendant.
          


 Case No.: 
  22STCV36657 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: October 24, 2023 



 
            Defendant’s motions to compel
arbitration are GRANTED. Defendant’s requests for attorney fees are denied. 
 
On 11/21/2022, Plaintiff Howard Weiss (Plaintiff), as an
individual and as the assignee of HRW Legacy, LLC, filed suit against SNF
Manager, Inc. and Mecebar, LLC, alleging: (1) securities fraud violation of
California Blue Sky Laws (collectively, Defendants); (2) common law fraud; and
(3) breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
Now, Defendant moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s
Complaint, and to stay all further proceedings in this case until the
completion of arbitration. 
 
There is a substantially similar motion to compel
arbitration pending in Case No. 22STCV40951. For ease, the Court has
consolidated its analysis into a single ruling. 
 
Discussion
            
            Defendant submitted evidence that on
8/21/2017, Plaintiff entered into a written contract with Defendants that
contained an arbitration provision which covers the claims asserted here and in
Case No. 22STCV40951.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff notes that
he does not dispute that these claims should be arbitrated, and he himself
initiated arbitration proceedings in November 2022. Plaintiff further
argues that it is Defendant who has delayed arbitration of this matter:
 
Defendants have prevented Plaintiff from arbitrating their
claims at every point to achieve their goals. Defendants refused to provide an
executed copy of the Mecebar Operating Agreement to JAMS so arbitration
proceedings could be initiated. Defendants did not want an Arbitration initiated
to bolster their Demurrer based on the Statute of Repose. The Defendants’
Demurrer caused JAMS to stay the arbitration sought by Plaintiff. The Motion
was used to stay arbitration further.  
 
After Defendants’ Demurrer was overruled, Defendants filed
the Motion on July 10, 2023. The Motion was another ploy to delay arbitration
proceedings. After it was filed, Plaintiff contacted JAMS to initiate
arbitration proceedings. Defendants objected and requested that JAMS continue
to stay any arbitration proceedings. Thus, the only practical effect of this
Motion has been to delay the very arbitration the Motion seeks to compel
 
Plaintiff does not need to be compelled to participate in
the Arbitration they initiated. The Plaintiff filed a Demand for Arbitration before
filing his lawsuit. It is the Defendants who should be ordered to arbitrate
“any and all claims and causes of action in the Superior Court Action … proceed
in the Arbitration Proceedings and Judgment upon the award rendered by the
Arbitrator in the Arbitration Proceedings may be entered in this Court.
 
            (Opp., 1:13-28.)
 
            Given that Plaintiff does not
dispute that the claims in this action and in Case No. 22STCV40951 should be
arbitrated, this leaves only Defendant’s request for an award of attorney fees
for bringing this motion, pursuant to CCP section 1293.2. 
 
The California Supreme Court in DisputeSuite.com, L.L.C.
v. Scoreinc.com (2017) 2 Cal. 5th 968, 977 and other recent California
appellate courts have held that prevailing in an interim procedural step, such
as a motion to compel arbitration, within an existing lawsuit, cannot be the
basis of attorney’s fees award. The DisputeSuite court announced the
generally applicable principle: "fees under section 1717 are awarded to
the party who prevailed on the
contract overall, not to a party who prevailed only at an interim procedural
step." 
 
Similarly, in Lachkar v. Lachkar (1986) 182
Cal.App.3d 641, the Court expressly held that a petition for order to compel
arbitration was not judgment, such as would entitle petitioners to costs and
attorney's fees. The Court in DisputeSuite endorsed this the Lachkar
interpretation that “A party does not become
the prevailing party under the statute merely by obtaining a forum for
resolution of the contractual dispute or by moving it from one forum to
another.”
 
Here, there has been no determination on the merits of the
underlying contract claims here. As such, Defendant is not entitled to attorney
fees. The Court also declines to award Plaintiff attorney fees, given
insufficient evidence to show obstruction and delay by Defendant.
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is granted. This action is stayed pending the completion of
arbitration proceedings.  
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated:  October    , 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
  
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org. 
If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case
number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion
submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,
please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 