 Case Number:  22STCV31187    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  17  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



IRMA
  ORDAZ  
                           
         vs.
 
GENERAL
  MOTORS, LLC 
 
 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV31187 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 24, 2023



 
 
Plaintiff’s motion is MOOT. The Court declines to award
sanctions at this time. 
 
            On 9/22/2022, Plaintiff Irma Ordaz
(Plaintiff) filed suit against General Motors, LLC, alleging violations of the
Song-Beverly Act. 
 
            Now, Plaintiff moves to compel discovery
responses to her Requests for Admission (RFAs). 
 
Discussion

            
On 1/23/2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with RFAs.
 
            In opposition, Defendant indicated
that it has since served responses and that the failure to timely respond was
due to confusion in failing to calendar the deadline for responses and
objections. 
 
            Accordingly, the Court finds
Plaintiff’s motions to be moot. Moreover, the Court does not find sanctions to
be warranted. This is because Plaintiff failed to meet and confer with
Defendant in good faith to resolve this dispute.  Plaintiff did not at any time send a letter
or a reasonable email to inquire about Defendant’s responses, nor did Plaintiff
attempt to call Defendant’s counsel to discuss the matter. (Brar Decl. ¿ 4.) Rather, Plaintiff simply filed this motion after not receiving
responses. The Discovery Act demands more by way of meet and confer. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff motions to compel is moot.
The Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated:  October    , 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
  
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org. 
If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case
number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion
submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,
please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 