  Case Number:  20STCV49421    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



NALLELI COBO-URIARTE 
                           
        
  vs.
 
ALLENCO ENERGY INC., et al.  


 Case
  No.: 20STCV49421    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 24, 2023



 
 
Defendant- Archdiocese of Los Angeles’ motion
for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
 
On 12/28/2020, Plaintiff Nalleli Cobo-Uriarte (Plaintiff)
initiated this action. On 9/3/2021, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint
(FAC) against Allenco Energy, Inc., Timothy James Parker, Clifford E. Peter
Allen, St. James Oil Corporation, and the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, alleging:
(1) negligence; and (2) strict liability for ultrahazardous activity. 
 
            Now, Defendant Archdiocese of Los Angeles (Defendant) moves for
summary judgment of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion

 
            Defendant argues that summary
judgment is appropriate here because Plaintiff cannot show that it owes a duty
to protect Plaintiff from allegedly unsafe conditions of a facility that it
does not own or control, or from the operations of oil companies that it does
not own or control.
 
            In support, Defendant submitted a
copy of a 6/20/1964 Drill Site Agreement (Agreement) between Defendant and Standard
Oil which provided Standard Oil of California and its successors the sole and
exclusive right to use the Land for drilling on and into the Land, and to
locate oil and gas wells on the surface of the Land, and to repair, redrill,
abandon, maintain and operate any of the wells for the production of oil and
gas. The Agreement’s term runs until, for a period of one year, the lessee has
no property on the Land and does not make any use of the Land for which the
lessee is authorized. Defendants St. James Oil Company and Allenco Energy were
both successor lessees to the Agreement, and the Agreement was and is binding
upon St. James Oil Company, Allenco Energy and RCALA, among others. (UMF 5-8.)
            
The Agreement provides:
 
Lessee shall have the sole and exclusive right
to use said land for the purpose of drilling on, into, under,
through and across said land, together with the right to locate a well or wells
on the surface of said land and to repair, redrill, deepen, abandon,
maintain and operate any of such wells for the production of oil, gas,
asphaltum and other hydrocarbons from said land or other lands. Lessee shall
have the further sole and exclusive right to use said land for any
purpose connected in any way with the exploration, drilling for and
production of oil, gas, asphaltum and other hydrocarbons from said land or from
other lands, including without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
right to construct, erect, maintain, use, operate and remove all
pipe lines, power lines, telephone lines, machinery and other facilities which
Lessee may desire in connection with such operations . . . .  
 
            (UMF 5, emphasis added.) 
 
            Thus, since the execution of the
Agreement, and continuing through into the relevant period, Defendant did not own
the Facility, the wells and any other fixtures and equipment related to the
Facility’s operation. Defendant also did not operate the Facility or any
component of oil and gas production there. The exclusive rights to operate the
Facility and associated wells belonged, and belong, to St. James Oil Company
and Allenco. 
 
            Plaintiff and her mother, Monic
Uriarte, admitted that they have no information or knowledge that Defendant had
any involvement in the operation of the Facility. (UMF 12, 13.)
 
            Taken together, Defendant’s evidence
supports a reasonable inference that Defendant owned land, but not the
Facility, or the wells or any of the fixtures and equipment associated with the
production of oil and gas. Defendant had no control over the oil companies’
operations. It also supports a reasonable inference that Defendant had no
actual knowledge of unsafe conditions causing any injuries like those alleged
by Plaintiff in this case.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff does not
submit evidence to dispute that Defendant did not owned the facility or any of
the fixtures and equipment associated with the production of oil and gas.
Rather, Plaintiff argues that Defendant owns the land and mineral rights for
the Site, and thus owes Plaintiff a duty of care by virtue of its land
ownership. 
 
            As such, this motion turns on the
question of whether or not a landowner who does not own or control the facility
operating on that land owes a duty of care, and if it does, what is the scope
of that duty of care.   
 
            Premises liability is a form of
negligence based on the ownership, possession, or control of allegedly unsafe
property. (Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 118-19.) A
property owner or possessor is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the
management of such premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an
unreasonable risk of harm. A failure to fulfill this duty is negligence. (Brooks
v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619.) In
examining whether a duty even exists, the Supreme Court has emphasized that
“possession” and “control” of
the property are the critical part of the inquiry. (See Laico v. Chevron
U.S.A., Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 649, 661 (citing Leakes v.
Shamoun (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 772, 776, quoting Preston v. Goldman
(1986) 42 Cal.3d 108,119.).)
 
            In
support of its contention that it does not owe a duty of care, Defendant relies
heavily on Laico v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 649. In Laico,
the plaintiff allegedly suffered injuries as a result of his exposure to
benzene while working at his employer’s petrochemical business. (Id. at
p. 655.) His employer operated an engine laboratory facility on property owned
by the appellant. (Id. at p. 654.) Like the plaintiff in this case, Laico
alleged that the appellant was negligent with respect to the management of the
land upon which plaintiff’s employer operated the facility. (Id. at
p.656.) Applying the factors outlined in Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69
Cal.2d 108, the appellate court found that there was no dangerous condition on
the land of the appellant; rather, the danger consisted of hazardous conduct of
the occupant of that land:
 
The central question
presented in this appeal is whether [defendant] can be held liable for
negligent management of the premises on which [plaintiff] suffered injury . . .
[T]he primary question is whether [defendant] owed a duty of care to protect
[another entity’s] employees from exposure to benzene . . . Even assuming that
illness from benzene exposure was a foreseeable injury, we can find no close
connection between that harm and [defendant’s] conduct . . . Plaintiffs have
not shown that a dangerous condition of the property (as opposed to the
business operations of the occupant) existed . . . In summary, we cannot
find a basis for finding premises liability on the facts of this case.
Plaintiffs have not shown the existence of a dangerous condition of land owned
by [defendant] or under its control; instead, the danger consisted of hazardous
conduct by the occupant of that land through its employees. 
 
            (Id. at
pp. 659, 665, 669, emphasis added.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s reliance on Laico is misplaced because there the
injury was to an employee of the premise’s operator, rather than a third party,
and because Defendant here knew of the dangerous conditions posed by the
property. 
 
Indeed, in Laico,
the injury was to an employee of the operator of the premises who had been
handling gasoline without taking protective measures against benzene exposure.
The Court found that there was no reasonable way to conclude that appellant had
actual knowledge of this dangerous condition because:
 
… plaintiffs point to nothing in the record from which to infer that
CUSA knew that CRTC employees were handling gasoline without taking protective
measures against benzene exposure. Were we to hold CUSA responsible for all the
risks of CRTC's testing, we would in effect be assigning strict liability to
CUSA based solely on its status as the premises owner and its knowledge that
the business activity conducted there posed special risks to the business's
employees. Plaintiffs did not plead such a theory, much less cite factual and
legal support for it.
 
Similarly, the Court found
that there was no reasonable basis to conclude appellant had constructive
knowledge of the dangerous condition because, “there
[was] no evidence that CUSA had a right or opportunity to inspect CRTC's
facilities during operating hours, or that such an inspection would have
revealed unsafe working conditions at CRTC.” (Laico, supra, 123
Cal.App.4th at p. 662.) 
 
Here, by contrast, Plaintiff
submitted evidence that Defendant had the right to enter and inspect the
property. Moreover, Plaintiff submitted evidence that supports a reasonable
inference that Defendant knew of the dangers being created by the Facility and
did not to take steps to address it. In particular, Plaintiff submitted
evidence that Allenco received hundreds of citations for creating a nuisance to
the surrounding community by discharging contaminants into the air. (RSS
22-26.) Defendant’s PMK testified that when he received any sort of violation
notice from any regulatory agency, he would simply forward it to the operator.
Moreover, knowledge of this contamination was so widespread that it drew the
attention of United States Senator Barbara Boxer, who visited the neighborhood
surrounding Allenco and spoke to local residents. (SS 28.) Defendant’s PMK
testified that the Archdiocese was aware that Senator Boxer came to the
Facility to speak about concerns that the local residents and workers had about
the Facility, and to call for the facility to shut-down. 
 
However, what is fatal to
Plaintiff’s argument is that Plaintiff has not shown any grounds by which
Defendant could have actually remedied the dangerous condition, given that it
did not own, or exert any control over, any of the property being used to create
the dangerous condition. 
 
            A review
of the caselaw, including that cited by Plaintiff, suggests that knowledge
alone, without the ability to obviate the condition, is not enough.
 
            For
example, plaintiff cites Resolution
Trust Corp. v. Rossmoor Corp. (1995)
34 Cal.App.4th 93, 101. There, the Court wrote ““If a landlord has such a
degree of control over the premises that it may fairly be concluded that he
[or she] can obviate the presence of the dangerous condition and he or she
has knowledge thereof, an enlightened public policy requires the
imposition of a duty of ordinary care.’ [] ‘To permit a landlord in such a
situation to sit idly by in the face of a known danger to others must be deemed
to be socially and legally unacceptable.’” (emphasis added.) While Plaintiff
has offered evidence to show that Defendant knew of the danger, and had the
right to inspect the premises, Plaintiff does not offer any argument or
evidence as to how Defendant could have obviated the dangerous condition. While
Plaintiff argues that “the Archdiocese did nothing to inspect the Facility and
determine if the pollution was minimized and whether damage to third parties
was imminent and preventable,’” Plaintiff does not present any grounds by which
Defendant could have required Allenco to minimize pollution or take steps to
mitigate the impact on the community. While the Court agrees that it is
reprehensible to sit idly by and collect royalties from a site that is
destroying the surrounding community, the law does not create a duty of care
where the dangerous condition cannot reasonably be obviated by the landowner. 
 
            For the same reason, Barnes v. Black (1999) 71
Cal.App.4th 1473, another case which Plaintiff relies upon, is distinguishable.
There, a small child was playing on private sidewalk in front of an apartment
building that led to a small children’s play area. The minor plaintiff was
injured when he lost control of the big wheel tricycle that he was riding when
the big wheel “suddenly veered off the sidewalk, down the slope of the
driveway…where he was struck by an automobile.” (Id. at p. 1476.) The
landowner argued that he didn’t owe the landowner a duty of care because the
injury occurred in the publics street and not on the premises owned or
controlled by Black. (Id. at p. 1476-1477.) The Court of Appeal
reversed, holding that a “landowner owes a duty to exercise reasonable care to
maintain his or her property in such a manner as to avoid exposing others to an
unreasonable risk of injury.” (Id. at p.1478.) This duty “is not limited
to injuries that occur on premises owned or controlled by the landowner.” (Ibid.)
“Rather the duty of care encompasses a duty to avoid exposing persons to risks
of injury that occur off site if the landowner’s property is maintained in such
a manner as to expose persons to an unreasonable risk of injury.” (Ibid.)
Thus, in Black, there was a question as to whether the landowner should
have foreseen harm given the steep driveway next to a busy four-land public
street, and whether or not the landowner owed a duty to construct a fence or
some other structure which could have obviated this dangerous condition. As
such, in Black, the dangerous condition was something that could
remedied through actions within the landowners control. 
 
Finally,
there is language in the Laico opinion to suggest that knowledge alone
is insufficient to create a duty of care. For example,
the Court wrote: “Absent evidence of a danger
present at the site when CRTC took possession, and absent evidence of
CUSA's knowledge of and ability to control hazardous practices by CRTC
employees, we can find no basis for imposing on CUSA a duty to avert
the harm suffered by Laico in the course of his employment at CRTC.” (Laico,
supra, 123 Cal.App.4th 665, emphasis addded.) 
 
In sum,
the Court finds that Plaintiff’s evidence supports a reasonable inference that
Defendant may have known of the dangerous condition and did not act on this
knowledge. However, the Court finds no evidence which supports a reasonable
inference that Defendant had the ability to control hazardous practices by
Allenco. The caselaw makes clear that in order for a duty of care to exist, the
landowner must have enough control over the premises that he both has knowledge
of the dangerous condition and can obviate that condition. Given the
lack of evidence that Defendant possessed any ability to direct or control
Allenco’s activities to obviate the harm to the community, the Court cannot
conclude Defendant owed a duty of care. In reaching this conclusion, the Court
notes that such a conclusion disturbs notions of justice and public policy.
Defendant not only leased the land to Defendant, but also received royalties
from the very production that was destroying the surrounding community. 
 
Based on the forgoing,
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted. 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated:  October    , 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
  
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits on the
tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the
party submitting on the tentative.  If all
parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final
order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,
please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 