  Case Number:  21STCV02647    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Sanchez, v. Mizban,
et al.
CASE NO.:                21STCV02647
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses 
HEARING DATE:   3/29/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
            In
the absence of contrary court order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is
broad. “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action . . . if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010;
see Davies v. Superior Court
(1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if
it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for
trial, or facilitating settlement.’ [Citation] Admissibility is not the test
and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead
to admissible evidence. [Citation] These rules are applied liberally in favor
of discovery.” (Gonzales v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539,
1546.) 
 
            A motion to compel further responses
to a demand for inspection or production of documents may be brought based on:
(1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete
claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections. (CCP§ 2031.310(c).)  A party must make a
good faith effort in obtaining documents responsive to the request. (Regency
Health Services, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1496.) “A
party cannot plead ignorance to information which can be obtained from sources
under his control.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1968) 84 Cal.App.3d 771.)
 
            A
motion to compel further responses to requests for production “shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand.” (CCP. § 2031.310(b)(1).) “To establish ‘good cause,’ the
burden is on the moving party to show both: [¶] Relevance to the subject matter
(e.g., how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove
some issue in the case); and [¶] Specific facts justifying discovery (e.g., why
such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at
trial.) [Citations.] [¶] The fact that there is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection. But it is not essential in every case.” (Edmon & Karnow,
California Practice Guide: Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2017) ¶
8:1495.6.)
 
            A motion to compel further must be
noticed within 45 days of the
service of a response, or any supplemental response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party
have agreed in writing. Otherwise, the propounding party waives any right
to compel further response to the inspection demand. (See, e.g., CCP §
2031.310(c).)
 
            Motions to compel further responses
must always be accompanied by a meet-and confer-declaration (per CCP §
2016.040) demonstrating a “reasonable and good faith attempt an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (CCP §§ 2030.300(b),
2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).) They must also be accompanied by a separate
statement containing the requests and the responses, verbatim, as well as
reasons why a further response is warranted. (CRC, rule 3.1345(a).) The
separate statement must also be complete in itself; no extrinsic materials may
be incorporated by reference. (CRC rule 3.1345(c).)
 
            If a timely motion to compel has
been filed, the¿burden is on the responding party¿to justify any objection or
failure fully to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories];
see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.) 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Nasser Mizban moves to
compel Plaintiff Gabriel Sanchez to provide full and complete verified
responses to Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, within
ten days. Defendant also requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,210.00
against Plaintiff and his counsel of record Peter Hakim and/or Downtown LA Law
Group. Defendant requests additional monetary sanctions under Code of Civil
Procedure § 2023.050, as well as issue, evidentiary, terminating and/or
contempt sanctions for failure execute certain authorization/waiver forms,
failure to provide full and complete production, and violating prior court
orders with regards to these requests. 
 
Procedural History
 
On October 12, 2022, Defendant
served Plaintiff with Request for Production of Documents, Set One (“RPD”). (Kang
Decl., Ex. A.) On November 14, 2022, Plaintiff responded with unverified boilerplate
responses.  The responses asserted the
same objection to every request and did not agree to produce a single
responsive document. (Id., Ex. B.) Defendant sent a meet and confer letter on
December 1, 2022, requesting full and complete responses. (Id., Ex. C.) On December
13, 2022, Plaintiff served unverified “supplemental” responses, which again
asserted objections. (Id., Ex. D.) On December 19, 2022, Defendant sent another
meet and confer letter to Plaintiff addressing Plaintiff’s unverified discovery
responses and addressing various other deficiencies. (Id., Ex. E.) On January
25, 2023, after Defendant filed a motion to compel, Plaintiff served verified
responses to the RPDs. (Id., Ex. F.) Defendant sent another meet and confer
letter on February 9, 2023. (Id., Ex. G.) Plaintiff failed to provide further
supplemental responses. On April 6, 2023, the Parties attended an Informal
Discovery Conference (IDC) to discuss Plaintiff’s deficient discovery responses.

 
On May 8, 2023, Plaintiff served
further supplemental responses. On May 26, 2023, Defendant moved to compel further
responses. On October 20, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion finding
that Plaintiff’s responses were insufficient and/or evasive and sanctioned
Plaintiff and his counsel of record $1,500.00. 
On November 27, 2023, and December 29, 2023, Plaintiff served further
supplemental responses to the RPDs. 
 
Authorizations
 
Through this motion, Defendant
principally seeks to compel Plaintiff to sign certain authorizations to verify
Plaintiff’s statements regarding his cellphone records, DMV records, and
passport.  The Discovery Act does not provide express
authority to compel a plaintiff to sign an authorization for the release of
records. (See CCP §§ 1987, et seq, 2019.010; see also Holm v. Superior Court
(1986) 187 Cal. App. 3d 1241, 1247 [trial courts lack inherent authority to
develop new means of discovery].)  In Miranda
v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 913, the court upheld the
dismissal of an action where the plaintiff failed to comply with the court’s
order to sign an authorization for release of records. (Id. at
918-919, 929.) However, the court questioned why the defendant moved to compel
an authorization, rather than compel compliance with a subpoena. (Id.
at 918, fn. 2.) The court noted that “[t]he record does not reflect the reason
the medical facilities requested plaintiff’s authorization. Perhaps
defendant did not comply with the procedures to obtain ‘personal records’ of a
‘consumer’ as required by section 1985.3 of the Code of Civil Procedure, in
which case the medical facilities had a sufficient basis to refuse
compliance. If section 1985.3 had been complied with, the record does not
indicate why defendant did not simply move to compel compliance with the
subpoena pursuant to section 1987.1., instead of pursuing an unwilling
plaintiff for a signed authorization. . ..” (Id.) In Miranda, the
court accepted the underlying order for plaintiff’s authorization as valid
because it was not appealed or otherwise in dispute. (Id., at 929.) Since
the order was valid, dismissal of plaintiff’s action was proper in the face of
plaintiff’s express refusal to comply. (Id.) 
 
Here, there is currently no prior order
for authorization, and Defendant does not demonstrate that there is a basis for
such an order in this procedural context. Accordingly, the Court will not order
Plaintiff sign any authorizations. At this juncture, Defendant’s
recourse would be to pursue other methods of discovery, such as third-party
subpoenas, to procure such records without plaintiff’s voluntary authorization
or waiver.  Of note, the Court recently
ordered the DMV to produce certain records, so the motion is moot as to the
DMV.
 
Supplemental Responses
 
Defendant claims Plaintiff’s
statements of compliance that “all responsive documents” are being produced are
evasive because Plaintiff did not fully produce all responsive documents in Plaintiff’s
possession, custody or control. The Court will address each RPD in turn.
 
RPD NO. 1: Any and all text
messages that YOU sent and/or received from 9:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. on the
night of the INCIDENT.
 
OPERATIVE SUPP. RESPONSE: Following
a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, all documents in Responding Party’s
possession, custody, and/or control that are responsive to this request are
attached hereto as Exhibit “A,” Responding Party’s text messages sent and
received from 9:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. on the night of the INCIDENT. Responding
Party further affirms that the over four years of age text no longer exist on
his cell phone. In an effort to further copy with this request, Responding
Party was advised by T Mobile Customer Relations, P.O. Box 37380, Albuquerque,
NM 87176-7380, (877) 296-1018, that the copies of actual text messages sent and
received from 2019 are no longer available. Discovery is continuing and ongoing
and Responding Party reserves the right to amend and/or supplement this
response based upon subsequently learned fact and/or expert opinions.
 
Facially, the response is code
compliant. Plaintiff affirms that they made a diligent and reasonable inquiry,
which included contacting T Mobile Customer Relations. Plaintiff identifies
T-Mobile as a party which may have further information, but relays that “copies
of actual text messages sent and received from 2019 are no longer available.” That
said, Plaintiff’s statement of compliance that he was producing all responsive
documents is contradicted by the production. Plaintiff did not provide any copies
of text messages in production. Instead, Plaintiff only attached previously produced
cell phone records. Technically, the cell phone records are not responsive to
the request because such records only document meta data of text messages and not
the content of the text messages. RPD no. 1 requested the messages, not any metadata
about the text messages. To this extent, Plaintiff should have only stated an inability
to comply. Despite not stating that he was unable to comply, Plaintiff does
state the grounds for his inability to comply. As noted, Plaintiff affirms that
the texts “no longer exist on his cell phone” and that after contacting his
cellphone network provider, that the copies of the actual text message “are no
longer available”. 
 
The Court will not require a further
response to this RPD. On a practical level, ordering a further response would
not do anything for the reasons set forth above.  Despite the inconsistencies on the record,
Plaintiff continued to claim that he no longer has access to any text messages.
Defendant does not provide sufficient proof demonstrating that Plaintiff still
has access to the text messages. Without such a showing, the Court is not
inclined to grant more severe, non-monetary sanctions in an effort to have
Plaintiff produce something he claims he cannot produce. Defendant must simply
explore other avenues of discovery. This reasoning would generally apply to the
other RPDs as well. Accordingly, the motion is DENIED as to RPD no. 1.
 
RPD NO. 3: Any and all
DOCUMENTS that can establish that YOU travelled outside the United States in
the five (5) years prior to the INCIDENT.
 
OPERATIVE SUPP. RESPONSE: Following
a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, all documents in Responding Party’s
possession, custody, and/or control that are responsive to this request are
attached hereto as Exhibit “B.” Discovery is continuing and ongoing and
Responding Party reserves the right to amend and/or supplement this response
based upon subsequently learned fact and/or expert opinions.
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
production is incomplete. Defendant explains that the only documents that
Plaintiff produced were four photographs of Plaintiff in Europe dated from May
2018 to July 2018, but that recent discovery responses indicated that Plaintiff
has access to his passport, set to expire in June 2024. (Ex. B [SI no. 80].)
Additionally, a status report submitted to the court on January 22, 2024, included
unverified exhibits, including a photograph of Plaintiff’s passport with an
expiration date of April 29, 2025. 
 
The cited responses only show that
Plaintiff has one cropped photo of the passport showing his
identification. This cropped photo would not necessarily establish Plaintiff
travelled outside the United States within 5 years prior to the incident, and
therefore did not have to be produced pursuant to RPD no. 3. Only photos of the
other pages of the passport pertaining to the places Plaintiff traveled,
or the entire passport itself, would establish he travelled outside of the US. Of
course, the Court recognizes that it is very convenient for Plaintiff to have recently
discovered an edited photo of his passport, which does not have the information
requested by RPD no. 3. In opposition and at prior hearings, Plaintiff has not
explained how he recovered this cropped photograph, or when it was cropped. It
is troubling that he would only come to find an edited photograph now, after “diligently”
searching for evidence of his passport pursuant to other discovery requests. Still,
this photo would not be responsive to this RPD. Therefore, it is not certain that
there are any outstanding, responsive documents in plaintiff’s possession and
control.  
 
Otherwise, Defendant only argues
that Plaintiff must sign a copy of the authorization forms for Defendant to
obtain additional information on his passport. As discussed above, the Court does
not have authority to make such an order. Again, Defendant’s recourse would be
to pursue other methods of discovery. Accordingly, the motion to compel further
responses is DENIED as to RPD no. 3.
 
RPD NO. 7: Any and all
DOCUMENTS related to any suspensions of YOUR driver’s license from January 1,
2009, to the date of the INCIDENT.
 
OPERATIVE SUPP. RESPONSE:
Following a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, all documents in Responding
Party’s possession, custody, and/or control that are responsive to this request
are attached hereto as Exhibit “D,” which are equally available to this
Propounding Party. A diligent search and reasonable inquiry have been made in
an effort to comply with this request, and this Responding Party is unable to
comply because any documents related to Responding Party’s driver’s license
suspension from January 1, 2009 to October 6, 2019 are no longer in the
possession, custody, or control of this Responding Party because said documents
are fifteen years of age and no longer appear on Responding Party’s driving
record. Furthermore, any records of this suspension were hard copy only and
were lost by Responding Party when he moved residences. If said documents still
exist, they would be in the exclusive possession of the California DMV
Information Release Unit MS G199, P.O. Box 944247 Sacramento, CA 94244-2470, (916)
657-8098; DMV Driver’s Safety Branch, 1845 Business Center Drive, Ste 212 San
Bernardino, CA 92408, (909) 383-7413; or with Clifford Wang. M.D. (310)
825-2112, the physician referenced in the DMV suspension. Discovery is
continuing and ongoing and Responding Party reserves the right to amend and/or
supplement this response based upon subsequently learned fact and/or expert
opinions.
 
Plaintiff’s response is code
compliant, as plaintiff verifies that he produced all documents in his
possession, custody, and/or control, and that if other documents still exist,
they would be in the exclusive possession of the DMV and/or physicians.
Plaintiff provides the contact information of those persons. Defendant contends
Plaintiff has not made any diligent search and reasonable inquiry to obtain the
requested documents, and that such documents are under his control, because
Plaintiff can easily obtain unredacted documents from the DMV by signing a
waiver. As discussed, the Court cannot directly order that Plaintiff sign a
waiver for the release of records. Unlike the previous response discussed in
the prior compel further motion as to RPD no. 7, the new supplemental response
and production does not contradict other discovery responses, does not
apparently omit responsive documents in Plaintiff’s possession, provides the
required contact information, and directly states that Plaintiff no longer
possesses other responsive documents related to driver’s license suspension
from Jan. 1, 2009, to October 6, 2019, because the only hard copies were lost
when he moved residences. Thus, no further response is necessary as to this
RPD. Accordingly, the motion to compel further is DENIED as to RPD no. 7.
 
RPD NO. 8: Any and all
DOCUMENTS related to any medical conditions that affected YOUR ability to
operate a motor vehicle prior to the INCIDENT.
 
OPERATIVE RESPONSE: Following
a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, all documents in Responding Party’s
possession, custody, and/or control that are responsive to this request are
attached hereto as Exhibit “D,” which are equally available to this Propounding
Party. Although the medical condition referenced in Exhibit D is redacted,
Responding Party represents that delirium tremens was the medical condition
redacted from Exhibit D. A diligent search and a reasonable inquiry have been
made in an effort to further comply with this request, and this Responding
Party is unable to comply because any documents related to delirium tremens are
over fifteen years of age, the documents existed only in hard copy format, and
the documents were lost when Responding Party moved residences. If any
documents still exist they would be in the possession of John F. Kennedy
Memorial Hospital, 47111 Monroe St, Indio, CA 92201, (760) 347-6191, or with
the physician referenced in the DMV suspension, Clifford Wang, M.D., facility
address from 2009 unknown, (310) 825-2112. Discovery is continuing and ongoing
and Responding Party reserves the right to amend and/or supplement this
response based upon subsequently learned fact and/or expert opinions.
 
Defendant asserts that his response
is insufficient because Plaintiff only produced documents provided by Defendant
during meet and confer efforts. However, Defendant does not show that Plaintiff
is in possession or control of any further documents which would relate to
Plaintiff’s medical conditions that affected his ability to operate a motor
vehicle prior to the incident. In the new response, Plaintiff now states the
contact information of the doctors that would have documents responsive to this
request. Furthermore, there is no obligation for Plaintiff to sign
authorizations for Defendant’s requests. Thus, no further response is required.
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED as to RPD no. 8.      
 
RPD NO. 9: Any and all
DOCUMENTS related to any efforts by YOU to reinstate YOUR driver’s license from
five years prior to the INCIDENT to present.
 
OPERATIVE RESPONSE: Following
a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, all documents in Responding Party’s
possession, custody, and/or control that are responsive to this request are
attached hereto as Exhibit “D,” which are equally available to this Propounding
Party. Discovery is continuing and ongoing and Responding Party reserves the
right to amend and/or supplement this response based upon subsequently learned
fact and/or expert opinions.
 
Similarly, Plaintiff now provides a
code-compliant response to RPD no. 9 stating that after a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry, Plaintiff would produce all documents in possession,
custody, and/or control. Defendant claims that further unredacted
documents exist at the California DMV, and that Plaintiff must therefore
produce such documents. However, as discussed, the Court cannot order Plaintiff
sign the requested authorization for the unredacted documents.  Defendant does not otherwise show that
Plaintiff is in possession or control of any further documents which would
relate Plaintiff’s efforts to reinstate his drivers’ license. At best,
Defendant cites testimony of Plaintiff’s efforts to reinstate his drivers’
license. (See Reply, Ex. B [Diaz Depo. at 21.) But this testimony does not show
that Plaintiff would have further responsive documents. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel
further responses is DENIED. 
 
SANCTIONS
 
Sanctions are generally mandatory. The
Court must sanction any party that unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a further response, “unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (See, e.g., CCP, § 2030.300(d).) Due
to the denial of the motion to compel further responses, sanctions would generally
be imposed against Defendant in favor of Plaintiff. However, the Court would
find it unjust to provide monetary sanctions against Defendant and in favor of
Plaintiff in this instance, because the record shows Plaintiff’s persistent
discovery abuse regarding these RPDs and other discovery devices. 
 
Plaintiff provided a series of series
of incomplete, inconsistent and demonstrably false discovery responses to the
above RPDs, such as RPD no. 1. Notably, there are inconsistencies between
Plaintiff’s current response to RPD no. 1, and Plaintiff’s other responses in
discovery. Plaintiff previously claimed to not have had his cellphone because
he traded in his mobile phone “at least three times” since the subject
incident. Plaintiff confirmed on his May 23, 2022, deposition that he had the
same cellphone that he was using on the night of the incident. (See Plaintiff’s
Depo. at 115:5-14.) The Court is skeptical that Plaintiff truly traded in his
cell phone on “at least three” occasions between May 23, 2022, and May 8, 2023.
The operative response now omits these facts about cellphone replacement.
Plaintiff now claims that because of the age of the texts, the texts “no
longer exist on his cell phone.” This statement implies that Plaintiff does have
his cellphone and that the texts are simply no longer on his cellphone.
Plaintiff did not initially provide corroboration for his alleged trade ins, such
as receipts for the new cell phones, who he traded in his cellphone with, or
why he was able to produce other photographs from his cell phone from May through
July 2018. The only corroborating, but unverified, document proffered shows
that Plaintiff traded in his cellphone once, a week after the deposition where
he admitted to having his cell phone. (See 1/22/24 Status Report, Ex. A; see
also Plaintiff’s response to SI no. 84.) The timing of this trade in so soon
after this testimony only raises further questions as to Plaintiff’s
truthfulness. 
 
The Court also finds it extremely
suspicious that Plaintiff recently discovered a single cropped photo of his
passport only showing his identification. Again, despite proffering this
evidence, Plaintiff has not explained how he recovered this photograph, when
the photograph was taken, or why this photo was not found earlier during other “diligent”
searching for evidence.
 
Simply put, Plaintiff did not
provide straightforward responses to the requests until pressed. Even then,
Plaintiff still provided contradictory discovery responses. Plaintiff has
displayed a pattern and practice failing to respond to RPDs in good faith, or
meet and confer in good faith. While the Court has sanctioned Plaintiff in part
for such abuse, the new facts shown on this motion would justify monetary
sanctions for discovery abuse. Given this fact, the Court will exercise its
discretion to decline to issue monetary sanctions in favor of Plaintiff. 