 Case Number:  23STCV24878    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



PROJECT
  7 SECURITY GROUP, et al. 
                           
         vs.
 
MICHAEL
  JOHNSON 
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV24878  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  July 15, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion to dismiss is CONTINUED to August 1, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
 
On 10/9/2023,
Plaintiffs Project 7 Security Group and Brandon Gatewood (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against Michael Johnson, alleging: (1) independent
action in equity to vacate judgment for lack of personal jurisdiction; and (2)
independent action in equity to vacate judgment for extrinsic fraud or mistake.
 
Now,
Defendant moves to dismiss this action. 
 
Discussion 
 
            This
case arises out of another case BC717979, in which a default judgment was entered
in Defendant’s favor.   
 
Defendant,
who is representing himself in pro per, argues that this case should be
dismissed because Plaintiff is attempting to improperly re-litigate the
allegation of defective service which was already addressed in BC717979.
 
After review
of Defendant’s motion, the Court likely agrees. However, Defendant’s motion
includes a proof of service which indicates service on Lawrence K. Shelton,
Esq. at Shelton Law, APC which is not involved in this action. Confusingly, in
his notice of non-opposition, Defendant argues that the motion was timely
served on attorneys for Plaintiff at the Fullman Firm P.C., correct counsel for
Plaintiff, but attaches no proof of service to establish this. 
 
On 7/1/2024,
Plaintiff filed a notice of non-receipt. However, Plaintiff did not indicate
how it was made aware of the pending motion, why it did not file an opposition,
or why if did not request a continuance so it could file an opposition.
 
Given the
discrepancy over service, and Plaintiff’s notice of the motion, the Court finds
the appropriate action to be to continue this motion to provide Plaintiff an
opportunity to oppose the motion on the merits. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to dismiss is continued. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 