 Case Number:  24STCV11209    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



CALEX ENGINEERING CO. 
  
        
  vs.
 
WENDELL BENIGA, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV11209
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 15, 2024



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for a preliminary injunction is GRANTED. The Court may set a bond amount
at hearing based on the arguments presented.
 
            On
5/30/2024, Plaintiff Calex Engineering Co. filed suit against Wendell Beniga
and Ironmark Earthworks, Inc. alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary duty;
(3) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (5) inducing breach of
contract; (6) misappropriation of trade secrets; (7) violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200; (8) intentional interference with economic
relations; (9) negligent interference with economic relations; and (10)
violations of Comprehensive Computer Data access and Fraud At. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves for a preliminary injunction. 
 
Factual Background 
 
Plaintiff
Calex Engineering Company is a temporary shoring and earthwork specialty
subcontractor in the Southern California area. (Seitz Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s
client list, as well as its project list, is comprised of premier clients and
projects in Southern California. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
embezzled confidential information and trade secrets— including bidding
information and strategies it has developed and used for various customers and
contractors it associates with—and gave them to one of Plaintiff’s competitors.
 
Discussion  
 
            Plaintiff
argues that he is entitled to a preliminary injunction under the California
Uniform Trade Secrets Act (CUTSA or the Act) and because it can show a
likelihood of prevailing on the merits and will suffer interim harm if an
injunction is not issued. 
 
            Injunctions
are specifically authorized under the CUTSA when there is “actual or threatened
misappropriation” of a trade secret. (Civil Code § 3426.2(a).) Thus, the test
is simple: an injunction is proper when (1) a trade secret (2) is
misappropriated or there is a threat of misappropriation.
 
            The
Act’s definition of a “trade secret” sets forth a two-prong test. The first
prong provides that the trade secret must derive “independent economic value,
actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other
persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use.” (Civil Code
§ 3426.1(d)(1).)
 
            Here,
to show that Plaintiff’s clients and related bidding information are trade
secrets, Plaintiff submitted evidence that the confidential information at
issue here consists of client names, addresses, telephone and fax numbers, key
contacts, and bidding proposals and strategies. Courts have held that such
client information is entitled to trade secret protection. (See Courtesy
Temporary Service, Inc. v. Camacho (1990) 222 Cal. 3d 1278, 1288 [customer
information generally, i.e., billing rates, key contacts, specialized
requirements and mark up rates, satisfied first prong of the definition of
“trade secret” under section 3426.1.].) The need for trade secret protection is
particularly important in this case because the information would allow
Defendants to target Plaintiff’s specific list of clients and customers who
have specific project needs. (See American Credit Indemnity Co. v. Sacks (1989)
213 Cal. App. 3d 622, 630-631 [holding that customer list was a trade secret
because it allowed competitor to target elite group of potential customers].)
 
            Plaintiff
also submitted evidence that it took reasonable efforts to maintain secrecy.
California courts have explained that protection of trade secret information is
reasonably sufficient if the employer (1) has its employees sign
confidentiality agreements, (2) reminds employees of the confidentiality policy
in employee handbooks, and (3) employs passwords to restrict computer access to
the documents. (See Morlife v. Perry (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1514;
American Credit Indemnity Company, supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at p. 622; Mai
Systems Corp. v. Peak Computer (9th Cir. 1993) 991 F.2d 511.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that it takes all of the following security
measures to safeguard its confidential information: (1) confidentiality and
nondisclosure agreements with its employees; (2) employee handbooks that
outline the confidential nature of Plaintiff’s business and customer information
and material; (3) password protection on all computer terminals; (4)
proprietary network software that restricts access to information based on the
position and responsibilities of each employee; (5) user and group-level
security; (6) confidentiality reminders and warnings; (7) password protected
firewalls; and (8) unique administrator accounts with restricted passwords. (See
Seitz Decl. at ¶ 6; Gallegos Decl. at ¶ 3.)
 
            Given
that Plaintiff’s efforts to protect its valuable information exceed the standards
outlined in Morlife, American Credit, and Mai System, the
Court concludes that Plaintiff’s evidence supports a reasonable likelihood that
its clients and related bidding information are protected trade secrets. The
Court is unpersuaded by Defendants’ contention in opposition that Plaintiff has
not identified its trade secrets with reasonable particularity. Plaintiff’s
Complaint makes clear that they are seeking to protect their bidding
strategies, customer lists and related customer information, the key contacts
for each customer, and unique customer preferences. (See Complaint ¶¶ 16, 24,
75; see also, Mot. at 9-11.)
 
            The
Act provides that there is a “misappropriation” when a trade secret is
disclosed or used (1) without express or implied consent and (2) the trade
secret was acquired “under circumstances giving rise to a duty to maintain its
secrecy or limit its use.” (Civil Code § 3426.1(b).)
 
To support
its allegations that Defendant downloaded and copied confidential information,
including trade secrets, take-offs, estimates, proposals and other proprietary
information from Plaintiff and that this conduct constituted misappropriation:
 
-         
After Beniga resigned, Plaintiff
directed Matthew Gallegos, Calex’s IT Admin Manager, to perform a forensic
analysis on Beniga’s computer. The forensic analysis revealed Beniga typically
worked on 8-14 different files during an average day. (Gallegos Decl. ¶ 5, Ex.
A.) On Monday, May 22, 2023, two days before his departure, Beniga worked on
over 35 files for several projects, including the Walnut Park project (Id.
Ex. A. rows 23-26, 30), the Long Beach project (Id. at rows 21, 22), and
various bid proposals (Id. at rows 19, 43). Beniga also connected 2-3
different USB drives (see Gallegos Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. B. rows 24-25, 27) to his
computer in May, which was unusual for him as these devices were not provided
or approved by Plaintiff. (Id.)
 
-         
Calex also engaged MRD Services,
Incorporated (MRD) to conduct a further forensic investigation on Beniga’s
computer. MRD’s forensic analysis revealed that three unauthorized USB drives
were attached to Beniga’s computer at various points in time leading up to the
Defendant’s final day at Calex on May 24, 2023. (Braun Decl. ¶ 16.)
Confidential business-related files were copied to and/or accessed from the USB
devices. Of particular note, on May 18, 2023, less than a week before Beniga’s
departure, two files containing confidential and proprietary information titled
Calex Earthwork Budget Proposal.pdf and invoice_505196.pdf were copied on a USB
drive. (Baun Decl. at ¶ 21.)
 
-         
MRD’s forensic analysis also revealed
Beniga’s access of confidential files through the use of unauthorized
cloud-based hosting services such as Dropbox and Google Drive, including files
related to the Walnut Park project and plans related to the Harvard, Kingsley,
and Fedora projects. (Baun Decl. at ¶¶ 29-31.) Use of these cloud storage
services to host and transfer confidential company documents was not sanctioned
or authorized by Calex. (Gallegos Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
-         
Since leaving Calex and joining
Defendant Ironmark, Defendant Beniga has begun improperly soliciting bids to
Calex customers and clients. At least two customers have informed Calex that
Defendants have attempted to underbid Calex on certain projects. (Seitz Decl. ¶
10.) As just one example, on July 10, 2023, Defendants Beniga and Ironmark
submitted a bid proposal to Walton Construction for the “First Street North”
project in which the substance and format are similar to Calex’s documents.
(Compare Seitz Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. B with Ex. C.) Without exploiting Plaintiff’s
trade secrets, Defendants could not have known of these customers nor their
project specifications/needs.
 
The Court
agrees that Plaintiff’s evidence shows a reasonable likelihood that Defendant misappropriated
Plaintiff’s trade secrets, and that by virtue of Ironmark’s employment of
Beniga and its use of his knowledge of Plaintiff’s proprietary and confidential
information to solicit Plaintiff’s clients, Ironmark has acquired and
misappropriated Plaintiff’s trade secrets. Accordingly, the Court finds a
preliminary injunction under the UTSA to be appropriate.
 
In so
concluding, the Court notes Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff’s remaining
causes of action are preempted by the Uniform Trade Secrets Act (UTSA). The
plain language of CUTSA itself makes it clear that, where customer lists and
other confidential information are protected by contract, breaches of
confidentiality provisions will not be preempted. (Civ. Code § 3426.7, subd.
(b).) Here, Plaintiff’s claims concern: (1) Beniga’s breach of his contractual
and fiduciary duties to Calex; (2) Ironmark’s inducements of Calex’ prior
employee to breach those duties; (3) Defendants’ disruption of Calex’ economic
relationship with its clients; (4) Defendants’ unfair competition and business
practices; and (5) Beniga’s knowledge of Calex’ confidential trade secret
information, and his access, unpermitted use, copying, and deletion of data
from Beniga’s computer system in violation of Penal Code section 502,
subdivision (c). As such, the Court is persuaded that Plaintiff has alleged
multiple independent bases for liability, and these claims do not arise from
the exact same nucleus of facts as the misappropriation of trade secrets
claim.  
 
While the
analysis need not go further, the Court notes that injunctive relief would also
be appropriate through the traditional preliminary injunction analysis as well.

 
To obtain a
preliminary injunction, a moving party must show that it is likely to succeed
on the merits of its claims, that it will suffer irreparable harm if alleged
conduct is not enjoined, and that its entitlement to an injunction outweighs
any harm to the opposing parties. (Cal. Civ. Proc. § 526(a); Shoemaker v.
County of Los Angeles (1995) 37 Cal. App.4th 618, 624; Robbins v.
Superior Court (1985) 38 Cal.3d 199, 206.) 
California courts have recognized that injunctive relief is
extraordinary and should only be granted when the stringent requirements for
such relief are met. “The power to issue preliminary injunctions is an
extraordinary one and should be exercised with great caution and only where it
appears that sufficient cause for hasty action exists.” (West v. Lind
(1960) 186 Cal.App.2d 563, 565.) 
 
To justify
“the exercise of the rather extraordinary power to restrain defendant’s actions
prior to a trial on the merits,” a plaintiff must show a real and imminent
threat of “irreparable injury” if injunctive relief is not granted. (Tahoe
Keys Prop. Owners’ Ass’n v. State Water Res. Control Bd. (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1471.) An irreparable injury is typically “one for which
either (1) its pecuniary value is not susceptible to monetary valuation, or (2)
the item is so unique its loss deprives the possessor of intrinsic values not
replaceable by money or in kind.” (Jessen v. Keystone Sav. & Loan Ass’n
(1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 454, 457.)  “If
monetary damages afford adequate relief and are not extremely difficult to
ascertain, an injunction cannot be granted.” (Thayer Plymouth Center, Inc.
v. Chrysler Motors Corp. (1967) 255 Cal. App. 2d 300, 306; see also
Doyka v. Superior Court (1991) 233 Cal. App. 3d 1134, 1136 (injunction will
not issue where “only money is involved”).
 
Here, as set
forth above, Plaintiff has demonstrated a reasonable likelihood of success on
the merits, and thus has satisfied the first element. 
 
As to the
second element (i.e. irreparable harm), the CUTSA authorizes injunctive relief
to prevent not only actual but also “threatened misappropriation.” (Cal. Civ.
Code § 3426.2; see also Lillge v. Verity, (N.D. Cal. Oct. 1, 2007) No. C
07-2748, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 73543, *20 (“Although it is unclear whether
plaintiff has already lost business as a result of defendants’ alleged
misappropriation, the risk of losing established customers to defendants’ new
business due to defendants’ improper use of plaintiff’s proprietary information
would obviously create lasting, irreparable harm.”) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s evidence supports a reasonable likelihood of irreparable harm given
Plaintiff’s evidence that Defendants have already stolen and used Plaintiff’s
trade secrets in their bid proposal to Walton Construction for the “First
Street North” project in which the substance and format are similar to Calex’
documents. (See Seitz Decl. ¶ 10, Exs. B and C.)  Accordingly, the Court finds an irreparable
harm would result without injunctive relief. 
 
Finally, as
to the third element, the Court finds that a balance of hardship favors
injunctive relief. Granting the injunction will restrain Defendants only from
soliciting a small percentage of the potential customers available to
Defendants, and will only prevent them from not soliciting Plaintiff’s
customers or using Plaintiff’s confidential trade secret business information
to develop their competing business. By contrast, if the requested injunction
is not granted, Plaintiff would be greatly harmed as Plaintiff’s competitive
position will be destroyed, and will face significant irreparable harm on a
number of levels, including public disclosure of confidential trade secret
information, loss of customers and business contacts, and incalculable damages
to Plaintiff’s customer base, goodwill, and reputation.
 
Moreover,
Plaintiff has no adequate legal remedy to be made whole as the independent
economic value of its client profiles is incalculable.
 
In
opposition, Defendants contend that the scope of the proposed order is
impermissibly overbroad. However, Plaintiff’s injunction does not cover
potential customers with whom they had no contact and as to whom they acquired
no information while at Plaintiff. The Court agrees that misappropriation of Plaintiff
trade secrets justifies application of the injunction to any Plaintiff customer
about which Beniga acquired information while he was in Plaintiff’s employment.
 
In
opposition, Defendants also request a “substantial bond” but identify no
specific costs or damages that they would sustain as a result of an injunction.
In reply, Plaintiff cited a case law to show that Courts have dispensed of any
bond requirement under similar circumstances as those presented here. (See
e.g. Extreme Reach, Inc. v. Spotgenie Partners, LLC (C.D. Cal. Nov. 22,
2013, No. CV1307563DMGJCGX, 2013 WL 12081182, at *9 [declining to order a bond
where the “preliminary injunction merely enjoins [defendants] from using
[plaintiff]’s confidential customer list information, which they have no right
to use in any event”].) 
 
While the
Court declines to dispense the bond requirement altogether, the Court has no
basis from either parties’ argument to determine an appropriate bond amount.
The Court may set a bond amount at hearing based on the arguments presented. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction is granted. The
Court may set a bond amount at hearing based on the arguments presented.
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 204
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 