  Case Number:  23STCV09730    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



KYLA
  BURKE 
  
         vs.
 
RWBP
  HIGHLAND, L.P 
  


 Case No.: 
  23STCV09730  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  July 15, 2024




 
Defendants’
motion to consolidate is GRANTED.
 
            On
5/1/2023, Plaintiff Kyla Burke and Prasad Romijn (collectively, Plaintiffs)
filed suit against RWBP Highland L.P. (Defendant), alleging: (1) violations for
Reporting Act; (2) failure to provide receipt for tenant screening; (3)
negligence per se; (4) unfair business practices; (5) unfair business
practices; and (6) negligence. 
 
            On
3/4/2024, Defendant RWBP Highland, L.P. along with related Defendants RWBP
Yucca, L.P., RWBP Hauser, L.P., RWBP Grace, L.P., and RWBP Cloverdale, L.P.
(collectively, Defendants) moved to consolidate the following cases: 
 
-        
Peter Blanchette, Geneva Burkhardt,
Taylor Ferraro, Brennan O’Boyle, Madeline Roche, and Isaac Word v. RWBP
Highland, L.P., Case No. 23STCV18263;
 
-        
Evan Barr v. RWBP Hauser, L.P., Case
No. 23STCV18303;
 
-        
Martin Uecker and William Hooks v. RWBP
Highland, L.P., Case No. 23STCV24159;
 
-        
Josh Hunter v. RWBP Highland, L.P.,
Case No. 23STCV15879;
 
-        
Hector Flores III and Robert Hayman v.
RWBP Grace, L.P., Case No. 23STCV18297;
 
-        
Chloe Marshall and John Arguello v.
RWBP Cloverdale, L.P., Case No. 23STCV24226; and,
 
-        
Christopher Connelly, Noura Chehade,
and Rey Velasquez v. RWBP Highland, L.P. and RWBP Yucca, L.P., et al., Case No.
23STCV30443.
 
Discussion 
 
Defendants
argues that consolidation is appropriate here because all eight related cases
involve identical issues, all Defendants are represented by Nicole Baarts and
Bradley Doucette of Seyfarth Shaw LLP and Plaintiffs in the above matters are
all represented by Michael Shakouri of Meta Law Group, APC.
 
            After
review, the Court agrees.
 
CCP section
1048(a) provides: "When actions involving a common question of law or fact
are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or
all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay."
 
Here, each of
the Actions is brought by named Plaintiffs who are either current or former
tenants of Defendants’ apartment buildings throughout Los Angeles County and
who generally bring claims under the California Investigative Consumer
Reporting Agencies Act (ICRAA) for Defendants’ allegedly obtaining
investigative consumer reports about each of the plaintiffs during the
processing of their rental applications and the alleged failure to comply with
mandatory requirements, disclosures, and authorizations required under ICRAA. (See
Baarts Decl., ¶¶ 2-9.) In each of the Actions, the named plaintiffs assert
the same six causes of action against Defendants. Defendants’ apartment
communities are all overseen by the property management company Redwood Urban
Inc. located in Los Angeles, California. (McCarter Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) These apartment
communities use the same leasing programs, software, and procedures in order to
process the application materials for potential tenants which is at issue in
these matters. (Id.) 
 
As such,
consolidation will also negate the need for the duplicate production of
witnesses and evidence at trial, will obviate the need to serve duplicate sets
of discovery in dual actions, and will avoid inconsistent results including
ultimate findings by the Court, and verdicts.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to consolidate is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 