  Case Number:  23STCV26601    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
BIANCA
  VILLALPANDO, 
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
NATIONSTAR
  MORTGAGE LLC, et al.,
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  23STCV26601
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Complaint
  Filed: 10/31/23
Trial
  Date: N/A
 
 



 
Hearing date:              March 27, 2024 
Moving Party:             Defendant Nationstar Mortgage LLC (“Nationstar”)

Responding Party:
     Plaintiff Bianca Villalpando (“Plaintiff”)

 
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings
Pending Arbitration   
 
The Court has
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. 
The motion is GRANTED.

Background
            This
is an action arising from Plaintiff Bianca Villalpando (“Plaintiff”) being
wrongfully terminated and subject to discriminatory actions during her employment
with Defendant Nationstar Mortgage LLC (“Nationstar”). On October 31, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendants Nationstar, Jennifer Ruiz,
Elizabeth Hall (collectively “Defendants”) and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) sex/gender harassment in violation
of Gov. Code §§ 12940 et seq. (“FEHA”); (2) sex/gender discrimination in
violation of the FEHA; (3) sex/gender retaliation in violation of the FEHA; (4)
race/national origin harassment in violation of the FEHA; (5) race/national
origin discrimination in violation of the FEHA; (6) race/national origin
retaliation in violation of the FEHA; (7) age harassment in violation of the FEHA;
(8) age discrimination in violation of the FEHA; (9) age retaliation in
violation of the FEHA; (10) actual/perceived disability harassment in violation
of the FEHA; (11) actual/perceived disability discrimination in violation of
the FEHA; (12) actual/perceived disability retaliation in violation of the
FEHA; (13) failure to engage in the mandatory good-faith interactive process;
(14) failure to accommodate; (15) failure to prevent and investigate
harassment, discrimination, or retaliation in violation of the FEHA; (16)
violation of the California Family Rights Act (“CFRA”); (17) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (18) whistleblower violations pursuant to
Cal. Lab. Code § 110.2.5; (19) failure to pay wages in violation of Cal. Lab.
Code §§ 201 and 203; and (20) retaliation and wrongful termination in violation
of public policy. 
            On
December 14, 2023, Defendant Nationstar filed and served the instant Motion to
Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings Pending Arbitration. 
            On
March 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served an opposition to the motion, to
which Defendant Nationstar replied on March 20, 2024. 
Legal
Standard
            Parties
may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there
was a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement
covers the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.) California law favors enforcement of valid arbitration
agreements. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 97.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of
establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party
opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)¿ 
            The
FAA applies to any contract evidencing a transaction involving interstate
commerce which contains an arbitration clause. (Wolls v. Superior Court (2005)
127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) Section 2 of the FAA provides that arbitration
provisions shall be enforced, save upon grounds as exist at law or in equity for
the revocation of any contract. (Ibid.) A state court may refuse to
enforce an arbitration clause on the basis of generally applicable contract
defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability. (Ibid.) A state
court, however, may not defeat an arbitration clause by applying state laws
applicable only to arbitration provisions. (Ibid.) 
For the
FAA to apply, a contract must involve interstate commerce. (Ibid.) When
it applies, the FAA preempts any state law rule that stands as an obstacle to
the accomplishment of the FAA’s objectives. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016)
245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.) A party asserting FAA preemption bears the burden to
present evidence establishing a contract with the arbitration provision affects
interstate commerce, and the failure to do so renders the FAA inapplicable. (Ibid.)
Evidence must be presented, in the form of declarations or other evidence, that
establishes that the contract affects interstate commerce.  (Ibid.)
“[S]ince arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also applies if it is so
stated in the agreement.” (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 956, 963.) 
“If a
court of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy
which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of
this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
Evidentiary Objections 
            The Court OVERRULES
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4 to the declaration of
Nichole Moseley in support of the motion. 
            The Court OVERRULES
Defendant Nationstar’s evidentiary objections numbers 1 and 2 to Plaintiff’s
evidence submitted in opposition to the motion. 
            The Court SUSTAINS Defendant
Nationstar’s evidentiary objections numbers 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 to
Plaintiff’s evidence submitted in opposition to the motion pursuant to Evid.
Code §§ 800, 803, and 804.
            Defendant Nationstar’s
evidentiary objections numbers 11 through 96 all concern the declaration of
Plaintiff submitted in opposition to the motion. “[C]ourts do not find
compliance with section 2015.5 to be both substantial and sufficient unless all
statutory conditions appear on the face of the declaration in some form.” (Kulshrestha
v. First Union Commercial Corp. (2004) 33 Cal.4th 601, 613.) A declaration in
opposition to a motion must be “signed under the penalty of perjury under the
laws of the State of California” pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 2015.5. (ViaView,
Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 217.) A declaration that is not
signed under the penalty of perjury has “no evidentiary value.” (Ibid.) 
            Here, the declaration of
Plaintiff in opposition to the motion is not signed under the penalty of perjury
under the laws of the State of California as required by ViaView, Inc. v.
Retzlaff, supra, 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 217. Plaintiff’s declaration states
that she has “taken the time to review this document for errors or omissions
and feel[s] confident in signing [her] declaration under the penalty of
perjury.” (Villalpando Decl., ¶ 24.) Plaintiff’s declaration is therefore not
sufficient as it is not signed under the penalty of perjury under the laws of
the State of California. Plaintiff’s declaration is insufficient on its face
under Kulshrestha, supra, 33 Cal.4th 601, 613. As such, the Court
SUSTAINS Defendant Nationstar’s evidentiary objections numbers 11 through 96.
The Court therefore will not consider the declaration of Plaintiff in
opposition to the motion as it is not compliant with CCP § 2015.5.  
Discussion 
            The Existence of an Agreement to Arbitrate
            Defendant Nationstar contends that the
parties entered into an agreement to arbitrate and that such agreement is valid
and enforceable. Plaintiff asserts that Defendant Nationstar has not met its
burden in establishing a valid written agreement to arbitrate because Defendant
Nationstar never formed a valid arbitration agreement with Plaintiff. Plaintiff
argues that Defendant “ha[s] not and cannot produce an arbitration agreement
that was actually signed, physically or digitally, by Plaintiff.” (Opp’n at p. 4:
16-20.) 
            The right to arbitration depends
upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is simply a suit in equity
seeking performance of that contract. (Engineers & Architects Assn. v.
Community Development Dept. (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 644, 653.) There is no
public policy favoring arbitration of disputes which the parties have not
agreed to arbitrate. (Ibid.) The FAA does not force parties to arbitrate
when they have not agreed to do so. (Cronus Investments, Inc. v. Concierge
Services (2005) 35 Cal.4th 376, 385.) “An electronic record or electronic
signature is attributable to a person if it was an act of the person. The act
of the person may be shown in any manner, including a showing of the efficacy
of any security procedure applied to determine the person to which the
electronic record or electronic signature was attributable.” (Ruiz v. Moss
Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 843.) 
            “A contract may validly include the
provisions of a document not physically part of the basic contract.” (Shaw v. Regents of University of California
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 44,
54.) “[T]he parties may incorporate by reference into their contract the terms
of some other document.” (Ibid., citation omitted.) “But each case must turn on
its facts.” (Ibid., citation omitted.) “For the terms of another
document to be incorporated into the document executed by the parties the reference
must be clear and unequivocal, the reference must be called to the attention of
the other party and he must consent thereto, and the terms of the incorporated document
must be known or easily available to the contracting parties.” (Ibid.) 
            “In California, [g]eneral principles
of contract law determine whether the parties have entered into a binding agreement
to arbitrate.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.) “Generally, an
arbitration agreement must be memorialized in writing.” (Ibid.) “A party’s acceptance of an agreement to
arbitrate may be express, as where a party signs the agreement. A signed agreement
is not necessary, however, and a party’s acceptance may be implied in fact.” (Ibid.) “An arbitration clause within a contract may be
binding on a party even if the party never actually read the clause.” (Ibid.) An employee’s continued employment “constitutes
her acceptance of an agreement proposed by her employer.” (Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 420.) 
a.      Evidence in Support of the Motion
In support of the motion, Defendant Nationstar presents the declaration
of Nichole
Moseley (“Moseley”),
who is the Assistant Vice President of Human Resources Compliance at Defendant
Nationstar. (Mosely Decl., ¶ 1.) Mosely sets forth her familiarity with Defendant
Nationstar’s cloud-based platform, called Workday, which it utilizes to administer
the onboarding process, its policies, its arbitration agreement, and to
maintain electronic personnel files and data. (Id., ¶¶
2-3.) As part of its onboarding process, Defendant Nationstar sends newly hired
employees an e-mail containing a link to Workday along with a username and
temporary password generated by Workday. (Id., ¶ 4.)
When the employee first signs in to Workday using the temporary username and password
received, the employee is then prompted to create a unique password that is
known only to the employee, establish security questions to ensure that the
employee is the person trying to retrieve or reset a password if the employee
has forgotten his or her Workday password, and then complete his or her new-hire
paperwork. (Id.) Defendant Nationstar also distributes important
policy updates including its Arbitration Policy and its Arbitration Agreement,
via Workday where employees can access, review, and acknowledge the documents.
(Id.) After an employee electronically acknowledges a
document, an electronic record is generated showing the date and time the
employee acknowledged the document, and includes, as an attachment, the
document which the employee acknowledged. (Id.) 
            Plaintiff began her employment with Defendant
Nationstar and completed her onboarding paperwork on or about May 5, 2020. (Id., ¶ 5.) At all relevant times since the
implementation of the onboarding process through Workday, and through November
19, 2021 (the effective date of Plaintiff’s resignation), newly hired employees
were asked to review and complete, as necessary, several documents as part of
an “Onboarding task” that is queued in Workday for each such employee. (Id.) The Onboarding task for all newly hired employees
always included, in relevant part, the Arbitration Policy and a separate acknowledgement
thereto. (Id., ¶ 6.) The Arbitration Policy was uploaded to
Workday on or about May 31, 2019 for newly hired employees as a standalone
document and was not part of a larger document. (Id., ¶ 7;
Exh. A.) As with the Arbitration Policy, Defendant Nationstar has at all relevant
times maintained an arbitration agreement (the “Arbitration Agreement”) that is
revised periodically. (Id., ¶ 8; Exh. B.) 
At the time Plaintiff began her employment with Defendant Nationstar,
and at all times since, an employee’s agreement to the Arbitration Agreement
has been a mandatory condition of employment with Defendant Nationstar. (Id., ¶ 8.) The Arbitration Agreement is made
available to all employees in the Company’s Policy SharePoint Site to which
Plaintiff had access upon her hire with Defendant Nationstar. (Id.) Plaintiff successfully completed Defendant
Nationstar’s required HR Policies & Procedures Training which included
showing employees where to find all HR-related policies and procedures,
including but not limited to the Arbitration Policy and the Arbitration
Agreement. (Id., ¶ 8; Exh. C.) Plaintiff electronically acknowledged
the Arbitration Policy. (Id, ¶¶ 9-10; Exh. D.) 
Moseley states that due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the transition of
existing employees and new hires to remote work on a temporary basis, Defendant
Nationstar was not always able to capture an employee’s signature on the Arbitration
Agreement whether by hard copy or through an electronic acknowledgement. (Id., ¶ 11.) Despite a thorough search, Defendant
Nationstar has been unable to locate a physical or electronic record of
Plaintiff’s signature to or acknowledgement of the Arbitration Agreement. (Id.) Defendant Nationstar is headquartered in
Coppell, Texas and provides quality servicing, origination, and
transaction-based services related principally to mortgage loans for
single-family residents throughout the United States. (Id., ¶ 12.) 
b.     Evidence in Opposition to the Motion
Plaintiff’s counsel, Troy Candiotti, Esq. (“Candiotti”), declares that
his office filed a 
charge with the
California Department of Fair Employment and Housing (“DFEH”) on August 29,
2023, and the DFEH complaint and accompanying right to sue letter were attached
to Plaintiff’s civil complaint. (Candiotti Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) 
c.      Analysis
Initially, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s contention that she did not
agree to allow
use of an
electronic signature is inapposite. Plaintiff presents no admissible evidence
to support such a contention. “In law and motion practice, factual evidence is supplied
to the court by way of declarations.” (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.) 
            The Court also finds that although
Defendant Nationstar states that it cannot locate a signed copy of the Arbitration
Agreement, such an agreement was incorporated into the Arbitration Policy. The Arbitration
Agreement is explicitly referenced in the Arbitration Policy. (Moseley Decl., ¶
7; Exh. A.) The reference to the Arbitration Agreement is clearly stated in the
Arbitration Policy and Plaintiff consented to the Arbitration Policy which
states that “[a]greement to the [c]ompany’s Arbitration Policy and Arbitration Agreement
is a condition of employment at the Company.” (Id.)
Moreover, the Arbitration Policy sets forth exactly where the Arbitration Agreement
could be accessed by Plaintiff. (Id.) Defendant Nationstar has also presented sufficient
evidence that the signature on the Arbitration Policy was attributable to
Plaintiff as required under Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.,
supra, 232 Cal.App.4th 836,
843. As such, the Court finds that the Arbitration Agreement was incorporated
by reference and Defendant Nationstar has shown that there is valid, binding
agreement between the parties to arbitrate.
            Additionally, Plaintiff’s continued
employment with Nationstar constitutes a binding agreement to arbitrate between
the parties pursuant to Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc.,
supra, 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 420.
Defendant Nationstar has provided evidence showing that Plaintiff’s acceptance
of the Arbitration Agreement was a mandatory condition of employment. (Moseley
Decl., ¶ 7; Exh. A.) 
            The Court also notes that the Arbitration
Agreement at issue explicitly provides that the FAA shall apply to such agreement.
Thus, under Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC, supra,
84 Cal.App.5th 956, 963, the FAA
applies to the Arbitration Agreement. The Court therefore finds that the FAA governs
the Arbitration Agreement, and that Defendant Nationstar has shown the
existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate.
            Coverage of Claims Alleged
            The Arbitration Agreement specifically
states that it applies to “any and all claims or controversies, past, present
or future, involving legally-protected rights, arising out of, or relating to
employee’s application, selection process, employment, and/or separation of employment
that the Company may have against employee or that employee may have against the
Company and/or its successors and assigns, and their former, current and future
officers, directors and employees.” (Moseley Decl., Exh. B at p. 1.) The Arbitration
Agreement applies to “claims for discrimination or harassment on the bases of race,
sex . . . national origin, age, marital status, disability, [or] medical condition.”
(Id.) 
            Here, the claims alleged in the Complaint
all arise from Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant Nationstar. Thus, the Court
finds that the Arbitration Agreement covers the causes of action alleged in the
Complaint. 
 
            Delegation of Gateway Issues to the Arbitrator  
            Defendant Nationstar contends that
any challenges to the enforceability or validity of the Arbitration Agreement must
be decided by the arbitrator. Plaintiff does not respond to such argument in
the opposition and has therefore conceded to such an argument because “[c]ontentions
are waived when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and
citations to authority.” (Moulton
Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.) 
            “[T]he question of arbitrability . .
. is undeniably an issue for judicial determination.” (AT&T Technologies, Inc. v.
Communication Workers of America (1986) 475 U.S. 643, 649.) “Unless the parties clearly and unmistakably
provide otherwise, the question of whether the parties agreed to arbitrate is
to be decided by the court, not the arbitrator.” (Ibid.) “An agreement to arbitrate a gateway issue is simply an additional,
antecedent agreement the party seeking arbitration asks the . . . court to
enforce, and the FAA operates on this additional arbitration agreement just as
it does on any other.” (Rent-A-Center,
West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 70.) 
            Here, the Arbitration Agreement
provides that “[t]he Arbitrator, and not any federal, state, or local court or
agency, shall have exclusive authority to resolve any dispute relating to the
interpretation, applicability, enforceability or formation of this Agreement
including, but not limited to any claim that all or any part of this Agreement is
void or voidable.” (Mosely Decl., Exh. B at p. 1.) The Court has found, as stated
above, that there is a valid arbitration agreement between the parties and that
the claims alleged are covered by the Arbitration Agreement. However, Plaintiff’s
challenges to enforceability must be decided by the arbitrator. Thus, based on
the language of the Arbitration Agreement, Plaintiff’s argument that the
Arbitration Agreement violates the Ending Forced Arbitration Act of 2022 (“EFASASHA”)
must be decided by the Arbitrator and not this Court. 
            The Court, however, will still address
Plaintiff’s argument that the Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable.
            Unconscionability
             The inquiry into unconscionability consists of
two prongs: A contract will be revoked if it is both procedurally
unconscionable and substantively unconscionable. (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc., supra, 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)
Procedural and substantive unconscionability need not be present to the same
degree, with the test operating on a “sliding scale”: “[T]he more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.” (Ibid.) 
            “‘Procedural unconscionability’
concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated and the circumstances
of the parties at that time.  It focuses on the factors of oppression and
surprise. The oppression component arises from an inequality of bargaining
power of the parties to the contract and an absence of real negotiation or a
meaningful choice on the part of the weaker party. The component of surprise
arises when the challenged terms are ‘hidden in a prolix printed form drafted
by the party seeking to enforce them.’” (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1281.)
            Here, Plaintiff has not presented
any admissible evidence of procedural unconscionability in the Arbitration Agreement.
Because “[b]oth procedural unconscionability and substantive unconscionability
must be shown” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development
(US), LLC, supra,
55 Cal.4th 223, 247),
Plaintiff cannot show that the Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable,
regardless of the issue of substantive unconscionability.
            Accordingly, the motion to compel arbitration
filed by Defendant Nationstar is GRANTED. The Court stays this action pending
the completion of arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)  
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
March 27, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court