  Case Number:  23TRCV01126    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                    Tuesday, February 20, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 6  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Mary
Hisako Morishita v. Gardena Transit, et al.   
23TRCV01126

1.     
City of Gardena’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings    
2.     
City of Gardena’s
Motion to Sever
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

City of Gardena’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
is granted with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
City of Gardena’s Motion to Sever is denied without
prejudice.
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April 11, 2023, and
the First Amended Complaint was filed on May 15, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. On April 14, 2021, Plaintiff tripped and fell trying to board
a Gardena Transit bus. On April 18, 2021, Plaintiff slipped and fell trying to
exit a Gardena Transit bus. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action:
1. Liability Pursuant to Cal. Gov. Code §§ 905 and 945; and Various California
Statutes; 2. Liability Pursuant to Cal. Gov. Code §§ 815.2, 820 and 945.   
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendant filed a meet and confer declaration in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 439. (Decl., Louis R. Dumont, ¶¶ 3-4.)

Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same
function as a general demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has
expired.  Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).  Except as provided by
statute, the rules governing demurrers apply.  Civic Partners Stockton,
LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1005, 1012.  “Judgment on the
pleadings is proper when the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against the defendant.”  Rolfe v. Cal.
Transp. Comm’n (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 239, 242; see also Code Civ. Proc., §
438, subd. (c)(3)(B)(ii).  “Like a demurrer, the grounds for the motion
[for judgment on the pleadings] must appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.”  Civic Partners Stockton, LLC, supra, 218
Cal.App.4th at p. 1013.  In ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon which judicial
notice may be taken are assumed to be true.”  Rippon v. Bowen
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.
 
Defendant moves for judgment on the pleadings as to
the First Amended Complaint and the first and second causes of action. The
motion is made on the grounds that the first and second causes of action are
improperly pled as they involve separate incidents. The motion is also made on
the grounds that Plaintiff failed to state sufficient facts to state a cause of
action. 

First Cause of
Action for Liability Pursuant to Cal. Gov. Code §§ 905 and 945; and Various
California Statutes
Second Cause of
Action for Liability Pursuant to Cal. Gov. Code §§ 815.2, 820 and 945.   
            
Defendant’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings as to the first and second causes of action is
granted with 20 days leave to amend. 
As currently pled, the two
causes of action are duplicative of each other. Leave to amend is provided to
either amend to state one cause of action, or to amend to add an additional
separate non-duplicative basis for liability for each cause of action.  
            “[U]nder
the Tort Claims Act all governmental tort liability is based on statute, the
general rule that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity
is applicable. Thus, to state a cause of action against a public entity, every
fact material to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded with
particularity.” Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40
Cal.3d 780, 795 (internal quotation omitted).
            Plaintiff
has adequately identified Gov. Code § 815.2. Gov. Code § 815.2(a) states: “A
public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of
an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act
or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of
action against that employee or his personal representative.” Therefore, this
Section provides for a basis for vicarious liability as to the public entity
based on the acts of its employees. The statutory basis and adequate facts are
set forth in the first cause of action. In the second cause of action,
Plaintiff incorporates all the allegations and statutes that were already pled
in the first cause of action.
            The
Court notes that Defendant also argues that various other statutes mentioned in
the FAC do not provide a statutory basis for liability. However, first, some of
these arguments rely on facts outside the scope of the pleadings. Second, so
long as any independent basis for liability is stated, a cause of action is
properly alleged.  Challenges to other
specific statutory provisions, and whether each do or do not impose a duty upon
Defendant, does not negate the fact that a cause of action can be properly
alleged on any theory and is not a basis for the granting of a motion for
judgment on the pleadings or the sustaining of a demurrer.
            Finally,
Defendant repeats here many of the arguments made in the Motion to Sever.
Defendant provides no competent authority that the incidents Defendant believes
are appropriate to support a motion to sever is also a proper ground for a
motion for judgment on the pleadings under CCP § 438.
 
            The
grounds for a motion for judgment on the pleadings are specifically set forth
in CCP § 438(c) which states:
            “(1) The
motion provided for in this section may only be made on one of the following
grounds:
(A) If the moving
party is a plaintiff, that the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute
a cause or causes of action against the defendant and the answer does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint.
(B) If the moving
party is a defendant, that either of the following conditions exist:
(i) The court has no
jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint.
(ii) The complaint
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that
defendant.
 
            The
arguments made in support of severing the incidents do not establish that the
Court lacks jurisdiction over the subject matter set forth in the FAC or that
the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
Thus, Defendant’s Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Motion to Sever
 
Code Civ. Proc., §
1048(b) states: “The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., §
598 states:
“The court may, when
the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a
party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close of
pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to be held,
or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that the trial
of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or
any part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be tried
first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5. The court, on its own motion, may
make such an order at any time. Where trial of the issue of liability as to all
causes of action precedes the trial of other issues or parts thereof, and the
decision of the court, or the verdict of the jury upon such issue so tried is
in favor of any party on whom liability is sought to be imposed, judgment in
favor of such party shall thereupon be entered and no trial of other issues in
the action as against such party shall be had unless such judgment shall be
reversed upon appeal or otherwise set aside or vacated.
If the decision of
the court, or the verdict of the jury upon the issue of liability so tried
shall be against any party on whom liability is sought to be imposed, or if the
decision of the court or the verdict of the jury upon any other issue or part
thereof so tried does not result in a judgment being entered pursuant to this
chapter, then the trial of the other issues or parts thereof shall thereafter
be had at such time, and if a jury trial, before the same or another jury, as
ordered by the court either upon its own motion or upon the motion of any
party, and judgment shall be entered in the same manner and with the same
effect as if all the issues in the case had been tried at one time.”
 
The Court notes that
Defendant also cited to the permissive joinder statute which is not actually
directly relevant to a motion to sever. The Court does note, however, one
specific provision in the joinder statute which states: “It is not necessary
that each defendant be interested as to every cause of action or as to all
relief prayed for. Judgment may be given against one or more defendants
according to their respective liabilities.” Code Civ. Proc., § 379(b). Here, as
mentioned below, the same Defendant is involved in each incident. However, even
if there were different Defendants, it may have been permissible to join them.
 
Defendant moves “for
an [o]rder severing the claims asserted by Plaintiff Mary Morishita against
Defendant City of Gardena in connection with the First Bus Incident dated April
14, 2022 from the claims asserted by Plaintiff Morishita against Defendant City
of Gardena in connection with the Second Bus Incident dated April 18, 2022 as
pleaded in the First Amended Complaint (FAC).” (Notice of Motion, page 1, lines
25-29.)
 
The Court declines to
exercise its discretion to sever the two incidents from the FAC. Defendant
fails to establish that severance would further convenience or avoid prejudice
to the Court or the parties. Defendant fails to establish that severance would
significantly increase expedition or economy. 

 
Here, it cannot be
disputed that the Plaintiff and Defendant are the same in both incidents. It is
true that several of Defendant’s employees and potential witnesses may be
different as to both incidents but there does not appear to be a showing of
great prejudice by having these individuals be involved in the same action. It
would also appear that Plaintiff’s injuries and treatment may overlap, and that
the same providers and damages experts may be involved in the two incidents. In
fact, it appears that perhaps the same body parts were injured in the two
incidents. 
 
Therefore,
Defendant’s motion to sever is denied. The Court is willing to deny the motion
without prejudice such that the parties may seek to revisit this request as the
trial date is closer if it appears that the facts and evidence that have been
developed support severance. 
 
Defendant is ordered
to give notice of this ruling.