 Case Number:  21STCV30610    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ORION PRECIOUS METALS, INC. dba ORION METAL EXCHANGE, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
HALT GOLD GROUP, LLC dba PATRIOT GOLD GROUP LLC, 
 
                                  Defendants.
 
 


 Case No:  21STCV30610
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 21, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  3



 
 
 
Plaintiff Orion Precious Metals, Inc. dba Orion
Metal Exchange (“Plaintiff”) filed a motion (the “Motion”) for an order: (1)
compelling Defendant Halt Gold Group, LLC dba Patriot Gold Group (“Defendant”)
to produce documents in accordance with its prior statement of compliance in
response to Plaintiff’s Request for Production, Set One; and (2) that Defendant
pay a monetary sanction to Plaintiff in the sum of $2,100.00 for the reasonable
expense and attorney’s fees incurred with the Motion. 
 
The Court GRANTS the Motion and the Court orders
Defendant to provide further complete, verified, and code-compliant responses,
without objection, to such discovery within 20 days of the date of this
order.  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions and awards Plaintiff reasonable monetary
sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $1,050.00.  Monetary sanctions are to be paid by Defendant
to Plaintiff within 20 days of the date of this order.
 
Background
 
          Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
arising from alleged false misrepresentation and advertising, alleging causes
of action for: (1) false advertising under California Business and
Professions Code, Section 17500; (2) unfair competition pursuant to
California Business and Professions Code, Section 17200; (3) intentional
interference with contractual relations; and (4) intentional interference with
prospective economic relations. 
 
 
          The
Current Motion 
 
          Plaintiff
filed the Motion in order to compel Defendant to produce documents in
accordance with its prior statement of compliance in response to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production, Set One.  In the
Motion, Plaintiff contends that: (1) Defendant should be compelled to produce
all responsive documents; (2) Defendant has not produced all responsive
documents; (3) there is no basis for the extensive redactions; (4) Plaintiff
met and conferred extensively in an effort to obtain the documents; and (5)
Defendant should be sanctioned for its failure to produce the documents. 
 
          The
Motion seeks the following items of documents pursuant to Plaintiff’s Request
for Production, Set One:
1.     Invoice JG441-01 dated 1/20/20 referenced in the
CRM notes for customer Gliniak.
2.     Invoice JH851-01 dated 4/21/22 referenced in the
CRM notes for customer Hunley as indicated on PGG00157.
3.     The Active History portion of the CRM for Larry
Schultz, Patrick Miller and the Hunleys. 
4.     The wholesale supplier invoices for the known
sales to Robert Posner, Mark Sensano, Fred Wolf, Gail Fritzler, Andrew and
Janet Gliniak, Larry Schultz, Patrick Miller and the Hunleys. 
5.     The unredacted CRM notes. 
 
          In
opposition to the Motion, Defendant contends that: (1) the specified invoices in
Items 1 and 2 are non-responsive as Defendant’s statement of compliance did not
agree to produce those invoices and there is no requirement that they be
produced; (2) documents in Items 3 and 4 have been produced or are being
produced; (3) there is no basis to order removal of the redactions in the CRM
notes even though such invoices have been produced; and (4) monetary sanctions
should not be awarded. 
 
          In
its reply brief, Plaintiff contends that the outstanding issues have been
narrowed but not fully resolved as documents pertaining to Items Numbers 1, 2,
and 5 have not yet been produced and Defendant produced wholesale supplier
invoices for only 11 of the 15 known transactions (Reply at 2:8-28.)  
 
Discussion
 
          In California,
discovery statutes must be construed liberally in favor of disclosure unless
the request is clearly improper (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) Consequently, any party may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action. (Ibid.)  Litigants may obtain
discovery if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  (Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007)
158 Cal.App.4th 60, 97-98.)  Any doubts
regarding relevance are generally resolved in favor of allowing the
discovery.  (Id. at p. 98.)  Much of the information that surfaces during
pretrial discovery may be unrelated, or only tangentially related, to the
underlying cause of action.  (Ibid.)  
 
          Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.320(a) provides
that if a party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, test, or
sampling thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, in accordance with that party’s statement of compliance, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling compliance.  The burden is on the party responding to
discovery to justify his or her objections to such discovery.  (Coy v. Superior Court of Contra Costa
County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
In law and motion practice, factual evidence is supplied to the court by
way of declarations.  (Calcor Space
Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)  
 
          Relevance 
          
In support of the
Motion, counsel for Plaintiff, Adam P. Zaffos declares that: (1) the hearing
date on Defendants’ summary judgment motion was continued to October 4, 2023
(Zaffos Decl. at ¶ 6); (2) the trial date has been continued to January 22,
2024 (Id.); (3) since the Motion was filed, and in preparation for trial
generally, Plaintiff has diligently pursued discovery in order to prepare its
opposition to Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, in particular, by
seeking discovery concerning potential customers that ultimately did business
with Defendants which could be relevant to establishing Plaintiff’s damages (Id.
at ¶ 8); (4) on February 6, 2023, he prepared requests for production that were
served on Defendant (Id. at ¶ 9); (5) Request Nos. 9-12 sought specific
information related to the potential customers of Plaintiff, defined as the 65
individuals that Plaintiff identified from its own CRM notes that had
potentially been lured away from Plaintiff to do business with Defendant (Id.
at ¶ 9 and Exhibit 1); and (6) Defendant served its responses on March 8, 2023
and also produced documents marked as Bates numbers PGG 00001-00051. (Id.
at ¶ 10 and Exhibit 2.) 
 
          Zaffos further declares that: (1)
after efforts to confer about the deficiencies, Defendant made further
productions (Zaffos Decl. at ¶¶ 11, 15-16); and (2) it would be highly
prejudicial to Plaintiff to deny it access to relevant discovery and would
hamper its ability to present evidence in opposition to the motion for summary
judgment and at trial.  (Id. at ¶
20.)  
 
          Here, the Request for Production at
issue seeks the following documents: (1) Request No. 9 seeks any and all
documents referring or relating to the potential Orion customers; (2) Request
No. 10 seeks any and all communications between you and the potential Orion
customers; (3) Request No. 11 seeks any and all documents relating or referring
to any financial transactions between you and the potential Orion customers;
and (12) any and all documents relating or referring to any income that
Defendant derived from the potential Orion customers.  (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement at
2:6-16.)  Defendant responded to Requests
for Production, Nos. 9 through 12 that “[s]ubject to and without waiving its
objections . . . PGG will produce all non-privileged, non-proprietary documents
in its possession, custody, or control responsive to this Request.”  
 
 
The Court finds
that such requests are relevant as they may the tendency to prove or disprove
whether Defendant engaged in the alleged wrongful behavior asserted in the
FAC.  
 
Defendant’s
Opposition to Discovery
 
Initially, the
Court finds that Defendant’s opposition to the Motion makes mostly factual
arguments and is void of legal authority as to why compliance should not be
compelled (Opposition at 3:7-5:18.)  Defendant’s
response to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement also suffers from such defect.  Contentions are waived when a party fails to
support them with reasoned argument and citations to authority.  (Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003)
111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.)  Moreover,
neither the declaration of Mike Centano nor Robert D. Dennison in opposition to
the Motion provides any facts justifying why Defendant should not be compelled
to comply with its statement of compliance. 
The Court finds that despite Defendant’s contention that they did not
agree to produce the specified invoices articulated in Items 1 and 2 above,
Defendant’s agreed to produce such documents. 
          
          Therefore,
the Court finds that Defendant makes no reasoned argument as to why compliance
should not be compelled and, to the contrary, has already produced some
responsive documents according to the reply brief. Thus, the Court finds that
Defendant shall provide documents responsive to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production, Set One, Nos. 9-12. 
 
          The
Court will now address the issue of monetary sanctions. 
 
          Monetary
Sanctions
 
Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery process is failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.  Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a
misuse of the discovery process includes making or opposing, unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery.   A court may impose a monetary sanction
against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney
advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a).  A court has discretion to fix the amount of
reasonable monetary sanctions.  (Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
771.)  
 
          Zaffos
declares that: (1) his hourly rate is $350.00 per hour (Zaffos Decl. at ¶ 21);
(2) Sasha Brower’s (“Brower”) hourly rate in this matter is $350.00 per hour (Id.);
(3) they each have over 20 years of litigation experience and these rates are
customary for attorneys of similar experience in the Los Angeles legal
community (Id.); (4) he has spent over 1 hour reviewing and revising the
papers (Id.); (5) Brower spent over 5 hours drafting the motion to
compel, separate statement and supporting papers (Id.); and (6) because
Defendant has, without substantial justification, failed to produce all
responsive documents in accordance with its statement of compliance, Plaintiff
seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $2,100.00 (Id.).  
 
          In
support of the Motion, Brower declares that: (1) her hourly rate is $350.00 per
hour (Brower Decl. at ¶ 12); (2) they each have over 20 years of litigation experience
and these rates are customary for attorneys of similar experience in the Los
Angeles legal community (Id.); (3) she has spent over 5 hours drafting
the motion to compel and conferring with counsel in an attempt to resolve this
dispute (Id.); and (4) because Defendant has, without substantial
justification, failed to produce all responsive documents in accordance with
its statement of compliance, Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $2,100.00 (Id.).  
 
          The
Court agrees that discovery sanctions are appropriate, but concludes that the
correct amount of the sanctions is $1,050.00, which represents 3 hours of work
 
          
 
           
 