  Case Number:  22STCV21229    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



THE LAW FIRM OF FOX AND FOX, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MIGUEL ARTEAGA,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV21229
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR JUDGMENT
  NOTWITHSTANDING THE VERDICT OR FOR NEW TRIAL
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
September 5, 2024



 
On
June 13, 2024, a jury returned a verdict in favor of Plaintiff The Law Firm of Fox
and Fox and against Defendant Miguel Arteaga. 
The jury awarded Plaintiff $21,187.67 in damages.  The Court entered judgment on July 5, 2024.
On
July 23, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of intent to move for judgment notwithstanding
the verdict or new trial, and on August 2, 2024, he filed his memorandum of points
and authorities.
TIMELINESS OF MOTION
Plaintiff
argues that the motion is untimely.  (Opposition
at pp. 2-3.)
A
notice of motion for new trial must be filed “[w]ithin 15 days of the date of mailing
notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court pursuant to Section 664.5,
or service upon him or her by any party of written notice of entry of judgment,
or within 180 days after the entry of judgment, whichever is earliest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 659, subd. (a)(2).)
The
Court Clerk did not mail notice of entry of judgment when judgment was entered on
July 5, 2024.  The judgment was only signed
and filed.  “[T]o qualify as a notice of entry
of judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.5, the clerk’s mailed notice
must affirmatively state that it was given ‘upon order by the court’ or ‘under section
664.5’ and a certificate of mailing the notice must be executed and placed in the
file. “  (Van Beurden Ins. Services, Inc.
v. Customized Worldwide Weather Ins. Agency, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 51, 64.)  Plaintiff did not file any proof of service of
Notice of Entry of Judgment on Defendant.
Accordingly,
the notice of intent to move for new trial was timely filed within 180 days after
the entry of judgment.
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The
Court does not rule on Defendant’s objections to the Declaration of Frank O. Fox
because the Court did not rely on any contents of this declaration.
JUDGMENT
NOTWITHSTANDING THE VERDICT
The
court must render judgment notwithstanding the verdict whenever a motion for a directed
verdict for the aggrieved party should have been granted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 629.)  “A motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict
may be granted only if it appears from the evidence, viewed in the light most favorable
to the party securing the verdict, that there is no substantial evidence in support.”  (Sweatman v. Department of Veterans Affairs
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 62, 68.)  “If the evidence
is conflicting or if several reasonable inferences may be drawn, the motion for
judgment notwithstanding the verdict should be denied.”  (Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104,
110.)
A.        The Finding That the Contract Was Not
Unconscionable Had Substantial Evidence in Support.
Defendant
argues that the Court should have ruled that the retainer agreement was unconscionable
and unenforceable.  (Motion at p. 15.)  According to Defendant, “[i]t purports to contract
around Rules of Professional Conduct, asks the client to waive rights granted by
statute and case law, and contains subtle ‘gotcha’s’ like the non-reciprocal provision
that requires a client to pay sanctions, but allows the lawyer to collect and keep
them if they are awarded, or the non-reciprocal provision requiring the client to
pay all costs of arbitration regardless of who initiates it.”  (Ibid.; see id. at p. 9-13.)  Defendant urges that “[u]nder these circumstances,
a lawyer should at least go through the language of the Retainer Agreement and explain
what his client is signing, particularly with a client as lacking in sophistication
as [Defendant],” but Plaintiff “admitted he did little more than quote an hourly
rate, hand [Defendant] a nine-page, single-spaced document, and then leave.”  (Id. at pp. 15-16.)  Therefore, “[t]his is procedural unconscionability
which, when combined with the substantive unconscionability, renders the Retainer
Agreement unenforceable as a matter of law.” 
(Id. at p. 16.)
Before
the jury was impaneled, the Court ordered briefing on whether the jury or the Court
should determine unconscionability.  The Court
and counsel conferred about the proposed verdict form on June 11, 2024.  The General Verdict form posed five Additional
Questions: (1) whether the contractual provisions were “harsh, one sided or unfair
in favor of Fox And Fox and against Miguel Arteaga”; (2) whether Plaintiff “failed
to disclose material facts to Miguel Arteaga at the time the contract was entered
into”; (3) whether the amount of fees was reasonable in proportion to the value
of services performed; (4) whether Defendant “gave informed consent for the fees
incurred by Plaintiff”; and (5) whether the time spent by Plaintiff was appropriate
for the work performed.
“There
can be no question that there may be an advisory jury in an equitable action, and
that a trial court has the discretion to submit issues to a jury and adopt the jury’s
findings on factual matters.”  (Saks v.
Charity Mission Baptist Church (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1147.)  “It is equally beyond dispute that while a jury
may be used for advisory verdicts as to questions of fact, it is the duty of the
trial court to make its own independent findings and to adopt or reject the findings
of the jury as it deems proper.”  (A-C
Co. v. Security Pacific Nat. Bank (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 462, 474.)
The
jury found that the provisions of the contract were not “harsh, one sided or unfair.”  The jury also found that Plaintiff did not fail
to disclose material facts to Defendant when they entered into the contract, and
Defendant gave informed consent for the fees incurred.  Based on the evidence presented, the Court agrees
and adopts these findings.  Moreover, the
retainer agreement contains a severability clause:  “If any provision of this Agreement is held in
whole or in part to be unenforceable for any reason, the remainder of that provision
and of the entire Agreement will be severable and remain in effect.”  (Motion, Ex. D at p. 7.)  The purported unconscionable provisions were not
at issue in this action.  Rather, this was
a simple case of unpaid fees.
Based
on all the evidence presented, viewed in the light most favorable to Plaintiff,
there was substantial evidence in support of a finding of no unconscionability.  Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is denied on this
ground.
B.        The Award of $21,187.67 Is Not Contrary
to the Evidence.
According
to Defendant, the only evidence that Plaintiff was entitled to $21,187.67 was Trial
Exhibit 2.  (Motion at p. 16.)  Defendant explains that he paid $18,450.00, leaving
a balance of $16,885.14.  (Ibid.)  Another $750.00 for services rendered in June
2022 was billed in April 2024, and the remaining $3,552.23 was for “Interest Due.”  (Ibid.)  Because the retainer agreement “specifically states
that no interest is charged,” this amount can only be an unenforceable late fee.  (Ibid.)
As
Plaintiff notes, there was an additional credit provided on April 9, 2022, including
the late charges removed.  (Opposition at
p. 10.)  Plaintiff explained the credit during
his testimony: “This is something that I discovered after the fact.  It was not something that was ever raised by either
Mr. Arteaga or his attorney.  This is something
that in the preparation for this trial I realized that credit had not been given
to Mr. Arteaga.  I immediately credited it.  I sent the statement to his attorney with respect
to the credit along with the interest on that amount from the date that he paid
it.  And that’s reflected on 2-2 of the exhibits.”  (Motion, Ex. B at pp. 93-94.)  Trial Exhibit 2 (Motion, Ex. E) at page 2 shows
a “Prior Balance” of $27,407.51, “Less Credit for amount paid 4/9/22” ($10,148.68),
“Less Credit for interest on amount paid 4/9/22” ($373.69), resulting in a balance
of $16,885.14.  From that revised Prior Balance,
Plaintiff added 10-percent interest ($3,552.23), resulting in a Balance Now Due
of $21,187.67.
Defendant
cites no authority for the unenforceability of the 10-percent interest as a late
charge.  Instead, Defendant’s authority addresses
the validity of liquidated damages for breach of contract.
Based
on all the evidence presented, viewed in the light most favorable to Plaintiff,
there was substantial evidence in support of damages of $21,187.67.  Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is denied on this
ground.
NEW
TRIAL
Alternatively,
Defendant argues that he is entitled to a new trial.  (Motion at pp. 17-19.)  A verdict may be vacated and a new trial ordered
due to irregularity in the proceedings that prevented a party from having a fair
trial, misconduct of the jury, accident or surprise, newly discovered evidence,
excessive or inadequate damages, insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict,
or error in law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.)
A.        Defendant Has Not Shown Irregularities
or Prejudice Caused by References to the Divorce Proceedings’ Restraining Order.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff posed a line of questioning that “had no purpose but to prejudice
the jury,” and the curative instruction was ineffective.  (Motion at pp. 18-19.)
On
May 31, 2024, the parties filed a Joint Exhibit List, in which they stipulated to
the admission of Trial Exhibit 20, “Zamara’s Request For Domestic Violence Restraining
Order, filed in L.A.S.C case number 21STFL09806, filed on 6/6/22.”
During
the trial, Plaintiff asked Defendant if his wife claimed that she needed a restraining
order against him because he had offered money to a coworker to kill her.  (Motion, Ex. A at p. 43.)  Defendant responded, “That’s what she claimed.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff continued, “And did she say that you
did this three separate times?”  (Ibid.)  The Court overruled Defendant’s counsel’s objections
for lack of foundation and hearsay.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff continued questioning Defendant about
his wife’s statements in the underlying divorce proceedings.  (Id. at pp. 43-44.)  Defendant’s counsel’s next objection was, “I’m
going to object because this document is—is part of the stipulated documents.”  (Id. at p. 44.)  The Court acknowledged that “the document is in
evidence, and we are reciting a lot of things,” and it was “problematic” to the
extent the document was being offered for the truth of its contents.  (Ibid.)  The Court then instructed, “Plaintiff is only
to show the work that Plaintiff had to do in this contested divorce, not to relitigate
the entire divorce.  We will not have enough
time to relitigate.  I’m going to sustain
the standing objection.   Let me ask Plaintiff
to move on to another area of questioning.” 
(Id. at pp. 44-45.)
The
next court day, Defendant’s counsel asked for a mistrial, arguing that the questions
about Trial Exhibit 20 were “so inflammatory that a limiting instruction will not
do away with the inflammatory state of mind that is imputed to the jury.”  (Motion, Ex. B at p. 19.)  The Court struck Trial Exhibit 20 and “all reference
to allegations about Mr. Arteaga allegedly hiring someone or trying to hire someone
to kill his wife and children.”  (Id.
at p. 24.)  The Court further stated, “I’m
ordering it to be excluded.  And I want the
parties to work on an agreement that your current form of limiting instruction[s]
are adequate.  What you need to do is a form
of limiting instruction that basically says this testimony came in, that it is now
being excluded, and that the jury should disregard the testimony, treat it as though
it was never given.”  (Ibid.)  The Court denied Defendant’s motion for a mistrial
and ordered, “What I want is an instruction that makes it crystal clear to the jury
that all of this testimony is excluded and stricken.”  (Id. at p. 25.)
The
next day, the Court and the parties conferred about the special jury instructions.  The Court later gave Special Jury Instruction
#12:  “The claims elicited by Mr. Miguel’s
wife were not for the truth but to show the litigation involved in their divorce
proceeding and the discord between them. 
Any evidence concerning Mr. A[r]teaga’s wife’s claims concerning Mr. Arteaga
soliciting his co-worker to kill his wife and children shall not be considered by
the jury.  We are not here to re-litigate
the issues in Mr. Miguel’s divorce proceeding but to determine what, if any, attorney’s
fees and costs are owed to Plaintiff by Miguel Arteaga.”  (Motion, Ex. O.)
“Traditionally,
‘[a]bsent some contrary indication in the record, we presume the jury follows its
instructions [citations] “and that its verdict reflects the legal limitations those
instructions imposed” [citation].’  [Citation.]”  (Carroll v. Commission on Teacher Credentialing
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 365, 382-383.)  Defendant
contends that Special Jury Instruction #12 was “ineffective to counteract the prejudice,”
which is “evident in the fact that every single special verdict question was answered
in favor of Plaintiff.”  (Motion at p. 19.)  An adverse verdict alone is not evidence of prejudice.
The
motion is denied on this ground.
B.        Defendant Has Not Identified Any Irregularities
that Require a New Trial.
“In
addition to the prejudice created by [Plaintiff’s] inflammatory reference,”  Defendant argues that “the jury was likely confused
by the Court’s statement that ‘the amount of attorney fees . . . that plaintiff
may recover in this case is not relevant to anything you are being asked to decide.”  (Motion at p. 19; see id. at p. 13.)  Defendant contends that “[t]hese irregularities
may well have also affected the jury’s answers to the questions relating to whether
the retainer agreement was one-sided.”  (Id.
at p. 19)
During
deliberations on June 13, 2024, the jury asked, “How much would [sic] the attorney
fees that Mr. Fox incurred for this case? 
In addition to the funds he is seeking in this suit.”  According to Defendant, “it appears the jury wanted
to know how much Fox & Fox charged Arteaga in toto, as compared with
how much Fox & Fox was seeking to recover by way of this lawsuit.”  (Motion at p. 13.)  The Court conferred with counsel about the answer
before sending the response to the jury. 
The jury was told, “The amount of attorney fees, if any, that plaintiff may
recover in this case is not relevant to anything you are being asked to decide.  You are being asked to determine the unpaid attorney
fees in defendant’s divorce proceeding that plaintiff is entitled to recover, if
any.”  No party objected to this response
before it was given, and the jury was clearly informed that they were to decide
only “the unpaid attorney fees in defendant’s divorce proceeding.”
Defendant
also asserts that “the absence of any evidence relating to the basis for, and calculation
of the 10% late fee, is an additional ground for granting a new trial.”  (Motion at p. 19.)  The basis for the 10-percent fee is the retainer
agreement, which provides that “[c]osts are all due and payable upon billing.”  (Motion, Ex. D at p. 5.)  Defendant provides no further argument or authority.
The
motion is denied on this ground.
CONCLUSION
The
Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict, Or in the Alternative, For a New
Trial is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
      
Dated this 5th day of September 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 