 Case Number:  23STCV16635    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Kim Di Bonaventura, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCV16635




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Jonathan Lachman, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 27, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint and Motion to
Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Jonathan Lachman and
Omerta Farms, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Kimberly Di Bonaventura
and Boomin’ Real Estate, LLC
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’
DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED.
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS WITHIN
30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 17, 2023, Plaintiffs Kimberly
Di Bonaventura and Boomin’ Real Estate, LLC sued Defendants Jonathan Lachman
and Omerta Farms, LLC for breach of settlement agreement.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Demurrer to Complaint
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants demur to the complaint on
the grounds that it is barred by res judicata, and that Plaintiffs failed to
attach or recite the contract terms verbatim.
 
“The standard elements of a claim for
breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
 
Plaintiffs allege they and Defendants entered
into a business relationship to start a cannabis dispensary. Defendants failed
to pay back Plaintiffs’ investment in the business; Plaintiffs filed an earlier
action to recover their funds. The parties eventually entered into the
settlement agreement at issue here. Plaintiffs now allege that Defendants
breached the settlement in these ways: (1) Defendants
failed to pay utilities totaling approximately $320,000 prior to October 31,
2022; (2) Defendants breached their contractual representation that they were
not in default under the terms of the sublease; and (3) Defendants failure to
return the Mercedes Sprinter Van for which Plaintiffs paid approximately
$65,000. This is sufficient to allege a cause of action for breach of contract.
 
The decision in a prior proceeding is res judicata when it is final and
on the merits; the successor action is based on the same cause of action as the
former one; and the parties to the former proceeding are the parties in the
successor action or are in privity with them. (See Zevnik v. Superior Court
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 76, 82-83; Levy v. Cohen (1977) 19 Cal.3d 165,
171.) Defendants assert certain alleged breaches of the settlement agreement that
were addressed in the underlying action. But the Court cannot sustain a
demurrer as to piecemeal allegations in the complaint. Nor can the Court consider
evidence or facts outside of the four corners of the complaint.
 
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
B. Motion to Strike
“Any party, within the time allowed to
response to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part" of that pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or
improper matter asserted in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the Court." (CCP § 436.)
Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer
for punitive damages on the ground that this is a standard breach of contract
action with no allegations of malice, fraud, or oppression. The Court agrees.
There are no factual allegations supporting punitive damages. Plaintiffs do not
request leave to amend.
Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED.