  Case Number:  19STCV05367    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Renee Erickson,  


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV05367




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
ADP, LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 27, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party: Defendant ADP, LLC 
Responding Party: Plaintiff Renee Erickson
 
T/R:    DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition,
and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On February 15, 2019, Plaintiff Renee Erickson
sued Defendant ADP, LLC, asserting causes of action for (1) fraud; (2)
negligent misrepresentation; (3) breach of oral contract; (4) breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5) violation of The
Independent Wholesale Sales Representative Act; (6) quasi-contract; and (7)
aiding and abetting. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant falsely promised
Plaintiff would receive full commissions on sales following a merger of
Plaintiff’s former employer and Defendant. Defendant allegedly then capped
commissions and gave Defendant’s other employees full compensation and full
credit on Plaintiff’s sales.
 
EVIDENCE
OBJECTIONS
“In granting or denying a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections
to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.” (CCP §
437c(q).) Defendant’s objections to the declaration of Plaintiff are OVERRULED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties'
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has met that
burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Id.)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial
responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)
 
A. First and Second Causes of Action
for Fraud and Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
claims for fraud fail because Defendant did not make any misrepresentations and
Plaintiff did not justifiably rely on any misrepresentations. Defendant
presents evidence purporting to show that Plaintiff was repeatedly informed her
position as an independent Regional Sales Manager was governed by the “Rules of
Engagement,” which contained the commission calculations for Plaintiff’s
position. Defendant asserts that the commission calculations that Plaintiff
alleges she was promised were for Defendant’s in-house sales position, which
Plaintiff chose not to take. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff presents
evidence purporting to show her supervisor promised her multiple times that the
Rules of Engagement would not apply to certain clients Plaintiff obtained. Plaintiff
asserts that she relied on these representations by continuing to work for
Defendant. This is sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as to
misrepresentation.
 
In reply, Defendant asserts Plaintiff’s
declaration is a “sham” and contradicts Plaintiff’s testimony. Defendant states
that Plaintiff “admitted” that her supervisor provided her with the commission
calculations for the inside sales position at a November 2017 meeting.
Defendant argues that this establishes her supervisor never promised her these commissions
for her position as an outside salesperson. As stated, Plaintiff represents
that her supervisor promised on multiple different occasions that she would be
entitled to certain commission calculations. That Plaintiff attended a meeting
in which her supervisor described the commission calculations of an inside
salesperson does not “contradict” her declaration.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment
is DENIED. Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of the first and second
causes of action is DENIED.
 
B. Third, Fourth and Sixth Causes of
Action for Breach of Oral Contract, Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing, and Quasi-Contract.
 
“The standard elements of a claim for
breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
 
Defendant argues that the claims for
breach of oral contract, bad faith, and quasi-contract fail because Defendant
did not promise Plaintiff she would be exempt from the Rules of Engagement.
Defendant asserts that any promises for a different commission calculation were
for the in-house sales position that Plaintiff declined to take. As discussed,
Plaintiff presents evidence to the contrary, creating triable issues of fact.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication of the third, fourth and sixth causes of action is DENIED.
 
C. Fifth
Cause of Action for Violation of the Independent Wholesale Sales Representative
Act
 
The Independent Wholesale Sales Representatives Act requires
manufacturers and distributors to enter written contracts with persons acting
as independent wholesale sales representatives and to provide certain
information to the sales representatives with payments of commissions. (Civil
Code § 1738.13.) Under Civil Code § 1738.15, a manufacturer who willfully fails
to enter into a written contract as required by the Act “shall be liable to the
sales representative in a civil action for treble damages proved at trial.”
 
Defendant asserts it did not willfully fail to enter into a written
contract. As discussed, Plaintiff asserts Defendant orally promised certain
commission calculations, but failed to reduce the promise to writing. This is
sufficient to create a triable issue of fact.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of the fifth cause of action
is DENIED.
 
D. Seventh Cause of Action for Aiding and Abetting
 
“‘Liability may . . . be imposed on one
who aids and abets the commission of an intentional tort if the person (a)
knows the other’s conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial
assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial
assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the person’s own
conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third
person.’”  (Fiol v. Doellstedt
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1325-26 (quoting Saunders v. Superior Court (1994)
27 Cal.App.4th 832, 846; see also Schulz v. Neovi Data Corp. (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 86, 93.)
 
Defendant
asserts the claim for aiding and abetting fails because they did not aid and
abet anyone in the commission of a tort, and there is only one Defendant named
in this action. In opposition, Plaintiff asserts Defendant aided and abetted
her supervisor’s torts. This is sufficient to create a triable issue of fact.
 
E. Punitive
Damages
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff is not entitled to punitive damages because
there is no evidence of fraud or malice, and Plaintiff’s supervisor does not
have discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determined ADP’s
corporate policy. In opposition, Plaintiff represents that Defendant held her
supervisor out to have such authority. This is sufficient to create a triable
issue of fact.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of the claim for punitive
damages is DENIED.
 
 
 
 