 Case Number:  22STCV16119    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  34 Forward Westwood, Inc., et al. v.
Atias (22STCV16119)
 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication of Issues is GRANTED in part. 
 
Summary adjudication is GRANTED in favor of Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Meny Atias and against Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Joseph Sacavitch, Edward Krifcher, and
Paul Morris as to the first cause of action in the Complaint for
misappropriation of corporate opportunities. 
 
Summary adjudication is
GRANTED in favor of Defendant/Cross-Complainant Meny Atias and against
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward Westwood, Inc. and Joseph Sacavitch on the
fifth and sixth causes of action in the Complaint for conversion and violation
of Penal Code section 496, respectively. 
 
The Motion for Summary
Adjudication of Issues is DENIED as to all else. 
 
Background
 
On May 13, 2022,
Plaintiffs Forward Westwood, Inc., Forward Calabasas, Inc., Joseph Sacavitch,
Edward Krifcher, and Paul Morris filed their Complaint against Defendant Meny
A. Atias regarding various causes of action arising from the Parties’ business
relationship. 
 
On July 12, 2022,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Meny A. Atias filed: (1) Cross-Complaint against
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward Westwood, Inc., Forward Calabasas, Inc.,
Paul Morris, Edward Krifcher, and Joseph Sacavitch; and (2) Answer to the
Complaint. 
 
 On August 15, 2022, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
filed their Answer to the Cross-Complaint. 
 
On April 3, 2024,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed his Motion for Summary Adjudication of Issues
(“MSA”). In support of his MSA, Defendant/Cross-Complainant concurrently filed:
(1) Compendium of Evidence; (2) Separate Statement; and (3) Proposed Order. 
 
On May 21, 2024,
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants filed their Opposition to the MSA. In support of
their Opposition to the MSA, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants concurrently filed:
(1) Appendix of Evidence; (2) Separate Statement; and (3) Evidentiary
Objections. 
 
On May 28, 2024,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed his Reply to the MSA. In support of his Reply
to the MSA, Defendant/Cross-Complainant concurrently filed: (1) Response to
Separate Statement; (2) Evidentiary Objections; and (3) Response to Evidentiary
Objections. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
A.            
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ Objections
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ evidentiary objections are overruled. 
 
B.             
 Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
Objections
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s evidentiary objections are overruled. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
“A party may move for summary judgment in an action
or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is
no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may be made at any time
after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or
proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier
time after the general appearance that the court, with or without notice and
upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (1)(a).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of fact
and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. That is because of the
general principle that a party who seeks a court’s action in his favor bears
the burden of persuasion thereon. There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of
the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his
burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then
subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of
the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary judgment
standards in Aguilar to motions for summary adjudication].) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839, citation omitted.) 
 
“The trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a fact finder to determine whose version is more
likely true. Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the
court's evaluation of credibility.” (Binder, supra, at p. 840,
citations omitted; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Dep’t of Transp.
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise. If a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion must
be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's
Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320,
citation omitted.) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant moves for summary adjudication as to the
first through eighth causes of action. 
 
For some of the causes of action, Defendant/Cross-Complainant is only
moving for summary adjudication as to certain Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants. For
clarity, the court will make more specific references to the Parties below
where appropriate. 
 
1.              
First Cause of Action—Misappropriation of
Corporate Opportunities
 
a.              
 Legal
Standard
 
“The corporate opportunity doctrine prohibits one who
occupies a fiduciary relationship to a corporation from acquiring, in
opposition to the corporation, property in which the corporation has an
interest or tangible expectancy or that is essential to its existence. Whether or not a given corporate opportunity
was wrongfully usurped is a question of fact to be determined from the facts
and surrounding circumstances existing at the time the opportunity arises. (Kelegian v. Mgrdichian (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 982, 989 [39 Cal. Rptr.
2d 390] [‘California recognizes this [corporate
opportunity] doctrine and also recognizes that whether or not a corporate
opportunity exists is primarily a factual question’].)” (Ctr. for Healthcare Educ.
& Rsch., Inc. v. Int’l Cong. For Joint Reconstruction, Inc. (2020) 57
Cal.App.5th 1108, 1132, cleaned up.)
 
b.              
Discussion
 
i.               
The Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant moves for summary adjudication on the first
cause of action for misappropriation of corporate opportunities. (MSA, p.
16:6.) Defendant/Cross-Complainant does so solely as to
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Joseph
Sacavitch, Edward Krifcher, and Paul Morris (“the Individual
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants”). (Id. at pp. 5:8–10, 14:9–12, 16:7–8.)
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
argues: (1) that the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants did not have a
fiduciary relationship with Defendant/Cross-Complainant; and (2) that the
Individual Plaintiffs are not corporations and therefore do not have corporate
opportunities. (MSA, p. 16:7–16.)
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
disagree, arguing: (1) that there is a dispute of fact as to whether
Defendant/Cross-Complainant owed the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
fiduciary duties; and (2) that the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants owned
the corporations. (Opp’n, p. 5:2–8.)
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant
reiterates his arguments in his Reply. (Reply, pp. 4:2–6:9.)
 
ii.             
Fiduciary Duty Argument
 
“There are¿two kinds¿of fiduciary duties — those
imposed by law and those undertaken by agreement.” (Gab Bus. Servs. v.
Lindsey & Newsom Claim Servs. (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 409, 416, emphasis
omitted, overruled in part on other grounds by Reeves v. Hanlon (2004)
33 Cal.4th 1140, 1154.)
 
“Fiduciary duties are imposed by law in certain technical, legal
relationships such as those between partners or joint venturers, husbands and
wives, guardians and wards, trustees and beneficiaries, principals and agents,
and attorneys and clients.” (Gab Bus. Servs., supra, at p. 416,
citations omitted.)
 
“A fiduciary duty is undertaken by agreement when
one person enters into a confidential
relationship
with another.” (Gab Bus. Servs., supra, at p. 417.)
 
“Every contract requires one party to
repose an element of trust and confidence in the other to perform.” (Wolf v.
Super. Ct. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 31.) 
 
“The mere fact that in the course of
their business relationships the parties reposed trust and confidence in each
other does not impose any corresponding fiduciary duty in the absence of an act
creating or establishing a fiduciary relationship known to law.” (Worldvision
Enters. v. ABC (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 589, 595.) 
 
“The existence of a confidential relationship is
a question of fact, and . . . the existence of a confidential relationship
generating a fiduciary duty is a question of fact.” (Persson v. Smart
Inventions, Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1161, citations omitted.) 
 
The test for a fiduciary duty based on a
confidential relationship is: “1) The vulnerability of one party to
the other which 2) results in the empowerment of the stronger party by the
weaker which 3) empowerment has been solicited or accepted by the stronger
party and 4) prevents the weaker party from effectively protecting itself.” (Richelle
L. v. Roman Catholic Archbishop (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 257, 272, quotation,
internal quotation marks, and other citations omitted.)
 
            Here, the
Parties dispute whether there was a contractual relationship between Defendant/Cross-Complainant
on the one side and the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants on the other
side. (Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ Separate Statement, Items 2, 5 and
Additional Item 3; Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s Response to Separate
Statement, Item 3.) This goes to whether there is a fiduciary duty undertaken
by agreement. 
 
            Furthermore,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant seems to admit that he “is a minority 5% owner” of Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward
Westwood, Inc. and Forward Calabasas, Inc. (“the Entity
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants”). (Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s Response to
Separate Statement, Items 1 and 2.) If this is true, then that might support a
finding that there is a fiduciary duty undertaken by law.
 
            There appear
to be multiple triable issues of material fact as to whether
Defendant/Cross-Complainant owed a fiduciary duty to the Individual
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants. 
 
iii.            
Corporate Opportunities Argument
 
            The
existence of triable issues of material fact regarding the existence of a
fiduciary duty would normally be a sufficient basis for the court to deny the
MSA to the first cause of action. 
 
            However,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant makes an important point: the Individual
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants are not corporations or alter egos of the Entity
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants. 
 
            Normally, it
would be a triable issue of material fact as to whether the Individual
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants were alter egos of the Entity
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants. The court noted as much when considering this same
issue while ruling on Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings.
 
Among other things, the Complaint contains allegations that:
(1) Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants Paul Morris and Edward Krifcher together own
100% of Forward Calabasas, Inc.; and (2) Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Joseph
Sacavitch owns 100% of Forward Westwood, Inc. (Complaint, ¶¶ 7–8.) Thus, a
trier of fact could find that the individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants are
essentially alter egos of the corporate Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants, and thus
the first cause of action could be pleaded by the individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
as well as the corporate ones.” 
 
(Minute Order dated February 28, 2024, p. 5.)
 
            But the
Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants have now foreclosed that route by
admitting: (1) that the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants are not
corporations; and (2) that the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants are not
alter egos of the Entity Plaintiffs. (Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ Separate
Statement, Items 3, 6, 7.)
 
            As Defendant/Cross-Complainant
correctly notes, “the right of recovery [for a cause of action for
misappropriation of corporate opportunities] resides in the corporation, not
its individual stockholders. They can enforce it only through a derivative suit
wherein they assert the corporate right.” (New v. New (1957) 148
Cal.App.2d 372, 389, citations omitted; MSA, p. 16:13–16.)
 
            In other
words, while the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants have standing to sue on
behalf of the Entity Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants for a cause of action for
misappropriation of corporate opportunities, they do not have standing to sue
on their own behalf for this cause of action. As it is undisputed that they are
not alter egos of the Entity Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants, summary adjudication
is appropriate here. 
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant
meets his initial burden by arguing that not all elements of the cause of
action are present as to the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants. The
Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants do not meet their subsequent burden to
show evidence that all elements of the cause of action are present as to them. 
 
            The court
GRANTS summary adjudication in favor of Defendant/Cross-Complainant and against
the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants as to the first cause of action in
the Complaint for misappropriation of corporate opportunities. 
 
2.              
Second Cause of Action—Interference with
Contractual Relations
 
a.              
 Legal
Standard
 
The elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations are “(1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2)
defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts
designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4)
actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting
damage.” (I-CA Enters., Inc. v. Palram Americas,
Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 257, 289.)
 
b.              
 Discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant moves for summary adjudication on the second
cause of action for interference with contractual relations. (MSA, p. 17:8–9.)
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant argues that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
cannot identify an existing contract with which Defendant/Cross-Complainant
unlawfully interfered because “[t]he California Supreme Court has held in no
uncertain terms that, as a matter of law, a claim for interference with
contract is not allowed if the contract is ‘at-will.’” (MSA, p. 17:10–26,
quoting Reeves v. Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1152.)
Defendant/Cross-Complainant reiterates this argument in his Reply. (Reply, p.
7:5–13 and fns. 5, 6.)
 
The court disagrees with this argument. 
 
First, Defendant/Cross-Complainant does not accurately describe the
California Supreme Court’s holding in Reeves. Just two paragraphs down
from Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s cherry-picked quotation is the actual
holding in Reeves: 
 
“[W]e hold that a plaintiff may recover damages for
intentional interference with an at-will employment relation under the same
California standard applicable to claims for intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage. That is, to recover for a
defendant's interference with an at-will employment relation, a plaintiff must
plead and prove that the defendant engaged in an independently wrongful
act—i.e., an act ‘proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory,
common law, or other determinable legal standard’ (Korea Supply, supra,
29 Cal.4th at p. 1159)—that induced an at-will employee to leave the
plaintiff. Under this standard, a defendant is not subject to liability for
intentional interference if the interference consists merely of extending a job
offer that induces an employee to terminate his or her at-will employment.” (Reeves,
supra, at pp. 1152–1153, footnote omitted.)
 
Second, neither side cites the California Supreme Court’s recent opinion
in Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130 (“Ixchel”).
In Ixchel, the California Supreme Court expanded the holding in Reeves
to any at-will contract, not just at-will contracts in the employment context.
 
We therefore
hold that to state a claim for interference with an at-will contract by a third
party, the plaintiff must allege that the defendant engaged in an independently
wrongful act.
(Ixchel,
supra, at p. 1148.)
 
Thus, in contrast to
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s argument, a cause of action for interference with
contractual relations is not barred as to at-will contracts. However, an
independently wrongful act must be alleged because “from the perspective of
third parties, there is no legal basis in [the cases of both an ‘at-will
contract’ and ‘no existing contract’] to expect the continuity of the
relationship or to make decisions in reliance on the relationship.” (Ixchel, supra, at p. 1147.)
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant has not
argued that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants have failed to allege or show that
there was an independently wrongful act. The Court does not further consider
the issue at this time. 
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant does not
meet his initial burden to show the nonexistence of triable issues of material
fact as to the second cause of action. 
 
            The court DENIES summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action in the Complaint for interference
with contractual relations. 
 
3.              
Third Cause of Action—Interference with
Prospective Business Advantage
 
a.              
 Legal
Standard
 
The elements of the tort of intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage are: “(1) an economic relationship
between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future
economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the
relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to
disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the
defendant.” (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th
1134, 1153, quotation and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
“To establish a claim for interference with
prospective economic advantage, therefore, a plaintiff must plead that the defendant engaged in an independently wrongful act.
An act is not independently wrongful merely because defendant acted with an
improper motive. . . . We conclude, therefore, that an act is independently
wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some
constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal
standard.” (Korea Supply Co., supra, at pp. 1158–1159,
citations omitted.)
 
b.              
Discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant moves for summary adjudication on the third
cause of action for interference with prospective business advantage (otherwise
known as interference with prospective economic advantage). (MSA, p. 16:17.) Defendant/Cross-Complainant
does so solely as to the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants. (Id. at
p. 16:18–20.)
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant argues that the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
cannot establish the requisite economic relationship element because the Individual
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants cannot show that they personally had an economic
relationship with third parties. (MSA, pp. 16:18–20, 17:1–7.)
 
            Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
disagree, arguing that the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants did have
professional relationships with the third-party agents at issue. (Opp’n, p.
5:21–24.)
 
            In his Reply,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant attempts to clarify his argument. Specifically,
Defendant/Cross-Complaint claims that “California law does not protect
expectancies of ‘professional relationships’” but that the law instead
“protects probable future economic relationships, which is defined under
California law as contractual relationships.” (Reply, p. 6:21–23.)
 
            The court disagrees with
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s argument. 
 
            First, Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
attempted clarification of the legal standard is narrower than the actual legal
standard. Consider, for example, the California Supreme Court’s use of language
in Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376,
which was the first case to discuss “the need to draw and enforce a sharpened
distinction between the claims for the tortious disruption of an existing contract
and claims that a prospective contractual or economic relationship has
been interfered with by the defendant.” (Della Penna, at p. 392, italics changed.) The Court
doubts that the California Supreme Court would have distinguished between
contractual relationships and economic relationships as mere surplusage. Thus,
the case law reflects that a prospective economic relationship can be different
than a prospective contractual relationship. And, as noted in that same
opinion, the cause of action for interference with contractual relations
involve “inference with an existing business contract” while the cause of
action at hand involves “interference with commercial relations less than contractual”. (Ibid., italics in original.)
 
            Second, there appear to be triable
issues of material fact as to whether the Individual
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants did in fact have economic relationships with the
third-party agents at issue. (Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ Separate Statement,
Items 8, 9 and Additional Item 5; Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s Response to
Separate Statement, Item 5.)
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant has not
argued other elements of the cause of action. The Court does not consider those
elements at this time. 
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant meets
his initial burden to show the nonexistence of triable issues of material fact
as to the third cause of action. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants meet their
subsequent burden to show the existence of triable issues of material fact as
to this cause of action. 
 
            The court DENIES summary
adjudication as to the third cause of action in the Complaint for interference
with prospective business advantage. 
 
4.              
Fourth Cause of Action—Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
a.              
 Legal
Standard
 
“The elements of a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and
damage proximately caused by that breach.” (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 483.)
 
b.              
 Discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant moves for summary adjudication on the fourth
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty. (MSA, p. 14:16.)
Defendant/Cross-Complainant does so solely as to the Individual
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants. (Id. at p. 14:17–19.)
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant makes
the same arguments regarding fiduciary duty here as with the first cause of
action for misappropriation of corporate opportunities. (MSA, pp. 14:17–19,
15:9–28; Reply, pp. 4:2–5:19.)
 
            For the same reasons stated supra
in Section I.C.1.b.ii., the Court disagrees with
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s argument. Specifically, there appear to be
multiple triable issues of material fact as to whether
Defendant/Cross-Complainant owed a fiduciary duty to the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants.
Yet in contrast with the first cause of action, a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty does not require that the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
be corporations. 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant has not argued other elements of the cause
of action. The Court does not consider those elements at this time. 
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant meets
his initial burden to show the nonexistence of triable issues of material fact
as to the fourth cause of action. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants meet their
subsequent burden to show the existence of triable issues of material fact as
to this cause of action. 
 
            The court DENIES summary
adjudication as to the fourth cause of action in the Complaint for breach of
fiduciary duty.
 
5.              
Fifth Cause of Action—Conversion
 
a.              
 Legal
Standard
 
“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion
over the property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the
plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)
 
“It is not necessary that there be a manual taking of the
property; it is only necessary to show an assumption of control or ownership
over the property, or that the alleged converter has applied the property to
his own use. Money can be the subject of an action for conversion if a specific
sum capable of identification is involved. Neither legal title nor
absolute ownership of the property is necessary. A party need only allege it is
entitled to immediate possession at the time of conversion. However, a mere
contractual right of payment, without more, will not suffice.” (Farmers Ins.
Exch. v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 451–52 [cleaned up].)
 
b.              
 Discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant moves for summary adjudication on the fifth
cause of action for conversion. (MSA, pp. 19:17–18, 20:1.)
Defendant/Cross-Complainant does so solely as to Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Joseph Sacavitch and Forward Westwood, Inc. (Ibid.)
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant argues: (1) that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Joseph Sacavitch and Forward Westwood, Inc. admitted during a deposition that
Defendant/Cross-Complainant had not actually converted moneys in escrow company
accounts, personal property, or a Facebook group; and (2) that the “monetized
value of distribution network” is not properly the subject of a conversion
claim as there is no specific, identifiable sum of money at issue. (MSA, pp.
20:6–21:17.)
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants disagree, arguing that they have since
provided verified, amended responses to Special Interrogatory No. 222 with
specific allegations of conversion. (Opp’n, p. 7:4–10.) 
 
Notably, the only “item” that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward
Westwood, Inc. and Joseph Sacavitch now claim was “converted” by
Defendant/Cross-Complainant are “agents in the Forward Westwood Office”.
(Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ Appendix of Evidence, actual p. 232 of 294
[Forward Westwood, Inc.’s Amended Response to Special Interrogatory No. 222,
dated April 26, 2024] and actual p. 239 of 294 [Joseph Sacavitch’s Amended
Response to Special Interrogatory No. 222, dated May 15, 2024].)
 
In his Reply, Defendant/Cross-Complainant argues: (1) that
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants cannot create a triable issue by providing a
declaration that contradicts a prior discovery response or deposition
testimony; (2) that “California law does not support a conversion claim where
the property allegedly converted is human beings”; (3) that summary
adjudication is warranted where the claim is about lost revenue in an amount to
be determined by experts; and (4) that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Joseph
Sacavitch has not provided any evidence that Defendant/Cross-Complainant
converted any property that belonged individually to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Joseph Sacavitch. (Reply, pp. 10:11–11:11.)
 
            The court agrees with
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s argument that human beings are not the proper
subject of a conversion claim. 
 
“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion
over the property of another.” (Lee, supra, 61 Cal.4th at
p. 1240, italics added.)
 
People are not property, and they cannot become property. Both slavery
and involuntary servitude (except as punishment for crimes after conviction)
are outlawed in the United States of America and any place subject to its
jurisdiction. (U.S. Const., 13th Amend., § 1.) Under the fundamental law of
this land, Defendant/Cross-Complainant could not have exercised dominion over
any agent, much less done so wrongfully as those people did not belong to
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants. 
 
            The only exception to this rule
involves human remains—and even this exception is limited in scope and
precludes actions for conversion. (See Gray v. S. Pac. Co. (1937) 21
Cal.App.2d 240, 246 [“The action [for possession of a dead body for purposes of
burial] is not one for conversion, nor could it be, as the law recognizes no
right of property as such in the dead body of a human being.”]; see also Spates
v. Dameron Hosp. Ass’n (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 221–222 [“[T]he courts
have recognized that next of kin have a temporary, quasi-property right
in the body of a deceased for purposes of burial or other disposition. . . .
These exclusive rights of possession, control and disposition have been
codified in [Health and Safety Code] section 7100.” (Italics in original,
citation omitted.); see also Moore v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (1990) 51
Cal.3d 120, 136–147.) 
 
            The court does not reach the other
arguments regarding this cause of action at this time.
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant meets his initial burden by arguing there is
no evidence presented that Defendant/Cross-Complainant wrongfully converted
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Joseph Sacavitch’s property. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Forward Westwood, Inc. and Joseph Sacavitch do not meet their subsequent
burden. 
 
            The court GRANTS summary
adjudication in favor of Defendant/Cross-Complainant and against Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Forward Westwood, Inc. and Joseph Sacavitch on the fifth cause of action in the
Complaint for conversion. 
 
6.              
Sixth Cause of Action—Violation of Penal Code
Section 496
 
a.              
 Legal
Standard
 
“Every person who buys or receives any property that has been
stolen or that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion,
knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells,
withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the
owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by
imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment
pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170. . . .” (Pen. Code, § 496, subd.
(a).)
 
“Any person who has been injured by a violation of
subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual
damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable
attorney’s fees.” (Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (c).)
 
b.              
 Discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant moves for summary adjudication on the sixth
cause of action for violation of Penal Code section 496. (MSA, p. 19:17–18,
21:18.) Defendant/Cross-Complainant does so solely as to
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Joseph Sacavitch and Forward Westwood, Inc. (Ibid.)
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant argues that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward
Westwood, Inc. and Joseph Sacavitch did not own the Facebook page at issue, and
thus there is no basis for this claim by them. (MSA, pp. 21:26–22:2.)
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants disagree, again pointing to their Amended
Responses to Special Interrogatory No. 222. (Opp’n, p. 7:11–21.)
 
In his Reply, Defendant/Cross-Complainant argues: (1) that the amended
responses should be disregarded for the same reasons previously discussed; and
(2) that the amended responses do not identify any stolen property, much less
such property that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants believe
Defendant/Cross-Complainant received. (Reply, p. 11:20–28.)
 
The court agrees with Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s substantive
arguments. 
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward Westwood, Inc. and Joseph Sacavitch
do not claim to own the Facebook page. Thus, they do not have a claim for
violation of Penal Code section 496. 
 
Furthermore, no evidence has been presented that would indicate the
Facebook page (or any other property) was bought, sold, received, withheld, or
concealed. 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant meets his initial burden by arguing there is
no evidence presented that Defendant/Cross-Complainant violated Penal Code
section 496 regarding the property of Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward
Westwood, Inc. and Joseph Sacavitch. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward
Westwood, Inc. and Joseph Sacavitch do not meet their subsequent burden. 
 
            The
court GRANTS summary adjudication in favor of Defendant/Cross-Complainant and
against only Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward Westwood, Inc. and Joseph
Sacavitch on the sixth cause of action in the Complaint for violation of Penal
Code section 496. 
 
7.              
Seventh Cause of Action—Negligent
Misrepresentation
 
a.              
 Legal
Standard
 
The elements of a cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing
material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with
intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of
the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to
whom it was directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v.
Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
1145, 1154, quotation marks omitted.)
 
The facts constituting the alleged fraud
must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Super. Ct. (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
b.              
 Discussion
 
i.               
The Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant moves for summary adjudication on the
seventh cause of action for negligent misrepresentation. (MSA, p. 18:1–2.)
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant argues that summary adjudication is
appropriate because Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants have not identified any
misrepresentations. (MSA, p. 18:3, 18:19.)
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants disagree, pointing to their Amended
Responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 226 and 227. (Opp’n, pp. 6:24–7:3;
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ Separate Statement, Items 14, 15;
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ Appendix of Evidence, actual pp. 233–234 of 294.) 
 
            In his Reply,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant argues: (1) that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants cannot
create a triable issue of material fact with a declaration that contradicts his
prior discovery responses; (2) that none of these new responses can ground a
fraud claim; and (3) that summary adjudication is at least warranted as to the
Entity Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants. (Reply, pp. 9:1–10:10.)
 
ii.             
The Statements at Issue
 
In four of the five sets of amended responses to special interrogatories
(i.e., all of them except for the amended responses from Plaintiff/Cross-Complainant
Forward Calabasas, Inc.), the following statement appears in the Amended
Responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 226 and 227:
 
In December
of 2021 and January of 2022, [Defendant/Cross-Complainant] told agents
in the Forward Westwood office, including but not limited to [names omitted]
that the Forward Westwood Office was closing and that if they did not want
their own business to be disrupted, they must move their license to either KW
South Bay or KW Calabasas.
 
(Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’
Appendix of Evidence, actual pp. 233–234, 241–243, 261–264, 272–275 of 294 [emphasis
added].)  The only difference between the
two statements is the word “fraudulently,” which appears before the word “told”
in the Amended Response to Special Interrogatory No. 227.
 
            Other statements are included in the
amended responses to special interrogatories of Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Forward Calabasas, Inc., Paul Morris, and Edward Krifcher.
 
iii.            
No Direct Contradiction of Prior Testimony
 
It is well-established case law that a party “cannot create a triable
issue of fact by providing a declaration that contradicts its prior deposition
testimony.” (Best Rest Motel, Inc. v. Sequoia Ins. Co. (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 696, 708–709, citation omitted; see also Advanced Micro Devices
v. Great Am. Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 791, 800–801 [“In
reviewing motions for summary judgment, the courts have long tended to treat
affidavits repudiating previous testimony as irrelevant, inadmissible, or
evasive.”] (Citation omitted.).)
 
            The court does not see a direct
contradiction here. It appears that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants previously
answered Special Interrogatory Nos. 226 and 227 with an answer of “We are
unsure . . . .” The updated answer takes into account the discovery that was ordered
to occur; it gives a certain answer where an uncertain one was previously
provided.
 
iv.            
Fraud Claims
 
The various
statements claimed—including the statements allegedly made to the
agents—involve multiple triable issues of material fact. If proven, it is
possible that those facts could ground a claim for negligent misrepresentation
and/or fraud. This is because these statements: (1) are specific enough to meet
the heightened pleading standard for fraud; and (2) could satisfy some of the
elements of these causes of action. (Hydro-Mill
Co., Inc., supra, 115
Cal.App.4th at p. 1154.)
 
v.              
The
Entity Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
 
The court does not have any reason to provide different relief to the
Entity Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants than to the Individual
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants on this cause of action. If, as alleged, the
misrepresentations were made to the Individual Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
and/or to the other employees of the Entity Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants, then
the Entity Plaintiffs could also have a claim. 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant meets his initial burden to show the
nonexistence of triable issues of material fact as to the seventh cause of
action. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants meet their subsequent burden to show the
existence of triable issues of material fact as to this cause of action. 
 
            The court DENIES summary
adjudication as to the seventh cause of action for negligent misrepresentation.
 
8.              
Eighth Cause of Action—Fraud
 
a.              
 Legal
Standard
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
The facts constituting the alleged fraud
must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Super. Ct. (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
b.              
 Discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant moves for summary adjudication on the eighth
cause of action for fraud. (MSA, p. 18:1–2.)
 
Both sides make the same arguments and present the same evidence for
this cause of action as they had regarding the seventh cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation. The court’s analysis is the same as well. 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant meets his initial burden to show the
nonexistence of triable issues of material fact as to the eighth cause of
action. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants meet their subsequent burden to show the
existence of triable issues of material fact as to this cause of action. 
 
            The court DENIES summary
adjudication as to the eighth cause of action for fraud.
 
Conclusion
 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication of Issues is GRANTED in part. 
 
Summary adjudication is GRANTED in favor of Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Meny Atias and against Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Joseph Sacavitch, Edward Krifcher, and
Paul Morris as to the first cause of action in the Complaint for
misappropriation of corporate opportunities. 
 
Summary adjudication is
GRANTED in favor of Defendant/Cross-Complainant Meny Atias and against
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Forward Westwood, Inc. and Joseph Sacavitch on the
fifth and sixth causes of action in the Complaint for conversion and violation
of Penal Code section 496, respectively. 
 
The Motion for Summary
Adjudication of Issues is DENIED as to all else. 