 Case Number:  23SMCV04773    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Nassara LLC v.
Stoll, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV04773
MOTION:                  Motion
to Challenge the Good Faith Settlement
HEARING DATE:   7/19/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A
plaintiff may settle with one of several joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract
without releasing the others. Provided it is in “good faith,” the settlement
discharges the settling defendant from liability to the other defendants for
equitable contribution or comparative indemnity but¿not¿for contractual
indemnity. (CCP § 877(a)–(b).) 
 
The California Supreme Court in Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Assoc. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, established the
standard for determining whether a settlement was made in good faith. Under Tech-Bilt,
the following factors are considered: (1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid
in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4)
a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling
defendants. (Id. at 498-501.) Additionally, the evaluation must
be made based on the information available at the time of settlement. (Id.
at 599.) 
   
If the court makes a good faith determination, the court
may dismiss the settling party from comparative indemnity claims if the
settling party has made such a request at the time of the good faith determination.
(CCP §§ 877, 877.6(c); CRC 3.1382.)  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendants
RJ Nautical and Rico Stoll (the “Moving Defendants”) move to contest Plaintiff
Nassara, LLC’s application for determination of good faith settlement. The
Moving Defendants argue that the settlement entered between Plaintiff and Defendants
Engel and Volkers Yachting (aka Engel Voelkers Yachting Americas) and Walter
Johnson (the “Settling Defendants”) does not meet the standards for good faith.
 
The parties first dispute the proper procedure of this motion and the
validity of the Court’s February 27, 2024, order. Code of Civil Procedure
section 877.6(a) provides two procedures for obtaining a good faith
determination. Relevantly, subsection(a)(2) provides:
 
[A] settling party
may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an
application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order.
The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and
amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be
given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.
Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the
mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days
of personal service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest
the good faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties files a
motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order,
or within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the settlement…
 
(Emphasis
added.)
 
Plaintiff
filed a notice of settlement with Settling Defendants, as well as an application
for the Court to find that the settlement was reached in good faith and dismiss
the Settling Defendants. On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed proofs of service
indicating that these materials had been posted for delivery to the moving Defendants’
counsel via certified mail, return receipt requested. Defendant filed and
served the instant motion on March 5, 2024, exactly 25 days from February 27,
2024. Defendant’s motion is therefore in compliance with section 887.6(a)(2). 
 
The Court must consider the merits of Defendant’s challenge to the
settling parties’ good faith, despite its prior order determining good faith. The
Court prematurely signed the application and dismissed the Settling Defendants
from the case on February 27, 2024, less than 25 days after the notice of
settlement. The Court lacked jurisdiction to grant such an order at that time.
Therefore, the Court vacates the order as void. (CCP §473(d).) 
 
As to the merits, good faith is contested. “If the good faith
settlement is contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable
ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of
good faith on the contesting party. Once there is a showing made by the
settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good
faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not made
in good faith. [Citations.] If contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should
be filed which in many cases could require the moving party to file responsive
counterdeclarations to negate the lack of good faith asserted by the
nonsettling contesting party.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Ct., (1987)
192 Cal. App. 3d 1251, 1262, emphasis added.)
 
Here, the settling parties gave notice of the settlement to the
contesting Defendants. The settling parties agreed to release all claims
between them on a “walkaway” basis, with “no financial consideration trading
hands.” The settling parties thus show that there was a settlement, and the
approximate financial value of the settlement, namely, zero. The
burden is therefore on Defendants to show that the settlement was not made in good
faith. Defendants do not present any declarations which would demonstrate any
of the Tech-Bilt factors in their favor. Defendants do not discuss the
propriety of the settlement at all. Instead, Defendants argue that plaintiff
has not presented any evidence showing the good faith of the settlement. Defendants would place the burden on settlors to show good
faith on their motion. Moving Defendants’ cited cases do not stand for such a proposition.
(See Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal. App.
4th 1337, 1340, fn. 6 [contesting accounting firm met its burden in attacking
the settlement on the ground that it lacked good faith in line with section
887.6(d)’s burden shifting]; Abbott Ford, Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Ford Motor Co.)
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 858,  879 [settling
parties have the burden to establish the present monetary value of their
agreement; the burden then shifts to the nonsettling defendant to accept the
declared value of the settlement or attempt to prove the settlement is worth
more].) 
 
The statute expressly requires Defendants to show a lack of good
faith. Since Defendants have not met this burden, Defendants’ motion cannot be
granted.
While the Moving Defendants cite Abbot Ford in support of
their position, the court in Franklin Mint Co. v. Superior Ct., (2005)
130 Cal. App. 4th 1550, 1557, explained the context of Abbot Ford rule,
which is inapplicable here.  In Franklin
Mint, the court addressed the issue of where non-cash terms dictate the
value of the settlement and the amount of the offset.  The Franklin court found that “[i]n a
situation where the cash amount of the settlement does not dictate the amount
of the offset, the settling parties must include an allocation or a valuation
in their agreement.”  (Id.).  Here, non-cash terms do not dictate the value
of the settlement and the amount of the offset. Even if the Court were to apply
the rules here, the settlors complied with the requirement by providing a
valuation: a walkaway basis with “no financial consideration” changing hands. Whether
or not a settlement of $0 was in “good faith” is for Defendants to show.
In reply, Defendants request additional time to conduct discovery on the
Settling Defendants’ proportionate liability. “[T]he objecting
nonsettlor may appropriately move for a continuance of the hearing, if
necessary, in order to engage in discovery to support its statutory burden of
proof as to the factors indicating a lack of good faith.” (Grand City, supra,
192 Cal. App. 3d at 1265.) Defendants have not “appropriately move[d]” to
secure such discovery, or a continuance to conduct such discovery. Defendants
do not explain what discovery efforts they have undergone regarding other
parties’ proportionate liability in the intervening months since answering or
making this motion. Defendants do not identify what discovery, if any, they
plan to conduct. RJ Nautical complains that it could not have obtained
discovery until its default was lifted in June 2024. However, only RJ Nautical
was in default. Defendant Stoll was not in default. Stoll answered prior to
this motion being made and could have freely conducted discovery. Thus, the
Court denies the Moving Defendant’s request for a continuance so that discovery
may be conducted.
Accordingly,
the motion is DENIED.  The Court concludes
that the settlement agreement between Plaintiff and the Settling Defendants was
in good faith.  