  Case Number:  23AHCV01408    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



EDDIE A OCHOA, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS, LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01408
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 9,
   2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On June 20,
2023, plaintiff Eddie A. Ochoa (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
defendant General Motors, LLC (“Defendant”). The operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) was filed on November 22, 2023. Plaintiff asserts claims for
violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”) as well as
fraudulent concealment arising from his purchase of a 2019 Chevrolet Cruze
(“Vehicle”) on or about March 1, 2019. Plaintiff alleges that the Vehicle
suffers issues with the “engine and/or cooling system” (the “Cooling System
Defect”) and that Defendant wrongfully failed to disclose the existence of the
Cooling System Defect at the time of sale. (FAC, ¶¶ 75-76.) The Cooling System
Defect results in “an engine coolant leak from the water pump, water pump weep
reservoir, and/or water pump shaft seal” and will cause vehicles to “experience
reduced cooling performance, engine overheating, coolant odor, reduced engine
power, stalling, and/or total engine failure.” (FAC, ¶ 23.) 
          On
December 21, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to strike. Defendant demurs
only to the Fifth Cause of Action for fraudulent concealment on the ground that
it is time-barred and fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action. Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A.  
Demurrer
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its
face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.)  
B.  
Motion
to Strike
          Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.    DISCUSSION
A.  
Demurrer
1.  
Statute
of Limitations
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s fraud
claim is barred by the 3-year statute of limitations because he bought the
Vehicle on March 1, 2019, but did not file the complaint until June 20, 2023.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot invoke the delayed-discovery rule because
he fails to plead facts showing that he was “not negligent in failing to make
the discovery sooner”. (Demurrer, p. 5.) 
The plaintiff bears the burden of
pleading and proving the belated discovery of a cause of action. (Investors
Equity Life Holding Co. v. Schmidt (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1533.) More
specifically, to overcome an apparent limitations bar on demurrer, the
plaintiff claiming delayed discovery of the facts constituting the cause of
action has the burden of setting forth pleaded facts to show “(1) the time and
manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery
despite reasonable diligence. The burden is on the plaintiff to show diligence,
and conclusory allegations will not withstand demurrer.” (Czajkowski v.
Haskell & White, LLP (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 166, 174–175 [internal
citations omitted].) 
Here, Plaintiff only provides
conclusory allegations regarding his discovery of Defendant’s alleged
fraudulent concealment. Plaintiff alleges that he “discovered Defendant’s
wrongful conduct . . . shortly before the filing of the complaint, as the
Vehicle continued to exhibit symptoms of the defects following Defendant’s
unsuccessful attempts to repair them” on two occasions in June and July of 2020
(FAC ¶¶ 38, 40-43.) Plaintiff alleges that he continued to experience symptoms
of the Vehicle’s defects after these unsuccessful attempts to repair the
Vehicle, but he does not describe the continuing symptoms nor does he allege
facts demonstrating the “time and manner” of his discovery. 
Plaintiff also does not explain why he
could not have discovered the alleged fraud earlier. He alleges that “Defendant
(and its agents, representatives, officers, directors, employees, affiliates,
and/or dealerships) concealed the Transmission Defect, minimized the scope,
cause, and dangers of the Defect with inadequate TSBs and/or Recalls, and
refused to investigate, address, and remedy the Defect as it pertains to all
affected vehicles as set forth herein.” (FAC, ¶ 50.) Plaintiff additionally
claims that Defendant blamed the symptoms of the Transmission Defect on other
issues and not the actual defect itself and purported to be able to repair the
transmission.” (Compl., ¶ 51.) The references to a “Transmission Defect” appear
to be in error, but even if the allegations correctly referred to the “Cooling
Defect” at issue, they are too conclusory and do not include sufficient facts
showing why Plaintiff could not have discovered the alleged fraud sooner with
reasonable diligence. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court
concludes that the Fifth Cause of Action for fraudulent concealment is time-barred.
Defendant’s demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend.  
B.  
Motion
to Strike
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages on the ground that the SBA does not allow Plaintiff
to recover both a civil penalty as well as punitive damages. Defendant cites to
Troensegaard v. Silvercrest Industries, Inc. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 218,
228, which rejected the plaintiff’s attempt to recover punitive damages could be
recovered in addition to a civil penalty imposed under Civil Code section
1794(c) for willful violations of the SBA. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that he
is entitled to plead both remedies in the Complaint. But Plaintiff only
selectively quotes multiple cases which are inapposite or not binding. For
instance, in Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1256,
the court permitted the plaintiffs to seek punitive damages and statutory
penalties for wiretapping and eavesdropping. In Brilliant v. Tiffin Motor
Homes (2010 N.D. Cal.) 2010 WL 2721531, the district court did not hold
that the SBA allowed for punitive damages, but instead noted that in another
federal case, Romo v. FFG Insurance Company (C.D.Cal. 2005) 397
F.Supp.2d 1237, that the parties did not dispute that punitive damages were
recoverable under the SBA. However, the Romo court only stated that the
SBA’s civil penalties were analogous to punitive damages for purposes of
determining whether the federal court had subject mattr jurisdiction. 
Accordingly, the motion to strike is
GRANTED. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED and
Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED. Plaintiff is granted 20 days’ leave to
amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 9th
day of May
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 