 Case Number:  22STCV09483    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV09483




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
(2)  
  Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One  




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Long Beach Public Transportation
  Company




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Long Beach Public Transportation
Company (Defendant) moves to compel Plaintiff Juana Sandoval’s (Plaintiff) responses
to Special Interrogatories, Set One and Form Interrogatories, Set One. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall
impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that on September 28, 2022, it served Special
Interrogatories, Set One and Form Interrogatories, Set One, on Plaintiff. (Sullivan
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Extensions to respond were granted until January 10, 2023,
when Defendant requested responses without objections. (Id. ¶ 4.) On
February 3, 2023, Plaintiff served unverified responses. (Id. ¶ 5, Exh.
C.) Since then, no verification has been sent. (Id. ¶ 6.) Unverified
discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all, and are subject to a
motion to compel responses (rather than a motion to compel further responses).¿
(Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-36.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
            Plaintiff did not file an
opposition to this motion, but a Non-Opposition Declaration. In it, Plaintiff’s
counsel does not state that verified responses to the interrogatories were
served. Therefore, since responses were not verified, the motions to compel are
granted. 
 
            Defendant requests sanctions against
Plaintiff and her counsel of record for $1,250 for each motion (2 total). This
amount represents an hourly rate of $250. Given the type of motion and lack of
an opposition, the Court finds this amount is excessive and reduces it to $750
(1.5 hours of attorney time for each motion).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motions to compel are GRANTED. Plaintiff shall
serve properly verified responses, without objections, to Special
Interrogatories, Set One and Form Interrogatories, Set One, within 10
days.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $750.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Defendant
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 