 Case Number:  21STCV26613    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV26613




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Neurological Examination and Orthopaedic Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Juan Carlos Olvera and American
  Way Management, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Adrien Aaron Garcia



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On July 20, 2021, Plaintiff Adrien Aaron
Garcia (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Juan Carlos Olvera,
American Way Management, Inc., and Does 1 to 20 for negligence and negligent
entrustment resulting from a motor vehicle accident.
 
            Defendants
Juan Carlos Olvera and American Way Management, Inc. (Defendants) now move to
compel Plaintiff’s appearance at a neurological examination and orthopedic
examination. Defendants also seek monetary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes and
Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Physical
Examination
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination
does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿The
demand must specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of
the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the
physician who will perform the examination. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.220(c).) The
demand must also be scheduled for a date that is at least 30 days after service
of the demand. On motion of the party demanding the examination, the court may
shorten this time. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.220(d).) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.250 provides that,
when a plaintiff fails to respond to a demand, or refuses to submit to the
physical examination, the defendant may move for an order compelling a response
to the demand and compelling compliance with the request for an exam. The
motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. 
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2032.250 (b).) 
 
Neurological
Examination
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., § 2032.310,
subds. (a)-(b).) “If the place of the examination is more than 75 miles
from the residence of the person to be examined, an order to submit to it shall
be entered only if both of the following conditions are satisfied:
 
(1) The
court determines that there is good cause for the travel involved.
(2) The
order is conditioned on the advancement by the moving party of the reasonable
expenses and costs to the examinee for travel to the place of examination.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.320(e).) 
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Keith W. Moreton states that he spoke on the
telephone with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding his objections to the examination
demands. (Moreton Decl. ¶ 10, 13.) Therefore, it appears Defendants’ counsel
made good faith attempts to resolve the issue. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges the following injuries: left rib fracture,
right pulmonary contusion, fracture of left forearm, contusion of left thigh,
headaches, neck pain, lower back pain, mid back pain, right shoulder pain,
dizziness, cognition and memory difficulties, changes in mood, fatigue and
sleep-wake cycle changes. (Moreton Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) 
 
Defendant demanded a neurological examination with George Chow, M.D.
in Tarzana, California and an orthopedic examination with Steven Nagelberg,
M.D. in Downey, California. Plaintiff resides in Camp Pendleton. Plaintiff
objected to the Dr. Chow examination in part, on the basis that it was over 75
miles from his residence. (Id., Exh. F.) Plaintiff did not object to the
distance for the Dr. Nagelberg examination. According to Defendants’ use of
Google Maps, Plaintiff’s distance to Dr. Chow is 107.5 miles. (Id., 17, Exh.
I.) Plaintiff’s distance to Dr. Nagelberg is between 73.1 to 78.1 miles. (Id. ¶
16, Exh. H.) 
 
Defendant argues that good cause exists to grant leave for Dr. Chow’s
examination because Dr. Chow is closer to the Courthouse and thus, will be
available to testify at trial. If Defendants were to obtain an expert from San
Diego, although closer to Plaintiff, they would incur more costs to pay for
that expert’s travel for the trial. Defendants argue there is no substantial
hardship for Plaintiff to travel to Tarzana for the examination.  
 
Plaintiff argues he agreed to the subject demands if the following
deficiencies in the demand were cured. Regarding the mental examination,
Plaintiff argues Defendants failed to list in the demand, the actual tests that
will be performed. Here, the amended demand states that Dr. Chow may ask
Plaintiff questions related to the nature and extent of his injuries, no more
than is necessary for purposes of diagnosis and evaluation. The demand also
states that Dr. Chow may use “accepted diagnostic instruments, tests,
manipulations, and techniques in a neurological examination.” (Id., Exh. C.) When
seeking leave to conduct a mental examination, the party seeking leave must state the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination fully and
in detail. This means listing each by name. (Carpenter v. Superior Court¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.) In Carpenter, the court discussed the
heightened risk of intrusion that a mental examination could pose. (Id.
at 261 [“Requiring the court to identify the permissible diagnostic tests and
procedures, by name, confirms that the court has weighed the risks of
unwarranted intrusion upon the plaintiff against the defendant's need for a
meaningful opportunity to test the plaintiff's claims of physical or mental
injury.”].) Additionally, the specificity and clarity of the order aids the
examiner in complying with the parameters imposed by the court. (Id.)  
 
 Here, the demand did not state the specific
tests by name. Additionally, Defendants’ motion fails to state the time, place,
manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination being sought. The
motion only asks for Plaintiff to appear for an examination at the next
available date and time.[1] Additionally,
Defendant has failed to show how good cause exists for Plaintiff to travel over
75 miles for the examination with Dr. Chow, when it does not appear that
Defendants made efforts to procure a closer expert. Therefore, the motion for
leave to conduct a neurological examination of Plaintiff is denied.
 
As
for the orthopedic examination, it does not appear that Plaintiff is contending
that the distance is over 75 miles, although it is near the limit. As a result,
the Court will apply sections 2032.220 and 2032.250. The amended demand with Dr. Nagelberg states
the examination will consist of a physical examination, and that he may use
“accepted diagnostic instruments, tests, manipulations, and techniques . . .
but no procedure causing pain or undue discomfort.” (Moreton
Decl, Exh. E.) Unlike the rule in Carpenter, which pertains to mental
examinations and additional physical examinations, Plaintiff does not point to
a rule requiring the tests to be specifically listed in an initial defense
physical examination.[2] Therefore,
because the demand indicates the examination is within 75 miles and will not
contain a painful or intrusive test or procedure, the motion to compel
Plaintiff’s physical examination is granted. However, since Defendants indicate
in reply that they have procured a more specific list of the areas to be
tested, Defendants should include that list in the amended demand. 
 
The
Court finds that the parties acted with substantial justification is making and
opposing this motion and declines to award monetary sanctions to either party.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants
Juan Carlos Olvera and American Way Management, Inc.’s motion to compel
Plaintiff’s neurological examination is DENIED.  
 
Defendants Juan Carlos Olvera and American Way Management, Inc.’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s physical examination is GRANTED.  
 
The Court orders Plaintiff Adrien Aaron Garcia to appear for examination
with Dr. Steven Nagelberg within 20 days of notice of the Court’s orders,
unless the parties stipulate otherwise. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 


