  Case Number:  20STCV03048    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  72   SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES   DEPARTMENT 72   TENTATIVE  RULING   

SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

 

DEPARTMENT 72

 

TENTATIVE
RULING

 




SUSIE SENIURA, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
BENJAMIN M. LANG,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  20STCV03048
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 14, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1




 

 

 

Defendant and Cross-Complainant Tammy P. Lang-Tanaka
(“Defendant”) as Successor Trustee of the Benjamin M. Lang Trust of 2017 dated
May 18, 2017 (the “BML Trust”) moves to compel Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant
Susie Seniura (“Plaintiff”), as Trustee of the Ngook Quen Lang Trust (the “NQL
Trust”) and as Personal Representative of the Estate of Ngook Quen Lang (the
“Estate”) to provide further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set 1, Nos.
12.1 and 17.1; Requests for Admission, Set 1; and Request for Production, Set
1. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions against Plaintiff.

 

            The
Court GRANTS Defendant’s motions and ORDERS Plaintiff ”) to provide further
responses, without objection, to Form Interrogatories, Set 1, Nos. 12.1 and
17.1; Requests for Admission, Set 1; and Request for Production, Set 1.
Plaintiff must serve the responses within 30 days of the issuance of this
order.

 

            The
Court further ORDERS Plaintiff to pay $4,461.65 in sanctions to Defendant’s
counsel within 30 days of the issuance of this order.

 

Background

 

Plaintiff filed this action on January 24, 2020, seeking
Partition by Sale of Real Property.

 

On May 12, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint.

 

On October 10, 2023, the Court issued an order granting in
part and denying without prejudice in part Defendant’s motion to amend the
cross-complaint.

 

On October 16, 2023, Defendant filed the SACC, the operative
cross-complaint, against Cross-Defendants, raising claims for (1) conversion;
(2) unjust enrichment; (3) accounting; (4) theft in violation of Penal Code,
section 484; (5) theft in violation of Penal Code, section 496, subd. (a); (6)
receipt of stolen property in violation of Penal Code, section 496, subd. (a);
(7) breach of trust (failure to maintain accurate trust records); (8) breach of
trust (failure to provide accurate accounting); (9) breach of trust
(commingling of assets); (10) breach of trust (dissipation of trust estate
assets); (11) breach of trust (embezzlement in violation of Penal Code, section
338); (12) breach of trust (failure to maintain insurance); (13) theft by fraud
in violation of Penal Code, section 484; and (14) unjust enrichment.

 

On November 22, Defendant served the discovery at issue on
Plaintiff.

 

Plaintiff served responses on December 18, 2023.

 

Request for Judicial Notice

 

The Court grants Cross-Defendants’ request for judicial
notice.

 

Legal Standard

 

Requests for Production

 

“A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular
demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in
part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)

 

“A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)

 

“(a)
On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:

            (1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete.

(2)
A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.

            (3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.

 

(b) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:

(1)
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.

(2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.

(3)
In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.

 

(c)
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further
response to the demand.

 

…
(h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”

 

(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)

 

            The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) Once good cause is established by
the moving party, the burden then shifts to the responding party to justify any
objections made to document disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)

 

Requests for Admission

 

On
receipt of a response to requests for admission the propounding party may move
for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that
an objection to an RFA is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290(a)(2).)       

 

“(a)
On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party
deems that either or both of the following apply:

(1) An answer to a
particular request is evasive or incomplete.

(2) An objection to
a particular request is without merit or too             general.”

 

(Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290.)

 

“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290(d).)          

            

Interrogatories

 

Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.220, subdivision (a) requires that “[e]ach
answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, a party may
move to compel further responses to a form interrogatory if the other party’s
answer is “evasive or incomplete.” The responding party has the burden of
justifying the objections to the form and special interrogatories. (Coy v.
Super. Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 

 

“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290.

 

Discussion

 

Timeliness

 

Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s motions were filed one day
past the 40-day deadline from the service of discovery responses in which to
file a motion to compel. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).) In this
case, Plaintiff’s responses were served electronically on December 18, 2023.
Because the responses were served electronically, the deadline was extended by
two days. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B).) The motions are
therefore timely.

 

Meet and Confer

 

It appears that Defendant’s counsel made an honest and
reasonable attempt to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel. Although
Defendant’s counsel erroneously failed to send a drafted meet and confer email,
when he discovered the error, he immediately emailed Plaintiff’s counsel and
offered additional time to supplement in exchange for a deadline extension. Plaintiff’s
counsel rejected Defendant’s counsel’s offer. The Court will therefore not
impose sanctions based on a failure to meet and confer.

 

Objections

 

Plaintiff’s objections were based on the pending demurrer
and motion to strike. Besides being an improper basis, this basis is also
unsupported because the Court overrules the demurrer in most parts and denies
the motion to strike.

 

The Court therefore orders Plaintiff to serve further
verified responses to all of the discovery items at issue, without objections.

 

Sanctions

 

Defendant requests an hourly rate of $400.00 for attorney
George C. Huang. The Court finds this rate to be reasonable based on Huang’s
experience.

 

Defendant requests 3.5 hours per motion, for a total of 10.5
hours spent on preparation. Defendant also requests .5 hours for Huang to argue
the motion, bringing the total to 11 hours. The Court finds this time
expenditure to be reasonable.

 

The Court approves Defendant’s request of $61.65 for the
cost of reserving the hearing date.

 

The Court does not approve Defendant’s request for travel
expenses, which are not necessary because parties may appear remotely.

 

The Court therefore awards a total of $4,461.65 in sanctions
to Defendant.    SUSIE SENIURA,                                      Plaintiff,             v.     BENJAMIN M. LANG,                                     Defendant.      Case No:     20STCV03048            Hearing Date:  March 14, 2024  Calendar Number:  1          Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Susie Seniura (“Plaintiff”),  as Trustee of the Ngook Quen Lang Trust (the “NQL Trust”) and as Personal  Representative of the Estate of Ngook Quen Lang (the “Estate”), and  Cross-Defendant Eugene Seniura (“Eugene”) (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”)  demurs to and move to strike portions of the Second Amended Cross-Complaint  (“SACC”) filed by Defendant and Cross-Complainant Tammy P. Lang-Tanaka  (“Defendant”) as Successor Trustee of the Benjamin M. Lang Trust of 2017 dated  May 18, 2017 (the “BML Trust”). Defendant separately moves for leave to amend  the SACC.   The Court OVERRULES the demurrer with respect to the fifth  and sixth cross-claims.    The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND with  respect to the fourth, eleventh, and thirteenth cross-claims.   The Court therefore DENIES the motion to strike the fifth  and sixth cross-claims.    The Court DENIES AS MOOT the motion to strike the fourth,  eleventh, and thirteenth cross-claims.   The Court DENIES the motion for leave to amend as to the  seventeenth, eighteenth, nineteenth, and twenty-ninth amendments and GRANTS the  motion as to the remaining amendments.   Background   Plaintiff filed this action on January 24, 2020, seeking  Partition by Sale of Real Property.   On May 12, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint.   On October 10, 2023, the Court issued an order granting in  part and denying without prejudice in part Defendant’s motion to amend the  cross-complaint.   On October 16, 2023, Defendant filed the SACC, the operative  cross-complaint, against Cross-Defendants, raising claims for (1) conversion;  (2) unjust enrichment; (3) accounting; (4) theft in violation of Penal Code,  section 484; (5) theft in violation of Penal Code, section 496, subd. (a); (6)  receipt of stolen property in violation of Penal Code, section 496, subd. (a);  (7) breach of trust (failure to maintain accurate trust records); (8) breach of  trust (failure to provide accurate accounting); (9) breach of trust  (commingling of assets); (10) breach of trust (dissipation of trust estate  assets); (11) breach of trust (embezzlement in violation of Penal Code, section  338); (12) breach of trust (failure to maintain insurance); (13) theft by fraud  in violation of Penal Code, section 484; and (14) unjust enrichment.   On November 15, 2023, Cross-Defendants filed the demurrer  and motion to strike against the SACC. Defendant filed an opposition and  Cross-Defendants filed a reply.   Defendant moved for leave to amend the SACC on December 26,  2023. Cross-Defendants filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.   Legal Standard   Demurrer   As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects  must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial  notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.  Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading  alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,  Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth  of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is  concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of  action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)   Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be  allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,  348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be  amended successfully. (Ibid.;  Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f  there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause  of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.  (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).   Motion to Strike   The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its  discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or  improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The  court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in  conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the  pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or  filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving  to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   Leave to Amend   A complainant may obtain leave from the trial court to amend  their pleading beyond the number of amendments allowed under Code of Civil  Procedure section 472 (a) by filing a noticed motion. (Cal. Rules of Court,  Rule 3.1324.) The motion must be accompanied by a declaration stating: (1) the  effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)  when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)  why the request was not made earlier.¿(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324 (b).)   “Any judge, at any time before or after commencement of  trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may  allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference order.”¿(Code Civ.  Proc., § 576.) In the absence of a showing of prejudice from the opposing side,  the trial court ordinarily lacks discretion to deny a motion to amend a  pleading. (Honig v. Financial Corp. of America (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960,  965.)   Request for Judicial Notice   The Court grants Cross-Defendants’ request for judicial  notice.     Discussion   Demurrer   Jurisdiction   Subject Matter Jurisdiction   Cross-Defendants argue that the 7th through 12th causes of  action all concern the internal affairs of a trust and therefore fall under the  exclusive jurisdiction of the probate court.   “The superior court having jurisdiction over the trust  pursuant to this part has exclusive jurisdiction of proceedings concerning the  internal affairs of trusts.” (Probate Code, § 17000, subd. (a).)   The NQL Trust is currently being administered in Orange  County, California (SACC ¶¶ 2-3.) Cross-Defendants argue that the Orange County  Superior Court therefore has exclusive jurisdiction over proceedings concerning  the internal affairs of the NQL Trust pursuant to § 17000.   “Use of the term “exclusive jurisdiction” in these contexts  is somewhat misleading. The term does not refer to jurisdiction in the  ‘fundamental,’ ‘in personam’ or ‘in rem’ sense. Rather, it concerns assigning  exclusive responsibility over certain actions to the department of the superior  court assigned to hear probate matters as against other departments in that  same county superior court, such as the departments that hear civil matters.  ‘Exclusive jurisdiction’ in the Probate Code does not distinguish between  different county superior courts.” (Capra v. Capra (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th  1072, 1083.)    “[E]ven in a county having a formal probate department, a  nonprobate department does not lack fundamental jurisdiction over a probate  matter. Instead, and as that court held in [citation], the probate department  has ‘primary’ jurisdiction and a nonprobate department ‘secondary’ jurisdiction  of probate-related proceedings.” (Harnedy v. Whitty (2003) 110  Cal.App.4th 1333, 1344 [citations omitted].) “Probate Code sections 17000 and  17001 did not change this state of affairs. Those statutes were enacted (in original  form in 1986) to make clear that the probate departments of the California  superior courts could exercise the full and complete jurisdiction of a regular  superior court when hearing and deciding a probate matter.” (Id. at p.  1345.)   This Court is therefore not divested of jurisdiction by §  17000.   The Court therefore does not sustain the demurrer on this  basis.   Personal Jurisdiction   Cross-Defendants argue that the Court does not have personal  jurisdiction over the NQL Trust because the Trustor of the NQL Trust was a  resident of Orange County at the time of her death and the trust is being  administered in Orange County.   “[A] party who seeks relief on any basis other than a motion  to quash for lack of personal jurisdiction will be deemed to have made a  general appearance and waived all objections to defects in service, process, or  personal jurisdiction.” (Dial 800 v. Fesbinder (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th  32, 52.)   Cross-Defendants have appeared in order to move to strike  portions of the SACC for lack of standing and to demur to the SACC for lack of  subject matter jurisdiction. They have therefore consented to personal  jurisdiction.   Furthermore, “[a] party against whom a cause of action has  been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint  setting forth either or both of the following: (a) Any cause of action he has  against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against  him …. (b) Any cause of action he has against a person … whether or not such  person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his  cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series  of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts  a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the subject  of the cause brought against him.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.)   Defendant’s cross-claims are thus explicitly permitted by  statute as a result of Plaintiff’s complaint in this action.   The Court therefore does not sustain the demurrer on this  basis.   Standing   Cross-Defendants argue that Defendant does not have standing  to sue for violations of the Penal Code and that the Court must therefore  dismiss the following cross-claims: (4) theft in violation of Penal Code,  section 484; (5) theft in violation of Penal Code, section 496, subd. (a); (6)  receipt of stolen property in violation of Penal Code, section 496, subd. (a);  (11) breach of trust (embezzlement in violation of Penal Code, section 338); and  (13) theft by fraud in violation of Penal Code, section 484.   Defendant responds that Penal Code, section 496 provides  that “Any person who has been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b)  may bring an action for three times the amount of actual damages, if any,  sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable attorney's fees.”  (Penal Code, § 496, subd. (c).)   Thus, Defendant’s fifth and sixth causes of action for  violation of section 496 are proper. However, Defendant identifies no  comparable basis for a cause of action for the other sections of the penal code  alleged to be violated.   Defendant argues that the fourth, eleventh, and thirteenth  cross-claims are also for violations of section 496. Facially, these claims  allege violations of different Penal Code sections than section 496.    The Court requests argument as to whether there is any  statutory basis for these causes of action. However, as it stands, the Court  must sustain the demurrer to them.   The Court therefore overrules the demurrer with respect to  the fifth and sixth cross-claims. The Court sustains the demurrer without leave  to amend with respect to the fourth, eleventh, and thirteenth cross-claims.   Motion to Strike   Penal Code Claims   Cross-Defendants argue that Defendant’s cross-claims under  the Penal Code must be stricken for the same reasons argued in the demurrer.  The Court has already disposed of these arguments above.   The Court therefore denies the motion to strike the fifth  and sixth cross-claims. The Court denies the motion as moot to strike the  fourth, eleventh, and thirteenth cross-claims.   Punitive Damages   Punitive damages are appropriate when a defendant acted with  malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is  defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct  carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of  others. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent.  Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable  conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious  disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.)  “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a  material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,  rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)     “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of  punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must  be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67  Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion  to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike  as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Ibid.)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are  insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud  or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court  (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)   Defendant argues that punitive damages are appropriate  because the eleventh and thirteenth cross-claims allege theft by fraud.  Defendant does not argue any other basis for punitive damages. Because the  Court dismisses the eleventh and thirteenth causes of action, the Court is  inclined to grant the motion to strike the demand for punitive damages.  However, the Court requests argument as to whether there are any other bases  for punitive damages.   Motion for Leave to Amend   Defendant has supplied declarations facially meeting the  statutory requirements for amendment.   Cross-Defendants argue that leave to amend must be denied  for the jurisdictional reasons asserted on demurrer. As discussed above, these  reasons do not deprive the Court of its ability to hear this case.   The only remaining issue is that the seventeenth,  eighteenth, nineteenth, and twenty-ninth amendments sought are to causes of  action which the Court dismisses without leave amend pursuant to the demurrer.  The Court denies leave to amend as to those amendments and grants the motion  otherwise.