  Case Number:  23GDCV00516    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES
            Plaintiffs
filed a motion to compel further responses from Defendant Autozone West LLC to
standard interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for production.  The court rules as follows:
Standard Interrogatories
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant responded by adopting responses dated 2015 and 2019 and
that Plaintiffs have the right to any updated information.  This motion is granted in part.  Defendant is to serve responses to the
standard interrogatories with any updated information from post-2015 and post-2019.  If there is no updated information, Defendant
is to serve verified responses stating there is no updated information.
Special Interrogatories
            No.
4:  Granted.  This is a typical contention
interrogatory.  If an answer to an
interrogatory would necessitate the preparation of a compilation or summary of
documents, the responding party may “specify the writings from which the answer
may be derived or ascertained.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.230.)  The response
does not specify the writings.
            No.
6:  Granted.  This interrogatory asks a specific question
that is relevant to this litigation.  If
a defendant could refuse to answer interrogatories by contending that the
plaintiff cannot prove the elements of the plaintiff’s case, every defendant
would be able to avoid answer interrogatories.
Requests for Production
            General
objections are not permitted in response to discovery requests.  Therefore, they are stricken.
Nos. 1-10, 12-13, 16-33,
40:  Granted.  The responses are not code-compliant.  Defendant is to serve a code-compliant
response.
            Nos.
11, 14, 15, 36, 37:  Granted in part and
denied in part.  The objection that
Defendant did not market asbestos-containing products in the relevant time
period is not a proper objection.  If a
defendant could refuse to produce documents by contending that the plaintiff
cannot prove the elements of the plaintiff’s case, every defendant would be
able to avoid producing documents. 
Therefore, that objection is stricken. 
However, Defendant identified the responsive documents, which Plaintiffs
already have.  So the motion is denied.
            Nos. 34,
35:  Denied.  Defendant identified the responsive
documents, which Plaintiffs already have.
            Nos.
38, 39:  Denied.  Defendant agreed to produce the responsive
document.
            The
motion is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. 
As the trial is set for December 11, 2023 in this preference case, the
court cannot continue the trial date to allow additional time for the discovery
responses.  Therefore, Defendant is to
serve verified responses to the interrogatories and document requests as ordered
above and produce any responsive documents that Plaintiffs do not have by
December 5, 2023.
            The
moving party is to give notice.