 Case Number:  23STCV06375    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  39 US 1902 Wilshire Owner,
LLC v. Juang Jan Thiankham, et al.
Case No.
23STCV06375
Ex Parte
Application
 
            Plaintiff
US 1902 Wilshire Owner, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Juang Jan Thiankham; Kamolnut Thiankham; Songpon Thiankham; Thai Dishes, Inc.;
and TD Wilshire, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”).  Plaintiff’s counsel filed five proofs of
service on April 7, 2023, indicating that the three individual defendants were
served personally, and the two entity defendants were served through the agent
for service of process.  Plaintiff’s
counsel used registered process servers for service of process.  Plaintiff then obtained entry of defaults and
a default judgment in the amount of $630,468.89.  
 
            On October
25, 2023, Defendants’ counsel filed an ex parte application for a temporary
stay of enforcement of the judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section
918(a).  Defendants’ counsel noticed the
hearing for October 26, 2023, but inexplicably, on the cover page, he noticed
the “place” of the hearing as “Department #32.” 
Therefore, the Court set the hearing for October 27, 2023, and ordered
Defendants’ counsel to provide proper notice. 
Defendants’ counsel filed the amended notice on October 25, 2023, at
5:26 p.m.  The parties stipulated to
continue the hearing to Tuesday, October 31, 2023.  Then, on October 30, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel filed an amended ex parte application seeking a stay of enforcement of
the judgment and a return of approximately $283,000 that was seized from
Defendants’ bank accounts.  
 
            Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 918(a), the trial court has authority to stay the
enforcement of any judgment.  Defendants’
counsel seeks a stay pending the Court’s decision on their motion to set aside
the defaults and default judgment, which is set for hearing on January 10,
2024.  Good cause having been shown, the
ex parte application is granted in this respect.
 
            Defendants’
ex parte application also seeks “return of funds which have been withdrawn from
Defendants’ accounts.”  Defendants’
counsel cites no authority in support of this request for “return” of the funds
in advance of the Court setting aside the default judgment.  Therefore, the Court denies the ex parte
application to the extent it seeks “return” of the funds prior to the default
judgment being set aside.  At this point,
absent authority to the contrary, the Court only has authority to stay enforcement
of the judgment under section 918(a) which means that the levying officer,
i.e., the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, shall hold the funds at issue and
shall not release them to anyone without further order of this Court.  Neither party has requested that the Court
order an undertaking or cited any authority on this issue, so the Court does
not order the funds to be deposited with the Court.  
 
Based upon the foregoing, the Court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         Defendants’ ex parte application is
granted in part and denied in part. 
 
            2.         The Court stays enforcement of the
judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section 916(a), pending the Court’s
ruling on the motion to set aside the defaults and default judgment.
 
            3.         The Court orders that the levying
officer, i.e., the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, shall hold the funds at issue
and shall not release the funds to anyone without further order of this
Court.  Defendants’ counsel may lodge a
proposed order for the Court’s signature if necessary to effectuate this order.
 
            4.         The Court denies the ex parte
application to the extent it seeks return of the funds to Defendants prior to
the defaults and default judgment being set aside.  
 
            5.         Neither party requested an undertaking
or cited any authority for an undertaking under these circumstances.  Therefore, the Court does not order the
levying authority, i.e., the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, to deposit the
funds with the Court.  This order is
without prejudice to any party making such a request and citing supporting authority.
 
            6.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
 