 Case Number:  23STCV22019    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  39 Dewey Demetro, Jr. v. R. Ebe, et al.
Case No. 23STCV22019
Minute Order
 
Notice: The Court posts this tentative order in advance of the hearing
on October 31, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.  The
Court provides notice: If Plaintiff does not appear at the hearing, either
remotely or in-person, he shall waive the right to be heard and shall submit to
entry of this order.  If Plaintiff wishes
to appear remotely but is experiencing difficulty, he may contact the Court’s
clerk, Roberto Mendoza, at (213) 633-0159 for assistance.  
 
            Plaintiff Dewey Demetro, Jr.
(“Plaintiff”), a self-represented party, filed a handwritten complaint with no
causes of action against two security guards at the Spring Street
Courthouse.  The first is “R. Ebe.”  The second is unknown to Plaintiff, so he is
named as “Gay Security Guard.”  In his
complaint, he writes: “A sireal [sic] killer is killing 10 to 15 people a
month!”  However, the gravamen of
Plaintiff’s complaint relates to the security protocols of the Spring Street
Courthouse.  Plaintiff alleges that he
had a court appearance in Department #32 on September 13, 2023, at 8:30
a.m.  Plaintiff alleges that a security
guard made him check-in, show his identification, and remove his belt.  Plaintiff alleges that the security guard
would not allow him to enter the courthouse. 
As a result, Plaintiff alleges: “Two years of work and the killer gose
[sic] free!  The worlds [sic] biggest
sireal [sic] killer is set free to kill some more because of the R. Ebe [and]
gay the security guard of the Spring Street Courthouse.”  Plaintiff seeks “Eight Billion Dollars.”  The complaint alleges no other facts and
asserts no causes of action.
 
            This complaint is meritless on its
face, not only based upon the nature of the allegations, but also because it
asserts no causes of action.  Further, this
Court has no jurisdiction over this dispute. 
The Spring Street Courthouse is federal property; the U.S. General
Services Administration controls access to the building; and the security
guards are hired by the federal government. 
The United States and its agencies enjoy sovereign immunity from civil
actions in state courts, per the Supremacy Clause, absent consent or waiver.  (See United
States ex rel. Touhy v. Ragen (1951) 340 U.S. 462, 464.)  Rather, this action must be filed in federal
court after complying with all applicable prerequisites.
 
The Court has inherent authority
to dismiss cases that are patently frivolous.  (See Huang v. Hanks (2018)
23 Cal.App.5th 179, 181-182, citations omitted).  The Court also may
notice its own motion for judgment on the pleadings, per Code of Civil
Procedure section 438(b)(2).  Based upon
the foregoing authorities, the Court issues an Order to Show Cause why this
case should not be dismissed and notices its own motion for judgment on the
pleadings.  The hearing shall be held on
October 20, 2023, at 8:30 a.m. at the following location:
 
            Stanley
Mosk Courthouse
            111 North
Hill Street
            Department
#39 (Goorvitch, J.)
            Los
Angeles, California 90012
 
The Court authorizes both in-person and remote
appearances.  If Plaintiff would like to
appear remotely but is having difficulty doing so, he may contact the Court’s
clerk, Roberto Mendoza, at (213) 633-0159 for assistance.  
 
            Plaintiff
may file a written opposition on or before October 9, 2023, or he may address
the issues orally at the hearing.  The
Court provides notice: If Plaintiff does not demonstrate that this action is
viable, absent good cause, the Court will dismiss this case with prejudice at
the upcoming hearing.  Similarly, if
Plaintiff does not appear at the hearing, absent good cause, the Court will
dismiss this case with prejudice. 
 
            The Court’s
clerk shall serve this order upon Plaintiff.  

     