 Case Number:  23TRCV01782    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SUZANNE
  MATEK,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01782




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
FIRE
  INSURANCE EXCHANGE,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 1, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney David J. Furtado, for
plaintiff Suzanne Matek
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The Court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The Court orders that the attorney is relieved
as counsel of record for plaintiff Suzanne Matek, effective upon the filing of
the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client.
BACKGROUND
On June 5, 2023, plaintiff Suzanne
Matek filed a complaint against Fire Insurance Exchange for (1) breach of
contract and (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing.  Plaintiff alleges that she
sought and obtained an insurance policy from defendant for property located at
64 Sea Breeze Ave., Rancho Palos Verdes. 
On September 16, 2022, water was discovered running underneath the east
garage wall at the property.  Plaintiff
immediately shut off the main water line to the property.  It was later determined that a pipe in the
wall of the garage had burst suddenly and accidentally.  Plaintiff promptly reported the loss on
September 19, 2022.  Defendant has
subsequently refused to take any action that might move plaintiff’s claim
forward.
Trial is set for April 7, 2025.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Suzanne Matek’s attorney David
J. Furtado seeks to be relieved as counsel.
            Counsel states in his declaration that
irreconcilable differences have arisen between the client and the attorney,
making it unreasonably difficult to carry out the employment effectively.  He states that an untenable situation has
arisen, resulting in the “irretrievable and irrecoverable breakdown” of the
attorney-client relationship necessary to pursue this case.  
The Court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.   The Court
also finds that the attorney has shown sufficient reason why the motion to be
relieved as counsel should be granted.
            The motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED. The Court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Suzanne
Matek, effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed “Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council
form MC-053) upon the client.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.