  Case Number:  23TRCV00078    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CARLA
  LEE, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00078




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LEXLUX
  ASSOCIATES, LP, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                        October
1, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Lexlux
Associates, LP and Alamitos Associates Management, LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Carla Lee
Motion
to Set Aside Entry of Default and Default Judgment
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
reply, and supplemental reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED. 
BACKGROUND
            On January 9, 2023, plaintiff Carla
Lee filed a complaint against Lexlux Associates, LP and Alamitos Associates
Management, LLC for negligence and premises liability.  Plaintiff alleges that on January 24, 2022,
plaintiff stepped in a pothole in a parking lot after having left Ramona’s Mexican
Food restaurant.
            On May 11, 2023, defaults were
entered against defendants.
            On June 17, 2024, a default judgment
was entered against defendants for $407,150.18.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
“[U]nder
subdivision (d) of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the court may set aside
orders and judgments that are ‘void,’ including orders and judgments void for
want of fundamental jurisdiction or personal jurisdiction.”  Bae v. T.D. Service Co. of Arizona
(2016) 245 Cal. App. 4th 89, 97 (citations omitted). 
            “Where
a party moves under section 473(d) to set aside ‘a judgment that, though valid
on its face, is void for lack of proper service, the courts have adopted by
analogy the statutory period for relief from a default judgment’ provided by
section 473.5, that is, the two-year outer limit.”  Trackman v. Kenney (2010) 187 Cal.
App. 4th 175, 180 (citations omitted).
CCP
§473.5(a) states, in relevant part: 
“When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party
in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered
against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of
motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the
action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable
time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: 
(i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or
(ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default
or default judgment has been entered.”
CCP
§473.5(b) requires that “a notice of motion to set aside a default or default
judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time for
making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it
shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack
of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. 
The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer,
motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.”
CCP
§473.5(c) allows “upon a finding by the court that the motion was made within
the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or default
judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend the
action.”
            “[T]he
policy of the law is to have every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it
looks with disfavor upon a party, who, regardless of the merits of the case,
attempts to take advantage of the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect
of his adversary.”  Fasuyi v.
Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167 Cal. App. 4th 681, 697 (citations and internal
quotations omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Under
§CCP 473(d) and/or CCP§ 473.5, defendants Lexlux Associates, LP and Alamitos
Associates Management, LLC request that the Court set aside the default entered
on May 11, 2023 and the default judgment on June 17, 2024. 
            The
proofs of service filed on April 26, 2023 state that Lexlux Associates, LP and
Alamitos Associates Management, LLC were served via personal service on
Christopher Mata, agent for service of process, at 5199 E. Pacific Coast
Highway, Suite 700, Long Beach, on March 27, 2023, at 3:05 p.m. by a registered
process server, Robert Alba.
            Defendants
argue that personal service was never effectuated and thus improper because
agent for service Christopher Mata was out at meetings all day and was not in
Long Beach at the time of the purported personal service; rather he was at a
meeting with a commercial tenant in Covina. 
See Christopher Mata decl.  Defendants
contend that Mata never received “actual notice” until April 2024 when
defendants’ attorney “happened upon it in a litigation search.”  Defendants argue that defense counsel acted
diligently thereafter by notifying the insurer for defendants of the lawsuit
and proceeding to help gather the information needed for the counsel retained
by the carrier.
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that defendants were properly served by personal
service upon the agent for service of process, Christopher Mata, by registered
process server, Robert Alba.  Alba states
in his declaration that on March 27, 2023, he entered Suite 700; he spoke to
the receptionist and asked if Mata was in the office; she replied yes.  He states that the receptionist asked what it
was regarding, and he identified himself as a registered process server and
that he was there to serve legal documents on Mata.  Alba states that he then observed Mata coming
from the back of the office and that Mata met him at the front of the office;
Mata identified himself as Christopher Mata; Alba told him that he was there to
serve legal documents on him and Mata said, “okay”; Alba then handed Mata the
legal documents and left the office and informed plaintiff’s counsel that
subject had been served.  Thus, plaintiff
argues, defendants cannot meet their burden that they did not have actual
notice as Mata has not provided sufficient evidence that he was not in the
office at the time of service and that Mata’s declaration lacks credibility.  Plaintiff points to Mata’s statement that
“[a]t no time in 2022 or 2023, was I aware of any alleged slip-and-fall in a
parking lot of any of their properties involving a person by the name of Carla
Lee.”  Plaintiff contends that Mata’s
statement is false because Mata was aware on October 31, 2022 of plaintiff’s
claim as he was contacted by a case manager at plaintiff’s counsel’s by phone
and by a letter of representation when the case manager explained the incident
and asked Mata to provide the name of the insurance company and policy number
but that Mata refused to provide that information.  Nicholas Alvarez decl. and case notes.
            In
reply, defendants argue that plaintiff has not shown why the default and the
default judgment should not be set aside, reiterating their argument that there
was no proper service of process because Mata was not in his office when he was
purportedly served.
            In
a supplemental reply, defendants provide the signed declaration of Jorge
Jimenez, who states that he is a commercial tenant in Covina; that the
landlord’s representative is Christopher Mata; and that on March 27, 2023, from
2:30 p.m. to 3:15 p.m., Jimenez had a meeting with Mata to go over the renewal
terms of the lease for his business.
            The
Court rules as follows:  The Court finds
that defendants have not met their burden to rebut the presumption that they
were properly served and to show that they did not have actual notice as
required under CCP §473.5.  The Court
finds that Robert Alba’s declaration was credible, especially considering the
level of detail in what occurred.  Mata’s
declaration lacks credibility, including because the evidence indicates that he
was informed by plaintiff’s counsel’s case manager of the incident prior to when
defendants were served, although he denies it. 
Defendants also did not serve and file with the notice a copy of a
responsive pleading to be filed in the action.
            The
motion is thus DENIED.
            
ORDER
            The
motion is DENIED.  
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.