 Case Number:  23TRCV02389    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
EMICKO
  MOORE, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02389




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GLOBAL
  TRANPORT ENTERPRISE INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 1,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Emicko Moore
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Set Aside Dismissal
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  
            The dismissal of the entire action
with prejudice entered on April 18, 2024 is set aside and vacated.  The case is reinstated as to defendants
Global Transport Enterprise and Jose Fernando Castro.  The action remains dismissed as against Avis
Budget Car Rental.
            The FSC is set for April 4, 2025, at
9:00 a.m. and the jury trial is set for April 14, 2025, at 10:00 a.m.
BACKGROUND
On July 24, 2023, plaintiff Emicko
Moore filed a complaint against Global Transport Enterprise Inc., Avis Budget
Car Rental LLC, and Jose Fernando Castro for negligence based on a vehicle
accident on August 2, 2021.
On April 18, 2024, the Court
granted defendant Avis Budge Car Rental’s application for determination of good
faith settlement.  The Court ordered the
complaint dismissed with prejudice.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
CCP §473(b) states, in relevant
part:  “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a . . .
dismissal . . . taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
Application for this relief . . . shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the . . . dismissal . . . . was
taken. . . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or neglect. . . .” 
“[T]he policy of the law is to have
every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a
party, who, regardless of the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of
the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.”  Fasuyi v. Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167
Cal. App. 4th 681, 697 (citations and internal quotations omitted).
DISCUSSION

            Under CCP §473(b), plaintiff
requests that the Court set aside and vacate the order dismissing the entire
action as to defendants Global Transport and Jose Castrol and to reinstate this
case and all prior applicable dates.  
            Upon granting defendant Avis Budget
Car Rental’s application for determination of good faith settlement, the Court
dismissed the complaint with prejudice.  
            Plaintiff asserts that the Court
dismissed the case as to the two remaining defendants.  Plaintiff notes that plaintiff’s counsel
failed to appear at the April 18, 2024 hearing due to a calendaring error and
thus “could not clarify that the good faith settlement was only with respect to
the claims against” moving defendant Avis Budget Car Rental.
            The Court finds that plaintiff has
met his burden of showing that the dismissal was the result of mistake and/or
inadvertence and that only Avis should have been dismissed and that the case
remains pending against defendants Global Transport and Jose Castro.
The motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER

            The motion is GRANTED.  
            The dismissal of the entire action
with prejudice entered on April 18, 2024 is set aside and vacated.  The case is reinstated as to defendants
Global Transport Enterprise and Jose Fernando Castro.  The action remains dismissed as against Avis
Budget Car Rental.
            The FSC is set for April 4, 2025, at
9:00 a.m. and the jury trial is set for April 14, 2025, at 10:00 a.m.
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of ruling.