 Case Number:  22STCV30612    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JAY L. NOVAK, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
FRANK A. NOVAK, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV30612
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 12, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Jay Novak (“Jay”) moves to
strike portions of the Cross-Complaint filed by Frank Novak (“Frank”) (the
Court means no offense by its use of the parties’ first names and does so only
to avoid confusion).
 
The Court DENIES Jay’s motion to strike.
 
Background
 
Jay and Frank are brothers and business partners. Each of
them owns 50 percent of the outstanding shares in Modernica, Inc.
(“Modernica”).
 
Jay filed this action against Defendants Frank and
Modernica, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”) on September 20, 2022, raising
claims for (1) involuntary dissolution of Modernica pursuant to Corporations
Code sections 1800 and 1804; (2) appointment of receiver pursuant to
Corporations Code section 1803; (3) breach of contract; and (4) breach of
fiduciary duty.
 
On May 31, 2023, Frank filed a Cross-Complaint against Jay
and Modernica (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) for breach of fiduciary duty.
 
Jay previously filed a demurrer to the cross-complaint,
without a motion to strike.  The Court
overruled the demurrer on January 30, 2024, because it only attacked the
punitive damages award, which is not the proper subject of a demurrer.
 
On February 1, 2024, Jay filed a motion to strike attacking
the punitive damage claim.  Frank filed
an opposition.  Jay did not file a
reply.  
 
Legal Standard
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Discussion
 
As noted, the Court previously overruled Jays demurrer to
Frank’s demand for punitive damages.
 
“Since a demurrer does not lie to a part of a cause of
action, petitioners' punitive damage allegations were not subject to real
parties' demurrers. There is no cause of action for punitive damages. Punitive
or exemplary damages are remedies available to a party who can plead and prove
the facts and circumstances set forth in Civil Code section 32944[.] Punitive
damages are merely incident to a cause of action, and can never constitute the
basis thereof.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159,
163–164 [internal citations, quotation marks, and brackets omitted].)
 
“The adequacy of the punitive damage allegations could,
however, have been tested by motion to strike.” (Grieves, supra,
157 Cal.App.3d at p. 164.) The Court therefore addresses the question of
punitive damages here.
 
Punitive damages are appropriate when a defendant acted with
malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “In order to
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate
facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.” (Ibid.) “In ruling on a motion to strike,
courts do not read allegations in isolation.” (Ibid.)
 
Allegations that a defendant’s conduct against a plaintiff
was retaliatory are sufficient to allege malice and thereby survive a motion to
strike a plea for punitive damages. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981)
117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.)
 
Here, Frank alleges in the Cross-Complaint that Jay
“continu[ed] to operate [his portion of the company] at a consistent loss in
order to impair the overall profitability of the business and spite his brother
Frank[.]” (Cross Complaint at p. 3:8-9.) These allegations adequately allege
retaliation and malice. Frank has therefore stated a basis for punitive
damages.
 
The Court therefore denies the motion to strike.