 Case Number:  BC684588    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  72   SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES   DEPARTMENT 72   TENTATIVE  RULING      TATIANA SOLOMON, et al.,                                         Plaintiffs,             v.     404 N MAPLE DR LLC, et al.,                                     Defendants.      Case No:     BC684588            Hearing Date:  March 12, 2024  Calendar Number:  7          Defendants move for an order compelling Plaintiff to comply  with a previous order compelling Plaintiff to provide supplemental special  interrogatory responses and document production.   The Court ORDERS Defendants to provide Plaintiff with the  text of the outstanding discovery requests and orders Plaintiff to provide  supplemental responses within 30 days of receipt of the discovery requests.     The Court DENIES the request for sanctions.   Background   This is a landlord-tenant case.   Plaintiff lived at 404 N. Maple Drive, Unit 302 (the  “Property”) for roughly nine years. Plaintiff alleges that the Property suffered  a number of issues including mold growth, asbestos exposure, and inadequate  flooring and soundproofing, which went unremedied by management.   The Property was owned by Defendant 404 N. Maple Dr., LLC  (“404 Maple”) and Defendant Standard Management Company (“Standard Management”)  managed the Property as the agent of 404 Maple. (Solomon Decl., Ex. D at pp. 1,  3, 7, 8.)   Plaintiff filed this action on November 28, 2017 against  Defendants 404 Maple, Standard Management Company (“Standard Management”), and  Samuel Freshman, individually and as trustee of the S and A Freshman Trust,  U/T/A 6/28/89 (collectively, “Defendants”). The operative complaint is now the  Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), which raised claims for (1) negligence, (2)  breach of the warranty of habitability; (3) fraud; (4) breach of the covenant  of quiet enjoyment; (5) nuisance; (6) breach of contract; (7) intentional  infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”); (8) violation of Business &  Professions Code, section 17200, et seq.; and (9) constructive eviction.   The Court previously granted summary judgment in this case  as to all named Defendants. Plaintiff appealed. The Court of appeal affirmed in  part and reversed as to Plaintiff’s claims for (1) negligence; (2) breach of  the warranty of habitability; (4) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment;  (5) nuisance; and (9) constructive eviction. These claims are the only  remaining causes of action in this case.               On  August 15, 2023, the Court ordered Plaintiff to provide Defendants with  supplemental document production and interrogatory responses.               On  December 15, 2023, Defendants moved for an order compelling Plaintiff to comply  with the August 15, 2023 order. Plaintiff filed an opposition. No party filed a  reply.     Discussion   Defendants have received supplemental responses to their  Form Interrogatories. However, Defendants state that they have not received  responses to their Special Interrogatories, nor have they received supplemental  document production.   Plaintiff contends that Defendants failed to meet and confer  prior to filing the motion. The declaration of Tiffany E. Garrick indicates  that Defendants did attempt to meet and confer prior to filing this motion, but  received no response from Plaintiff. (Garrick Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.) However, it  conversely appears that Plaintiff requested that Defendants re-sent the  discovery requests for which they wanted supplemental responses, and that  Defendants failed to do so. (Solomon Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.)   Plaintiff does not dispute that she must provide responses.  Rather, the dispute appears to be that Plaintiff is confused as to the  substance of the discovery requests for which Defendants want supplemental  production. It also appears that this dispute results from technical errors on  both sides – Defendants appear to have provided Plaintiff with a link to the  discovery requests that did not work, and Plaintiff appears to have provided  Defendants with a CD purportedly containing her responses which was in fact  blank.    The Court therefore orders Defendants to provide Plaintiff  with the text of the outstanding discovery requests and orders Plaintiff to  provide supplemental responses within 30 days of receipt of the discovery  requests.   Sanctions   

SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

 

DEPARTMENT 72

 

TENTATIVE
RULING

 




TATIANA SOLOMON, et al., 
 
                                 
  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
404 N MAPLE DR LLC, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  BC684588
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 12, 2024
 Calendar Number:  7




 

 

 

Defendant Samual Freshman (“Freshman”) moves for summary
judgment against Plaintiff Tatiana Solomon (“Plaintiff”). In the alternative,
Freshman moves for summary adjudication as to each of Plaintiff’s causes of
action.

 

The Court DENIES Freshman’s motion for summary judgment.

 

The Court DENIES Freshman’s motion for summary adjudication.

 

This is the Court’s tentative.  However, the Court requests that first Freshman,
then Plaintiff, address the following questions:  (1) Is there any authority that says that Freshman
can be liable for negligence only through an alter ego theory even if he
controlled the property? And (2) Is there authority that says that breach of
the warranty of habitability can be asserted only against the landlord?

 

Background

 

This is a landlord-tenant case.

 

Plaintiff lived at 404 N. Maple Drive, Unit 302 (the
“Property”) for roughly nine years. Plaintiff alleges that the Property
suffered a number of issues including mold growth, asbestos exposure, and
inadequate flooring and soundproofing, which went unremedied by management.

 

The Property was owned by Defendant 404 N. Maple Dr., LLC
(“404 Maple”) and Defendant Standard Management Company (“Standard Management”)
managed the Property as the agent of 404 Maple. (Solomon Decl., Ex. D at pp. 1,
3, 7, 8.)

 

Plaintiff filed this action on November 28, 2017 against
Defendants 404 Maple, Standard Management Company (“Standard Management”), and
Samuel Freshman, individually and as trustee of the S and A Freshman Trust,
U/T/A 6/28/89 (collectively, “Defendants”). The operative complaint is now the
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), which raised claims for (1) negligence, (2)
breach of the warranty of habitability; (3) fraud; (4) breach of the covenant
of quiet enjoyment; (5) nuisance; (6) breach of contract; (7) intentional
infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”); (8) violation of Business &
Professions Code, section 17200, et seq.; and (9) constructive eviction.

 

The Court previously granted summary judgment in this case
as to all named Defendants. Plaintiff appealed. The Court of appeal affirmed in
part and reversed as to Plaintiff’s claims for (1) negligence; (2) breach of
the warranty of habitability; (4) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment;
(5) nuisance; and (9) constructive eviction. These claims are the only
remaining causes of action in this case.

 

Freshman, in his individual capacity only, moved for summary
judgment on November 20, 2023. Plaintiff filed an opposition and Freshman filed
a reply.

 

Evidentiary Objections

 

The Court overrules the Freshman’s evidentiary objections
without prejudice to his ability to raise them at trial.

 

The Court overrules the parties’ evidentiary objections
appearing in their sepaate statements, which is not the proper place for them.

 

Requests for Judicial Notice

 

The Court grants Freshman’s requests for judicial notice.

 

Legal Standard

 

The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 

 

“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 

 

“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) 

 

“Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)

 

Discussion

 

Negligence – First Cause of Action

 

In order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must
allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach
of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)

 

Freshman argues that he did not owe Plaintiff a duty because
he neither owned the Property nor had control over it.

 

Freshman argues that because Plaintiff does not assert the
alter ego doctrine against him, he cannot be held liable in any capacity as an
owner, manager, officer, or other agent of 404 Maple or Standard Management.
This is only partially correct.

 

“The alter ego doctrine arises when a plaintiff comes into
court claiming that an opposing party is using the corporate form unjustly and
in derogation of the plaintiff's interests …. In certain circumstances the
court will disregard the corporate entity and will hold the individual
shareholders liable for the actions of the corporation[.]” (Greenspan v.
LADT, LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 510 [quotation marks and citation
omitted].)

 

The alter ego doctrine is thus necessary to hold Freshman
liable in his capacity as an owner. However, Plaintiff’s failure to assert the
alter ego doctrine does not prevent her from arguing that Freshman had actual
control over the Property as an employee or agent of 404 Maple.

 

Plaintiff has provided evidence that Freshman had such
control. A filing for Standard Management with the California Secretary of
State identifies Freshman as the chief executive officer, chief financial
officer, and sole director. (Solomon Decl., Ex. R, p. 1.) Freshman thus had a
great degree of control over the company Standard Management. Documents filed
with the Secretary of State by Sanderson Plaza, LLC also indicate that Freshman
was the company’s president, although the role of Sanderson Plaza, LLC in the
administration of the Property is unclear. (Solomon Decl., Ex. R, p. 5.) The
trust that Freshman manages is also the sole member of 404 Maple. (Solomon
Decl., Ex. R pp. 1-2.)

 

Further, there is evidence that Freshman’s employees
referred to him as the “landlord” or the “owner” in their dealings with
Plaintiff, creating a strong appearance that Freshman exercised control over
the Property. (Solomon Decl. ¶¶ 5-12; Ex. E, F, G, J at pp. 1-2.) In fact,
Freshman did engage in direct management of the Property on at least one
occasion by providing Plaintiff with a list of suggested hotels to stay at
while repairs were conducted on the Property. (Solomon Decl. ¶ 9, Ex. L.)

 

Plaintiff has thus created a triable issue of fact that
Freshman had control over the Property. The Court therefore denies summary
adjudication on this cause of action.

 

Breach of the Warranty of Habitability – Second Cause of Action

 

Because Plaintiff has created a triable issue of fact that
Freshman controlled the property as a result of his role at Standard
Management, the agent of 404 Maple, the Court denies summary adjudication on
this cause of action.

 

Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment – Fourth Cause of Action

 

Because Plaintiff has created a triable issue of fact that
Freshman controlled the property as a result of his role at Standard
Management, the agent of 404 Maple, the Court denies summary adjudication on
this cause of action.

 

Nuisance – Fifth Cause of Action

 

Plaintiff has created a triable issue of fact that Freshman
controlled the property as a result of his role at Standard Management, the
agent of 404 Maple. Further, the Court of Appeal found that there were triable
issues of fact as to the existence of a nuisance in this case. (Solomon v.
404 N. Maple Dr., LLC (Cal. Ct. App., Feb. 16, 2022, No. B297996) 2022 WL
472933, at *8.)

 

The Court denies summary adjudication on this cause of
action.

 

Constructive Eviction – Ninth Cause of Action

Because Plaintiff has created a triable issue of fact that
Freshman controlled the property as a result of his role at Standard
Management, the agent of 404 Maple, the Court denies summary adjudication on
this cause of action.

 

  The Court does not award sanctions.