  Case Number:  21SMCV00716    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           SMC Specialty
Finance LLC v. Sanping, et al.
CASE NO.:                21SMCV00716
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Adjudication
HEARING DATE:   10/10/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The purpose of the law
of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in¿Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.”¿(CCP,¿§
437c(f)(1).)¿If a party seeks summary adjudication as an alternative to a
request for summary judgment, the request must be clearly made in the notice of
the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior Court¿(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542,
1544.)¿ “[A] party may move for summary adjudication of a legal issue or a
claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not completely
dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue of duty
pursuant to” subdivision (t). (CCP,¿§ 437c(t).)¿ 
 
To prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.¿(CCP, §¿437c(c).)¿The motion cannot succeed unless
the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts;
the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when¿a material fact is the witness’s¿state of mind and
“that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s] affirmation
thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).)¿ 
 
Once the moving party has met their burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §
437c(p)(1).) “[T]here¿is no
obligation on the opposing party... to establish anything by affidavit unless
and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every
element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”¿(Consumer Cause,
Inc. v.¿SmileCare¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿ 
¿ 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment
motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues and to¿frame¿the outer measure of materiality
in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.¿(2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the
burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she
negate plaintiff's theories of liability¿as alleged in the complaint;
that is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical
possibility not included in the pleadings.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainants’ objections to the Gorham Declaration
are OVERRULED. The objections to the Raskin Declaration are OVERRULED. The objections
to the Burlingham Declaration are OVERRULED. 
As to the hearsay objections, the out-of-court statements are not being
offered for the truth of the statements. The emails and conversations all
concern various aspects of the financing of the underlying films. These
statements are being offered for the fact that the statements were made to
SMC’s agents, which bears on SMC’s agents knowledge and beliefs. SMC’s
knowledge of these statements is relevant to show the reasonableness of their
belief that Zhang represented Cross-Complainants. Moreover, the truth of the
out-of-court statements is irrelevant. In fact, many of the facts asserted are allegedly
false, e.g., Zhang’s authority to engage in the loan transactions central to
this dispute.
 
Analysis
 

Cross-Defendant SMC Specialty
Finance LLC moves for adjudication of the Cross-Complaint’s first, second,
fourth, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action, as well as the claim for
punitive damages. 
 
First Cause of Action for Intentional Interference with
Contractual Relations
 
Cross-Defendant argues that the
undisputed evidence shows SMC had no actual knowledge of any fraud by Zhang and
believed that he had authority to negotiate and sign documents on behalf of
Cross-Complainants Zhengfu and Zhumeng.
 
The elements for the tort of
intentional interference with the performance of a contract are: “(1) a valid
contract between plaintiff and another party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of the
contract; (3) defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Asahi Kasei Pharma
Corporation v. Actelion Ltd. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 945, 958.) “[I]t
is not necessary that the defendant’s conduct be wrongful apart from the
interference with the contract itself.” (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title
Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 55.) As to the element of intent, a
plaintiff must establish “that the defendant ‘[knew] that the interference is
certain or substantially certain to occur as a result of his action.’” (Korea
Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1157.) 
 
The action arises from two disputed
security agreements. Cross-Defendant is an established lender in the motion
picture industry and is operated by its principals, Alastair Burlingham and
Gary Raskin. (UMF 1.) Many of SMC’s loans are “bridge” loans, short term loans provided
to a borrower to pay for project costs until longer-term financing can be
secured. (UMF 2.)  In late January 2018,
SMC considered a bridge loan for the motion picture Midway, primarily
communicating with J.P. Pettinato (“Pettinato”), CFO of Centropolis
Entertainment (“Centropolis”). (UMF 3-4.) Pettinato explained to SMC that the
finance plan included $22mm of equity financing from Starlight, a Chinese
company. (UMF 5-9.) Starlight and Pettinato told SMC that the $22mm would be
funded in multiple installments primarily because of the challenges in wiring
funds from China to the United States. (Id.) SMC proposed, and Centropolis and
Starlight agreed, that SMC would not take any risk on the Starlight funding but
until the full $22mm was funded, SMC would only bridge up to the amount of the
Starlight funding (which was to be funded to an escrow account and not
available to Centropolis until further conditions were satisfied). (Id.) They
entered into a term sheet and an escrow agreement. (Id.)
 
In late May/early June 2018, before
the bridge loan closed, Pettinato told SMC that Starlight was unable to meet
the full $22mm amount but, instead, part of that financing was now coming from
another investor in China, Han Sanping. (UMF 10-12.) Pettinato told SMC that
Han Sanping was considered the “Godfather” of Chinese cinema, because, among
other things, he had been Chairman of the China Film Group Corporation, a
Chinese government owned company that controls the entire film business in
China. (Id.) Pettinato also told SMC that Han Sanping had produced, financed,
and distributed motion pictures in China and now was branching out to produce,
finance and distribute “Hollywood” motion pictures. (Id.) Pettinato also told
SMC that Defendant/Cross-Defendant Alex Zhang was Han Sanping’s business
partner and would be involved in the film and the investment. (UMF 13.)
Pettinato stated that the company that Han Sanping and Zhang would use to
invest the money was called Providence, and later said that Han Sanping and
Zhang decided to use a different entity of theirs, Beijing Jixiang Tianyou
Pictures Limited (“Jixiang”). (UMF 14.) On June 27, 2018, Pettinato forwarded
an e-mail to SMC from Starlight stating that an entity called Zhumeng would
replace Jixiang. (UMF 15.).
 
SMC received a signed substitution
agreement, dated “July __, 2018,” which provided that Zhumeng “agrees to assume
all the obligations of Jixiang Pictures” under the Midway escrow agreement and
term sheet and “to substitute itself and be bound by the Agreements in the same
manner and to the same extent as Jixiang Pictures.” (UMF 16.) On July 9, 2018,
SMC received an e-mail from Pettinato stating: “FYI Han Sing Ping’s [sic]
$2.4MM arrived into . . . Escrow TODAY!” (UMF 17.) This first installment of
the funding for Midway confirmed to SMC’s agents that Sanping and Zhang controlled
Zhumeng. (UMF 18.)
 
There were further discussions
regarding revisions to the escrow agreement.
Given that there were now two companies responsible for
depositing money into escrow,
SMC wanted the escrow agreement revised to provide a
“cross-default” provision, i.e.,
the failure to fund by either party after a cure period
would result in a default by both
parties. (UMF 19-20.) On July 17, 2018, Pettinato copied SMC
on an e-mail in which he forwarded a chain of e-mails regarding these
discussions. In a July 16, 2018, e-mail, Pettinato told Zhang that “in order
for us to continue prep on this film, I need to have in the escrow agreement,
that if [there] is a default by Star[light] or Zhumeng, we have the ability to
cross the escrow amounts.” (Id.) Pettinato told counsel for Starlight that he
spoke to Neil Sacker (Zhang’s counsel) and that Sacker would be speaking with
Zhang “to get permission to cross their escrow amounts, in case there is a
default by Star[light].” (UMF 21-22.) Pettinato explained that “Han San Ping
[sic] agreed to the cross of the escrow after 30 days if Star[light] was to
default” and that Neil Sacker would be calling Starlight’s attorney to notify
him. (UMF 23.) These emails likewise led SMC to believe that Han Sanping and
Zhang were controlling and making decisions for Zhumeng and that Neil Sacker
was counsel for Han Sanping’s entities, including Zhumeng. (UMF 24.)
 
In August 2018, the Midway
bridge loan was paid. (UMF 24.) The money came from the escrow account into
which Zhumeng’s and Starlight’s investment was made. In other words, at the
time this bridge loan was paid, SMC understood that Zhumeng had caused to be
invested the money into Midway based on agreements negotiated by Zhang
and Sacker. (UF 24-26.)
 
On August 1, 2018, SMC received an
e-mail from Jared Underwood, principal of Aperture Media, which provides loans
for film projects and would send SMC financing opportunities on occasion. (UMF
27.) Underwood forwarded an e-mail from well-known film executive Ryan
Kavanaugh, in which Kavanaugh stated that “Jungfu” (a misspelling of Zhengfu)
“is looking for a 5m bridge to production” on a motion picture called Destroyer
that was being produced with Warner Brothers. (UMF 29-31.) Kavanaugh stated
that Sanping was the principal of Zhengfu and that he was a “very legitimate well
known player[].” (Id.) Kavanaugh identified Han Sanping and Zhengfu as “[his]
partners and they have come through for [him] in many many ways.” (Id.) Kavanaugh
identified “three sources of collateral” by which Zhengfu could “back the
bridge”, including Zhengfu’s 25% interest in another film called Greyhound
which starred Tom Hanks and was to be released worldwide in March 2019. (UMF
32.) Kavanaugh’s e-mail attached a number of documents reflecting this
collateral, including “Co-Financing and Distribution Term Sheet” between Sony
Pictures Worldwide Acquisitions, Inc. (“Sony”) and Zhengfu for Greyhound,
signed by Zhang on behalf of Zhengfu with Zhengfu’s corporate “chop”. (UMF
34-36.) Consistent with SMC’s understanding that Zhang was Han Sanping’s
partner, Zhang was listed as the person to give notice on behalf of Zhengfu,
and listed Sacker as counsel for Zhengfu. (Id.) The email also included an
agreement between Film Finances, Inc. and Zhengfu regarding the Completion
Guaranty for Greyhound, addressed to Zhengfu c/o Zhang and Sacker and contained
Zhengfu’s chop. (UMF 37-38.)
 
SMC heard about the same
opportunity from Lisa Wolofsky, a senior banker at the National Bank of Canada
(a bank involved in the financing of Midway) and her husband Joey
Mastrogiuseppe, an entertainment finance lawyer at Dentons. (UMF 41-43.)
Wolofsky told SMC that she had been approached by Zhang about a bridge loan for
Destroyer and she suggested SMC. Mastrogiuseppe also discussed the opportunity
with SMC. (Id.) They confirmed that Zhang and Han Sanping were legitimate
producers and financiers of motion pictures, and that Wolofsky was introduced
to Zhang by a senior executive at Sony who told her that Sony had an existing
business relationship with Zhang and Han Sanping. (UMF 44-46.) 
 
Wolofsky set up a call between SMC
and Zhang, and Zhang told SMC that he and Sanping created a new offshore sister
company to Zhengfu, called Golden Title, for the Destroyer project. (UMF
47-49.) Zhang explained that the offshore company would make it easier for them
to fund projects outside of China, given the geo-political issues between China
and the United States at the time. (Id.) Zhang indicated that he and Han
Sanping committed to financing up to $75mm of the total production budget of Destroyer
and that $25mm of that amount would be funded from China by Zhengfu as the
“first money” into the film. (UMF 50-52.) Zhang also explained that Zhengfu was
having difficulty timely transferring the money from China due to delays by the
government and needed a bridge loan. (Id.) Zhang sought between $3mm to $5mm in
bridge financing to pay for certain rights and development costs for Destroyer.
(UMF 53-55.) SMC had a few phone call discussions with Zhang about a bridge loan
but could not agree upon terms. In August 2018, Zhang told SMC that they no
longer needed a bridge loan, and the deal did not proceed. (UMF 56.)
 
In September 2018, Zhang
reapproached SMC and indicated they needed a bridge loan. (UMF 57.) Zhang
provided additional due diligence materials in a September 20, 2018, e-mail to
SMC, which contained: “Corporate Introduction document,” which stated that Han
Sanping and Zhang were the primary managers of Golden Title (UMF 58); diligence
form to Sony which stated that Golden Title was an offshore company “managed by
the same management of Zhengfu Pictures, the company formed by Han Sanping and
Alex Zhang with a history of investing in film and TV content including
Greyhound,. . .[and] Destroyer” (UMF 59); 
diligence form provided to Sony which listed Zhang as a key employee for
Zhengfu and Han Jianu (Han Sanping’s daughter) as the company’s principal and
legal representative (UMF 60-61); Co-Financing Term Sheet between Golden Title
and Zhengfu regarding Destroyer, listing Neil Sacker as the counsel for
Zhengfu and bearing Zhang’s signature on behalf of Golden Title and Han Jianu
as Director of Zhengfu with the Zhengfu chop (UMF 62-63).
 
SMC’s principals believed the above
facts confirmed that Zhang was the authorized representative of Zhengfu and
Zhumeng, and did not suspect otherwise. (UMF 64.) In October 2018, SMC accordingly
entered into bridge loan and security agreement with Golden Title by which SMC
agreed to provide a bridge loan facility of up to $5.33mm to Golden Title. (UMF
65-66.) On behalf of Zhengfu, Zhang signed an Accommodation and Security
Agreement (the “Zhengfu Security Agreement”) with SMC by which Zhengfu pledged
as collateral for the bridge loan its entitlements under the Sony/Zhengfu
Co-Financing Agreement. (UMF 65-66.) SMC retained lawyers in Hong Kong (Allen
& Overy) and China (Fengda) to work on the bridge loan transaction. (UMF
67.) SMC’s Counsel told Zhang that, based on the provided shareholder
resolutions for Zhengfu and public searches, Jianu Han’s signature and the
company chop would be needed on the Zhengfu ASA. (UMF 68.) Zhang responded that
he was a co-director of Zhengfu and attached documentation confirming his
appointment. (UMF 69.) Since Zhang had signed the Co-Financing Agreement on
behalf of Golden Title, SMC still requested that Zhang arrange for Jianu Han to
also sign the ASA. (UMF 70.) Zhang complied and shortly thereafter returned the
ASA with Jianu Han’s signature and the Zhengfu chop from his
az@zhengfupictures.com e-mail account. (UMF 71-72.) 
 
In December, Golden Title requested
an additional advance from the bridge loan facility. (UMF 73-76.) SMC requested
additional collateral as security for the additional advance. (Id.) Zhang
offered, and SMC accepted, a pledge of the Zhumeng financial entitlements in
Midway. (Id.) Zhang delivered executed signature pages for the security
agreement (“Zhumeng Security Agreement”). (Id.) At the time this security
agreement was entered into, SMC believed that Zhang had the authority to
negotiate and sign agreements for Zhumeng and did not suspect otherwise. (Id.)
 
SMC’s loan to Golden Title matured
on January 31, 2019. (UMF 77.) Golden Title made no payments on the loan and,
as a result, SMC was entitled to enforce its security interest. (Id.) SMC
continually communicated with Zhang in an attempt to get the loan paid. (UMF
78.) Zhang repeatedly communicated that he was arranging for the loan to be
repaid. (Id.) In June 2020, SMC served on Zhumeng and Zhengfu notices of
default, notices of disposition of collateral, and then ultimately foreclosed.
(UMF 79.) 
 
After the foreclosure, Zhengfu and
Zhumeng first notified SMC that Zhang lacked authority to negotiate or sign
agreements. (UMF 80.) Zhengfu and Zhumeng allege that Zhang never had any
authority to negotiate or sign agreements for them, and that he forged Jianu
Han’s signature on the Zhengfu ASA and forged Zhengfu’s and Zhumeng’s chops on
various documents. (SACC, ¶¶ 50-55.) Cross-Complainants also allege SMC knew
what Zhang was doing and conspired with and aided him in doing so. (SACC, ¶¶
166, 179.)
 
SMC claims to be unaware of any
disruption of the behind-the-scenes Chinese contracts cited. In response to an
interrogatory asking it to identify the contracts SMC allegedly interfered
with, Zhengfu identified agreements between Zhengfu and its behind-the-scenes
Chinese investors including “Jixiang, Tianfu Zhengfu Picture Co. Ltd., ‘and/or’
Beijing Lejingtiancheng Entertainment Co. Ltd. (fka Zhengfujunze Entertainment
Co., Ltd.) (UMF 85.) However, prior to discovery in this lawsuit, SMC had no
knowledge whatsoever of Zhengfu’s supposed agreements with these parties. (UMF
39.) SMC was only aware of the Sony-Zhengfu agreement re: Greyhound, and
the Zhumeng-Centropolis agreement re: Midway.
 
Critically, SMC argues that it was
justified and privileged (9th Aff. Def.) in asserting its rights to collateral
under the loan agreements which allegedly interfered with the cited agreements.
Justification for the interference is an affirmative defense to intentional
interference to contractual relations. (Richardson v. La Rancherita, (1979)
98 Cal. App. 3d 73, 80.)
 
In action in tort “will lie for the
intentional interference by a third person with a contractual relationship
either by unlawful means or by means otherwise lawful when there is a lack of
sufficient justification.” [Citations.] The tort is “a [specie] of the broader
tort of interference with prospective economic advantage,” involving similarity
in elementary makeup and conduct while differing only in the existence of a
legally binding contract. [Citation.] Justification for the interference is an
affirmative defense and not an element of plaintiff's cause of action.
[Citations.]
 
[…]
 
The test of whether there is
justification for conduct which induces a breach of contract turns on a
balancing of the social and private importance of the objective advanced by the
interference against the importance of the interest interfered with, considering
all the circumstances including the nature of the actor's conduct and the
relationship between the parties. [Citations.]
 
In harmony with the general
guidelines of the test for justification is the narrow protection afforded to a
party where (1) he has a legally protected interest, (2) in good faith
threatens to protect it, and (3) the threat is to protect it by appropriate
means. [Citation.] Prosser adds: “Where the defendant acts to further his own
advantage, other distinctions have been made. If he has a present, existing
economic interest to protect, such as the ownership or condition of property,
or a prior contract of his own, or a financial interest in the affairs of the
person persuaded, he is privileged to prevent performance of the contract of
another which threatens it; and for obvious reasons of policy he is likewise
privileged to assert an honest claim, or bring or threaten a suit in good
faith.” [Citation.]


(Id. 80-81.) “Something other than sincerity and an
honest conviction by a party in his position is required before justification
for his conduct on the grounds of ‘good faith’ can be established.” (Id.
at 83 [mere reliance on counsel’s advice, by itself, is insufficient to
establish good faith].)
 
SMC presents sufficient evidence
that establishes its agents either did not know of the allegedly interfered
contracts, or that it was justified in asserting its own contractual rights in
good faith. SMC presents evidence that entered into the security agreements
with Golden Title with Zhang, an agent for Zhengfu and Zhumeng. (UMF 57-76.)
SMC provides detailed evidence showing why its principals believed, in good
faith, that Zhang was duly authorized to negotiate the loans on behalf of
Zhengfu and Zhumeng. This includes SMC’s experience with the Midway
loan, what Mr. Pettinato and others in the film industry explained about Zhang,
the due diligence documents provided by Kavanaugh and Zhang, and Zhang’s representations
to SMC. In fact, this alone did not satisfy SMC, as SMC required the corporate
chops on security agreements. Zhang timely provided the chops via a corporate
controlled email address. (UMF 34-38, 62-69.) Strictly construing such evidence,
the record demonstrates that SMC reasonably believed Zhang’s authority,
reasonably believed that they had a perfected security interest in Zhengfu, and
Zhumeng’s entitlements from the films. Thus, SMC was entitled to protect it by
appropriate means, such as demanding or threatening to sue for their security.
Cross-Defendant thereby establishes a defense to the first cause of action. The
burden shifts to Cross-Complainants to produce specific and substantial
evidence showing a dispute of material fact as to the Justification defense. 
 
Cross-Complainants argue that SMC
lacked good faith in support of their justification defense because the
evidence on the record reasonably leads to an inference that SMC knew about Zhang’s
fraud yet still moved forward with the bridge loan, foreclosed on the Greyhound
and Midway Rights, and contacted Sony and the Midway Parties to stop them from
allocating revenues to Cross-Complainants. (AMF 117.) Cross-Complainants cite
various facts, including that: 1) SMC exclusively negotiated the Destroyer
Bridge Loan with Zhang (AMF 93); SMC did not attempt to communicate with anyone
else at Zhengfu or Zhumeng about Zhang’s pledge of their rights in connection
with the Destroyer Bridge Loan (AMF 94); 2) the Destroyer Bridge Loan
was overcollateralized (AMF 95); 3) SMC was aware that Zhengfu and Zhumeng
invested a total of over $20 million for the Greyhound and Midway
rights (AMF 96); 4) Zhang was not listed in any of Zhengfu’s or Zhumeng’s
public corporate documents or information and SMC knew that Han Jianu was
Zhengfu’s Director (AMF 97); and, 5) Zhang had not signed any of the operative
agreements related to Greyhound or Midway on Zhengfu’s or Zhumeng’s behalf (AMF
98). Cross-Complainants contend that SMC had “all of the information” at its
fingertips to have “actual” knowledge that Zhang was committing fraud. (AMF 100.)
Further, Cross-Complainants cites evidence that SMC normally negotiates bridge
loans with a borrower’s executive level representative and lawyer. (AMF 102.)
SMC had no communication with Sacker (Zhang’s attorney) during the Destroyer
Bridge Loan negotiation. (AMF 103.) SMC paid the bridge loan directly to Zhang,
without contacting anyone else involved in the Destroyer production.
(AMF 104.) SMC knew that Golden Title and Zhengfu had different leadership, but
only communicated with Zhang during the Destroyer Bridge Loan negotiation. (AMF
105.)
 
The cited evidence does not
specifically and substantially support this position.  The evidence does not demonstrate that  SMC actually knew Zhang was committing fraud.
(AMF 100; Han Decl., ¶¶ 35-36 [re: corporate chop]; Tie Decl., ¶ 23 [Zhang was
not involved in the Substitution Agreement]; Ke Decl., ¶¶ 14, 15 [Ke delegated
responsibility for the Midway contract to employees such as Tie and
Xiaotang]; Bakewell Decl., Vol. 1, Ex. 1 [Raskin Depo.] at 137:11-14;
139:13-140:23, 141:1-17; 144:21-146:15; 166:1-167:3; 188:25-192:19,
193:11-196:1, 201:22-209:7, 241:8-252:19; 269:18-276:6; Ex. 2 [Raskin Depo.
Vol. 2] at 297:21-304:9; 305:11- 308:15; 315:2-9; 350:3-20; 355:14-360:13;
362:7-367:3; Ex. 3 [Burlingham Depo. Vol. 1] at 94:19-97:22, 181:6- 182:2;
117:18-119:21, 120:5-20, 121:9-14, 170:8-171:9, 167:14-20, 172:14-175:4,
180:22-181:5, 184:10-185:5; 264:1-11, 266:1-267:4; & Ex. 4 [Burlingham Depo.
Vol. 2] at 66:13-68:7, 68:8-12.) Cross-Complainant contends that SMC “admits”
that this was not the “norm” and was not how Sherborne conducted the Midway
Bridge Loan. (AMF 104.) However, the deposition testimony does not suggest
there was anything out of the ordinary with the subject loan agreements. (AMF
104; Bakewell Decl., Vol 1., Ex. 1 at 83:11-24, Ex. 2 at 376:14-379:22, Ex. 4
at 62:15-63:24; Vol. 7, Ex. 50; Vol. 10, Ex. 65.) If anything, the AMFs admit that
Defendants do not have any specific or substantial evidence that SMC had actual
knowledge of Zhang’s purported fraud to defeat SMC’s good faith justification
for their disruption of the Sony and Centropolis contracts. Cross-Complainants’
evidence shows, at best, SMC should have known that Zhang was a
fraudster. Cross-Complainants accordingly argue that the court should infer
that SMC actually knew that Zhang was a fraudster. Of course, this is a
circular argument—SMC had actual knowledge because they should have
had actual knowledge, and therefore had actual knowledge. Further,
Cross-Complainants present evidence to the contrary: they admit that Zhang was
an actual agent of Zhumeng regarding the production of Midway,
albeit as a translator. (AMF 21-28.) In light of this evidence, the Court
cannot infer that SMC had actual knowledge of Zhang’s fraud, such that their
good faith is in dispute. 
 
The Court would agree that if the
loans were dramatically overcollateralized, a fact finder could fairly infer
that SMC participated in Zhang’s fraud. (AMF 95.) However, Cross-Complainants
do not explain, as a matter of fact, why or how the loans were
overcollateralized. To establish whether or loan was factually
overcollateralized, Cross-Complainants would likely need expert testimony which
concludes that the value of the contracts were greater than the risk of loss in
case of default. The Court observes no such testimony. Cross-Complainants
merely cite the contracts as self-evidently overcollateralized. Therefore, Cross-Complainants
present no specific or substantial evidence of overcollateralization for the Court
to infer that SMC was participating in Zhang’s alleged fraud.
 
In sum, Cross-Complainants fail to
cite specific and substantial evidence which could lead a reasonable fact
finder to infer that Cross-Defendant had “actual” knowledge of Zhang’s fraud. The
record fails to establish any evidence that Burlingham or Raskin knew
information which would reasonably lead to an inference that Zhang was not
actually an agent of Cross-Complainants. As Cross-Complainants have not
presented such evidence, they fail to meet their burden in opposing summary
adjudication of this cause of action and defense. 
 
Accordingly, the motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED as to issues nos. 1-2.
 
Second Cause of Action for Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage
 
As noted by the above authorities,
the elements for the tort of intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage are substantially similar to that of contractual interference. That
is: “(1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party,
with the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the
defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of
the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of
the relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by
the acts of the defendant.” (Korea Supply Co., supra, 29 Cal.4th at
1153.) The only difference is that a plaintiff must establish that defendants
engaged in an “independently wrongful” act rather than interfering with a
specific contract. (Id. at 1158.) “[A]n act is independently wrongful if
it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.” (Id. at
1159.) As such, the above analysis concerning SMC’s justification defense
equally applies here. Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED as to issue nos. 3-4.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Conversion
 
“‘Conversion is any act of dominion
wrongfully exerted over another’s personal property in denial of or
inconsistent with his rights therein.’” (Enterprise Leasing Corp. v. Shugart
Corp. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 737, 747.) “‘It is not necessary that there be
a manual taking of the property; it is only necessary to show an assumption of
control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged converter has
applied the property to his own use.’” (Id.)  
 
Courts have traditionally refused to recognize as conversion the
unauthorized taking of intangible interests that are not merged with, or
reflected in, something tangible. (Thrifty-Tel, Inc. v. Bezenek (1996)
46 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1565.) Courts have provided a remedy through conversion
for the loss of intangible property interest, but only if those interests are
reflected in something tangible that can be physically taken. (Moore v. Regents of the University of
California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 134.) “ ‘We recognize that the
common law of conversion, which developed initially as a remedy for the
dispossession or other loss of chattel [citation], may be inappropriate for
some modern intangible personal property, the unauthorized use of which can
take many forms. In some circumstances, newer economic torts have developed
that may better take into account the nature and uses of intangible property,
the interests at stake, and the appropriate measure of damages. On the other
hand, if the law of conversion can be adapted to particular types of intangible
property and will not displace other, more suitable law, it may be appropriate
to do so.’” (Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202,
210-211, quoting Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 124–125.) “In determining whether property that was taken
is subject to a conversion claim, courts have recognized that ‘[p]roperty is a
broad concept that includes “every intangible benefit and prerogative
susceptible of possession or disposition.” ’ ” (Id., at 212, citations
omitted.) For example, courts have recognized the following intangible property
as subject to conversion claims: misappropriation of personal identifying
information; sale of recorded musical performances; fraudulent transmission of
credit card, debit card, or PayPal information; checks and customer lists; and
passwords. (Id. at 212-213 [collecting cases].) Welco itself
regarded misuse of credit card information to obtain money as not materially
different in effect of taking other instruments such as checks, bonds, etc. (Id.)

 
“Money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for conversion
unless there is a specific, identifiable sum involved, such as where an agent
accepts a sum of money to be paid to another and fails to make the payment.” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491.) Likewise,
a mere contractual right of payment, without more, will not suffice to
state a claim for conversion. (Farmers Ins. Exch. v. Zerin (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 445, 451-452.) 
 
The SACC alleges that SMC
wrongfully exercised dominion over the Greyhound Rights and the Midway Rights.  Specifically, Cross-Complainants’ contractual
rights to payment under the respective agreement. The SACC defines the Greyhound
Rights as Zhengfu’s entitlement “to a portion of revenues earned from
Greyhound’s exploitation, distribution rights, copyright ownership, and other
rights provided in the Greyhound Co-Financing Agreement and related
agreements”. (SACC ¶23, emphasis added.) The SACC does not allege that the
“distribution rights,” the “copyright,” or any other rights in the Greyhound
Agreement(s) are subject to the conversion cause of action, but only the revenues
earned. The SACC defines the Midway rights as Zhumeng’s entitlement to “revenues
earned from Midway’s exploitation and other rights provided in the
Midway Co-Financing Agreement and related agreements. (SACC ¶ 37.)  The SACC alleges details of Zhumeng’s
entitlement to certain Gross Receipts. (¶¶ 38-40.) 
 
The SACC alleges that SMC deprived
and continues to deprive Zhengfu and Zhumeng of revenue and benefits owed
under the Greyhound and Midway Co-Financing Agreements. (SACC ¶ 90.) Third
parties such as Sony and the Midway parties refused to pay
Cross-Complainants amounts they are owed under the Greyhound and Midway
Co-Financing Agreements because of SMC’s claims to rights under those
agreements. (¶ 91.) SMC asserted that it owned the Greyhound Rights to Sony and
to the Collection Agent in Midway. (¶¶ 92-93.)
 
The SACC alleges that SMC
substantially interfered with Zhengfu's Greyhound Rights by knowingly and
intentionally preventing Zhengfu from having access to its Greyhound Rights by
(a) engaging in, advancing, and, ultimately, completing the SMC-Golden Title
Loan Transaction whereby Zhang purportedly pledged the Greyhound Rights to SMC
without authorization or authority from Zhengfu; (b) seeking to foreclose on
the Greyhound Rights in a purported foreclosure sale that was defective,
commercially unreasonable, and violated the California Commercial Code; and (c)
demanding that Sony recognize it as the owner of all of the Greyhound Rights and
pay SMC amounts owed to Zhengtu. (SAC ¶ 149.) SMC also substantially interfered
with Zhumeng’s Midway Rights by knowingly and intentionally preventing Zhumeng
from having access to its Midway Rights by (a) engaging in, advancing, and,
ultimately, completing the SMC-Golden Title Loan Transaction whereby Zhang
purportedly pledged the Midway Rights to SMC without authorization or authority
from Zhumeng; (b) seeking to foreclose on the Midway Rights purported
foreclosure sale that was defective, commercially unreasonable, and violated
the California Commercial Code; and (c) seeking to redirect revenue streams due
to Zhumeng under the Midway Co-Financing Agreement and related Midway
agreements after SMC’s purported foreclosure sale. (SAC ¶ 150.)
 
Thus, Zhumeng’s conversion claim is
based on alleged interference with the “Midway rights”, comprising of
Zhumeng’s contractual rights to receive a portion of revenues from the motion
picture Midway. (SACC, ¶¶ 3, 148, 150.) Zhengfu’s conversion claim is
based on interference with the “Greyhound rights”, comprising Zhengfu’s
contractual right to receive a portion of revenues and other interests from
Sony. (SACC, ¶¶ 147, 149.) Both claims are facially based on the mere
contractual right of payment, rather than for a certain, identifiable sum of
money. As such, the claims fail as a matter of law. Cross-Defendant therefore
meets its burden to show entitlement to judgment as a matter of law on this
claim. 
 
Cross-Complainant, in turn, fails
to demonstrate a dispute of material fact, or otherwise show a reasonable
probability of successful amendment of the claim. SMC presents evidence that
the Greyhound Rights include co-ownership of the underlying copyright in the
Greyhound motion picture distribution rights in Mainland China for 15 years, and
rights to revenue distributions. (AMF 118.) Zhumeng’s Midway Rights include
various “approval rights” such as over the distributor of the film in China and
terms of that distribution agreement, consultation rights over business and
creative matters both during production and postproduction, and a portion of
revenues earned by the film’s exploitation. (AMF 119.) Zhengfu and Zhumeng had
rights in the Greyhound and Midway revenues as the revenues were earned. (AMF
120.) The Midway revenues even went directly to a third-party Collection Agent
to administer, allocate, and distribute according to the Midway Co-Financing
Agreement. (AMF 121.) 
 
Of course, the court has already
held that it lacks jurisdiction to consider the validity of the copyright
interest. (28 USC § 1338(a); see 11/1/22 Minute Order.) Further, there is no
allegation or evidence that SMC interfered with (or somehow exerted dominion
over) the non-revenue contractual rights. SMC did not allegedly assert control
over the distribution rights in China. As alleged, Sony controls the rights but
decided not to distribute. Even if such rights were interfered with,
Cross-Complainants do not allege or contend that such intangible rights are
similar to other intangibles recognized by caselaw as subject to a conversion
cause of action. (See Welco, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 210-211 [listing
examples].) Unlike the cases involving fiduciaries converting funds,
here there is no misappropriation, commingling or misapplication of funds. (Sanowicz
v. Bacal, (2015) 234 Cal. App. 4th 1027, 1042 [real estate agent liable for
conversion by accepting commissions for himself and a business partner without
giving the partner his share]; Fischer v. Machado, (1996) 50 Cal. App.
4th 1069, 1073-74 [holding sales agent can be liable for conversion by
withholding proceeds from a consignment sale from the principal seller].)
Therefore, such an interference would not support a conversion claim. All that
remains is Cross-Complainants’ general claim for damages caused by SMC’s
interference with their contractual rights of payment. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
as to issue nos. 5-6.
 
Fraud Causes (Sixth, Seventh Causes)
 
SMC moves to adjudicate the sixth
cause of action for conspiracy to commit fraud and seventh cause of action for
aiding and abetting fraud.  
 
“Conspiracy is not a cause of
action, but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although
not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors
a common plan or design in its perpetration . . . Standing alone, a conspiracy
does no harm and engenders no tort liability. It must be activated by the
commission of an actual tort. A civil conspiracy, however atrocious, does not
per se give rise to a cause of action unless a civil wrong has been committed
resulting in damage.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510-11 [internal citations and quotations marks
omitted].) To prevail on this theory, a plaintiff must establish: “‘(1)
formation and operation of the conspiracy and (2) damage resulting to plaintiff
(3) from a wrongful act done in furtherance of the common design.’ [Citation.]”
(Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1150, 1173.) “It is not enough that the [conspirators] knew of an intended
wrongful act, they must agree—expressly or tacitly—to achieve it.” (AREI II
Cases (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1022.) A conspirator’s agreement to
the conspiracy “may be inferred from the character of the acts done, the
relations of the parties, the interest of the alleged conspirators, and other
circumstances.” (Id. at 1024.) 
 
“A defendant is liable for aiding
and abetting another in the commission of an intentional tort … if the
defendant ‘ “ ‘knows the other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives
substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act.’ ” ’ [Citation.]”
(Nasrawi v. Buck Consultants LLC (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 328,
343.) “ ‘Liability may . . . be imposed on one who aids and abets the
commission of an intentional tort if the person (a) knows the other's conduct
constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement
to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial assistance to the other in
accomplishing a tortious result and the person's own conduct, separately
considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third person.’ [Citations.]” (Fiol
v. Doellstedt (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1325-1326.) Conspiracy is a
concept closely allied with aiding and abetting. (Janken v. GM Hughes
Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 78.) While conspiracy requires an
agreement, aiding and abetting only requires assistance. (Id.)
 
The elements of fraud are “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.)
 
Cross-Defendant presents undisputed
evidence that it had no knowledge that Zhang lacked authority to bind Zhumeng
and Zhengfu or forged signatures/corporate chops. As discussed above, SMC
reasonably believed that Zhang had authority to act on behalf of those entities
based on the information and documentation that had been provided to them. (UMF
64, 76.) As SMC had no actual knowledge of purported fraudulent acts of Zhang,
Cross-Defendant demonstrates that Cross-Complainants cannot establish the formation
and operation of the conspiracy, or SMC’s knowledge that Zhang was breaching
his duty to Cross-Complainants. Cross-Complainants fail to present any dispute
of material fact concerning SMC’s knowledge of Zhang’s alleged fraud. (AMF
93-105.)
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
as to issue nos. 7-10.
 
Eighth Cause of Action for violation of the UCL (Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17200)
 
Business & Professions Code §
17200 requires that a plaintiff prove that a defendant engaged in a business
practice that was either unlawful (i.e, forbidden by law), unfair (i.e., harm
to victim outweighs any benefit), or fraudulent (i.e., is likely to deceive
members of the public). (Albillo v. Intermodal Container Services, Inc.
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 190, 206.) “An unlawful business practice or act is an
act or practice, committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same
time forbidden by law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) “A business practice is unfair within the meaning of the
UCL if it violates established public policy or if it is immoral, unethical,
oppressive or unscrupulous and causes injury to consumers which outweighs its
benefits.” (McKell v. Washington Mut., Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457,
1473.) A business practice is fraudulent if members of the public are likely to
be deceived by the practice. (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 806.)
 
The SACC alleges that SMC engaged
in unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent conduct by the following:
 
·      
SMC proceeded with and ultimately completed
the SMC-Golden Title Loan Transaction even though SMC knew it only
negotiated and transacted with Zhang and knew or should have known that:
(a) Zhang was not an officer, director, shareholder, employee, legal representative,
or agent of Zhengfu or Zhumeng; and (b) Zhang had no authority or authorization
to pledge the Greyhound and Midway Rights.
·      
SMC proceeded with and ultimately completed
the SMC-Golden Title Loan Transaction even though SMC knew or should
have known that Zhang: (a) pledged the Greyhound Rights by forging Jianu
Han’s signature and Zhengfu’s corporate seal (chop); and (b) pledged the Midway
Rights by signing on behalf of Zhumeng when he has no authority or authorization
from Zhumeng to do so and by forging Zhumeng’s chop company seal (chop).
·      
SMC failed to perform any reasonable
inquiries into Zhang’s relationship with Zhengfu and Zhumeng before
proceeding with the SMC-Golden Title Loan Transaction. SMC’s only point of
connection to and contact at Zhengfu and Zhumeng was Zhang, but he is not an officer,
director, shareholder, employee, legal representative, or agent of Zhengfu or
Zhumeng. But, SMC transacted and negotiated only with Zhang about Zhengfu’s
Greyhound Rights and Zhumeng’s Midway Rights. Moreover, information about a
company’s directors, officers, executives, shareholders, and legal
representatives are matters of public record in China.
·      
SMC registered Zhang’s fraudulent
Greyhound Copyright Mortgage and Assignment with the Copyright Office.
·      
SMC sought to foreclose the Greyhound and
Midway Rights while relying on Zhang’s fraudulent pledges of the Greyhound and
Midway Rights on September 21, 2020. SMC’s purported foreclosure sale violated
California’s Commercial Code as SMC did not notify Zhengfu or Zhumeng of
the purported foreclosure sale until two months after it happened.
·      
SMC unjustly benefited from its wrongful
retention of the Greyhound Rights (which rightfully belong to Zhengfu) and
the Midway Rights (which rightfully belong to Zhumeng). SMC stated that it
entered an $8 million credit bid at the foreclosure sale for the Greyhound and
Midway Rights, and no counterbids were submitted. SMC knew or should have known
that its “credit bid” was far below the value of the Greyhound or Midway Rights.
Greyhound's exploitation in China alone could generate revenue in many tens of
millions of dollars, and Midway had generated gross receipts of more than $52
million as of June 2020.
·      
SMC sought to enforce its purported ownership
of the Greyhound Rights by proclaiming ownership to Sony. In addition, SMC
sought to redirect revenue streams due to Zhumeng under the Midway Co-Financing
Agreement and related Midway agreements after SMC’s purported foreclosure sale.
·      
SMC asserted and continues to proclaim
to: (a) Sony and other third parties that it is entitled to the Greyhound
Rights relying on the Greyhound-SMC Agreements; and (b) third parties that
it is entitled to the Midway Rights relying on the Midway-SMC
Agreements.
·      
SMC, Golden Title, and Zhang intended for their
fraud, deceit, and other wrongful conduct to interfere with Zhengfu’s
relationship with Sony and Zhumeng’s relationship with the Midway Parties.
 
(SACC ¶ 188, emphasis added.)
 
SMC fails to defeat all the pled
bases for unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices. SMC contends that
its actions were taken based on its belief that Zhang was authorized to act on
behalf of Zhumeng and Zhengfu and were therefore not immoral, unethical,
oppressive or unscrupulous. However, the SACC alleges that SMC did not
“reasonably” inquire into Zhang’s relationship with Zhengfu or Zhumeng, and
that SMC should have known that Zhang was not so authorized. SMC
expressly does not make any contentions regarding what it should have
known, but rather focuses only on its actual knowledge. (See, e.g., Mot. at
2, fn. 1.) SMC presents no authority which would hold that their alleged
failure to properly investigate Zhang while proceeding with the transactions could
not be considered an “unfair” business practice, even if not unlawful or
fraudulent. SMC further does not address whether it violated Commercial Code
sections 9611 and 9612 by not notifying Zhengfu and Zhumeng of the foreclosure
sale. (AMF 111.)  While SMC argues that
the court has already decided the Commercial Code issue, a ruling on a preliminary
injunction motion is not an adjudication of the ultimate rights in controversy,
and merely represents the trial court's discretionary decision whether
defendant should be restrained from exercising a claimed right pending trial. (Cohen
v. Board of Supervisors (1985) 40 Cal.3d 277, 286.) 
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED
as to issue nos. 11-12.
 
Punitive Damages
 
SMC argues that Cross-Complainants
cannot prove malice, fraud or oppression required by Civil Code section 3294(c).

 
Under Civil Code section 3294(c):
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury
to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others; (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights; and (3) “Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.
 
An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.  With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and
conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud,
or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent4
of the corporation. 
 
(Civil Code § 3294(b).)
 
“Despicable conduct” that rises to
the level of supporting an award of punitive damages against a defendant is
that which is “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome
that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people” and
has been described as “conduct…having the character of outrage frequently
associated with a crime.” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co.
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)
 
“Conscious disregard” means “the
defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and
the he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.”  (Hoch
v. Allied-Signal, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) To be liable for
punitive damages the defendant must “have actual knowledge of the risk of harm
it is creating, and in the face of the knowledge, fail to take steps it knows
will reduce or eliminate the risk of harm.” (Ehrhardt v. Brunswick,
Inc. (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 734, 742.)
 
Under the clear and convincing
evidentiary standard the evidence is “so clear as to leave no substantial
doubt” and “sufficiently strong to command the unhesitating assent of every
reasonable mind.” (Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales &
Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 891.) Given the ultimate burden
of proof of clear and convincing evidence, this standard must be taking into
account when ruling on a motion for summary judgment or adjudication because it
will be necessary for the evidence to meet the standard. (American
Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 1017, 1049.) Even though the trial court must take this standard
into account on a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, this mean plaintiff
must “prove” the claim for punitive damages. (Id.) Summary judgment
or adjudication of punitive damages is only proper “when no reasonable jury
could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice,
fraud or oppression.” (Johnson & Johnson v. Superior Court
(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 762.) 
 
Cross-Complainants seek punitive
damages as to their first, second, fourth, sixth, and seventh causes. As
discussed above, SMC has demonstrated that each of those causes of action fail
as a matter of law. As discussed, SMC demonstrates their principals did not
intend any injuries, or consciously disregard Cross-Complainants rights. Instead,
SMC believed in good faith that Zhang represented Cross-Complainants. This
necessarily precludes a finding of malice, oppression or fraud on the part of
SMC’s managing agents. Moreover, SMC asked Cross-Complainants in
interrogatories for the basis of their claim for punitive damages and the
response detailed no false representations by SMC nor any basis for a claim of
concealment of material fact. (UMF 101-102.) 
 
Cross-Complainants present no evidence
to dispute of the material facts concerning fraud, malice or oppression. Cross-Complainants
argue that punitive damages are warranted by SMC’s “intentional” act of interference
with Cross-Complainants’ rights under the Greyhound and Midway Co-Financing Agreements.
Cross-Complainants contend that the evidence shows SMC knew about Zhang’s fraudulent
pledge of Cross-Complainants’ rights, yet accepted that pledge, fraudulently
foreclosed on those rights, then contacted Cross-Complainant’s business
partners to cut off Cross-Complainants’ ability to collect on their rights. (AMF
93-105.)
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
as to issue no. 13-14.
 
 
Conclusion
 
The motion for summary adjudication
is GRANTED as to issues 1-10 and 13-14 and DENIED as to issue nos. 11-12. 