 Case Number:  21STCV41078    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 8, 2021, Plaintiff Solei Smith (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Panda Express, Inc. and Does 1-50 for premises liability. 
On
December 23, 2021, Defendant Panda Restaurant Group, Inc., erroneously sued as
Panda Express, Inc. (“Defendant”), filed an answer. 
On
March 13, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to continue trial, to be heard on
April 12, 2024.  Plaintiff did not file
an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 14, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Defendant
asks the Court to continue the trial to October 15, 2024 so that Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment can be heard before trial. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 

DISCUSSION              
          Defendant asks the Court to continue the trial to October
15, 2024 because Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is set for hearing on
August 30, 2024, after the current June 14, 2024 trial date. 
The
Court finds good cause and continues the trial to October 2, 2024.  
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Panda Restaurant Group, Inc., erroneously
sued as Panda Express, Inc., to continue the trial.  The Court continues the trial to October 2,
2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The Final Status Conference is continued to September
18, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  All discovery and related dates will be based on the new trial date. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 