 Case Number:  22STCV35364    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
November 7, 2022, Plaintiffs Abrion Sims (“Sims”) and Miajah Hill (“Hill”)
filed this action against Defendants Robert R. Nacar (“Defendant”) and Does
1-20 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
December 15, 2022, Defendant filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Sims and Roes 1-20 for indemnity and contribution. On January
11, 2023, Sims filed an answer to the cross-complaint. 
On
March 15, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to reclassify the case as a limited
civil case.  Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 6, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Defendant
asks the Court to reclassify the case as a limited civil case. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 403.040 provides in part: 
“(a) The plaintiff, cross-complainant, or petitioner
may file a motion for reclassification within the time allowed for that party
to amend the initial pleading. The defendant or cross-defendant may file a
motion for reclassification within the time allowed for that party to respond
to the initial pleading. The court, on its own motion, may reclassify a case at
any time. A motion for reclassification does not extend the moving party’s time
to amend or answer or otherwise respond. The court shall grant the motion and
enter an order for reclassification, regardless of any fault or lack of fault,
if the case has been classified in an incorrect jurisdictional classification. 
“(b) If a party files a motion for reclassification
after the time for that party to amend that party’s initial pleading or to
respond to a complaint, cross-complaint, or other initial pleading, the court
shall grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification only if both of
the following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The case is incorrectly classified. 
“(2) The moving party shows good cause for not seeking
reclassification earlier.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 403.040,
subds. (a), (b).) 
          Limited civil cases include cases in which “the demand,
exclusive of interest, or the value of the property in controversy amounts to thirty-five
thousand dollars ($35,000) or less.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 86, subd. (a)(1).)   
“[A]
matter may be reclassified as a limited civil action ‘when (i) the absence of
jurisdiction is apparent before trial from the complaint, petition, or related
documents, or (ii) during the course of pretrial litigation, it becomes clear
that the matter will “necessarily” result in a verdict below the superior
court's jurisdictional amount . . . .’ ”  (Ytuarte v. Superior Court (2005) 129
Cal.App.4th 266, 276-277 (Ytuarte), quoting Walker v. Superior Court
(1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 262 (Walker).)  “Even more appropriately, ‘... the test [is]
... whether “lack of jurisdiction is clear”...' [or] virtually unattainable....”
' ” (Id. at p. 277, quoting Walker, supra, 53 Cal.3d at p.
269.)  “This standard involves an
evaluation of the amount fairly in controversy, not an adjudication of the
merits of the claim, and according to Walker, requires a ‘high level of
certainty that [the] damage award will not exceed [the jurisdictional limit].’ ”
(Ibid., quoting Walker, supra, 53 Cal.3d at p. 269.) “The Supreme
Court explained: ‘ “The [trial] court may believe it highly unlikely that
plaintiff will recover the amount demanded, but this is not enough to defeat
jurisdiction, unless it appears to a legal certainty that plaintiff cannot
recover the amount [of the] demand[ ]”.’ ”  (Ibid., quoting Walker, supra,
53 Cal.3d at p. 270; see Maldonado v. Superior Court (1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 397, 402 [“The unlikeliness of a judgment in excess of [the
jurisdictional amount] is not the test. The trial court reviews the record to
determine whether the result is obtainable. Simply stated, the trial court
looks to the possibility of a jurisdictionally appropriate verdict, not to its
probability”].) 
“Accordingly
under Walker the superior court must deny the motion to reclassify the
case as limited (and thus keep the matter in the unlimited civil court) unless
it appears to a legal certainty that the plaintiff's damages will necessarily
be less than [the jurisdictional amount]. This standard of ‘legal certainty’ is
not met when it appears a verdict within the unlimited court's jurisdiction is ‘possible.’
”  (Ytuarte, supra, 129
Cal.App.4th at p. 277.) 
DISCUSSION A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on November 6, 2020, Defendant negligently drove his
vehicle into Plaintiffs’ vehicle, injuring Plaintiffs and damaging their
property. Plaintiffs allegedly suffered general and special damages. 
 B.   Defendant’s arguments 
Defendant
asserts that Sims “has submitted medical specials of $780.99, no property
damages, and $3,096 in alleged lost wages. She requires no future treatment and
has no claim for future loss of earnings.” 
(Motion p. 2.)  In addition,
according to Defendant, Sims cannot recover general damages under Proposition
213 because she did not have automobile insurance.  (Motion p. 3.) 
Defendant
states that Hill “has submitted medical specials of $502.80, no property
damage, and no lost wages. She requires no future treatment and has no claim
for future loss of earning[s].”  (Motion p.
2.)  According
to Defendant, it is “almost impossible” that Hill will recover more than
$35,000.00 in general damages.  (Motion
p. 3.) 
Defendant
had good cause for not moving earlier to reclassify the case, he argues,
because he had to conduct discovery to determine the nature and extent of
Plaintiffs’ claimed damages. 
 C.   Analysis 
Even
if Sims may not pursue general damages (an issue the Court does not decide), Hill
has asserted a general damage claim against Defendant.  “ ‘ “Pain and suffering are not subject to
precise measurement by any scale, and their translation into money damages is
peculiarly the function of the trier of the facts.” ’ [Citation.]” (Singer
v. Superior Court (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1320, quoting Walker, supra,
53 Cal.3d at p. 269.)  Defendant’s belief
that it is “almost impossible” for Hill to recover more than $35,000.00 in
general damages does not show “to a legal certainty” that Hill’s damages –
including general damages – will necessarily be less than $35,000.   “If any of several claims joined in the complaint
exceeds [the amount in controversy], no part of the case is subject to the rules
governing limited civil cases.”  (L.
Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(Rutter 2023) ¶ 3:104, p. 3-15.) 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Robert R. Nacar’s motion to reclassify
the case as a limited civil case. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.