 Case Number:  21STCV43597    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  November 30, 2021, Plaintiff Michael Robinson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendant MKM Investments Operation LLC (“MKM”).  The complaint attached (1) Judicial Council common counts and breach of contract forms and (2) a handwritten  narrative alleging that MKM’s employee pushed open the window of Plaintiff’s home,  causing Plaintiff to fall, and returned to Plaintiff’s home several times afterward.  On  May 22, 2023, the Court sustained MKM’s demurrer with leave to amend.  On  June 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants  Jeremy Thana (“Thana”) and MKM for general negligence and “other.”  The complaint includes a five-page  handwritten narrative and requests $20,000,000.00 in compensatory and punitive  damages.  On  March 4, 2024, MKM filed a demurrer, to be heard on April 12, 2024.  On  March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a handwritten document titled “Amended  Rewritten Pleading [So] You Can Understand My Writing.”  The pleading added "Ocean Property's" as a defendant and is described more fully below.  No  trial date is currently scheduled.  PARTY’S REQUEST  MKM  asks the Court to sustain the demurrer.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 430.10 provides in part:  “The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint  has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,  to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:  * * * “(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  “(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this  subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible.  “(g)  In an  action founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading  whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,  subds. (e), (f), (g).)  In a  demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading  or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground  for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face  thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take  judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the  pleading”].)  “For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate  facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or  law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.  Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25  (Cal. Practice Guide), emphasis omitted.)  DISCUSSION  A.   First amended complaint  The first  amended complaint includes the following allegations (liberally construed):  ·       Allegations about Plaintiff’s father, mother, brother,  and the person who helped raise Plaintiff. ·       Thana and other people told Plaintiff that they bought  Plaintiff’s house and Plaintiff had to get out now.·       Thana pushed open the window, knocking Plaintiff down,  and came back daily, opening windows. ·       Thana stopped returning after Plaintiff confronted Thana outside Plaintiff’s home. ·       Plaintiff’s brother forged Plaintiff’s father’s name. ·       A contractor put some kind of beams on the roof of  Plaintiff’s home and ripped off Plaintiff’s father. ·       Plaintiff wants an investigation of Plaintiff’s case  and Plaintiff’s father’s death. ·       Plaintiff is a hermaphrodite and does not want to be  referred to as a man or Mister. ·       Plaintiff went to court on an eviction case. ·       Russia will give Plaintiff their house back.  B.   Plaintiff’s March 15, 2024 amended pleading  Plaintiff’s  March 15, 2024 amended pleading, which the Court construes as an amendment to  the first amended complaint, adds "Ocean Property's" as a defendant and alleges the following (liberally construed):  Plaintiff  was staying at home in compliance with President Trump’s COVID-19  directive.  A black man came to Plaintiff’s  house several times and asked Plaintiff to leave their house.  Plaintiff responded that they had nowhere to  go due to Plaintiff’s illness and medical condition, which placed them at risk  for COVID-19.  Plaintiff refused the  black man’s money.  The black man stopped  coming to the house.  Afterward,  Thana and five other people who worked for Ocean Property's came to Plaintiff’s  house at 407 East 70th Street, Los Angeles, CA 90003 and told Plaintiff to get  out of their house.  Plaintiff responded  that they were sick and could not leave due to COVID-19.  Thana and the other people left and came back  several times.  Thana  then started coming to the house by himself and banging on Plaintiff’s door.  If Plaintiff did not answer at the door, Thana  pushed open the windows and looked inside the house despite Plaintiff’s request  that Thana not do that.  On one occasion  Thana pushed open a window while Plaintiff was taking a bath, causing Plaintiff  to fall and suffer injuries.  On  another occasion, Plaintiff confronted Thanos after he pushed opened a window  while Plaintiff’s former girlfriend was changing her baby’s clothes.  After the confrontation, Thanos left and has  not returned.  The police told Plaintiff that  if Thana came back, Plaintiff should call them.  C.   The Court takes the demurrer hearing off calendar  “[I]f  a demurrer is filed, [Plaintiff has a right to amend the complaint] . . . up to  the time the opposition to the demurrer is due—i.e., nine court days before the  hearing on the demurrer.”  (L. Edmon  & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter  2023) ¶ 7:122.15, p. 7(l)-56, citing Code Civ. Proc., §§ 472, subd. (a), 1005 (Cal.  Practice Guide).)  If  the plaintiff amends the complaint before the demurrer hearing, the hearing  goes off calendar.  (Cal. Practice Guide,  supra, ¶ 7:122.16, p. 7(l)-56.)  “Defendant must then either answer or demur  to the amended complaint within the time permitted (measured from the date of  notice of the amendment).”  (Ibid.)  As noted,  the Court has construed Plaintiff’s March 15, 2024 amended pleading as an  amendment to the first amended complaint.   Plaintiff filed this amendment on March 15, 2024, more than nine court  days before the April 12, 2024 hearing on Defendant’s demurrer.  Therefore, the Court takes the demurrer  hearing off calendar.  CONCLUSION  The  Court takes the demurrer filed by Defendant MKM  Investments Operation LLC off calendar.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.