 Case Number:  22STCV36251    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  14 Ghermezian vs RuizCase Background
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
hired them to do legal work on their behalf for which they have refused to pay.
 
            On October
25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) for (1) Breach
of Contract, (2) Declaratory Relief, (3) Quantum Meruit, (4) Unjust Enrichment,
(5) Money Had and Received, (6) Conversion, and (7) Intentional Interference
with Contract against Defendants Dorlinda Ruiz (“Ruiz”), Law Offices of Jacob Emrani,
APC (“Emrani Firm”), and DOES 1-100.
 
            The first
three causes of action are asserted against Defendant Ruiz only. The seventh
cause of action is asserted against Defendant Emrani Firm only.
 
            On December
5, 2023, Defendants Ruiz and Emrani filed their joint Answer.
 
            On January
26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an “Amendment to Complaint” substituting Defendant
Karina Padua (“Padua”) in lieu of DOE 1.
 
            On February
13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an “Amendment to Complaint” substituting Defendant Jacob
Emrani (“Emrani”) in lieu of DOE 2.
 
            No proof
of service has been filed indicating that individual Defendants Padua and
Emrani have been served.
 
            Jury trial
is currently set for June 3, 2024.
 
(1)        MTC Arbitration
 
Defendant Ruiz now moves this court
for orders compelling the case against her into arbitration, and staying the
proceeding until the completion of arbitration.
 
Decision
 
The motion is DENIED, without
prejudice.
 
Discussion
 
            Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure § 1005(b), the moving papers for this motion were
due to be served and filed at least 16 court days prior to the hearing. 16
court days prior to March 12, 2024, is February 16, 2024. And since these
papers were served electronically, the notice period is extended by another two
court days. Code of Civil Procedure § 1010.6(a)(3)(B). Therefore, the
moving papers on this motion were due February 14, 2024.
 
            According
to the attached proofs of service, the motion was not served until February 23,
2024. It was not filed until February 26, 2024. And while it appears from the
filing of Defendant’s Reply that Plaintiffs did file an opposition, that
document has not been filed with the court at all. Therefore, the appropriate
remedy is to DENY the motion, without prejudice, so that Defendant Ruiz
can re-file with proper notice and Plaintiff can file an opposition.
 
(2)        Motion to
Compel Deposition
 
            Defendant
Emrani Firm now moves this court for an order compelling Plaintiff Raymond
Ghermezian, APC, to produce a Person Most Qualified for deposition. Defendant
Emrani Firm also seeks sanctions in the amount of $2,499.50.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is DENIED.
 
Discussion
 
            For the
same reasons given in connection with the motion above, the moving papers here
were due to be served and filed by February 14, 2024. They were not. Instead,
the moving papers were filed, and the attached proofs of service indicate
e-service on February 16, 2024.
 
            After
Plaintiffs pointed this out in their opposition, Defendant Emrani firm filed an
“Amended Proof of Service” on March 5, 2024, executed by a different person,
which shows personal service on February 16, 2024. Personal service on that
date would have been timely.
 
            Service
issues aside, this is a matter for a phone call, not a motion.  Defendant Emrani Firm noticed the deposition at
issue here on December 29, 2023. (Declaration of Karina A. Padua Exhibit 1). On
January 2, 2024, Plaintiff served objections based solely on the unilateral
scheduling of the deposition. (Id. Exhibit 2).
 
            Defendant
Emrani Firm noticed the deposition again on January 5, 2024, for a new date –
January 26, 2024. (Id. Exhibit 3). This time, no objections were served. On
January 18, 2024, Defendant Emrani Firm emailed Plaintiffs to confirm the
deposition. (Id. Exhibit 4). Plaintiffs responded in a manner that can only be
described as a “brush off,” demanding instead that Defendant Emrani Firm
provide dates for depositions that Plaintiffs wanted to take. (Id. Exhibit 5).
 
            Further
email exchanges resulted in accusations of bad faith, threats of motions to
compel, and sarcastic wishes of good luck. (Id. Exhibits 6-7). No PMQ appeared
for the deposition on January 26, 2024. (Id. Exhibit 8).
 
            Plaintiffs
take the position that the individual Plaintiff, Raymond Ghermezian, will serve
as the PMQ for the corporate Plaintiff (Raymond Ghermezian APC), and that Mr.
Ghermezian has never objected to “his” deposition. While Mr. Ghermezian may, as
a practical matter, testify on his own behalf and on behalf of his
corporation, that testimony must be kept separate as a legal matter. For
Defense to secure usable testimony, they are still required to serve a PMQ
notice and schedule a time for that deposition. The two depositions for Mr.
Ghermezian may even occur on the same day, so long as the sessions are clearly
separated and marked in the reporter’s transcript.
 
            These are
not new problems, and in the vast majority of cases they are solved by counsel
picking up the phone and calling one another. In fact, Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2025.450(b)(2) makes this courtesy a legal prerequisite to the motion: the
moving party must supply a declaration stating that they have contacted the deponent
to inquire about the non-appearance. The Declaration of Karina Padua attached
to this motion contains no such statement.
 
            Both
counsel should be aware that this court does not consider email as an adequate
substitute for live conversation. Emails are useful to document, not replace,
phone calls and meetings.
 
Conclusion
 
            Because Defendant
Emrani Firm failed to call Plaintiffs (or contact them in any way) after the
non-appearance was taken, the motion is DENIED.
 
 