  Case Number:  22STCV25394    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  14 Ortega vs OffabbotCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed
to pay him the wages he was due, then forged his signature on a document, then
breached a subsequent settlement agreement.
 
On August 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed his
Complaint for (1) Non-Payment of Wages, (2) Waiting Time Penalties, (3) Failure
to Reimburse Expenses, (4) Failure to Provide Wage Statements, (5) Unfair
Competition, (6) Fraud, (7) Rescission, and (8) Breach of Contract against
Defendants OffAbbot LLC, OffAbbot Sports, LLC, OffAbbot Sports, Inc. (collectively
“OffAbbot”), Frank Samuel (“Samuel”), Lauren Bayer (“Bayer”), and DOES 1-25. 
 
On December 26, 2023, the default
of Defendant Bayer was entered. 
 
No trial date has yet been set.
 
(1)        Motion to
Set Aside Default
 
            Defendant Bayer now moves
this court, per Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b), for an order setting
aside her default and permitting her to file a responsive pleading.
 
Decision
 
            The motion is
GRANTED.
 
Governing Statute
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 473 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“(b) The court may, upon any terms
as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading
proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted,
and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months,
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…
 
Discussion
 
            The parties
engage in some skirmishing over just how amenable (or not) Defendant Bayer was
to being served. None of that is relevant to this motion. None of the relevant
facts are disputed. 
 
Defendant Bayer was served on
November 22, 2023. Defendant Bayer retained counsel. Her counsel contacted
Plaintiff’s counsel. At the request of Plaintiff’s counsel, they spoke over the
phone on December 19, 2023, to discuss a potential demurrer. The conversation
continued via email.
 
On December 22, 2023, the date the
responsive pleading was due, Defense counsel filed Optional Form CIV-141. Had
they succeeded, they would have obtained an automatic 30-day extension of their
deadline pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 430.41(a)(2). However, the
document was rejected by the clerk’s office due to a technical deficiency in
the spelling of the names.
 
            At this
point, counsel got enmeshed in a dispute about whether their meetings were
being conducted in good faith. Plaintiff’s counsel saw the filing of the form
as a delay tactic and filed a declaration opposing the extension. As a matter
of law, however, Defense was entitled to the extension: Code of Civil Procedure
§ 430.41(a) requires that the parties meet and confer “in person, by
telephone, or by video conference,” and Code of Civil Procedure
§ 430.41(a)(2) provides the automatic extension where the meeting doesn’t
happen “at least 5 days before the date the responsive pleading is due.” Plaintiff’s
counsel picked the date for the meeting and conference, and the date he picked
was only 3 days before the deadline.
 
            At some
point[1] on
December 22, 2023 (the Friday before Christmas), Plaintiff’s counsel sent
Defense counsel an email saying that if he did not receive a responsive
pleading by “the end of the day,” he would take Defendant Bayer’s default. As
good as his word, on December 26, 2023, the next day the court was open,
Plaintiff’s counsel filed for and received entry of default against Defendant
Bayer.
 
            The court
is obliged to set this default aside for any number of reasons – Defense was legally
entitled to the extension, and the strong public policy in favor of trying
cases on their merits – but one in particular seems to need emphasis. And that
is counsel’s legal and ethical obligation not to use defaults as a trap.
 
            The ethical
obligation here is one of long standing in the law: where a plaintiff’s
attorney is aware that a defendant has counsel, plaintiff’s counsel must warn defense
counsel before they attempt to enter default. See Lasalle v. Vogel
(2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127, 135. That ethical obligation has since
been turned into a legal obligation which requires this court to set aside any
default that was sought without advance warning. Id. at 135-141.
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel has complied with that rule, but only in the barest of technical
senses. He gave Defense counsel whatever was left of the Friday before a major
holiday to draft a responsive pleading; when that inevitably proved impossible,
he filed for entry of default immediately. The time stamp on the entry of
default filing is 12:00 am on the morning of December 26, 2023.
 
            While that
approach may follow the letter of the law, it certainly does not comport with
the spirit of the ethical and professional obligations. Therefore, even if the
other reasons were not present, this court would feel bound to follow LaSalle
and set aside the default. The court hopes that in future counsel will communicate
in real time rather than by email, and that these disputes about good and bad
faith can be left in the rearview mirror of this litigation.
 
Conclusion
 
            Defense was
entitled to an automatic extension of their time to respond, which they only
failed to receive for technical clerical reasons. The policy of the law is that
cases should be tried on their merits. And Defense counsel should have received
more warning of the impending default than they actually got. Therefore, the motion
is GRANTED.
 
(2)        Demurrer
 
            Defendants
OffAbbot and Samuel now demur to the first, second, third, fourth, fifth,
sixth, and seventh causes of action in the Complaint, on the grounds that
Plaintiff has failed to state sufficient facts to support those claims.
 
Decision
 
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 10 days leave to amend.
 
Discussion
 
            The
demurrer makes individual challenges only to the first, sixth, and seventh
causes of action. Its primary argument is that the entire block of claims is
barred because the parties had a subsequent settlement. Defendants argue that
the settlement agreement remains valid and enforceable.
 
            The
settlement agreement is described in the Complaint and attached to it as Exhibit
7. It was executed by Plaintiff on July 22, 2022. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants breached the contract by failing to pay the second installment, due
on August 1, 2022. (Complaint ¶¶ 66-68). On August 2, 2022, Plaintiff gave
notice to Defendants that he was rescinding the settlement agreement, but that
he would keep the first installment payment as a credit against his damages.
(Complaint ¶¶ 69-71).
 
            Defense
argues that, by keeping the first installment payment, Plaintiff has failed to
meet one of the requirements for a valid rescission. They are correct.
 
            To effectuate
a rescission, Civil Code § 1691(b) requires the rescinding party to either
restore, or at least offer to restore, everything received under the contract. In
opposition, Plaintiff points out that the final paragraph of Section 1691 allows
the service of a lawsuit containing a claim for rescission to constitute the
required “offer to restore.” However, in the specific case of a settlement
agreement, freedom from a lawsuit is the primary benefit under the contract. Therefore,
filing a lawsuit can hardly serve as an offer to restore those benefits. As one
Court of Appeal put it: “[defendant] paid a substantial sum to buy its peace…[plaintiff]
would like to both keep the money and maintain the war…we conclude he cannot.” Myerchin
v. Family Benefits, Inc. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1526, 1533
(disapproved on other grounds by Village Northridge Homeowners Assn. v.
State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 913, 929
fn.6).
 
            If
Plaintiff is incapable of returning the money for practical reasons (for instance,
if it has already been spent), he may allege that inability, and the case may
proceed under Civil Code § 1693. See Village Northridge, supra,
50 Cal.4th at 926-929, 931. However, at present, no such allegation
has been made.
 
Conclusion
 
            Where a
party wishes to rescind a settlement agreement and prosecute the claims that
were covered in that agreement, they must either allege the return of the
settlement funds or their inability to return them. Plaintiff has done neither
in this case. Therefore, the demurrer to the first seven causes of action is
SUSTAINED, with 10 days leave to amend.


