  Case Number:  23CMCV00126    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT AND
ENTRY OF BAR ORDER
 
Date:               5/2/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:                           People of the
State of California ex rel. California Regional Water Quality Control Board,
Los Angeles Region v. Mouren-Laurens Oil Company, Inc. et al. (23CMCV00126)
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants Mouren-Laurens Parties’ and Leach Parties’ Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement and Entry of Bar Order is GRANTED.
 
I.                  
PRELIMINARY MATTERS
 
Even though the Opposition was filed on April 12, 2024, only
eight court days before the original hearing date of April 24, 2024, the moving
parties were able to file a substantive reply. The Court exercises its
discretion and considers the opposition. (Rule of Court 3.1300(d) [“No paper
may be rejected for filing on the ground that it was untimely submitted for
filing. If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed
paper, the minutes or order must so indicate”].)
 
Rev 973, LLC’s errata filed on April 23, 2024 is more than a
clarifying document. It attempts to add arguments and evidence that should have
been filed with the opposition. Nevertheless, because the errata and additional
evidence attached thereto are not dispositive, the Court declines to strike the
errata. 
 
Rev 973, LLC’s evidentiary objections are OVERRULED. The
reply declaration is responsive to Rev 973’s arguments in opposition.
   
II.               
FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS
 
Plaintiff California Regional Water Quality Control Board,
Los Angeles Region (“Los Angeles Water Board”) seeks to enforce two Cleanup and
Abatement Orders (“CAOs”). 
 
Defendants Leach Oil Company, Inc. (“LOC”), Patricia Leach,
and Leach Property Management (“LOC Defendants”) owned and/or operated the site
located at 625 East Compton Boulevard and 15006 South Avalon Boulevard in
Compton, California since 1985 (“LOC Site”). (Compl. ¶¶ 2, 17.) The LOC Site
was used for receiving, processing, and packaging used engine oil. (Compl. ¶¶
16, 17.) 
 
Defendant Mouren-Laurens Oil Company (“MLOC”) previously
operated the site located at 641 East Compton Boulevard, 705 East Compton
Boulevard, 717 East Compton Boulevard, and 719 East Compton Boulevard (“MLOC
Site”) from 1958 through the 1980s, if not later. (Compl. ¶ 4.) MLOC
blended and packaged motor oils, transmission oils, and antifreeze for retail.
(Compl. ¶ 18.) 
 
Defendant Mireille Mouren-Laurens owned the MLOC Site from
1979 to 1998. (Compl. ¶ 5.) Joseph Mouren-Laurens and Emma Mouren-Laurens, now
deceased but named in the instant action as defendants through their estates, owned
the MLOC Site from approximately 1965 to 1979. (Compl. ¶ 6.) (Defendants MLOC, Mireille
Mouren-Laurens, the Estate of Joseph Mouren-Laurens and the Estate of Emma Mouren-Laurens
are hereafter referred to collectively as “MLOC Defendants.”) The MLOC Site is
currently owned by defendant Rev 973, LLC (“Rev 973”). (Compl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Through the operation of the LOC Site and the MLOC Site
(collectively, “Sites”), defendants allegedly discharged waste from the Sites,
thereby impacting soil and groundwater. (Compl. ¶¶ 2, 4, 20.) A pipeline was
used to transfer waste oil between the two Sites until the late 1960s. (Compl.
¶ 17.) There remains significant waste and hazardous materials below and around
the pipeline on both Sites. (Compl. ¶ 17.) 
 
On November 20, 1987, the Los Angeles Water Board issued a
cleanup and abatement order (“CAO”) requiring MLOC and non-party John
Mouren-Laurens, husband of Mireille Mouren-Laurens, to adequately assess,
monitor, report, and cleanup and abate the effects of contaminants of concern
discharged to soil, soil vapor, and groundwater. (Compl. ¶¶ 6, 21.) 
 
On September 17, 2014, the Los Angeles Water Board issued a
CAO requiring the LOC Defendants to adequately assess, monitor, report, and
cleanup and abate the effects of volatile organic compounds, semi-volatile
organic compounds, heavy metals, petroleum hydrocarbons, and other contaminants
of concern discharged to soil, soil vapor, and groundwater (“Leach CAO”).
(Compl. ¶ 22.) 
 
On September 19, 2014, the Los Angeles Water Board issued a
CAO requiring the MLOC Defendants and Rev 973 to adequately assess, monitor,
report, and cleanup and abate the effects of volatile organic compounds,
semi-volatile organic compounds, heavy metals, petroleum hydrocarbons, and
other contaminants of concern discharged to soil, soil vapor, and groundwater
(“Mouren-Laurens CAO”). (Compl. ¶ 24.) 
 
The Los Angeles Water Board seeks injunctive relief,
specifically the enforcement of the Leach CAO and the Mouren-Laurens CAO.
(Prayer for Relief ¶¶ (i), (ii).)
 
III.            
SETTLEMENT AT ISSUE
 
Pursuant to CCP § 877.6(a)(1), the MLOC Defendants and the
LOC Defendants (collectively “Settling Defendants”) move for a determination
that the settlement agreement they reached with Los Angeles Water Board
(“Agreement”) was made in good faith.
 
Under the Agreement (see Fully Executed Settlement
Agreement filed on 4/2/24), EKI Environment & Water, Inc. (“EKI”), the
environmental consultant of the MLOC Defendants, shall implement a remedial
action plan (“RAP”) for the investigation and remediation of the MLOC and LOC
Sites. (Agreement § 1.12.) 
 
MLO, with copies to LOC, shall provide the Los Angeles Water
Board with quarterly reports documenting their progress toward completing the tasks
set forth in the RAP. (Agreement §§ 6.2, 6.3)
 
Within 15 days of the Court’s entry of an order finding the
Agreement to be made in good faith, Settling Defendants shall pay a combined
total sum of $9.8 million (“Total Settlement Funds”) into a Qualified
Settlement Fund. (Agreement § 7.1.) $7.5 million shall be used to complete the
tasks set forth in the RAP. (Agreement § 7.2.) $2.3 million shall be used for
cost overruns. (Agreement § 7.2.) Any surplus funds remaining after completion
of the RAP shall be used to cover, in the following order, other remediation
not addressed by the RAP, other groundwater and/or vapor intrusion migrating
from the Sites, oversight costs, mutually agreed upon environmentally
beneficial projects, or to the Waste Discharge Permit Fund. (Agreement §§ 7.4.)
If the Total Settlement Funds are insufficient to pay for the RAP, Settling
Defendants shall use commercially reasonable efforts to diligently pursue
funding from the State Water Board’s Site Cleanup Subaccount Program.
(Agreement § 7.5.) 
 
Upon completion of each task set forth in the RAP, a
specified percentage associated with the completed task will be subtracted from
each Settling Defendant’s total alleged civil liabilities arising from
violation of the CAOs and deemed satisfied in full. (Agreement §§ 9.1, 9.5
& Ex. A.) Completion of all tasks will result in Settling Defendants having
no further obligations under the Agreement and all claims alleged against them
under the Complaint released. (Agreement §§ 9.10, 11.1, 12.2.) 
 
IV.            
ANALYSIS
 
Rev 973 opposes the Settling Defendants’ motion.  In order to demonstrate lack of good faith,
the non-settling party must show that the settlement is so far “out of the
ballpark” as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of CCP §
877.6.  (Nutrition Now, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 209,
213.)  In making this determination, the
Court must rely “on the basis of experience rather than speculation,” and “may
enlist … personal experience and of experts in the field.”  (Cahill
v. San Diego Gas & Elec. Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 959.)
 
In determining whether a settlement is “out of the
ballpark,” the Court considers the following factors: (1) the plaintiff’s
(roughly) approximated total recovery; (2) the settlor’s share of liability;
(3) the size of the settlement at issue; (4) the distribution of settlement
proceeds among plaintiffs; (5) the usual discount value when plaintiffs settle
before trial; (6) the settlor’s financial condition and insurance policy
limits; and (7) whether there is evidence of “collusion, fraud, or tortious
conduct aimed to injury the interests of nonsettling defendants.”  (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assocs. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) These
so-called Tech-Bilt factors must be
evaluated according to what information is available at the time of
settlement.  (Ibid.)
 
In opposing a finding that the Agreement was made in good
faith, in substance, Rev 973 makes the following arguments: (1) in a previously
adjudicated federal action, expert testimony and the Los Angeles Water Board
revealed that the cost of remediation of the Sites is at least double the Total
Settlement Funds provided in the Agreement, (2) the proposed settlement does
not include a dismissal with prejudice, (3) the MLOC Defendants are wholly
responsible under the MLOC CAO because, if the MLOC Defendants had complied
with the 1987 CAO, the instant action would not exist, (4) payments to comply
with CAOs may not be used to make determination of good faith, (5) Settling
Defendants’ insurance coverage is forfeited under the Agreement, (6) the
Agreement foreclosures review under the California Environmental Quality Act
(“CEQA”), and (7) the motion was not properly served. 
 
With respect to the first argument, Rev 973 contends that Steve
Figgins of EKI represented in a federal action covering the same Sites and
cleanup issues as the instant action that the cost of cleanup at the Sites is
$12,200,000 but at the very least would be between $9 million and $18 million. (Dorris
Decl. Ex. 10 & Table 1, lodged with Court but not filed.) Now Figgins
contends that the cost of remediation is $6.1 million. (Figgins Decl. ¶¶ 13, 19
[$7.6 million cost estimate - $1.5 million cost overrun funds].) The costs
asserted in the federal action were prepared in May 2020. (Dorris Decl. Ex. 10
& Table 1, lodged with Court but not filed.) However, the costs presented
at the time of settlement, which is the relevant time period under Tech-Bilt,
are now $6.1 million. Settling Defendants will be paying $6.1 million, plus an
additional $3.7 million for any cost overruns under the Agreement. 
 
Rev 973 presents a letter from its expert contending that
the costs of remediation will exceed the Total Settlement Funds. (Dorris Decl.
Ex. 13, lodged with Court but not filed.) Notably, that expert never states
what the total cost of remediation would be. Rather, the expert merely states
that the cost of soil removal would be “well over $10,000,000.” (Dorris Decl.
Ex. 13 at 4, lodged with Court but not filed.) Even if Rev 973’s expert had provided
a firm number or range for the cost of remediation, the Los Angeles Water Board
“believes that the on-site contamination will be remediated to its satisfaction
following completion of the RAP [remedial action plan], with the conditions
included by the Regional Water Board.” (4/8/24 Response in Support of Motion at
3:13-15.) 
 
Given the approval of the agency responsible for overseeing
the remediation, the Court has no reason to find that the Agreement is out of
the ballpark of good faith settlements. To the extent that the Total Settlement
Funds are not sufficient to remediate the Sites, this does not prevent a
finding that the Agreement is within the ballpark, as a good faith settlement
figure may very well reasonably fall below what a plaintiff might ultimately
obtain at trial. 
 
With respect to the second argument, the Agreement provides
for a dismissal without prejudice. (Agreement § 17.) A contribution bar may be
based on a dismissal without prejudice. (CCP § 877.) 
 
With respect to the third argument, the Court takes judicial
notice of the Order Denying Petition for Writ of Mandate filed on October 17,
2023 in Rev 973, LLC v. Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board,
LASC Case No. 20STCP02934, wherein Judge Mitchell Beckloff denied Rev 973’s
petition for writ of mandate to be removed from the MLOC CAO. Accordingly, the
MLOC CAO also is effective against Rev 973. (See also Cronin Decl. ¶ 5
& Ex. B to Ex. 1 [MLOC CAO].) 
 
With respect to the fourth argument, Rev 973 cites Dole
Food Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 894, 898 for the
proposition that CAO settlements cannot be used for any contribution bar. However,
in Dole Food, compliance with the CAO was not part of the settlement
consideration. (Dole Food, 242 Cal.App.4th at 898.) This is why the Dole
Food court found that the value of the remedial action plan (“RAP”) should
not have been used in a good faith settlement determination. (Ibid.) Here,
compliance with the RAP, through payment of the Total Settlement Funds, is part
of the settlement consideration. 
 
With respect to the fifth argument, Rev 973 contends that there
is $25 million in insurance available for settlement. The Court was unable to
find evidence of this assertion based on the citations in page 11 and 12 of the
opposition and Exhibit 16 attached to the errata. Based on the argument
presented by Rev 973, it appears that insurers have been covering costs of
defense. (Opp. at 11:6-8.) However, paying costs of defense does not
necessarily create a duty to fund Settling Defendants’ obligations “until all
coverage limits are exhausted.” (Ibid.) “The duty to defend is broader
than the duty to indemnify. An insurer’s duty to indemnify extends to claims
that are actually covered by the policy.” (American States Ins. Co. v.
Travelers Property Casualty Co. of America (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 495, 506,
citation omitted.) Here, the settling parties agree that Settling Defendants’ insurers
have denied coverage based on lack of duty to indemnify. (Agreement § 19.1.) Rev
973 having presented no other basis to question whether other insurance
proceeds are available, the fifth argument is unavailing.  Further, the availability of insurance
coverage is not particularly relevant as to the determination of whether the
settlement amount is reasonable and falls within the “ballpark.” 
 
With respect to the sixth argument, the Agreement does not
foreclose CEQA review. The Agreement allows for the RAP to be modified based on
CEQA requirements. (Agreement §§ 1.13, 1.14, 6.2.) Further, contrary to
Rev 973’s assertion, State Water Resources Control Board Resolution 92-49 does
not require any mandatory feasibility study to be performed before approval of
any RAP. Section III.C, cited by Rev 973, requires the Los Angeles Water Board
to require the discharger to consider the feasibility of applicable alternative
methods for cleanup and abatement to allow dischargers to have the opportunity
to select cost-effective methods for cleanup and abatement. By approving the
RAP as modified, the Los Angeles Water Board agreed that the RAP is consistent
with applicable laws. (Agreement § 1.13.) 
 
With respect to the seventh argument, Rev 973 contends that
all known joint tortfeasors were not served, including those identified in the
federal action, as required by Rule of Court 3.1382, which states: “The notice
of motion or application for determination of good faith settlement must list
each party and pleading or portion of pleading affected by the settlement and
the date on which the affected pleading was filed.” However, Rev 973 is the
only known joint tortfeasor. Other parties were dismissed in the federal
action. (Cronin Decl. ¶ 8 & Ex. 4.) In any event, counsel for those
dismissed parties was served. (Cronin Decl. ¶ 8 & Ex. 4.) Further, even
though the fully executed settlement agreement was not filed within 16 court
days before the originally scheduled hearing, the terms of the fully executed
agreement were the same as the partially executed settlement agreement submitted
with the moving papers. (Cronin Decl. ¶ 13 & Ex. 2.) Rev 972 was not
prejudiced in connection with submitting its opposition. 
 
 
V.               
REQUEST FOR A CONTINUANCE
 
Rev 973 requests a continuance of the instant hearing to
obtain documents related to Settling Defendants’ fair share and cleanup
insurance. “[I]t would be appropriate for the objecting nonsettlor to move for
a continuance of the hearing, if necessary, for the purpose of gathering
facts, which could include further formal discovery, to support its statutory
burden of proof as to all Tech-Bilt factors nonsettlors placed in issue in
order that the matter can be fully and fairly litigated . . . . This rule shall
apply to all contested good faith settlement hearings, no matter which of the
Tech-Bilt factors are in issue.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court
(1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1265, emphasis added.)
 
While discovery may be available in connection with a good
faith settlement determination, a showing of necessity is required. Rev 972
does not demonstrate how the contemplated additional documents could show that
the asserted $9.8 million to be paid by Settling Defendants is insufficient to
remediate the Sites. With respect to insurance, the question of whether additional
insurance proceeds are available is irrelevant to the determination of whether
the $9.8 million to be paid by Settling Defendants is within the reasonable
range of their liability. In other words, so long as the $9.8 million is within
the reasonable range, it does not matter that additional funds are available elsewhere.

 
Because Rev 973 has not shown that a continuance is
necessary, Rev 973’s request for a continuance—both made in the Opposition
Brief and a separate Ex Parte Application, filed April 30, 2024—is DENIED.
 
VI.            
CONCLUSION 
 
The motion is GRANTED. Subject to certain minor edits to be
discussed during the hearing, the Court will sign the Proposed Order,
electronically received March 12, 2024.