 Case Number:  24NWCV01845    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  C RAFAEL ARROYO vs FIRESTONE
PLAZA, LLC, et al. 
Case No.: 24NWCV01845
Hearing Date: October 1, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m. 
 
#5
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Firestone Plaza, LLC’s Demurrer is
OVERRULED. 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
Plaintiff Rafael Arroyo (“Plaintiff”) has a spinal injury
that significantly impairs or limits his ability to walk. He uses a wheelchair
for mobility. (Complaint, ¶20.) On December 27, 2023, Plaintiff visited Bobo’s
Burgers located at 2709 Firestone Blvd., South Gate, CA 90280 and encountered
barriers to access. (Id., ¶¶5, 22.) Plaintiff sues Defendant Firestone
Plaza, LLC (owner of the land) and B Four Corporation (owner of the restaurant)
for damages and injunctive relief based upon violations of Americans with
Disabilities Act and Unruh Civil Rights Act. 
Defendant Firestone Plaza, LLC (“Defendant”) demurs on the
ground that the second cause of action, Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights
Act, fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
Defendant.  Defendant also moves to
strike language in the Complaint pertaining to injunctive relief.  
Judicial Notice 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice of the list of
cases commenced by plaintiff in Los Angeles Superior Court, pursuant to
Evidence Code §452(d). Judicial Notice is GRANTED.
Discussion
Demurrer
As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading
against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight
enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿ 
“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence
or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)¿ 
Civil Code Section 51, subdivision (b), states in pertinent part,
“All persons within the jurisdiction of this state are free and equal, and no
matter what their sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sexual
orientation, citizenship, primary language, or immigration status are entitled
to the full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or
services in all business establishments of every kind whatsoever.” (Civ. Code §
51, subd. (b); see also 42 U.S.C.A. § 12182, subd. (a).) 
 
“(a) An allegation of a construction-related accessibility claim
in a complaint, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 55.52 of the Civil
Code, shall state facts sufficient to allow a reasonable person to identify the
basis of the violation or violations supporting the claim, including all of the
following: (1) A plain language explanation of the specific
access barrier or barriers the individual encountered, or by which the
individual alleges he or she was deterred, with sufficient information about
the location of the alleged barrier to enable a reasonable person to identify
the access barrier […] (2) The way in which the barrier denied the individual
full and equal use or access, or in which it deterred the individual, on each
particular occasion […] (3) The date or dates of each particular occasion on
which the claimant encountered the specific access barrier, or on which he
or she was deterred […] (4) (A) Except in complaints that allege physical
injury or damage to property, a complaint filed by or on behalf of a
high-frequency litigant shall also state all of the following: 
(i) Whether the complaint is filed by, or on behalf of, a
high-frequency litigant. 
(ii) In the case of a high-frequency litigant who is a plaintiff,
the number of complaints alleging a construction-related accessibility claim
that the high-frequency litigant has filed during the 12 months prior to filing
the complaint. 
(iii) In the case of a high-frequency litigant who is a plaintiff,
the reason the individual was in the geographic area of the defendant’s
business. 
(iv) In the case of a high-frequency litigant who is a plaintiff,
the reason why the individual desired to access the defendant’s business,
including the specific commercial, business, personal, social, leisure,
recreational, or other purpose. 
(B) As used in this section “high-frequency litigant” has the same
meaning as set forth in subdivision (b) of Section 425.55.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.50, subd. (a).) 
 
Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint is too
vague in that it does not adequately specify what barriers were encountered or when
Plaintiff encounter the barrier.  The
Complaint alleges, among other things, that Plaintiff has a spinal injury that significantly
impairs or limits his ability to walk. (Complaint, ¶20.) On December 27, 2023, Plaintiff
went to the establishment and discovered that the tables were non-compliant because
they utilize a fixed-in-place booth-style design that inhibits the ability to
fully pull under the table while using a wheelchair. (Id., ¶37.) 
The Court determines that the Complaint sufficiently
explains the specific access barriers Plaintiff encountered, the location of
the alleged barrier, the way in which the barrier denied Plaintiff full and
equal use or access, and the date or dates of each particular occasion on which
the claimant encountered the specific access barrier.
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff, a high-frequency
litigant, fails to comply with the requirements for high-frequency litigants by
failing to identify the reason why he was in the geographic area and why he
desired access to the business.  The
Complaint alleges Plaintiff was in the geographic area because he lives there.
(Id., ¶50.) Plaintiff was interested in the particular business because
he wanted to eat there. (Id., ¶51.) The Court finds that the Complaint
states sufficient facts to support a cause of action for Violation of the Unruh
Civil Rights Act under Civil Code Section 51. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer is OVERRULED.  
Motion to Strike 
Upon motion, or at any time in its own discretion, a court
may grant a motion to strike any of the following material: (1) irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) all or any part of
any pleading not drawn in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule,
or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §436.) These provisions also
authorize “the striking of a pleading due to improprieties in its form or in
the procedures pursuant to which it was filed.” (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi,
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528, emphasis in original.)
Defendant moves to strike language in the Complaint
pertaining to injunctive relief: page 4, ¶17 and page 11, ¶¶74-77.  Defendant argues that under Civil Code §
3368, preventative injunctive relief may only prohibit a party from doing that
which ought not to be done (i.e., a prohibitory injunction).  A plaintiff is not entitled to injunctive
relief compelling Defendant to take action to modify property.  As Plaintiff points out, however, the
Complaint does not seek injunctive relief under state law; rather, the
Complaint seeks injunctive relief under the ADA (See Prayer, ¶74 (“For permanent
injunctive relief, pursuant to and appropriate to comply with the Americans
with Disabilities Act …”).) Injunctive relief is available for violations of
the ADA. (42 U.S.C. §12188(a)(2).)  Thus,
the state law authority cited by Defendant is inapplicable.  
The motion to strike is DENIED.  
 