 Case Number:  22NWCV01596    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  C A.F., et al. v. Casarez et.
al. 
Case No.: 22NWCV01596 
Hearing Date: October 1, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m. 
 
#4
Tentative Ruling
Plaintiffs A.F.’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part as
set forth below. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background
Plaintiff A.F., a minor, by and through his Guardian ad
Litem, FRANCISCO A. MIGUEL ESTEBAN (“Plaintiff”) alleges multiple statutory and
regulatory violations committed by Defendant County of Los Angeles and its
employees in the investigation and response to repeated incidents of physical
abuse committed by his foster parents, Defendants Gabriela Casarez (“Casarez”)
and Charlie Lopez Cruz (“Cruz”). 
Plaintiff was 4 years old at the time. 

On August 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) asserting causes of action for (1) Negligence; (2)
Negligence; (3) Breach of Mandatory Duties/Negligence Per Se; (4) Breach of
Mandatory Duties; (5) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (6)
Declaratory Relief against the County Defendants.
On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff served Request for
Production, Set One, on Defendant. The requests at issue are Requests Nos.
68-123. Request Nos. 68-98 seek various policies and
procedures applicable to the County’s Department of Children and Family
Services (“DCFS”) and its social workers. Request Nos. 99-122 seek
documents contained within the County social workers’ confidential employment
files.  Request
No. 123 seeks a privilege log in the event Defendant withholds any documents or
communications based on a claim of privilege, work product, or otherwise.  
Legal Standard
“(a) The party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling has been directed shall respond separately to each item or
category of item by any of the following: (1) A statement that the party
will comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling by the date set for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section
2031.030 and any related activities; (2) A representation
that the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling of a particular item or category of item;
(3) An objection to the particular demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling.” (CCP § 2031.210.) 
“A representation of inability to comply with the
particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm
that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to
comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the
inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person
or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (CCP § 2031.230.) 
“(a) On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the
demand is incomplete; (2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; (3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.” (CCP § 2031.310.) 
Discussion
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents (Set One) was
served upon Defendant on February 9, 2024. (Innabi Decl., ¶13.) Defendant
served its initial responses on May 24, 2024. (Id., ¶14.) Defendant
served supplemental responses on July 10, 2024. (Id., ¶18.) The instant
motion was filed on July 24, 2024.
Request for Production of
Documents Nos. 68-98

Request for Production of Documents (“RFP”) Nos. 68-98 seek
various policies and procedures applicable to the County’s Department of
Children and Family Services (“DCFS”) and its social workers.
In Opposition, Defendant argues that it has fully complied
with these requests because it has directed Plaintiff to websites which contain
the materials. (Weiss Decl., ¶9.) Plaintiff does not dispute this assertion in
Reply.  Thus, the Court determines that Defendant’s response to RFP Nos. 68-98 substantially
complies with the Code.    

The motion to compel further response to RFP Nos. 68-98 is
DENIED.
Request for Production of
Documents Nos. 99-122

RFP Nos. 99-122 seek documents contained within the County
social workers’ confidential employment files. 

Defendant has agreed to provide responsive documents to
these requests subject to a protective order. (Weiss Decl., ¶15.) On July 17,
2024, Defendant’s counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a draft protective order. (Id.,
¶16.) However, Plaintiff is only willing to sign the protective order when
Defendant discloses all the documents at issue. (Reply, p. 4:14-16.) Plaintiff’s
position is not well taken.  The Court
determines that Defendant’s response to RFP Nos. 99-122 complies with the
Code.    
The motion to compel further response to RFP Nos. 99-122 is
DENIED.  Defendant shall disclose
responsive documents after Plaintiff executes a stipulated protective order. 
Request for Production of Documents No. 123
Request No. 123 seeks a privilege log in the event
Defendant withholds any documents or communications based on a claim of
privilege, work product, or otherwise.  
Defendant argues that this request seeks documents and
information which can only be obtained from the juvenile dependency court
pursuant to WIC § 827. Plaintiff argues that the
documents requested in RFP Nos. 68-98 (policies and procedures) and RFP Nos.
99-122 (social workers’ confidential employment files) are not documents that
can be obtained from a juvenile case file pursuant to WIC § 827.  Plaintiff is correct.  
“For purposes of this section, a “juvenile case file” means
a petition filed in a juvenile court proceeding, reports of the probation
officer, and all other records, including any writing as defined in Section
250 of the Evidence Code, or electronically stored information
relating to the minor, that is filed in that case or made available to the
probation officer in making the probation officer’s report, or to the judge,
referee, or other hearing officer, and thereafter retained by the probation
officer, judge, referee, or other hearing officer.) (WIC § 827, subd. (e).)
Social worker employment files are not listed as records
contained within a “juvenile case file.” 
Thus, they cannot be obtained by way of a Section 827 petition.  
The motion to compel further response to RFP No. 123 is
GRANTED.  Defendant to provide further
response within 45 days, absent an agreement by the parties to a later
date.  
 