 Case Number:  23NWCV04114    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  C MARIA EUGENIA TELLEZ vs
MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV04114
Hearing Date: October 1, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#ADD-ON
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Jones Ontario Acquisition, LLC dba
Mercedes-Benz of Ontario’s unopposed Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background
This is a lemon law action. In the operative Complaint
filed on December 18, 2023, Plaintiff Maria Eugenia Tellez (“Plaintiff”) sues Defendant
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC and Defendant Mercedes-Benz of Ontario (“Ontario”) for
the following: (1) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil
Code § 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code § 1793(a)(3); (4) Breach of the
Implied Warranty of Merchantability; and (5) Negligent Repair.  
As relevant here, the only cause of action against Ontario
is the fifth cause of action for Negligent Repair.  In that regard, Plaintiff alleges that she
“delivered the Subject Vehicle to Defendant Ontario for substantial repair on
at least one occasion.” (Complaint ¶ 56.) Plaintiff pleads that “Defendant
ONTARIO breached its duty to Plaintiff to use ordinary care and skill by
failing to properly store, prepare and repair the Subject Vehicle in accordance
with industry standards.” (Complaint ¶ 58.) Plaintiff further pleads “Defendant
ONTARIO's negligent breach of its duties owed to Plaintiff was a proximate
cause of Plaintiff's damages.” (Complaint ¶ 59.) 
Ontario moves for Summary Judgment on the grounds that the
fifth cause of action for negligent repair is barred under the economic loss
rule.  
No opposition filed as of September 26, 2024.  
Legal Standard 
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”¿(Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Aguilar); Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c (c).)¿ A plaintiff reaches its burden on summary judgment by
showing prima facie evidence for each element of its cause of action.¿
Code Civ. Proc, § 437c (p); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (Scalf).¿ The burden will then shift to the
defendant to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact for at
least one element of the cause of action at issue.¿(Ibid.) 
 
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment or summary adjudication and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.”¿(Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th
384, 389.)¿However, if all inferences reasonably deducible from the submitted
evidence are uncontradicted by other inferences and there is no triable issue
as to any material fact, the moving party is entitled to summary adjudication as
a matter of law.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c (c); Adler v. Manor Healthcare
Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
Discussion 
“Economic
loss consists of damages for inadequate value, costs of repair and replacement
of the defective product or consequent loss of profits – without any claim of
personal injury or damages to other property.” (Robinson Helicopter Co.,
Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) “[W]here a purchaser’s expectations in a sale are
frustrated because the product he bought is not working properly, his [or her]
remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he [or she] has suffered only
economic losses.” (Ibid.)
Ontario argues that the fifth
cause of action for negligent repair is barred under the economic loss rule
because Plaintiff does not allege personal injury or property damage.  
In support of
the motion, Ontario presents evidence of the following:  
·       
On March 26, Plaintiff Maria Eugenia Tellez
entered into a warranty contract with defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
(“MBUSA”) regarding a 2022 Mercedes-Benz GLA vehicle (the “vehicle”), which was
manufactured or distributed by MBUSA. (SS # 1.) 
·       
Defects and nonconformities to warranty
manifested themselves within the warranty period. (SS # 2.) 
·       
MBUSA and its representatives were unable to
repair the vehicle to conform to the express warranty after a reasonable number
of opportunities. (SS # 3.)
·       
Plaintiff did not suffer any personal injuries
as a result of MBO’s alleged negligent repairs. (SS # 6.) 
·       
Plaintiff did not suffer any property damages
as a result of MBO’s alleged negligent repairs. (SS # 7.) 
Based thereon, the Court finds that Ontario has made a
prima facie showing that no triable issue of material fact exists.  The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to raise a
triable issue of material fact.  As the
motion is unopposed, Plaintiff fails to meet her burden of proof.   
Accordingly, Ontario’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
GRANTED. 