 Case Number:  22NWCV00955    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  C F.B.
vs. General Council of the Assemblies of God, et al., Case No. 22NWCV00955
 
This
is a child sexual assault case by a clergyman. Defendant Southern California
District Council of the Assemblies of God, Inc. moves ex parte to continue the
motion for summary judgment or alternatively, advance it to December 13, 2024.
It is currently set for October 23, 2024. 
 
A
party may seek ex parte relief upon an affirmative factual showing
"irreparable harm, immediate danger, or any other statutory basis for
granting relief ex parte." (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1202(c).)
 
In addition, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision
(c) states that although disfavored, the trial date may be continued for “good
cause,” which includes (without limitation): (1) unavailability of trial
counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other excusable circumstances”;
(2) the addition of a new party depriving the new party (or other parties) from
conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3) “excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated change in the status of the
case” preventing it from being ready for trial. 
 
Other relevant considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of
the trial date; [¶] (2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension
of time, or delay of trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the
continuance requested; [¶] (4) The availability of alternative means to address
the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶]
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the
continuance; [¶] (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting,
the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs
the need to avoid delay; [¶] (7)¿The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial counsel
is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best served by a
continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.” (California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332 (c).) 
 
The
Court does not have availability on December 13, 2024.  The parties are
not foreclosed from seeking a trial continuance in Dept. F.  Defendant
asserts that further discovery is needed, and Plaintiff’s deposition is set for
December 4, 2024. Moving party to give notice. 
 