 Case Number:  24SMCV01889    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  I The motion is GRANTED CONDITIONED ON PAYMENT BY DEFENDANT TO
PLAINTIFF OF $2500 WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
Plaintiff filed this breach of contract case against
defendant.  Defendant’s default was
entered on May 31, 2024.  Defendant now
moves to vacate the default.  The motion
is opposed.
 
Preliminarily, the court notes that defense counsel has
elected to ignore the Rules of Court regarding formatting, for example, by
single-spacing the pleading.  The court
will overlook it this time, but in the future, if it is worth doing, it is
worth doing right.  If it is not worth
doing right, don’t bother.
 
Turning to the merits, defendant claims excusable
neglect.  Such neglect is a valid reason
to vacate a default if proven.  Indeed,
the law strongly favors granting relief from default where there is no
prejudice to the plaintiff.  Defendant’s
theory is that the instant case was one of two cases.  The other was an unlawful detainer case.  The underlying issue is that defendant
apparently had security cameras focused directly on plaintiff’s home, including
the rooms of plaintiff’s children, which allowed defendant to look into their
bedrooms and see them in an inappropriate manner.  For reasons unknown, plaintiff elected to
dismiss the UD case, and that was accomplished on June 3, 2024.  Defendant states that he thought that the
dismissal (which was not the result of a settlement) actually applied to both
cases.  
 
The court, frankly, has trouble believing defendant’s
story.  First, when defendant sought to
recover costs in the UD case claiming he was the prevailing party, the whole
basis of the opposition was that the instant case was still pending, so
defendant did not really prevail.  A
second problem is that defendant’s lawyer expressly told defendant that the
instant case was still pending.  That fact
comes from defendant’s own declaration. 
Counsel’s statement to defendant occurred on July 24, 2024, and yet this
motion was not filed until October 18, 2024. 
And in any event, it seems to be inconsistent with defendant’s statement
that he believed that both cases were dismissed until he learned of a judgment
in the UD case on October 2, 2024.  The
whole thing just smells bad.
 
However, the court remains bound by the notion that the law
strongly supports adjudication on the merits. 
And while there was some delay, the delay was not super long and
plaintiff has identified no prejudice. 
The case is in its infancy, and it ought to be decided on the
merits.  That said, though, the court can
condition the order on such terms as it deems appropriate.  Here, defendant has forced plaintiff to delay
resolution of the case and incur fees. 
While the court does not know the amount of the fees, the court believes
that it is only just to cause defendant to reimburse plaintiff for them.  The court therefore will condition its order
on the payment, within 30 days, of $2500 to plaintiff’s counsel, an amount that
the court, in its experience, believes is appropriate to compensate plaintiff
for the time and energy needed to file the default and the opposition.  The failure to do so will cause the court to
deny this motion.
 
Further, the court would entertain a TRO request from
plaintiff to stop defendant from using the cameras to see into plaintiff’s home
or to film anything other than the immediate surrounding of defendant’s
unit.  The court is not saying it would
grant such a request, but the court would at least consider it.
 
The court is aware that plaintiff will be dissatisfied with
this.  However, plaintiff has made a
strong showing that defendant is dishonest. 
That is information that will likely serve plaintiff quite well in this
litigation unless dispelled by the defense. 
It is just that this is not the moment for plaintiff to cash in that
chip.