  Case Number:  22STCP36316    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  73 06/06/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
Martin Warren, et al. v. Scott Kenneth Warren, et
al. (22STCV26316) 
 
Counsel for Cross-Complainant:
Scott Warren (Wolfe & Wyman LLP)  
Counsel for Cross-Defendant:
Lauri Shahar, James Felton (G&B Law, LLP)
 
(1)   CROSS-COMPLAINANT’S MOTION FOR ASSIGNMENT
ORDER; FOR ORDER RESTRAINING JUDGMENT DEBTOR; AND ORDER REQUIRING DISCLOSURE (filed on 01/23/24)
(2)   CROSS-DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CORRECT
JUDGMENT NUNC PRO TUNC TO REMOVE IMPROPER COSTS AND EXPERT WITNESS FEES AWARDED
AGAINST CROSS-DEFENDANT (filed on 02/23/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Cross-Defendant
Laurie Shahar’s Motion to Correct Judgment Nunc Pro Tunc to Remove Improper
Costs and Expert Witness Fees Awarded Against Cross-Defendant is DENIED.
 
Cross-Complainant
Scott Warren’s Motion for Assignment Order; For Order Restraining Judgment
Debtor; and Order Requiring Disclosure is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
 On August 15, 2022, plaintiffs Martin
Warren (“Martin”) and Bessie Ellen Warren (“Bessie”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants Scott Kenneth Warren
(“Scott”), Bruce Michael Warren (“Bruce”), and Does 1 through 10 (collectively,
“Defendants”). The First Amended Complaint alleges causes of action for:
1.    
Financial Elder Abuse 
2.    
Breach of Contract
3.    
Fraud/Concealment 
4.    
Negligence
5.    
Rescission
6.    
Cancellation of Written Instrument
under Civil Code section 3412 
7.    
Restitution Based on Unjust Enrichment
8.    
Promissory Estoppel
 
On November 17, 2022, Scott filed a Cross-Complaint
against Martin, Bessie, Laurie Warren Shahar (“Laurie”) and Toren Shahar
(“Torren”) alleging causes of action for:
1.     Declaratory
Judgment
2.    
Declaratory Judgment
3.    
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing 
4.    
Anticipatory Breach of Contract
5.    
Equitable Indemnity
6.    
Equitable Indemnity
7.    
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
On January 26, 2023, Bruce filed a
Cross-Complaint against Laurie and Toren alleging causes of action for:
1.    
Equitable Indemnity against Laurie
2.    
Equitable Indemnity against Toren
 
On September 27, 2023, Scott Kenneth Warren, individually, and as
Trustee of the Hard Habit Trust, obtained a jury verdict of $600,000 against
Lauri Shahar on his cross-complaint in the above entitled action. The Court
entered judgment on September 27, 2023 and entered a corrected judgment on
October 2, 2023.
 
a.     Allegations
in the First-Amended Complaint
 
Plaintiffs Martin and Bessie are 90
and 92 years old, respectively, and have three adult children: daughter Lauri
and sons Scott and Bruce. (FAC, ¶¶ 1-3.)  
 
“In the 1970’s [sic], Plaintiffs began
purchasing various residential properties and apartment buildings – mostly in
Los Angeles – and continued doing so over the next several decades.” (FAC, ¶ 11.)  
 
“Through their savvy investments,
diligent management, and hard work, Plaintiffs amassed properties worth well
over $20,000,000.” (FAC, ¶ 12.)  
 
“As Plaintiffs aged, they began
turning over the management duties and responsibilities [of their properties]
to their three adult children.” (FAC, ¶ 13.) 
 
“Scott, a tax attorney with a LLM from
New York State University and licensed to practice law in both New York and
California, represented and assisted Plaintiffs over the years with respect to
their estate planning, tax planning, tax return preparation, and the gifting of
many of the properties to the three children to mitigate tax estate
consequences.” (FAC, ¶ 14.)
 
“Bruce, an attorney licensed to
practice in California, also began to help manage some of Plaintiffs’
properties. In addition, Bruce counseled Plaintiffs on legal matters related to
the management of the properties, including leases, evictions, rent increases,
and other landlord-tenant issues.” (FAC, ¶ 15.)
 
In the course of receiving Scott’s and
Bruce’s advice and assistance, Plaintiffs became dependent, came to trust, and
developed a confidential and fiduciary relationship with them. (FAC, ¶¶ 14, 15.) 
However, the Defendants never advised their parents that they should seek
independent counsel with respect to any transaction that would personally
benefit them. (FAC, ¶¶ 14, 15.) 
 
“Plaintiffs and Defendants worked
together as a family and ran an informal family business for well over 25 years
without dispute.” (FAC, ¶ 16.) “Plaintiffs paid for many luxuries for their
children and grandchildren. Plaintiffs’ generosity extended to cars, trips,
tuition, houses, and numerous gifts such as house remodeling.” (FAC, ¶ 17.)
 
“As Plaintiffs aged, in or around
2012, Scott represented to Plaintiffs that they could reduce their estate taxes
by creating an LLC for each investment real property they owned and gifting
their three children interests in the LLCs.” (FAC, ¶ 18.)
 
“Acting on Scott’s advice, Plaintiffs
agreed and allowed Scott to handle the formation of an LLC for each such
investment property. In or around 2012, Scott prepared and filed, amongst other
documents, Articles of Organization with the California Secretary of State for
each of the following three LLCs: 
 
1.    
Pacific Street Partners, LLC; 
2.    
2622 Fourth Street Partners, LLC; and 
3.    
Venice Partners, LLC.” 
 
(FAC, ¶ 18.) “Scott then had
Plaintiffs sign deeds transferring the properties into the LLCs. There are
three properties which are the subject of this Complaint: 
 
4.    
223 Pacific Street, Santa Monica, CA
(Pacific Property); 
5.    
4th Street, Santa Monica, CA (4th St.
Property); and 
6.    
1421-1425 Venice Boulevard, Venice, CA
(Venice Property).” 
 
(FAC, ¶ 18.) The Pacific Property, 4th
St. Property, and Venice Property are collectively called the “Subject
Properties” in the Complaint. (FAC, ¶ 18.) “In or about 2012, Plaintiffs gifted
a 55% interest in Venice Partners, LLC and a 70% interest in 2622 Fourth Street
Partners, LLC to Scott, and a 30% interest in Venice Partners, LLC and a 60% in
Pacific Street Partners, LLC to Bruce.” (FAC, ¶ 19.)
 
“Plaintiffs retained a fractional
interest in the three LLCs to generate sufficient income to live comfortably
for the remainder of their lives ….”  (FAC, ¶ 20.)
 
However, at the end of 20120, Scott
convinced Plaintiffs to gift their remaining LLCs ownership interests to
Defendants to avoid further estate taxes. (FAC, ¶ 20.) However, in convincing
the Plaintiffs to do so, Scott failed to (among other things) inform his
elderly parents to seek independent counsel concerning these gifts since he
would benefit from one of the transactions. (FAC, ¶ 21.)
 
“On or around January 1, 2020, to
induce Plaintiffs to gift their remaining LLCs’ ownership interests to
Defendants, “Defendants orally promised to Plaintiffs that until [Plaintiffs’]
deaths (1) Defendants would consider the LLCs interests and any income they
produced as Plaintiffs’ property and income, and (2) Defendants would provide
all money Plaintiffs requested at any time and for any reason.” (FAC, ¶ 23.) “Although
Defendants are attorneys, they failed to make these representations in writing
or prepare any written agreement requiring them to perform in accordance with
their promises.” (FAC, ¶ 23.)
 
Until December 15, 2020, Plaintiffs
had been receiving rental income in the amount of approximately $19,000 per
month from the LLCs holding the Subject Properties. (FAC, ¶ 27.)
 
 
In 2022, a dispute arose between the
parties concerning the Plaintiffs’ gifting of a condo to their daughter Lauri,
causing the relationship between the parties to deteriorate. (FAC, ¶¶ 33, 34.) 
 
“On June 28, 2022, realizing that they
had gifted their remaining LLCs interests to Defendants in reliance on
Defendants’ oral promises, fearing that Defendants would not live up to those
promises, and having no source of income other than Social Security payments,
Plaintiffs asked Defendants to make a monthly deposit of $15,500 into their
Chase bank account starting on July 5, 2022.” (FAC, ¶ 35.) “Alternatively,
Plaintiffs asked Defendants to return the Subject Properties. (See June 28,
2022 letter from Plaintiffs to Defendants, a true and correct copy of which is
attached as Exhibit A.) Defendants refused both requests and asked Plaintiffs
to provide an accounting of their money.” (FAC, ¶ 35.)
 
“Scott terrified and emotionally
traumatized Plaintiffs by orchestrating the transfer of their sole remaining
income generating assets – assets in which Bruce knowingly participated – and
now neither Defendant has the intention of providing the financial support
Plaintiffs need in their advanced age, causing Plaintiffs worry, anxiety, loss
of sleep, loss of appetite, and severe emotional stress.” (FAC, ¶ 40.)
 
b.     The Parties’
Motions
 
On January 23, 2023, Cross-Complainant
Scott filed a Motion for Assignment Order; For Order Restraining Judgment
Debtor; and Order Requiring Disclosure.
·       Scott
seeks an order directing Lauri to assign him the right to collect rents from tenants of apartment buildings owned by DD Partners, LLC
until such time as the judgment is fully satisfied 
·      
Scott asserts
he has a judgment against Lauri in the amount of $775,195.47, plus 10% legal interest from entry of judgment
o  
The judgment awarded Warren the $600,000 as awarded by the jury,
plus $175,195.47 in costs, plus interest on the $600,000 at 10% per year.
Interest accrues at the rate of $164.38 per day
o  
As of the date Warren is filing this motion, Shahar has not paid
any portion of the judgment and shows no inclination to do so.
·       Shahar filed
motions for new trial and for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. The Court
denied both motions. Shahar has not filed an appeal and the judgment is now
final
 
Lauri filed
an opposition, arguing: 
·      
Lauri has already paid the entire principal amount of Scott’s judgment
totaling $600,000 on February 15, 2024. 
·      
The only amount remaining to be paid is Scott’s disputed cost bill
totaling $175,195.47 that Lauri challenges by way of her Motion to Correct
Judgment 
·      
Lauri has demonstrated good faith by making the $600,000 payment,
which demonstrates to the Court that there is no need for an assignment
·      
If Lauri does not prevail on her Motion to Correct or if the
amount due under Scott’s Cost Bill is modified, Lauri will pay any remaining
amounts owed within 10 days of the Court’s final order
·      
Scott seeks a restraining order as part of the relief sought by
his motion but fails to make a valid showing of any need for such an order and
thus the request should he denied.
 
Scott filed a reply, arguing: 
·       Scott does
not dispute that after he filed his motion, Lauri has paid the entire principal
amount of Scott’s judgment totaling $600,000
 
On February
23, 2024, Cross-Defendant Lauri filed a Motion to Correct Judgment Nunc Pro
Tunc to Remove Improper Costs and Expert Witness Fees Awarded Against
Cross-Defendant, arguing: 
·      
Lauri moves the Court to correct the judgment entered in this
action to remove improper costs awarded against Lauri on the grounds that: (1)
the clerk may have inadvertently entered costs in favor of Scott and against
Lauri based on Scott’s memorandum of costs, and/or (2) Lauri and her counsel
through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, justifiably but
mistakenly believed that Scott’s memorandum of costs was directed solely
against Plaintiffs and on that basis did not challenge it by way of a motion to
strike/tax costs.
·      
Lauri reasonably believed that: (1) Memo was directed solely to
Plaintiffs Martin and Bessie Warren based on the costs asserted therein; and
(2) the costs prayed for could not have been attributable to the
Cross-Complaint against Lauri since the costs were clearly incurred by Scott in
his defense against Plaintiff’s Complaint.
·      
Scott’s expert witness fees were based solely on the §998 Offer
served only on Plaintiffs and was not in any way otherwise authorized by the
Court. Therefore, Scott has no legal basis on which to collect the expert
witness fees from Lauri.
 
Scott filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
On October 11, 2023, Scott filed and served a timely, procedurally
proper cost bill on Judicial Council Form MC-010. If Lauri wished to challenge
Scott’s Cost Bill by way of a motion to strike or tax costs, she was required
to file her motion within 15-days – by October 30, 2023. Lauri did not file a
timely motion to strike or tax Scott’s Cost Bill. Thus, Lauri waived her right
to challenge Scott’s costs of suit.
·      
The cost award was not the result of Lauri or her counsel’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Lauri participated in
the trial and knew that Scott incurred costs of suit. No statute or case
requires a prevailing defendant and cross-complainant to file a separate
memorandum of costs with respect to the plaintiff and the cross-defendant.
·       Lauri’s
Motion is not accompanied by a draft motion to strike or tax Scott’s Cost Bill.
 
Lauri filed a
reply, arguing: 
·      
CCP §§ 998 and 1033.5 make it clear that Scott was only entitled
to recover expert witness fees against Plaintiffs solely based on their
rejection of Scott’s § 998 Offer. As a result, and at the very least, those
expert witness fees must be removed from any award of costs entered against
Lauri because those costs cannot be attributable to Lauri as a matter of
statute and law.
·      
Scott failed to explain why he did not include the “et al.”
reference on the caption page of his Cost Memo and instead referenced
Plaintiffs’ names only.
·       Lauri had
lodged a proposed corrected judgment with her moving papers. Lauri attached to
her reply a proposed Motion to Strike/Tax costs.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
B.     Cross-Defendant Laurie’s Motion to Correct Judgment Nunc Pro Tunc
to Remove Improper Costs and Expert Witness Fees Awarded Against
Cross-Defendant
 
a.     Legal
Standard 
 
“A prevailing
party who claims costs must serve and file a memorandum of costs within 15 days
after the date of service of the notice of entry of judgment. . .” (CRC,
3.1700(a)(1).) The memorandum of costs must be verified by a statement of the
party, attorney, or agent that to the best of his or her knowledge, the items
of costs are correct and were necessarily incurred in the case. (CRC, Rule
3.1700(a)(1).) A properly verified memorandum of costs is sufficient to
establish the reasonable necessity of the costs claimed therein. (Nelson v.
Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131.) In other words, a verified cost
bill constitutes prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses, and services
listed on the cost bill were necessarily incurred. (Melnyk v. Robledo
(1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 618, 624.) The items in the cost bill are only put in
issue when they are properly objected to by a motion to strike or tax costs. (Id.)
 
“Any notice
of motion to strike or tax costs must be served and filed 15 days after service
of the cost memorandum.” (CRC, 3.1700(b)(1).) Trial courts may extend the times
for serving and filing a motion to strike or tax costs for a period not to
exceed 30 days. (CRC, 3.1700(b)(3).) “After the time has passed for a motion to
strike or tax costs or for determination of that motion, the clerk must
immediately enter the costs on the judgment.” (CRC. 3.1700(b)(4).) The time
provisions related to filing and opposing a memorandum of costs are mandatory.
(Sanabria v. Embrey (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 422, 426.)
 
b.     Discussion
 
Lauri moves the Court to correct the judgment entered in this
action to remove improper costs awarded against Lauri on the grounds that: (1)
the clerk may have inadvertently entered costs in favor of Scott and against
Lauri based on Scott’s memorandum of costs, and/or (2) Lauri and her counsel
through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, justifiably but
mistakenly believed that Scott’s memorandum of costs was directed solely
against Plaintiffs and on that basis did not challenge it by way of a motion to
strike/tax costs.
 
                                                   
i.     Clerical
mistake
 
CCP § 473 (d) provides: “The court may, upon motion of the injured
party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders
as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on
motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment
or order.” Unless the challenged portion of the judgment was entered
inadvertently, it cannot be changed post-judgment under the guise of correction
of a “clerical error.” (Tokio Marine & Fire Ins. Corp. v. Western
Pacific Roofing Corp. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 110, 117.)
 
On September 27, 2023, Scott Kenneth Warren, individually, and as
Trustee of the Hard Habit Trust, obtained a jury verdict of $600,000 against
Lauri Shahar on his cross-complaint in the above entitled action. The Court
entered judgment on September 27, 2023 and entered a corrected judgment on
October 2, 2023.
 
In the Court’s October 2, 2023 corrected judgment, it states that
Scott recovers against Lauri the sum of $600,000 with interest thereon at the
rate of ten percent (10%) per annum from the date of the entry of this judgment
and their costs and disbursements against Lauri. The corrected judgment
included a blank space to enter Scott’s costs and disbursements against Lauri. 
 
Lauri asserts she was not on notice of Scott’s costs because it
was not input into the corrected judgment. However, pursuant to CRC,
3.1700(b)(4), the clerk is not required to input costs until after the time has
passed for Lauri to move to strike or tax Scott’s cost bill. Thus, including a
blank space to enter Scott’s costs and disbursements against Lauri was not an
error inadvertently made by the clerk. Further, since Lauri did not timely file
a motion to motion to strike or tax, the clerk did not inadvertently enter
judgment in accordance with Scott’s uncontested Memorandum of costs. A clerical
error only exists when the challenged judgment was entered inadvertently. (Bowden
v. Green (1982) 128 Cal.App.3d 65, 70.) Here, Lauri has not established
that the clerk entered the judgment inadvertently. The Court does not find this
as grounds to correct the judgment. 
 
Accordingly, the Court does not grant Lauri’s motion on this
ground. 
 
                                                  
ii.     Mistake,
Inadvertence, Surprise, Or Excusable Neglect
 
There are two types of relief set forth in section
473, subdivision (b):
discretionary and mandatory. Under the discretionary provision, ”[t]he
court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.“ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b), italics
added.) Application for relief “shall be made within a reasonable time, in no
case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding
was taken.“ (Ibid.)
 
Under the mandatory provision, ”[n]otwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.“ (§ 473,
subd. (b), italics
added.)
 
First, the Court notes that
Lauri is not entitled to mandatory relief under section 473 because it only
provides relief for default judgments or dismissals. (Douglas v. Willis (1994) 27 Cal. App. 4th 287, 291.) Here,
the costs order does not constitute a default judgment or dismissal. Thus,
Lauri is only able to seek discretionary relief under section 473. 
 
Next, the Court also does not
find that Lauri has met her burden of demonstrating that she is entitled to discretionary
relief. A party seeking relief under section 473 on the grounds of excusable
neglect bears the burden of demonstrating that the neglect was excusable in
order to secure relief. (Cochran v. Linn (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 245, 252.)
The test of whether neglect was excusable is whether "`a reasonably
prudent person under the same or similar circumstances might have made the same
error. [Citations.]" (Bettencourt v. Los Rios Community College Dist.
(1986) 42 Cal.3d 270, 276.)
 
Lauri argues that her and her
counsel mistakenly believed that Scott’s cost memorandum was only intended to
apply to Scott’s successful defense of his parents’ Complaint and not intended
to address costs from his Cross-Complaint against Lauri. Lauri asserts that
Scott’s memo was only directed to Plaintiff’s because the caption names
Plaintiffs Martin Warren and Bessie Ellen Warren, but do not mention Lauri’s
name. (Motion, Ex. 2, p. 1.) However, the Court finds that Scott’s memo includes
the appropriate caption. The Plaintiffs in the underlying lawsuit are only
Martin Warren and Bessie Ellen Warren. Lauri’s name would not be included on
the line designated for Plaintiffs. The underlying lawsuit encompasses Scott’s
Cross-Complaint against Lauri. Thus, the Court does not agree that a reasonably
prudent person would have thought the Scott memo was solely directed at
Plaintiffs based on the caption. 
 
Lauri also argues some costs
in Scott’s memo should not be recovered against Lauri because they were not
related to Scott’s Cross-Complaint against her, Scott’s Cross-Complaint was not
inextricable intertwined with the allegations in Plaintiffs’ Complaint and
Lauri was not jointly and severally liable for the costs Scott seeks to recover
in defense of Plaintiffs’ Complaint. However, Lauri should have disputed these
costs in a Motion to Strike or Tax Costs. Further, Scott asserts there are
costs in the Scott memo that could only be attributed to costs associates with
the prosecution of his cross-complaint against Lauri. Scott also contends Lauri
was on notice that she would be required to pay costs and disbursements as
indicated on the Court’s judgment. Scott argues that a reasonably prudent
person also could have contacted Scott’s counsel and inquired as to whether the
memo was recovering costs against Lauri, however, Lauri and her counsel did not
inquire and chose not to file a motion to tax. Based on the foregoing, the
Court does not find that Lauri has met her burden of demonstrating that she is
entitled to discretionary relief. 
 
Thus, the Court denies
Lauri’s Motion to Correct Judgment Nunc Pro Tunc to
Remove Improper Costs and Expert Witness Fees. Lauri is ordered to pay the
total amount due of $175,195.47 within 10 days of the Court’s order.
 
C.    
Cross-Complainant’s
Motion for Assignment Order; For Order Restraining Judgment Debtor; and Order
Requiring Disclosure
 
a.     Legal
Standard 
 
CCP section
708.510, subdivision (a) states, in relevant part:¿Except as otherwise provided
by law, upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court
may order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or to a
receiver appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 708.610) all
or part of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or not the right is
conditioned on future developments, including but not limited to the following
types of payments:¿ 
 
1.     Wages
due from the federal government that are not subject to withholding under an
earnings withholding order.¿ 
2.     Rents.¿ 
3.     Commissions.¿ 
4.     Royalties.¿ 
5.     Payments
due from a patent or copyright.¿ 
6.     Insurance
policy loan value.¿ 
 
(CCP
708.510, subd. (a).)¿ 
 
CCP
section 708.510, subdivision (c) provides:¿In determining whether to order an
assignment or the amount of an assignment pursuant to subdivision (a), the
court may take into consideration all relevant factors, including the
following:¿ 
 
1.    
The
reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of
persons supported in whole or in part by the judgment debtor. 
2.     Payments
the judgment debtor is required to make or that are deducted in satisfaction of
other judgments and wage assignments, including earnings assignment orders for
support. 
3.     The
amount remaining due on the money judgment.¿ 
4.      The
amount being or to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may
be assigned.¿ 
 
(CCP
§ 708.510, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
Under CCP
section 708.510, subdivision (d), the court may order the assignment of
property only to the extent necessary to satisfy the money judgment.¿ (CCP §
708.510, subd. (d).)¿ The motion must include sufficient facts to permit the
court to make a determination that the payment is assignable to the judgment
creditor.¿ (Kracht v. Perrin (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1019, 1023.) 
 
b.     Discussion
 
At the time
that Scott filed his motion, he contended that he had a judgment against Lauri
in the amount of
$775,195.47, plus 10% legal interest from entry of judgment, that remained
unsatisfied. Thus, Scott sought an order directing
Lauri to assign him the right to collect rents from tenants of apartment
buildings owned by DD Partners, LLC until such time as the judgment is fully
satisfied.
 
However, since the filing of the motion, the parties
do not dispute that Lauri has paid the entire principal amount of
Scott’s judgment totaling $600,000. (Oppos., p. 2;
Reply, p. 1.) Thus, Scott’s motion is moot as to the principal amount of
Scott’s judgment. The only amount remaining to be paid is Scott’s disputed cost
bill of $175,195.47 which was the subject of
Lauri’s Motion to Correct Judgment Nunc Pro Tunc to Remove Improper Costs and
Expert Witness Fees. As discussed above, the Court denies Lauri’s motion and
has ordered her to pay the total amount due of $175,195.47 within 10
days of the Court’s order.
 
Thus,
Scott’s motion is denied. 
 
III. CONCLUSION

 
Cross-Complainant’s
Motion for Assignment Order; For Order Restraining Judgment Debtor; and Order
Requiring Disclosure is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Cross-Defendant’s
Motion to Correct Judgment Nunc Pro Tunc to Remove Improper Costs and Expert
Witness Fees Awarded Against Cross-Defendant is DENIED. Cross-Defendant is
ordered to pay the total amount due of $175,195.47 within 10 days of the
Court’s order. 