

 
 
 
SERVICE:  
 
[ X ] Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC,
rule 3.1300)                    OK
[ X ] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)
                                   OK
[ X ] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c,
1005(b))                     OK
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed
on December March 1, 2024                 [   ] Late                      [   ] None
REPLY:                     None
filed as of November 17, 2024              [   ] Late                      [X] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
On March 1, 2023, Plaintiff Michael
Long (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against PACMAD, LLC. (PACMAD); AAN
ENTERPRISES, INC.; and Amy Tsao (Tsao) for lack of access to public accommodations
when he was unable to sit at outdoor dining tables because they were not
wheelchair accessible. A trial date was set for August 28, 2024. 
 
On June 14, 2023, Defendant filed an answer to the
complaint with thirteen affirmative defenses. 
 
On August 27, 2024, PACMAD filed a Motion to Dismiss and
for sanctions on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff violated the court’s Third
Amended Standing order by refusing to meet and confer on pre-trial matters and
(2) Plaintiff failed to appear/answer on the court ordered trial date of August
28, 2024. 
 
On August 28, 2024, counsel for Plaintiff made an oral
request for a continuance and the counsel for Defendant opposed the motion. The
hearing for the Motion to Dismiss was continued to September 23, 2024. The
trial was also postponed to October 14, 2024.
 
On September 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
 
II.                
Legal Standard & Discussion 
 
Trial Continuance
 
An assigned
trial date is firm (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332.) A party seeking a
continuance must make the motion or ex parte application as soon as
reasonably practicable once the need is discovered (Ibid.) Continuances
are available upon an affirmative showing of good cause, including but not
limited to the unavailability of a party because of death, illness or other
excusable circumstances (Ibid.) “A court must consider all facts and
circumstances that are relevant to the determination”, including but not
limited to: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) any previous extensions or
delays; (3) the length of the continuance requested; … (5) prejudice to the
parties; (10) whether the interests of justice are best served by a
continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance (Ibid.) 
 
The third amended standing order
includes specific instructions for stipulating to continuing the trial,
including that trial may be postponed if all attorneys of record stipulate in
writing to a specific date. 
 
PACMAD argues
that Plaintiff knew they would be unavailable for trial as early as July 15,
2024 and informed PACMAD’s counsel that they would be unavailable because
Plaintiff would be on a cruise (Avila Decl., Exhibit 2.) PACMAD’s counsel
informed Plaintiff’s counsel that they should make a request for continuance as
soon as reasonably practical and that simply waiting until the actual trial
date to request the continuance was improper (Avila Decl., ¶ 8; Exhibit 2.)
PACMAD argues that Plaintiff’s conduct constitutes a willful disregard of the
court’s order and the rules of court. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff responds that his vacation had been planned prior to the trial date
and that a vacation is within the “excusable circumstances” in Rule
3.1332(c)(2). Plaintiff concedes they spoke with PACMAD about their need for a
continuance on July 15, but that they did not seek a continuance with the court
(Mehrban Decl., ¶¶ 2, 3.) Plaintiff argues that they did not file for a
continuance to decrease attorneys’ fees, fees that would be borne by PACMAD, if
Plaintiff prevails (Mehrban Decl., ¶5.) Plaintiff highlights that continuances
are frequently granted in limited civil court, and that it is highly likely
that the continuance would have been granted had they filed a request. (Mehrban
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
Plaintiff claims
that they planned the vacation prior to the filing of the action in March of
2023, giving the Plaintiff more than a year to file for a continuance (Long
Decl., ¶ 1.)  Plaintiff’s arguments that
the vacation was planned prior to the filing of the action, that no previous
continuances had been requested, the short time frame needed for the
continuance, and the lack of prejudice to the defendants provide a reasonable
circumstance for the court to grant a continuance. 
 
Meet and Confer
            
PACMAD requests dismissal and
sanctions for Plaintiff’s failure to meet and confer before the set trial date.
Under Code Civ. Proc. § 581, failure to meet and confer is not a proper basis
for dismissal. 
 
PACMAD reached
out to counsel for Plaintiff to schedule the required 20-day meet and confer
(Avila Decl., ¶¶ 8, 9.) Plaintiff’s counsel refused to participate, PACMAD
alleges that in response, Plaintiff’s counsel responded, “if you are going to
make a motion to dismiss, then I’m not going to waste my time preparing a joint
witness list or exhibit list” (Avila Decl., ¶ 8.) PACMAD attempted to reach out
to Plaintiff about the meet and confer several times after that communication
to either have Plaintiff file for a continuance or participate in the meet and
confer (Avila Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
Plaintiff argues that since they
had notified PACMAD that they intended to request a continuance that the meet
and confer was premature, and therefore they did not have to meet the
requirement. 
 
Dismissal
            
            Generally,
California law favors tying cases on their merits, it outlines a few instances
in which dismissal is appropriate in Code Civ. Proc. § 581. The Court may
dismiss an action “when either party fails to appear on the trial and the other
party appears and asks for dismissal” (Code Civ. Proc. § 581(b)(5).) Additionally,
the court shall dismiss the complaint with prejudice if the plaintiff abandons
it (Code Civ. Proc. § 581(d).) Court’s may dismiss a case as a sanction, but
dismissal is “to be employed on in the rarest of circumstances” (Guardianship
of A.H. (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 155, 160-61.) 
 
In civil cases, “personal
appearance by a party is not essential; appearance by an attorney is sufficient
and equally effective” (Cohen v. Hugest Markets, Inc. (1995) 36
Cal.App.4th 1693, 1700.) 
 
PACMAD argues
that the motion to dismiss should be granted because the plaintiff abandoned the
litigation, the party failed to appear at trial, or under CCP § 581(m) which
allows dismissal for other reasons. The motion was filed before the trial date.
Plaintiff’s attorney did appear, as they indicated to PACMAD, to request a
continuance. Since Plaintiff’s attorney did appear at trial to request a
continuance and personal appearance by a party is not required, there is no
basis for the motion to dismiss. In this case, the motion to dismiss based on
alternative circumstances would be counter to the Court’s preference to hear
cases on the merits. 
 
Sanctions
            
Sanctions may be
awarded for failure to comply with the rules of court without good cause (Cal
Rules of Court, rule 2.30(b).) “Rule 2.30 does not authorize full compensation
of all attorney fees incurred as a result of a rules violation, but only
authorizes the court to award reasonable attorney fees incurred in connection
with the proceedings in which the aggrieved parry seeks sanctions” (Sino
Century Development Limited v. Farley (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 688, 691.) 
            
            Defendant
requests sanctions in response to Plaintiffs: (1) scheduling of a cruise for
the date set for trial; (2) failure to comply with the meet and confer
requirement; (3) failure to file for a continuance. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff alleges that the cruise was scheduled before the
complaint was filed (Long Decl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff also alleges that they had
good cause for failing to comply with the meet and confer and failure to file
for the continuance. Plaintiff’s attorney argues that they did not file for a
continuance to decrease the total attorneys’ fees awarded in the case that
Plaintiff prevails. Additionally, Plaintiff argues that meeting and conferring
about exhibit and witness lists would have been premature or a waste of
resources. 
 
            The
Court finds that sanctions are not appropriate under the circumstances
presented. Plaintiff’s counsel is reminded to follow the rules of the Cal.
Rules of Court for trial continuances, as well as meet and confer requirements
under the Third Amended General Order. 
Since Plaintiff’s counsel notified Defense counsel of his intention to
request a continuance on the trial date, request for sanctions is DENIED.   
 
III.             
Conclusion & Order
 
            For the
foregoing reasons, Defendant PACMAD, LLC.’s Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff’s
Complaint is DENIED.   Defendant’s
Request for Sanctions is DENIED.  
 
The Moving Party
is ordered to give notice. 