

 
BACKGROUND
            
            On
September 28, 2022, Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment Bureau, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants (1) The Coal Miner’s Son, LLC aka Coal
Miners Son LLC dba Parallel Pizza adba Buttermilk adba Buttermilk Fried Chicken
(“COAL”), (2) James Nunn aka James Nunn Jr aka James J Nunn aka James J Nunn Jr
aka James Joseph Nunn aka Joseph James Nunn aka Joseph Nunn (“Nunn”), and (3) Does
1 through 10, inclusive, asserting causes of action for (1) open book account,
(2) account stated, (3) reasonable value, (4) breach of contract, and (5)
personal guaranty. 
 
            The
Complaint alleges the following, among other things. Four years before the
commencement of this action, the defendants became indebted to “Plaintiff’s
Assignor” (the American Textile Maintenance Company dba Republic Master Chefs)
in the amount of $6,927.53 for goods the Assignor sold and delivered and/or
services the Assignor rendered to the defendants. Compl., ¶¶ 1, 2, 13. “Prior
to the commencement of this action, the claims herein sued upon were assigned
to Plaintiff by Plaintiff’s Assignor for collection purposes ….” Compl., ¶ 4. 
 
            On May 15,
2024, Plaintiff filed the motions seeking orders (1) compelling COAL and Nunn
(collectively, “Defendants”) to serve their initial responses to Plaintiff’s
first set of demands for inspection, and (2) imposing sanctions against
Defendants and their counsel of record, Peter C. Freeman, Esq. 
 
            On May 31,
2024, Defendants filed a joint opposition to the motions. 
 
            On June 6,
2024, Plaintiff filed its reply briefs. 
 
            On
June 13, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motions to compel the Defendants’
initial responses to Plaintiff’s demands for inspection (the “June 13 Order”).
The Court ordered Defendants to (1) serve code-compliant responses to the
demands within 30 days of the ruling and (2) pay Plaintiff $672 as sanctions. 
 
            On July 26,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for terminating sanctions against
Defendant Nunn. 
 
            As of
September 19, 2024, no opposition to or reply in support of the motion has been
filed.
 
            A non-jury
trial is set for October 28, 2024. 
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION
 
Defendant Nunn
has not complied with any aspect of the Court’s June 13 Order (i.e., he has neither
produced the discovery responses he was ordered to serve nor paid the
court-ordered sanctions). The discovery at issue is essential to the
prosecution of this action. Therefore, the Court should enter terminating
sanctions against Defendant Nunn by striking his Answer and entering default
against the defendant. The Court should also enter an order imposing sanctions
of $1,573.75 against the defendant. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            Non.
 
REPLY
 
            None.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
 
A.        Legal
Standard 
If a party engages in the misuse of
the discovery process, the court may impose monetary, issue, evidence, or
terminating sanctions. Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.
“Misuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the
following: ¶ …. ¶ …. ¶ …. ¶ (d)
Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery. ¶ …. ¶ ….  ¶ (g)
Disobeying a court order to provide discovery.” Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (a)(1).
 
“The trial court may order a
terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering [1] the totality of
the circumstances:  [2] [the] conduct of
the party to determine if the actions were willful; [3] the detriment to the
propounding party; and [4] the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain
the discovery.’” Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
377, 390 (“Los Defensores”).
 
“Generally, ‘[a]
decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” Los
Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 (citation
omitted). “Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders.” Ibid.
 
“[D]iscovery statutes evince an
incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions
and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 967, 992 (“Doppes”).
 
“‘Discovery sanctions “should be
appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.”’
[Citations.] If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is
warranted: continuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally
harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.
 
B.        Discussion 
 
Plaintiff argues
that because Nunn has disobeyed the June 13 Order by failing to serve discovery
responses and pay sanctions, the Court should impose terminating and monetary
sanctions against Nunn. Plaintiff’s counsel attests to the following facts in
support of the motion for terminating sanctions. Plaintiff’s Assignor and COAL
entered into an agreement whereby the Assignor would deliver, or cycle clean
dirty linens, and COAL would make payments for those services. Motion,
Declaration of Tiffanie Brown (“Brown Decl.”), ¶ 2. Defendant Nunn, the purported officer or
owner of COAL, personally guaranteed those payments. Brown Decl., ¶ 2. However, the Defendants
defaulted on the payments, prompting Plaintiff to file this lawsuit. Brown
Decl., ¶ 2. 
 
In its June 13
Order, the Court ordered Nunn, within 30 days of the ruling, to (1) serve
code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s First Demand for Production and
Inspection of Documents and Other Tangible Things and (2) pay sanctions of $672
to Plaintiff. Brown Decl., ¶ 4.
“To date, defendant has failed to comply with any aspect of the Court’s order.
Defendant has not produced any additional responses to discovery nor have the
sanctions been paid, even though the court’s deadline of July 13, 2024, has
since expired.” Brown Decl., ¶ 7.

 
            However, “[a] terminating sanction issued solely
because of a failure to pay a monetary discovery sanction is never justified.” Newland
v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 615.
            In addition, the Court cannot impose
monetary sanctions against Nunn solely to punish him for disobeying the June 13
Order. See Kwan
Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 75 (“discovery sanctions may
not be imposed as a punishment. ‘Courts have continued to uphold the principle
... that sanctions may not be imposed solely to punish the offending party.’
[Citations]”). 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s request to
impose additional sanctions of $1,573.75 against Nunn is denied
 
Notwithstanding
the above, the Court finds terminating sanctions proper based on Nunn’s failure
to serve court-ordered discovery responses constitutes misuse of the discovery
process. Indeed, one of the discovery requests at issue asked Nunn to produce
the following documents: “The original and/or a legible copy of any and all
WRITINGS or other written documents or records of any sort which YOU intend
to utilize as a basis or ground for any defense in this action which are
not privileged.” Minute Order dated June 13, 2024, p. 6 (emphasis added). The
demand is relevant because Nunn filed an Answer listing 17 affirmative defenses
and, therefore, Plaintiff has a right to know if there are any documents that
support those affirmative defenses. See Answer, filed on August 29, 2023, pp.
2:8-5:5. 
 
It appears from
court records that Defendant Nunn is represented by Freeman & Associates
ALC, the same counsel for Defendant COAL. Yet, no opposition has been filed (1)
explaining the reason Nunn has failed to comply with the June 13 Order or (2)
informing the Court that Nunn intends to comply with the Order. Given that
trial is next month, and Plaintiff will be prejudiced if trial proceeds without
receiving the discovery at issue, the Court is inclined to issue terminating
sanctions. 
 
Therefore, the request for
terminating sanctions against Nunn is granted. 
 
II.        CONCLUSION  
 
The Motion for Terminating Sanctions
is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART as follows:
 
Plaintiff’s Request for Terminating Sanctions
against Defendant James Nunn (aka James Nunn Jr aka James J Nunn aka
James J Nunn Jr aka James Joseph Nunn aka Joseph James Nunn aka Joseph Nunn) is
GRANTED. The Answer filed on August 29, 2024, is stricken as to defendant James
Nunn only, and Default is entered against Defendant James Nunn only, on this
date. 
 
Plaintiff’s Request
for Monetary Sanctions against the defendant is DENIED. 
 
The Moving Party
is ordered to give notice. 