 Case Number:  23SMCV05401    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here on plaintiff’s request for
sanctions.  The salient facts are as
follows.  Plaintiff sued four defendants
for problems related to work done at plaintiff’s home.  The four defendants are: Your Prime
Contractor (YPC), Oron Avitan, Shlomi Abittan, and David Avitan.  (That is as relevant here.  Shay Yefet was also sued.)  YPC, Davit Avitan, and Shay Yefet have
defaulted.  Oron Avitan and Shlomi
Abittan have answered.  (For ease of
reference, the court will use first names because the last names are
similar.  No disrespect is
intended.)  It appears that David is the
individual who owns YPC, and YPC was the contractor in question.
 
What has happened is that YPC and David appear to have no
assets (or no assets that can easily be attached), so the default against them
will be of less value.  Also, it appears
that David is not in California at present. 
Shlomi and Oron are both here, and may have assets, but they assert that
they have nothing to do with anything. 
Plaintiff would, therefore, like to prove either that they are all alter
egos of one another so that a judgment against one is a judgment against all,
or that Shlomi and Oron actually are involved in the case such that a judgment
can be entered against them.  To that
end, plaintiff has been trying to obtain financial documents or other
information that would link Shlomi or Oron (or both) to YPC directly or through
their father, David.  In an effort to get
that information, plaintiff sent out two subpoenae.  One was to a financial institution, Bank of
America.  The defense objected to that
subpoena.  The other was to a third party
witness, and no objection was made as to that one.  Even so, defense counsel wrote to that
witness advising her that she need not respond to the subpoena because a motion
to quash it had been filed.  In fact, no
such motion had been filed, although counsel apparently never wrote the witness
to correct that error.  Plaintiff seeks
sanctions, asserting that counsel’s conduct amounts to witness tampering.
 
The court is troubled by this case in many ways.  First, given the apparently tactical
defaults, the court agrees that plaintiff is entitled to try and prove his case
as to the financial or alter ego relationship between Shlomi and Oron on the
one hand and YPC or David on the other. 
The easiest way to do that would be to send a subpoena to the defendants
(including the defaulted ones) seeking financial records tailored to making the
necessary case.  The court is not sure
whether that avenue was attempted or not. 
It is a bit more of a problem to go to a financial institution and seek
a broad swath of financial documents.  At
least as to many of the individuals—all of whom are related—that is far too
intrusive other than as a last resort. 
Plaintiff has no business knowing what gifts David may have given to
third parties. The documents sought could also include payments to medical
professionals—something not at issue here but that is very private.  In other words, how the individuals spend
their money is, as a general proposition, something plaintiff is not entitled
to know.  Rather, any such request ought
to be focused on the sorts of documents that would help prove the case.  So, for example, payments by David to Shlomi
or Oron might be pertinent (although there are limits).  Certainly payments by YPC to Shlomi or Oron
would be pertinent.  But payments by YPC
relating to other projects or fees obtained from other projects could be a
problem, as the other property owners have rights, too.  It is not clear that the parties have ever
sat down in good faith to figure out where the lines are.  And in this case, the subpoena to the
financial institution was broadly framed. 
That might ultimately be what is necessary, but maybe not in the first
instance.  Moreover, plaintiff designated
himself as the deposition officer.  The
court understands the point, but where confidential financial documents are
potentially at issue, that is not a great practice.
 
As to the third party human, who is the person to whom
defense counsel’s letter was directed, the court is also troubled.  That witness can, of course, object if
desired.  But apparently there is no such
objection.  And if there were truly a
motion to quash on file, it would not be improper to let the witness know of
the motion and promise to keep the witness apprised of the outcome, although
even then it would not be proper to direct the witness not to comply with court
process (which is what a subpoena is). 
But it is utterly improper to write such a letter when there is no
motion pending.  And it is improper to
write such a letter and not let plaintiff know about it.  Counsel’s declaration is not fully
satisfying.  He states he did not intend
to interfere.  He most certainly did so
intend.  He might have had a good reason
or not, but he plainly wrote the letter with the hope that the letter would
have an effect.  He states he intended to
file a motion for a protective order. 
However, he states that he accidentally did not tell his associate—who
finalized the papers—that he intended the motion to go to both witnesses, not
just the financial institution.  He
states that he fully intended to file the motion, and that the letter was
written on the (mistaken) assumption that he had done so.  Finally, defense counsel notes that plaintiff
has received responsive documents but not informed the defense of them nor
given the defense a copy.
 
Gentlemen: STOP.  The
court agrees that defense counsel acted wrongly by writing the letter, not
telling plaintiff, and telling a witness not to respond to a
subpoena—especially when there was no motion on file.  But plaintiff is not without blame.  Plaintiff should not have named himself the
deposition officer.  As a deposition
officer, plaintiff has obligations to the defense, and those obligations were
not fulfilled.  The discovery is
overbroad.  The court believes that
defense counsel intended the motion to apply to both witnesses—the explanation
seems reasonable.  And it does not seem
likely that counsel would put his bar card in jeopardy over a case like this by
instructing a witness not to produce documents based on a non-existent motion
that he falsely tells the witness was filed. 
Even if the court were to look only at self-motivation, that makes no
sense.  (Although a letter was sent
stating that it attached the motion to quash, when obviously it did not attach
any such motion.  The nicest thing the
court can say is that defense counsel was remarkably sloppy and lazy in terms
of formal letters to third parties.)  Yet
plaintiff immediately jumped straight to felony.  At the same time, it is not hard to see the
game that the defense is playing, by allowing the default of the two defendants
from whom a judgment will be hard to collect.
 
The court will therefore CONTINUE this motion for 6
months.  There will be no further
briefing on it.  During that time, the
parties will meet and confer—in person—to attempt to arrive at a reasonable
document request that will go to plaintiff’s attempt to prove up Shlomi’s and
Oron’s involvement in the instant project as well as their involvement in YPC,
both on a formal and informal level. 
Defendants must understand that, given the way they have chosen to
litigate the case, that will almost certainly require them to give up some
privacy to which they might otherwise be entitled.  Appropriate safeguards need to be set up to
ensure the privacy of third parties.  It
could be that the defense would like a referee to review documents to ascertain
which are properly responsive (although the court would expect the defense to
pay that bill in full).  In the
alternative, the parties might want to go straight to mediation here and, for
those purposes, it might well be that YPC and David would want to participate,
along with any carriers they might have. 
The case is quickly spinning out of control and that will benefit no
one.  If defendants (including the
defaulted defendants) messed it up, they ought to do the right thing and settle
by making an appropriate payment.