 Case Number:  23STCV16017    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



GEORGE RAHME, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
THE BICYCLE CASINO, L.P., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
         


 Case No: 
  23STCV16017
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 13, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Defendant TBC, L.P. (“TBC”) (TBC states that it was
erroneously sued as “The Bicycle Casino, Inc.”) moves for an award of
attorney’s fees and costs against Plaintiff George Rahme (“Plaintiff”) and his
counsel relating to the evidentiary hearing that the Court held at Plaintiff’s
request on TBC’s motion to compel arbitration.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion in the amount of $3,218.00.  Plaintiff shall pay these sanctions directly
to Defendant’s counsel within 60 days.
 
Defendant requests an additional $2,265.50 for its expert
witness, Kurt Kuhn. The Declaration in support of the motion does not state
that this amount was actually paid to Mr. Kuhn. 
Nor does it provide any other basis for this amount.  If Defendant wishes to recover this amount,
it must provide the Court with the basis for this number.  Absent such proof, this request is denied.
 
Background
 
            This
is an employment case. Plaintiff worked for TBC for approximately 35 years. In
April 2022, TBC was sold to Parkwest Bicycle Casino LLC. Over 1,500 employees
were terminated as part of this transaction, including Plaintiff.
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action on July 10, 2023 against TBC and Hashem Minaly, raising
claims for (1) discrimination; (2) hostile work environment; (3) failure to
prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation; (5) breach of express oral
contract not to terminate employment without good cause; (6) breach of
implied-in-fact contract not to terminate employment without good cause; (7)
negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; (8) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; (9) whistleblower retaliation under Labor Code,
section 1102.5; and (10) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).
 
            On
January 25, 2024, TBC filed a motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff filed an
opposition and TBC filed a reply. 
 
The Court thereafter granted Plaintiff’s request for an
evidentiary hearing on the issue of whether Plaintiff had signed the
arbitration agreement and held the hearing on April 19, 2024. The Court made a
factual determination that Plaintiff signed the 2018 Arbitration Agreement. The
Court also found in its subsequent order on the arbitration motion that
Plaintiff had wasted the parties’ resources by demanding and receiving an
evidentiary hearing on the issue of whether he signed the 2018 Agreement. The
Court found that Plaintiff had no good faith basis to deny the assertion that
he signed the 2018 Agreement or the 2001 Agreement.
 
The Court denied TBC’s motion to compel arbitration on other
grounds.
 
            On
July 3, 2024, TBC filed a motion for fees and costs for the evidentiary
hearing. Plaintiff filed an opposition and TBC filed a reply.
 
Discussion
 
Entitlement to Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s counsel claimed at oral argument on March 19,
2024 that Plaintiff would dispute that he had signed the arbitration
agreements. The Court set the evidentiary hearing on that basis so that
Plaintiff could testify that he did not sign the documents. At the hearing,
Plaintiff did not, in fact, deny that he had signed the agreements.  Because the parties dispute this issue, the
Court makes this a specific finding: 
Plaintiff did not deny at the evidentiary hearing that the signature on
the documents was his.  Yet this was the
entire basis for the requested evidentiary hearing.
 
“In addition to any other sanctions permitted by law, the
court may order a person, after written notice and an opportunity to be heard,
to pay reasonable monetary sanctions to the court or an aggrieved person, or
both, for failure without good cause to comply with the applicable rules. … If
a failure to comply with an applicable rule is the responsibility of counsel
and not of the party, any penalty must be imposed on counsel and must not
adversely affect the party's cause of action or defense thereto.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 2.30(b).)
 
“A party seeking permission to introduce oral evidence,
except for oral evidence in rebuttal to oral evidence presented by the other
party, must file, no later than three court days before the hearing, a written
statement stating the nature and extent of the evidence proposed to be
introduced and a reasonable time estimate for the hearing. When the statement
is filed less than five court days before the hearing, the filing party must
serve a copy on the other parties in a manner to assure delivery to the other
parties no later than two days before the hearing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1306(b).)
 
Here, it is not disputed that Plaintiff’s counsel did not
file a written statement as required by Rule 3.1306(b). Rule 3.1306(b) is a
procedural rule. As a result of Plaintiff’s failure to do so, both the Court
and Defendant expended resources on the hearing, including Defendant’s
retention of an expert witness. The Court therefore determines that Defendant
is entitled to sanctions.
 
The Court imposes sanctions on Plaintiff, rather than
Plaintiff’s counsel, because the Court cannot tell that it was Plaintiff’s
counsel’s fault for failure to abide by the rules, or whether it was
Plaintiff’s decision to demand an evidentiary hearing but refuse to disclose
through the ordinary filings that he had no basis for such a hearing.  Plaintiff and his counsel are in the best
position to determine this issue between the two of them.  The sanctions imposed will not “adversely
affect the party's cause of action or defense thereto.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.30(b).)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant provided improper notice in
its meet and confer letter because Defendant said it would seek attorneys fees
and costs in the letter, but then filed a motion seeking sanctions. This is a
distinction without a difference. Attorney’s fees and costs are a type of
monetary sanctions.
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s meet and confer letter
improperly stated that it was being sent pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure,
section 2016.040, which governs discovery motions. Insofar as this was
improper, the Court finds that it was harmless. Plaintiff was on notice of
Defendant’s request for sanctions because Defendant previously sought sanctions
in its reply in support of the arbitration motions, discussed sanctions at the
hearing, and explained why it was seeking sanctions in the letter.
 
Amount of Sanctions
 
Plaintiff seeks a total amount of $6,375.00.
 
            Defendant
requests an hourly rate of $450.00 for attorney Carla Feldman. The Court finds
this rate to be reasonable.
 
            Defendant
requests a total of 9.1 hours for Feldman for the time spent retrieving a
deposition transcript that Plaintiff had signed, researching potential experts,
engaging the expert witness, and attending the evidentiary hearing. The Court
finds that this time is excessive and reduces it to 7 hours.
 
            Defendant
requests $68.10 in reproduction costs. The Court finds this to be reasonable.
 
            Defendant
requests $2,265.50 for its expert witness, Kurt Kuhn. The Court requests that
Defendant provide evidence that it expended this amount before it approves it.