 Case Number:  22STCV13243    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARIA CRISTINA SOTO, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
REAL TIME STAFFING SERVICES, LLC.,
  et al.,
 
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV13243
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 13, 2024
 Calendar Number:  7



 
 
 
Defendant Real Time Staffing Servies, LLC d/b/a Select
Staffing (“Real Time”) moves for summary judgment on the First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiff Maria Cristina Soto (“Plaintiff”). In the
alternative, Real Time seeks summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s first eleven
claims. Real Time also seeks summary adjudication that Plaintiff’s claim for
lost wages and punitive damages.
 
The Court DENIES Real Time’s motion for summary judgment.
 
The Court GRANTS summary adjudication on Plaintiff’s seventh
and eleventh claims.  The Court DENIES
summary adjudication as to the remainder of the claims.
 
The Court DENIES summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s claims
for lost wages damages and punitive damages. 

 
Background
 
This is an employment action. The following facts are taken
from the parties’ separate statements. The Court resolves all disputes of fact
and draws all reasonable inferences in favor of Plaintiff, the nonmoving party.
The Court disregards Real Time’s replies to Plaintiff’s responses to
Defendant’s separate statement, which are not authorized by statute. (Nazir
v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252.) The Court
similarly disregards the evidence that Real Time submits with its reply brief.
“No such evidence is generally allowed.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff was employed by Real Time, a temporary employee
company. Real Time entered an agreement with St. Clair, whereby Real Time
provided its employees to work at St. Clair’s warehouse. Plaintiff was one such
employee. (Undisputed Facts (“UF”) 1-4.)
 
While Plaintiff worked at the St. Clair Warehouse, Novel
Alamilla, a floor person and assistant supervisor, would harass her by touching
her hand, asking her out, saying he was in love with her, leaving her romantic
messages at her workstation, and, on one occasion, touching her leg directly
above her knee for five seconds. (UF 12-13, 20, Plaintiff’s Additional Facts
874-876.) Alamilla was not employed by Real Time, but by Pirate Holdings,
another staffing agency. (UF 5.) Real Time later determined after an
investigation that Alamilla had sexually harassed Plaintiff. (AF 877.)
 
Plaintiff’s manager at St. Clair, Raphael Hernandez, did not
want to allow the workers to use the restroom unless on breaks or lunch, and
told them not to use the restroom. (UF 13, 16.) Hernandez did not physically
prevent Plaintiff from using the restroom. (UF 18.) However, Hernandez would
get angry when the female machine operators would use the restroom. (AF 879.)
Miguel Rosas, a supervisor at St. Clair, testified that he told Rafael that if
the women had a medical problem, they needed to be allowed to use the restroom.
(AF 880; Agazhanyan Decl. ¶ 4.) Two other female machine operators complained
to Rosas that Hernandez would get upset when female machine operators would use
the restroom. (AF 878, 881.) Only women had complaints about not being allowed
to use the restroom while under Hernandez’s supervision. (AF 882.) Hernandez
testified that because the female machine operators used the restroom too much,
he would have fired them if it was up to him. (AF 886.) As a result of pressure
Plaintiff was under not to use the restroom, Plaintiff wet herself on multiple
occasions because she could not get to the restroom in time. (RUF 18.)
 
Ana Gonzales, an area director at Real Time, testified that
Real Time was aware that Hernandez and Alamilla yelled at the female machine
operators and called them ‘stupid’ and ‘idiot’. (AF 884.) Gonzales testified
that Real Time considered it gender harassment when one of their clients
allowed a supervisor to shout at female machine operators and call them
‘stupid’ and ‘idiot’. (AF 885.) 
 
Tina Haas Healey, a vice president at Real Time, testified
that Plaintiff could report complaints of sexual harassment to anyone at her
Real Time branch office. (AF 655, 863.) Real Time sent an employee to St.
Clair’s facilities approximately once per month, and Plaintiff brought up the
harassment she faced to these supervisors on multiple occasions. (RUF 15,
26-28; AF 871, 872.) Plaintiff also complained by phone to several different
people at Real Time regarding the harassment. (RUF 30-33; AF 867-873.) When
Plaintiff raised these issues with Real Time, Real Time failed to correct them,
so both the sexual harassment and the denial of restroom access went on for
years. (AF 856.)
 
Eventually, Real Time directed St. Clair to transfer
Plaintiff from its Shoemaker location, her location at the time, to its Freeman
location, which Plaintiff contends was less desirable and where Plaintiff would
be working closely with Hernandez. (RUF 22; AF 858, 863, 884, 890.)
 
In June 2020, Plaintiff made a written report regarding the
harassment she had experienced. (RUF 34, 36-39.) Shortly thereafter, Real Time
recommended that St. Clair move Plaintiff back to the Shoemaker location, and
St. Clair did so. (UF 42, 43.) Plaintiff moved back to the Shoemaker location
on June 29, 2020. (UF 43.) At that time, Alamilla was no longer working there
because he had been terminated. (UF 44.) 
 
On June 23, 2020, Real Time ended its business relationship
with St. Clair because Real Time believed that St. Clair was not taking the
need for Covid-19 safeguards or Real Time’s employees’ complaints of harassment
seriously. (UF 45.) As of July 5, 2020, all Real Time employees’ assignments at
St. Clair ended. (UF 45.) Many of the Real Time employees continued working
with St. Clair through a different agency. (RUF 45.)
 
St. Clair replaced Real Time with an agency named Partners
Personnel. (UF 49.) Plaintiff applied for employment with Partners because she
wanted to continue working for St. Clair, but was not hired. (UF 50-51.)
 
No one from Real Time contacted Plaintiff about working for
Real Time after Plaintiff’s St. Clair assignment ended. (RUF 53.) Plaintiff’s
employment with Real Time is in inactive status, and it is undisputed that she
is eligible to reactivate her employment with Real Time at any time. (UF 54.)
Plaintiff testified in her deposition that she never contacted Real Time again
for work because she did not want to work because of the Covid-19 pandemic. (UF
55.) Plaintiff testified that it was easier for her to collect unemployment
than to work during that time. (UF 56.) Plaintiff did not feel comfortable
returning to work until approximately June 2021, and she did not look for work
from June 2020 to June 2021. (UF 57.)
 
On October 22, 2020, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a letter to
“Michael Miles, CEO” at “Real Time Staffing Services, LLC 1900 State St Suite D
Santa Barbara, CA 93101-8419,” requesting, inter alia, Plaintiff’s employment
records. (UF 58.) Real Time’s Articles of Organization state its street address
is 3820 State Street, Santa Barbara, CA 93105, and Real Time’s employee
handbook states that personnel record requests must be sent to Real Time’s
Human Resources Department. (UF 59.)
 
Although Real Time had anti-harassment and
anti-discrimination policies and procedures, including in its employee
handbook, Plaintiff testified in her deposition that these policies were never
communicated to her and that she never saw the employee handbook. (UF 6-9,
Plaintiff’s Responses to Undisputed Facts (“RUF”) 6-9.)
 
Plaintiff filed this action on April 20, 2022 against
Defendants Real Time, St. Clair, Novel Alamilla, Pirate Staffing (“Pirate”),
Pirate California Holdings, LLC (“Pirate Holdings”), and Commerce Temporary
Staffing Services, LLC (“Commerce”).
 
The FAC raises claims for (1) gender based discrimination;
(2) sexual harassment; (3) failure to prevent discrimination and harassment;
(4) failure to correct and remedy discrimination and harassment; (5)
retaliation for complaints of discrimination and harassment; (6) violation of
whistle-blowing law; (7) wrongful termination; (8) hostile work environment;
(9) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (10) negligent infliction of
emotional distress; (11) failure to permit inspection of personnel and payroll
records in violation of Labor Code section 1198.5; (12) failure to provide meal
and rest breaks; and (13) violation of Business and Professions Code, sections
17200 et seq.
 
On July 18, 2024, the Court sustained Real Time’s demurrer
to Plaintiff’s twelfth claim for failure to provide meal and rest breaks
without leave to amend.
 
Real Time moved for summary judgment on March 8, 2024.
Plaintiff filed an opposition and Real Time filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court overrules Real Time’s evidentiary objections.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court denies Real Time’s request for judicial notice.  The Court has no need to take judicial notice
of the Complaint in this action, which is part of the record.  The Court declines to take judicial notice of
a Google map that includes addresses and other information not subject to
judicial notice.  
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) 
 
“A defendant or
cross-defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action. 
Once the defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.  The plaintiff or
cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
 To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
In the time since Real Time filed this motion, Plaintiff
added a claim for unfair competition. Real Time’s motion therefore would not
dispose of all of Plaintiff’s claims against it. The Court therefore denies
Real Time’s motion for summary judgment and proceeds to Real Time’s motion for
summary adjudication.
 
 
Gender-Based Discrimination – First Claim 
 
To establish a claim for discrimination, a plaintiff must
show “that (1) [the plaintiff] was a member of a protected class, (2) [the
plaintiff] was qualified for the position he sought or was performing
competently in the position [they] held, (3) [the plaintiff] suffered an
adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an
available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.”
(Guz v. Bechtel National Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)
 
Real Time argues that Plaintiff did not suffer an adverse
employment action and that Real Time did not have a discriminatory motive for
any action taken against her.
 
Plaintiff has admitted that she was not terminated from Real
Time, and could return to work there at any time. Further, Real Time ended its
relationship with St. Clair for a facially legitimate reason, and Plaintiff has
not produced evidence that could lead a reasonable jury to believe that Real
Time ended its relationship with St. Clair based on pretext. Plaintiff
therefore cannot assert an adverse employment action on that basis. However,
Plaintiff has supported a triable issue of material fact that Real Time moved
her to a less favorable work location after she complained of harassment.
Plaintiff’s continued complaints about harassment prior to any action by Real
Time support a triable issue of fact as to discriminatory motive.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication on this
claim. 
 
Sexual Harassment – Second Claim
 
To establish a prima facie case of a hostile work
environment, [the plaintiff] must show that (1) [plaintiff] is a member of a
protected class; (2) [plaintiff] was subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3) the
harassment was based on [plaintiff’s] protected status; (4) the harassment
unreasonably interfered with [plaintiff’s] work performance by creating an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) defendants are
liable for the harassment.” (Ortiz v. Dameron Hospital
Assn. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 568, 581.)
 
“[T]he adjudicator’s inquiry should center, dominantly, on
whether the discriminatory conduct has unreasonably interfered with the
plaintiff’s work performance. To show such interference, ‘the plaintiff need
not prove that his or her tangible productivity has declined as a result of the
harassment.’ It suffices to prove that a reasonable person subjected to the
discriminatory conduct would find, as the plaintiff did, that the harassment so
altered working conditions as to ‘make it more difficult to do the job.’ ” (Harris
v. Forklift Sys. (1993) 510 U.S. 17, 25, conc. opn. of Ginsburg, J.; see
Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (a) [endorsing this language as reflective of
California law].) A single incident of harassment may be enough to constitute a
hostile work environment if it “unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s
work performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
environment.”¿ (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (b).)¿ The court shall use the
totality of the circumstances to determine whether there exists a hostile work
environment.¿ (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (c).)
 
“An employer may also be responsible for the acts of
nonemployees, with respect to harassment of employees … if the employer, or its
agents or supervisors, knows or should have known of the conduct and fails to
take immediate and appropriate corrective action.” (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(j)(1).)
 
There is a dispute of fact as to when and how often
Plaintiff made complaints to Real Time about the harassment she suffered.
Further, Plaintiff has provided evidence that she could report harassment to
any Real Time branch employee. Real Time argues that Plaintiff failed to follow
Real Time’s reporting procedures or report to a supervisor or managing agent.
That is not the standard. Plaintiff need only show that a supervisor or
managing agent knew or should have known of the harassment. Plaintiff has provided
evidence that she was able to report to anyone at her Real Time branch office,
and that she did so.
 
Plaintiff has similarly supported a triable issue of fact
that Alamilla’s conduct was severe and pervasive. Plaintiff has provided
evidence that Alamilla would harass her by touching her hand, asking her out,
saying he was in love with her, leaving her romantic messages at her
workstation, and, on one occasion, touching her leg directly above her knee for
five seconds. (UF 12-13, 20, Plaintiff’s Additional Facts 874-876.) A
reasonable jury could find that this harassment was both severe and pervasive.
 
Real Time argues that it cannot be
held liable for the actions of employees of St. Clair and Pirate. (Ducksworth
v. Tri-Modal Distribution Services (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 532, 539 [review
granted]; Serrano v. Aerotek, Inc. (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 773, 784 [joint
employer not liable for meal break violations of other employer] disapproved of
on other grounds by Donohue v. AMN Services, LLC (2021) 11 Cal.5th 58.)
That is not the law. Real Time can be held liable if it knew or should have
known of the harassment, even though Alamilla and Hernandez were not its
employees. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1) [“An employer may also be
responsible for ethe acts of nonemployees. .. . if the employer . . . knows or
should have known of the conduct and fails to take immediate and appropriate
corrective action.”].)

 
The Court denies the summary adjudication as to this claim.
 
Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment – Third Claim
 
The elements of a cause of action for failure to prevent
harassment or retaliation are: (1) actionable discrimination or harassment by
employees or nonemployees; (2) defendant’s legal duty of care toward plaintiff
(i.e., defendant is the plaintiff’s employer); (3) breach of that duty (i.e.,
failure to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and
harassment from occurring); (4) legal causation; and (5) damages to plaintiff.
(Trujillo v. North County Transit
District (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 287, 289; Bradley v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 1612, 1630; Gov. Code, § 12940.)
 
Real Time argues that this claim fails because Plaintiff’s
harassment claim fails. Because the Court does not grant summary adjudication
non that claim, the Court denies summary adjudication on this claim, as well.
 
Failure to Correct and Remedy Discrimination and Harassment – Fourth Claim
 
Real Time argues that this claim fails because Plaintiff’s
harassment claim fails. Because the Court does not grant summary adjudication
non that claim, the Court denies summary adjudication on this claim, as well.
 
Retaliation for Complaints of Discrimination and Harassment – Fifth Claim 
 
“To establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the
[Fair Employment and Housing Act] FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she
engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879,
brackets omitted.) “An ‘adverse employment action,’ which is a critical
component of a retaliation claim, requires a substantial adverse change in the
terms and conditions of the plaintiff’s employment.” (Holmes v. Petrovich Development Co., LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1063, quotation marks omitted.)
 
Real Time argues that Plaintiff was not subject to an
adverse employment action from Real Time. There is evidence that Real Time
caused Plaintiff’s transfer to a new location after she complained of
harassment. There is thus a dispute of fact as to whether Real Time took
retaliatory action.
 
Violation of Whistleblowing Law – Sixth Claim 
 
The Labor Code’s whistleblower provision prohibits an
employer from retaliating against an employee who reports a violation of state
or federal statute or a local, state or federal rule or regulation or who
refuses to participate in any activity that would result in a violation of law.
(Lab. Code, § 1102.5.) To prevail on whistleblower retaliation claim, a
plaintiff must establish that their alleged protected activated was a
contributing factor in the adverse action taken against them. (Lab. Code, §
1102.5.)
 
Real Time argues that this claim fails because Plaintiff’s
retaliation claim fails. Because the Court does not grant summary adjudication
on that claim, the Court denies summary adjudication on this claim, as well.
 
Wrongful Termination – Seventh Claim
 
“The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in violation
of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer
terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was substantially
motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the
plaintiff harm. It is well established that a termination premised on an
employee’s refusal to violate either a statute or an administrative regulation
may support a claim for wrongful termination in violation of public policy.” (Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical
Center (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234, citation omitted.)
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff has admitted that her
employment with Real Time is in inactive status, and it is undisputed that she
is eligible to reactivate her employment with Real Time at any time. (UF 54.)
Plaintiff testified in her deposition that she never contacted Real Time again
for work because she did not want to work because of the Covid-19 pandemic. (UF
55.) This meets Real Time’s initial burden to negate Plaintiff’s claim that she
was terminated.  The burden shifts to Plaintiff,
who has not shown any triable issues of material fact on the issue of  whether Plaintiff was terminated.
 
The Court therefore grants summary adjudication on this
claim.
 
Hostile Work Environment – Eighth Claim
 
¿This claim is identical to Plaintiff’s harassment claim.
The Court denies summary adjudication.
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress – Ninth Claim
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.
Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson
v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.) “Whether
a defendant’s conduct can reasonably be found to be outrageous is a question of
law that must initially be determined by the court; if reasonable persons may
differ, it is for the jury to determine whether the conduct was, in fact,
outrageous.” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 534.)
 
“Managing personnel is not outrageous conduct beyond the
bounds of human decency, but rather conduct essential to the welfare and
prosperity of society. A simple pleading of personnel management activity is
insufficient to support a claim of intentional infliction of emotional
distress, even if improper motivation is alleged. If personnel management
decisions are improperly motivated, the remedy is a suit against the employer
for discrimination.” (Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46
Cal.App.4th 55, 80.)
 
Plaintiff’s relocation to a new work location therefore does
not serve as a basis for an IIED claim.
 
However, Real Time’s inaction in the face of Plaintiff’s
discrimination complaints – which resulted in Plaintiff wetting herself on more
than one occasion – could be considered extreme and outrageous.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication on this
claim.
 
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress – Tenth Claim
 
“The law of negligent infliction of emotional distress in
California is typically analyzed by reference to two theories of recovery: the
‘bystander’ theory and the ‘direct victim’ theory. The negligent causing of
emotional distress is not an independent tort, but the tort of negligence. The
traditional elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply.
Whether a defendant owes a duty of care is a question of law.” (Spates v. Dameron Hosp. Ass’n (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 208, 213, ellipses, quotation marks, brackets, and paragraph breaks
omitted.)
 
Real Time does not make any new arguments against this
claim, but instead argues that this claim fails for the same reasons as
Plaintiff’s IIED claim. The Court therefore denies summary adjudication on this
claim.
 
Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel and Payroll Records – Eleventh
Claim
 
“Every current and former employee … has the right to
inspect and receive a copy of the personnel records that the employer maintains
relating to the employee's performance or to any grievance concerning the
employee.” (Lab. Code, § 1198.5, subd. (a).) A current or former employer must
make these records available within “30 calendar days from the date the employer
receives a written request” unless agreed otherwise in writing. (Lab. Code, §
1198.5, subd. (b)._ The employer may designate the person to whom a request is
made. (Lab. Code, § 1198.5, subd. (f).) Labor Code, section 226(b) requires an
employer to provide an employee with payroll records with 21 days upon written
or oral request. (Lab. Code, § 226, subd. (b).) A failure to comply permits the
employee to recover a $750.00 penalty. (Lab. Code, § 226, subd. (f).)
 
The statute of limitations on an action for a statutory
penalty is one year. (Code Civ. Proc., § 340, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Real Time has demonstrated Plaintiff’s counsel sent
the letter requesting records on October 22, 2020. Plaintiff filed this action
on April 20, 2022. (UF 851-854.) Real Time has met its initial burden of
showing that the claim is time-barred. 
Far from demonstrating triable issues of material fact on this issue,
Plaintiff fails to dispute that the claim is time barred.  
 
The Court therefore grants summary adjudication on this
claim.
 
Mitigation of Damages
 
An employee damaged by the breach of an employment contract
has a duty to mitigate their damages by making a reasonable effort to find
comparable employment. (West v. Bechtel Corp. (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 966,
984.) 
 
Real Time presents undisputed evidence that “Plaintiff did
not feel comfortable returning to work until approximately June 2021, and she
did not look for work from June 2020 to June 2021.”  (UF 57.) 
However, Real Time presents no logical argument as to why the failure to
mitigate for a specified time period entitles Real Time to summary adjudication
as to all lost wages.  Real Time does not
even present evidence of failure to mitigate after June 2021.  Real Time has failed to meet its initial
burden on summary judgment relating to the issue of lost wages.  The burden therefore never switches to
Plaintiff to show a disputed issue of material fact.  Accordingly, the Court denies summary
adjudication on this issue.
 
Punitive Damages
 
Punitive damages are appropriate when a defendant acted with
malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is
defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of
others. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent.
Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable
conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious
disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.)
“Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,
rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)

 
“An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to
subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate
employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (b).)
 
Ratification of an employee’s actions “may be inferred from
the fact that the employer, after being informed of the employee's actions,
does not fully investigate and fails to repudiate the employee's conduct by
redressing the harm done and punishing or discharging the employee.” (Fisher
v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 621 [citation
and quotation marks omitted].)
 
Real Time has not submitted any evidence that negates the
element of ratification by Real Time. 
Merely arguing that Plaintiff has not shown any evidence is not enough
under the California summary adjudication standard.  This is especially true because Plaintiff
repeatedly reported Hernandez and Alamilla’s conduct to Real Time, and that
Real Time took no action. 
 
Real Time has failed to meet its initial burden of negating
an element of Plaintiff’s claim. 
Accordingly, the Court denies summary adjudication on this issue.