 Case Number:  22STCV08533    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LINDA EVERHARDT,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No:  22STCV08533
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 13, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  3




 


 



 
             Defendant the Los Angeles Unified School
District (“Defendant”) seeks to deem admitted the requests for admission set
two to Plaintiff Linda Everhardt (“Plaintiff”). 
Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of
$5,122.
 
            The Court
DENIES Defendant’s motion.
 
            The Court
DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
 
            Defendant
seeks to have the requests admitted under Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.280, subdivision (c), which provides that, where a party fails to provide
a timely response, the requesting party “may move for an order that the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted.  Under
subdivision (c), the “court shall make this order, unless it finds that the
party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before
the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the request for admission hat
is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  
 
            Here,
Plaintiff who was ill did timely respond to the requests for admission, but
those responses were not verified.  Less
than two weeks later, before Plaintiff was able to provide her verification, she
died.  Defendant ignored the situation
for eight months and did not take any action based on the lack of verification
until Defendant filed this motion.
 
            The Court
denies Defendant’s motion for a number of reasons:
 
            First, the
motion is moot.  Because Plaintiff has
died, motion practice relating to discovery sent to her individually and her
failure to take action after her death, cannot be determined as though she were
still alive. 
 
            Second, Plaintiff
has provided “a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” 
(Civ. Proc. Code § 2033.280.)  After
receiving Defendant’s motion, Plaintiff’s successor-in-interest served verified
responses to the requests for admission. 
(Waizmann Decl., Ex. L.) 
 
            Third, these
unusual facts are not the situation contemplated by the Code for deeming requests
admitted.  Plaintiff timely provided her
responses to requests for admission, albeit unverified, on November 3,
2023.  The parties understood that the
verifications would be forthcoming shortly. 
However, Plaintiff died unexpectedly less than two weeks later.  Defendant then proceeded to ignore the lack
of verification entirely for eight months before suddenly bringing this
motion.  This is nothing like the more
orderly proceeding contemplated by Section 2033.220, where a problem with the
responses (such as a missing verification) could be easily fixed prior to the
hearing date.  Deeming the requests for
admission admitted under these circumstances would be an unreasonable “gotcha”
not provided for in the rules.
 
            Plaintiff
seeks sanctions under Civil Procedure Code section 2023.020(a) and 2023.010(c)
for misuse of the discovery process.  The
Court ultimately denies the request for sanctions.  The law is not crystal clear about what
happens when a party dies just before verifying responses, so Defendant was
legally entitled to take a shot at obtaining a procedural advantage from this
unfortunate situation—even though this is the type of argument that tends to
bring the legal profession into disrepute. 
Defendant also adamantly stands on its right to refuse to meet and
confer or participate in an informal discovery conference to find a practical
solution to any problem Defendant faces. 
While such an approach to litigation is arguably discourteous and
certainly unproductive, it is not a basis to impose sanctions.  For all these reasons, the Court denies
sanctions.   