 Case Number:  21STCV26349    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



FALLON SEABORN, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
WILSHIRE CONSUMER CREDIT OF LOS
  ANGELES,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV26349
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 13, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Defendant Wilshire Commercial Capital, L.L.C. d/b/a Wilshire
Consumer Credit (“Defendant”), which states that it was erroneously sued as
Wilshire Consumer Credit of Los Angeles, demurs to the first cause of action in
the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiff Fallon Seaborn
(“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Background
 
            This
is a breach of contract case. Defendant is a lender that makes small, secured
cash loans. Plaintiff alleges that Plaintiff and Defendant entered into an
agreement on June 5, 2019.
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant makes loans at a very high interest rate. Plaintiff
alleges that an entity referred to as CashCall also makes very high-interest
loans and makes untrue or misleading statements about the rates it charges.
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action on July 19, 2021, raising claims for (1) breach of contract;
and (2) intentional tort.
 
            On
April 25, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the Complaint with
leave to amend.
 
            On
May 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed the FAC. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice and
takes notice of the requested public records’ existence, but not the truth of
their contents.
 
Legal Standard
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Discussion
 
The FAC is filed primarily using judicial forms. The FAC is
styled as raising claims for (1) unfair competition (unlawful conduct); (2)
unfair competition (unlawful conduct); (3) unfair competition (fraudulent
conduct); (4) declaratory relief; (5) violation of “Ca Code § 22000 section
50204”; (6) violation of “Ca Code § 70C-7-201”; (7) violation of “Ca Code §
[blank]”; (8) violation of the EFTA, 15 U.S.C. § 1693k et seq.; (9) intentional
infliction of emotional distress ; (10) violation of Business and Professions
Code, section 17500 (untrue or misleading statements); and (11) violation of
the EFTA, 15 U.S.C. § 1693k et seq. 
 
Despite the list on the caption page, however, the FAC
asserts only one claim:  an “intentional
tort” of “usury.”  
 
Intentional Tort-Usury
 
“The essential elements of usury are: (1) The transaction
must be a loan or forbearance; (2) the interest to be paid must exceed the
statutory maximum; (3) the loan and interest must be absolutely repayable by
the borrower; and (4) the lender must have a willful intent … to take the
amount of interest which he receives[.]” (Ghirardo v. Antonioli (1994) 8
Cal.4th 791, 798.) “A transaction is rebuttably presumed not to
be usurious.” (Ibid. [emphasis in original].)
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant makes small, secured cash
loans to consumers at very high interest rates. Plaintiff alleges that “Auto
loan’s typical loan products … have included a $3,550 loan with an annual
percentage rate of [] 84.81%.” (FAC at p. 8.) It is unclear whether “Auto loan”
is an entity that is separate from (or identical to) Defendant, or whether
Plaintiff is referring to auto loans made by Defendant. It is therefore unclear
what wrongful conduct Plaintiff is alleging that Defendant did, and the Court
must sustain the demurrer.
 
Plaintiff appears to imply that
they were loaned money by Defendant, but Plaintiff does not outright allege
this fact, nor does Plaintiff allege the amount of the loan or the interest
rate. Furthermore, Plaintiff does not allege intent to receive the interest
rate in question.
 
In this FAC, Plaintiff makes
allegations about loans by “Auto loan.” 
In the original complaint, Plaintiff made similar allegations about “CashCall.”  Neither set of allegations are explained.
 
The Court has already granted
Plaintiff an opportunity to amend this claim. Amendment did not succeed in
producing a more coherent complaint.  Plaintiff has not explained how the complaint
could be amended further and has not requested leave to amend.  The Court finds that further amendment would
be futile.
 
The Court therefore sustains the
demurrer without leave to amend.
 
Remaining Claims
 
While the face page FAC purports to list many claims, a
review of the pleading shows that there are no additional claims other than the
one for usury discussed above.
 
The body of the FAC only contains claims for “intentional
tort” and common counts. The page dedicated to the common counts claim contains
almost no checked boxes describing Plaintiff’s claim. The assertion of a claim
for breach of contract claim from the first Complaint is missing here.
 
 
 
Plaintiff alleges no facts other than that Defendant became
indebted to Plaintiff. Plaintiff does not allege the amount of money, how
Defendant became indebted, or when.  This
is not a claim at all.  Nor does the
Complaint attempt to assert any of the remaining causes of action named in the
caption page.
 
Accordingly, the Court’s order sustaining the demurrer
without leave to amend as to the usury claim has the practical effect of
dismissing the entire FAC with prejudice. 
Defendant shall give notice.
 
 