 Case Number:  24VECV03957    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



SERGIO GANDARILLA, on behalf of all other Aggrieved Employees,
  
 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
HARBOR FREIGHT TOOLS USA, INC., a Delaware Corporation,
  and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, 
 

                    Defendants.
 

 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)))))
 
 


     CASE NO.: 24VECV03957
 
ORDER DENYING
  DEFENDANT HARBOR FREIGHT TOOLS USA, INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION



 


 
I.
       BACKGROUND 
This is a Private
Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) action filed by Representative Plaintiff Sergio
Gandarilla (“Plaintiff”) against Defendant Harbor Freight Tools USA, Inc.
(“Defendant”). Plaintiff was employed by Defendant from July 21, 2020, until
his termination on June 4, 2024. Plaintiff filed one cause of action against
Defendant for violation of Labor Code § 2698 et seq.
Defendant now moves
to compel Plaintiff’s claim to arbitration.  
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On August 19, 2024,
Plaintiff filed his Complaint, alleging (1) Violation of Labor Code § 2698[1],
et seq. 
On October 10,
2024, Defendant filed its Answer. 
On November 8,
2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration (“Motion”).
On December 4,
2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition. 
On December 10,
2024, Defendant filed its Reply. 
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD
“The party seeking
to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement.” (Avila v. Southern Cal. Specialty Care, Inc. (2018)
20 Cal.App.5th 835, 844.) 
“California courts
traditionally have maintained a strong preference for arbitration as a speedy
and inexpensive method of dispute resolution… To this end, arbitration
agreements should be liberally construed, … with doubts concerning the scope of
arbitrable issues being resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Market Ins.
Corp. v. Integrity Ins. Co. (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1095, 1098 (cleaned up).)
“This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be
upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not
susceptible to an interpretation covering the asserted dispute.... It seems
clear that the burden must fall upon the party opposing arbitration to
demonstrate that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require
arbitration of the dispute.” (Bono v. David (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 1055,
1062 (cleaned up).)
California law
incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”), including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (See
Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972.)
The Court is empowered by Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.2 to compel parties to
arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so.¿¿¿ 
The party opposing
the petition to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. (See Giuliano
v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)
Accordingly, under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law,
arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such
grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (See Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)
Thus, in deciding a
motion to compel arbitration, trial courts must first decide whether an
enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties, and then
determine the second gateway issue of whether the claims are covered within the
scope of the agreement. (See Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
IV.         
ANALYSIS 
A.            
Evidentiary Objections and Request for
Judicial Notice 
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of other Superior Court Minute Orders,
but only as to the existence of those Minute Orders. The Court cannot take
judicial notice of hearsay statements contained in court records. (See
Johnson & Johnson v. Superior Court (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 768; Williams
v. Wraxall (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 120, 130, fn. 7.)
          The
Court also OVERRULES Defendant’s Objection to Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice as it takes judicial notice of the existence of the Minute Orders only. 
B.            
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is
Denied
1.     There is a
Valid Arbitration Agreement Between the Parties
The arbitration
proponent must first recite verbatim, or provide a copy of, the alleged
agreement. (See Sprunk v. Prisma LLC (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 785, 793.) A
movant can meet this initial burden “‘by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purportedly bearing the opposing party’s signature.’” (Id. (quoting
Rules of Court, rule 3.1330).) “[U]nless there is a dispute over authenticity,
it is sufficient for a party moving to compel arbitration to recite the terms
of the governing provision.” (Id. (citing Condee v. Longwood Mgmt.
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219).) “A voluntary acceptance of the
benefit of a transaction is equivalent to a consent to all the obligations
arising from it, so far as the facts are known, or ought to be known, to the
person accepting.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1589.) 
          Defendant
has submitted evidence of a valid arbitration agreement between the parties.
Defendant has attached a copy of its 2023 Dispute Resolution Policy (“2023
DRP”) signed by Plaintiff. (See Declaration of Matthew Finney filed
November 8, 2024 (“Finney Decl.”), ¶¶ 13-14, Ex. 4.) By signing the 2023 DRP,
Plaintiff agreed to: 
“…to submit to
final and binding arbitration any and all claims and disputes, whether they
exist now or arise in the future, that are related in any way to my employment
or the termination of my employment with Harbor Freight Tools, except as
otherwise permitted by the DRP. I understand that final and binding arbitration
will be the sole and exclusive remedy for any such claim or dispute against
Harbor Freight Tools and any parent, subsidiary, affiliated and/or related
entities, and its and their current and former directors, officers,
supervisors, Associates, representatives, agents, and attorneys, and that by
agreeing to use arbitration to resolve my disputes, both Harbor Freight Tools
and I agree to forgo any right we each may have had to a jury trial on issues
covered by the DRP, and forgo any right to bring claims on a class, collective,
coordinated, consolidated, or representative basis. 
 
In cases under the
California Labor Code Private Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”), Harbor Freight
Tools and I agree to arbitrate only the individual PAGA claims based on Labor
Code violations personally sustained by me. I also agree that the arbitration
will be conducted before a mutually agreed upon arbitrator (or court-appointed
arbitrator if the parties cannot agree), and that the designated arbitration
provider’s rules will apply to the arbitration proceedings unless they conflict
with the DRP. If the arbitration provider’s rules conflict with the DRP in any
way, I agree that the DRP shall govern.” 
(Finney Decl., ¶
13, Ex. 4.)
Accordingly,
Defendant has proved the existence of a valid and enforceable arbitration
agreement.
2.     Plaintiff’s
Claims are not Covered by the Arbitration Agreement 
Defendant asserts “in
response to [Defendant’s] request that he submit his claims to arbitration, [Plaintiff]
argued that, because he purports to bring his claims only in a ‘representative’
capacity, and not individually, the Complaint does not allege any arbitrable
claims under [PAGA].” (Motion, pg. 9.) Defendant argues Plaintiff’s
representative argument is “pure sophistry” because Plaintiff cannot maintain a
PAGA action unless he has suffered the alleged labor code violations. (See
id. at 9, 12-13.) “In fact, if [Plaintiff] had not suffered from the
alleged Labor Code violations asserted in the Complaint, he would not have
standing to bring this action under PAGA.” (Id. at 13.) Defendant argues
the recent Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101
Cal.App.5th 533 (“Balderas”) case, allegedly relied on by Plaintiff when
the parties discussed the arbitration agreement, does not stand for the
proposition that a plaintiff can maintain a representative action without
asserting any individual claims. (See id. at 12.) Rather, Defendant argues, “the Court of Appeal merely held
that Balderas was not required to bring a separate individual PAGA claim
seeking relief only for herself in order to maintain standing.” (Id.)

In opposition, Plaintiff argues the parties expressly agreed to
arbitrate only Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims. (See Opposition, pg. 3.) Here, Plaintiff argues, Plaintiff did not bring any
individual PAGA claims and Balderas controls. (See id. at 4.) “The central question in Balderas was whether an employee must
file an individual claim to maintain a representative PAGA action. The issue
was significantly influenced by the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana, 142 S.Ct. 1906
(2022) [“Viking River”], which suggested
that PAGA plaintiffs need an individual claim to pursue representative-only
PAGA claims.” (Id.) The Court in Balderas, Plaintiff argues, declined to follow Viking River, instead finding the plaintiff there could pursue representative
claims without seeking individual relief. (See id. at 5.) “Based on the Balderas ruling, Plaintiff can proceed
litigating his PAGA representative claim on behalf of Aggrieved Employees and
the State alone in this Action, without prosecuting individual,
non-representative claims. This is exactly what Plaintiff did here.” (Id. at 7.) Plaintiff argues he is an aggrieved
employee for standing purposes and thus can bring the instant PAGA action in
his representative capacity only. (See id. at 10.)  
In reply, Defendant
argues the recently issued Rodriguez v. Lawrence Equipment, Inc. (2024)
106 Cal.App.5th 645 (“Rodriguez”) case “precludes the very idea that
plaintiffs can assert PAGA representative claims without asserting an
individual claim, holding that PAGA standing and the existence of individual
claims based on Labor Code violations allegedly suffered are ‘identical issues.’”
(Reply, pg. 5, quoting Rodriguez, 106 Cal.App.5th at 659.)
The Court finds Plaintiff
claims are not subject to arbitration because he asserts his PAGA action in his
representative capacity only. To possess standing to pursue PAGA claims a
plaintiff must be an “aggrieved employee”, or one who has sustained a Labor
Code violation committed by their employer. (See Adolph v. Uber
Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1121.) PAGA standing only
requires a plaintiff alleges “that he or she is (1) someone who was employed by
the alleged violator and (2) someone against whom one or more of the alleged
violations was committed.” (Adolph, 14 Cal.5th at 1120 (quotations and
citations omitted); see also Balderas, 101 Cal.App.5th at 538 (“The Adolph
court concluded that the Viking River requirement of having to file an
individual PAGA cause of action to achieve standing to file a representative
PAGA suit was incorrect.”).) 
In applying Adolph’s
holding, the Court of Appeal in Balderas found the plaintiff in that
case had standing to bring a representative PAGA suit, although she did not
file an individual PAGA claim, because she was an aggrieved employee. (See Balderas,
101 Cal.App.5th at 539.) “The statutory goal [of PAGA] is furthered by
extending broad standing to aggrieved employees who do not depend on the
viability or strength of a plaintiff's individual PAGA claim. The inability for
an employee to pursue an individual PAGA claim does not prevent that employee
from filing a representative PAGA action. (See Balderas, 101 Cal.App.5th
at 537.)
Defendant’s
argument can be simplified as follows: because Plaintiff must be an aggrieved
employee to bring a PAGA action, it is impossible for Plaintiff to bring a PAGA
action in his representative capacity without also bringing the action
in his individual capacity. But that argument not only contradicts the holdings
of Adolph and Balderas but also reads into those rulings a
requirement that doesn’t exist. Plaintiff can bring this PAGA action in his
representative capacity without also bringing the action in his individual
capacity, as he has done here and as was explicitly contemplated in Balderas.
Defendant’s citation of the recent Rodriguez case does not in any way
alter Balderas’s holding and is not persuasive.[2]
 
In short, Defendant
cannot compel Plaintiff’s non-existent individual PAGA claim to arbitration. Such
an action is beyond the scope of the arbitration agreement and contrary to
applicable law. 
Accordingly, the
Court DENIES Defendant’s Motion. 
As a result of the
Court’s foregoing analysis and conclusion, it declines to address the parties’
arguments about the DRP’s procedural or substantive unconscionability.
V.       CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration. 
          IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:
December 17, 2024



Hon.
  Michael R. Amerian
Judge, Superior Court



 
 
 


