 Case Number:  24VECV00778    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  O   
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



CHASE CAMERON
  GARDELLA, an individual, 
                    Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
JACK DOHERTY, LLC, a Florida Limited
  Liability Company; BANGER OFFICIAL, LLC, a New York Limited Liability Company;
  KONGG, INC., a California Corporation; JACK DOHERTY, an individual; JUSTIN
  GOSLEE aka “KANE KONGG”, an individual; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 24VECV00778
 
ORDER
  DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR
LEAVE
  TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
 



 
I.              
BACKGROUND 
This case
stems from a physical altercation between Plaintiff Chase Cameron Gardella
(“Plaintiff”) and Defendants Justin Goslee, aka “Kane Kongg” (Goslee) and Jack
Doherty (“Doherty”). Plaintiff alleges that on the morning of October 29, 2023,
at approximately 12:30 a.m., Plaintiff, Goslee, and Doherty were engaged in a
conversation outside of the premises located at 3703 Almora Drive, Sherman
Oaks, California, when Goslee punched Plaintiff at the behest of Doherty,
causing injuries to Plaintiff. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 7-9.) Plaintiff alleges that
at the time of the incident, Goslee was acting as an agent of Defendant Kongg,
Inc. (“Kongg”) and as a security guard for Doherty, Jack Doherty, LLC (“Doherty
LLC”) and Banger Official, LLC (“Banger LLC”). Id. at ¶ 6.  Plaintiff further alleges that the incident
was live-streamed on Doherty’s various social media platforms, such as YouTube,
X.com, and TikTok, which generated and continues generating views and income. Id.
at ¶ 12-13.
Plaintiff now
seeks an order for leave to file an amended complaint that adds two causes of
action.  
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On February 21,
2024, Plaintiff filed his Complaint, alleging (1) Assault; (2) Battery; (3) Negligence;
(4) Negligent Hiring/Retention/Supervision/Training; (5) Aiding and Abetting;
and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
On April 12,
2024, Defendants Doherty, Doherty LLC, and Banger LLC filed their Answer.  
On July 1,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Proof of Personal Service as to Goslee. 
On September
19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint
but later withdrew it after Defendants Doherty and Banger LLC filed their
Opposition.
On November
1, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Leave to File Amended Complaint
to allege additional causes of action against all defendants (the “Motion”).
On November
25, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Request for Admissions
Admitted/Motion to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted as to Goslee.  
On December
4, 2024, Defendants Banger Official LLC and Jack Doherty filed their Opposition
to the Motion.
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(a) provides: “The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 473(a)(1); see also Code Civ. Proc. § 576.)¿¿¿¿ ¿¿ 
The court has
broad discretion to permit amendments to pleadings, and “the court’s discretion
will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings.” (Howard
v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)¿“The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it
is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.”¿(Id.)¿“If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend.”¿(Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New
York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)¿¿ 
A motion for
leave to amend a pleading must comply with the procedural requirements of Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, under which the motion must include (1) a copy of the
proposed and numbered amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and
lines the allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration
specifying the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of
discovery and reasons for delay. (See Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a),
(b).)¿  
IV.         
ANALYSIS
After
reviewing Plaintiff’s Motion and the Declaration of Greyson M. Goody dated
November 1, 2024, the Court finds Plaintiff has failed to comply with Rule of
Court, rule 3.1324 (b) because Mr. Goody’s declaration does not “specify … [w]hen
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” Because Rule
3.1324(b) states that a separately filed declaration “must accompany [a] motion”
to amend a pleading before trial and “must specify” these facts, it is not discretionary.
These procedural requirements are essential for the Court to conduct its substantive
analysis under the applicable statutory and case law, in particular related to
evaluating the prejudice of the potential amendment to the opposing party. 
Accordingly, the
Motion is procedurally defective and the Court DENIES the Motion without
addressing its substantive merits.
V.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint. 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
DATED: December
17, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 

 