  Case Number:  22VECV02523    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  O
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



CARYL LAVERNA BURKE, an individual,
                  Plaintiff,
         vs.
 
ALBERTSONS COMPANIES, entity type unknown; THE VONS COMPANIES, entity type
  unknown; CALIBER PAVING COMPANY, INC.;
  ENNIS-FLINT, INC., AND DOES 2 TO 100,
 
                  Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV01037
 
ORDER
  GRANTING DEFENDANT THE VONS COMPANIES, INC.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  
 
 




 
The VONS COMPANIES, INC.,
 
                  Cross-Complainant,
         vs.
 
CALIBER
  PAVING COMPANY, INC.; ENNIS-FLINT, INC.; AND ROES 1 TO 25, inclusive,
 
                  Cross-Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


    
  
 
 



I.             
BACKGROUND 
This is a
personal injury action. Plaintiff Caryl Laverna Burke (“Plaintiff”) alleges she
was injured on December 24, 2020, when she slipped on a liquid as she exited a
supermarket operated by Defendant Vons Companies, Inc. (“Vons”) located at
18439 Ventura Blvd., Tarzana, CA 91356. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 10-12.) Vons
now moves for summary judgment as to both Plaintiff’s causes of action for
general negligence and premises liability. 
II.          
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On December 22,
2022, Plaintiff filed her Complaint, alleging (1) General Negligence; and (2)
Premises Liability.
On January
25, 2023, Vons filed its Answer, indicating that Plaintiff erroneously named Albertsons
Companies in addition to Vons.
On April 20,
2023, Vons filed a Cross-Complaint, alleging (1) Breach of Contract against
Caliber Paving; (2) Implied Indemnity against Caliber Paving, Ennis-Flint, and
Roes 1 to 25; (3) Contribution and Apportionment against Caliber Paving,
Ennis-Flint, and Roes 1 to 25; and (4) Declaratory Relief against Caliber
Paving, Ennis-Flint, and Roes 1 to 25.
On May 1,
2023, Plaintiff amended her Complaint to add Ennis-Flint as a defendant to her
Complaint. 
On May 4,
2023, Plaintiff amended her Complaint to correct Caliber Paving’s name from
Caliber Painting, entity type unknown, to Caliber Paving Company, Inc.
On June 20,
2023, Caliber Paving filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint.
On July 21,
2023, the previously assigned judge granted Ennis-Flint’s unopposed Motion to
Quash Service of Summons and Complaint for Lack of Personal Jursidiction and
denied as moot Ennis-Flint’s Motion to Dismiss the Complaint on the Grounds of
Inconvenient Forum.
On December
14, 2023, Vons dismissed its Cross-Complaint without prejudice.
On February
1, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed Caliber Paving from her Complaint without
prejudice.
On April 5,
2024, Plaintiff dismissed Ennis-Flint from the Complaint without prejudice.
On September
30, 2024, and again on October 1, 2024, Vons filed the instant Motion for
Summary Judgment (the “Motion”) and supporting declarations.
On December 3,
2024, Plaintiff filed her Opposition as well as her declaration dated December
3, 2024 (“Burke Decl.”).
On December
12, 2024, Vons filed its Reply.  
III.       
LEGAL STANDARD
The function
of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as
to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (See
Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In
analyzing such motions, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify
the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) Thus, summary
judgment or summary adjudication is granted when, after the Court’s
consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable
inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist, and the moving party
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c) [1]; Villa
v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.) 
As to each
claim as framed by the complaint, the party moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting
facts to negate or establish an essential element. (See Scalf v. D.B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.) A motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
be denied where the moving party’s evidence does not prove all material facts,
even in the absence of any opposition or where the opposition is weak. (See
Leyva v. Superior Court (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475; Salesguevara v.
Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384 & 387.) When a
plaintiff is the moving party, the plaintiff has a higher burden: it must “present
evidence that would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying
material fact more likely than not.” (See Aguilar, 25
Cal.4th at 845 (emphasis added).) “The burden of the moving party is to persuade
the court that there is no material fact for a reasonable trier of fact to find.”
(PP Mortgage, Ltd. v. Bizar (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 773, 776 (emphasis in
original) (cleaned up).) 
Once the
moving party has met its burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to
show via specific facts that a triable issue of material fact exists to a cause
of action or a defense thereto. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(o)(2).)
IV.        
ANALYSIS 
A.           
Evidentiary Issues 
The Court SUSTAINS
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objection No. 1 on hearsay as to Bates numbered pages BURKE000001-000004
attached as part of Exhibit G to the Lewis Decl. However, the Court OVERRULES
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections No. 2 to the same documents attached as
Exhibit H to the Lewis Decl. because that exhibit includes a declaration from
the custodian of records that properly satisfies the hearsay rule in a way the
portion attached as part of Exhibit G does not. 
The Court OVERRULES
Vons’s evidentiary objection Nos. 1 and 2 to the Burke Decl. but SUSTAINS
Vons’s evidentiary objection No. 3 pursuant to D’Amico v. Board of Med.
Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21. 
The Court
OVERRULES Vons’s evidentiary objections as to the Declaration of Brad Avrit
dated December 3, 2024, except to the extent it contains legal conclusions/opinions.
Vons’s objections largely go to the weight, not the admissibility, of Mr.
Avrit’s statements.
Finally, the
Court SUSTAINS Vons’s evidentiary objection as to the Declaration of Carlos
Brazao for lack of foundation.
B.           
Request for Judicial Notice
Plaintiff
asks the Court to take judicial notice pursuant to Evid. Code §§ 452 and 453
and Rules of Court, rule 3.113, of two items: (1) the Complaint filed in the
matter of Tsoi v. The Vons Companies, et al., LASC Case No. 21STCV42289, and
(2) Google maps historical images depicting the subject premises in March 2018
and March 2019. (See Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice filed
December 3, 2024 (“RJN”).)
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s RJN as to the Complaint in Case No. 21STCV42289, for the limited
purpose of proving that a case was filed but not for the additional purpose
Plaintiff wants to use it: to wit, that the specific allegations are so similar
as to put Vons on notice that a dangerous condition exists because they are hearsay
and outside the scope of materials contemplated by section 452.
The Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s RJN as to the two Google maps historical images because there is
insufficient foundation to support the conclusion that either section 452 or
453 applies.
C.           
Undisputed Material Facts
Plaintiff claims that on December 24,
2020, at approximately 1:00 p.m., while exiting Vons #2066, located at 19439
Ventura Blvd., Tarzana, CA 91356, she “suddenly and unexpectedly came into contact
with a slippery substance on the floor, causing her to slip and fall.” (See Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) No. 1.) On December 22,
2022, Plaintiff filed the instant Complaint against Vons alleging causes of
action for general negligence and premises liability. (See UMF No. 2.)
On December 1, 2023, Vons took the deposition of Burke whereat she admitted to
wearing sandals at the time of the incident, despite the weather. (See UMF
No. 4.) Plaintiff testified that she did not observe any hazard in the area
before or after she fell, despite being very careful and looking where she was
walking because it was starting to drizzle. (UMF No. 5.) Vons store director,
Randy Figueroa and assistant store director, Victor Siam, arrived at the area
of the incident shortly after it occurred. (See UMF No. 6.) Randy
Figueroa instructed Victor Siam to take photographs of the subject area and
Plaintiff’s shoes. (See UMF No. 7.) The photographs of the subject area
do not depict any dangerous or hazardous substance on the ground. (See UMF
No. 8.) Paramedics from the Los Angeles Fire Department (LAFD) responded to the
scene of the alleged incident shortly after it occurred. (See UMF No.
9.)
D.          
No Triable
Issues of Material Fact Exist.
Plaintiff levies two claims
against Vons: general negligence and premises liability. (See Complaint.)
Defendant moves for summary judgment as to both. 
“The elements of any negligence
cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.” (Peredia
v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.) “The elements
of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a legal duty
of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury. Premises
liability is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right
to control and manage the premises; accordingly, mere possession with its
attendant right to control conditions on the premises is a sufficient basis for
the imposition of an affirmative duty to act. But the duty arising from
possession and control of property is adherence to the same standard of care
that applies in negligence cases.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1158 (cleaned up).) 
“To comply with this duty, a person who controls
property must inspect
[the
premises] or take other proper means to ascertain their condition and,
if
a dangerous condition exists that would have been discovered by the exercise
of
reasonable care, has a duty to give adequate warning of or remedy it.” (Staats
v.
Vintner’s Golf Club, LLC (2018) 25
Cal.App.5th 826, 833 (cleaned up).)
“Because the owner is not the insurer of the
visitor’s personal safety, the owner’s actual or constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition is a key to
establishing
its liability. Although the owner’s lack of knowledge is not a defense, [t]o
impose liability for injuries suffered by an invitee due to [a] defective
condition of the premises, the owner or occupier must have either actual or
constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition or have been able by the
exercise of ordinary care to discover the condition, which if known to him, he
should realize as involving an unreasonable risk to invitees on his premises.”
(Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206 (cleaned up).)
“On the issue of the fact of causation, as on
other issues essential to the cause of action for negligence, the plaintiff, in
general, has the burden of proof. The plaintiff must introduce evidence which
affords a reasonable basis for the conclusion that it is more likely than not
that the conduct of the defendant was a cause in fact of the result. A mere
possibility of such causation is not enough; and when the matter remains one of
pure speculation or conjecture, or the probabilities are at best evenly balanced,
it becomes the duty of the court to direct a verdict for the defendant… In the
context of a business owner’s liability to a customer or invitee, speculation
and conjecture with respect to how long a dangerous condition has existed are
insufficient to satisfy a plaintiff’s burden. (Id., 26 Cal.4th
at 1205-06 (cleaned up).)
         Defendant makes two arguments: (1) Plaintiff
cannot establish a dangerous condition caused her fall and (2) Plaintiff cannot
establish that Vons knew or should have known of a dangerous condition (See Motion.)

Key to Vons’s arguments are Plaintiff’s own sworn
testimony at her deposition that establish UMF No. 5. Specifically, Plaintiff testified that she did not
observe any hazard in the area before or after she fell, despite being very
careful and looking where she was walking because it was starting to drizzle. Plaintiff’s
attempt to create a triable issue of fact by way of Paragraph 5 of her declaration
by essentially trying to blame her slip and fall on the “layers of paint on the
ramp where [she] fell” for the first time runs afoul of D’Amico v. Board of Med. Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21. D’Amico holds that
“when discovery has produced an admission or concession on the part of the
party opposing summary judgment which demonstrates that there is no factual
issue to be tried,” it is appropriate for the trial court to conclude there is
no substantial evidence of a triable issue of fact despite the offer by the
party opposing summary judgment of an affidavit contradicting that admission. (Id.)
The same principle applies to Plaintiff’s attempt to create a triable issue of
fact by declaring for the first time the painted yellow area she slipped on felt
as slippery as glass when, in her deposition, she testified the ground was “barely”
wet and “more dry than wet” and that “[i]t just started to drizzle.” (UMF No.
5.) Therefore, the Court will not consider it.
The Court finds Defendant has submitted
sufficient evidence to meet its initial burden of proof on summary judgment as
to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for general negligence that a dangerous
condition did not exist. 
The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to
demonstrate a triable issue of material fact on this point. The Court finds
Plaintiff has not done so because Plaintiff
offered no admissible evidence to support her allegation she
slipped on a foreign substance. As Vons notes in its Reply, Plaintiff primarily
relies on the expert testimony of Brad Avrit. However, the Court concludes that
whatever admissible testimony his declaration offers is too speculative to
create a triable issue of fact, especially when Plaintiff’s theory of the case
apparently pivots for the first time in her Opposition from slipping on a foreign
substance to a design defect in the ramped area she fell. Most of what Mr.
Avrit’s offered is irrelevant and therefore not material to the Court’s
analysis. Glaringly absent from Mr. Avrit’s analysis is any causal connection
between Plaintiff’s fall and the alleged dangerous condition. Plaintiff “cannot
manufacture a triable issue of fact through the use of an expert opinion with self-serving
conclusions devoid of any basis, explanation, or reasoning… The evidence must
be of sufficient quality to allow the trier of fact to find the underlying fact
in favor of the party opposing the motion for summary judgment… The plaintiff
does not meet his burden of demonstrating a triable issue where his evidence
merely provides a dwindling stream of probability that narrow into conjecture.”
(Nardizzi v. Harbor Chrysler Plymouth Sales, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th
1409, 1415 (cleaned up).)
As to
Plaintiff’s second cause of action, if there is no evidence a foreign substance
was on the ground where she fell, it follows logically that Vons could not have
been aware of a condition that did not exist.
         Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Vons’s
Motion.
V.           
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS Vons’s Motion for Summary Judgment. Counsel for Vons shall submit a Proposed Judgment
forthwith. 
         IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:     December 17, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


