 Case Number:  22STCV37953    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  37 HEARING
DATE:                 Wednesday, November
15, 2023
 
CASE
NUMBER:                   22STCV37953
 
CASE NAME:                        Jacob Shaw v. Honda Performance Development, Inc., et al
 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set

                                                                                                                                                

 
PROCEEDING:                    Demurrer with Motion to Strike 
 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants Experis US, Inc.; Experis US, LLC and Manpower
Group US, Inc.
 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Jacob Shaw
 
OPPOSITION:                        31 October 2023
REPLY:                                  13
November 2023
 
TENTATIVE:                         Manpower Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s
eighth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. Manpower
Defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages from the TAC is granted with
leave to amend. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
PROCEEDING:                    Demurrer with Motion to Strike 
 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Honda Racing Corporation USA, erroneously named
Honda Performance Development, Inc. 
 
OPPOSING PARTY: Plaintiff Jacob Shaw
 
OPPOSITION:                        1 November 2023
REPLY:                                  7
November 2023
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant Honda’s demurrer to the first to
seventh and fifteenth causes of action is sustained with leave to amend. The
demurrer to the ninth and fourteenth causes of action is sustained without
leave to amend. Defendant Honda’s motion to strike is granted with leave to
amend.

                                                                        

Background
 
On December 5, 2022, Jacob Shaw (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Honda Performance Development, Inc.; Experis US, Inc.;
Experis US, LLC; Manpower Group US, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”) and Does 1 to
50.  
 
On May 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint.  
 
On July 7, 2023, the parties stipulated to allow Plaintiff
to file the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging fourteen causes of action:
(1) disability discrimination, (2) failure to engage in the interactive process,
(3) failure to accommodate disability, (4) retaliation in violation of Gov.
Code § 12940(m)(2), (5) violation of the California Family Rights Act, (6)
failure to prevent discrimination and harassment, (7) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; (8) failure to pay overtime wages; (9) failure to
provide meal periods, (10) failure to authorize and permit rest periods, (11)
failure to pay all wages due upon separation, (12) failure to furnish accurate
itemized wage statements, (13) failure to maintain required records, and (14)
unfair and unlawful business practices.  
 
On October 4,
2023, the court granted Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to file a Third Amended
Complaint (“TAC”). The TAC alleges fifteen causes of action for: (1) disability discrimination,
(2) failure to engage in the interactive process, (3) failure to accommodate
disability, (4) retaliation in violation of Gov. Code § 12940(m)(2), (5)
violation of the California Family Rights Act, (6) failure to prevent discrimination
and harassment, (7) violation of Labor Code section 233 and 234, (8)
wrongful termination in violation of public policy; (9) failure to pay overtime
wages; (10) failure to provide meal periods, (11) failure to authorize and
permit rest periods, (12) failure to pay all wages due upon separation, (13)
failure to furnish accurate itemized wage statements, (14) failure to maintain
required records, and (15) unfair and unlawful business practices.  
 
On October 19,
2023, Defendants Experis US LLC and Manpower Group US, Inc. (collectively
“Manpower”) filed a demurrer with a motion to strike Plaintiff’s TAC. Plaintiff
filed opposing papers on October 31, 2023. Defendant filed a reply on November 6,
2023, as to its demurrer and a reply as to the motion to strike on November 13,
2023. 
 
On October 23,
2023, Defendant Honda Racing Corporation USA (“Honda) filed a demurrer to with
a motion to strike Plaintiff’s TAC. Plaintiff filed opposing papers on November
01, 2023. Defendant Honda filed a reply on November 07, 2023. 
 
MANPOWER’S DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE[1]
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP, § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist.
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695,
713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading
which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Demurrer to Eight Cause of Action
 
“The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in
violation of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the
employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was
substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge
caused the plaintiff harm.” (Yau v. Allen (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144,
154.) 
 
The Manpower Defendants demurrer to Plaintiff’s
eighth cause of action on the ground that Manpower’s refusal to renew
Plaintiff’s contract cannot form the basis for a wrongful termination claim.
“Decisional law does not allow a plaintiff to sue for wrongful termination in
violation of public policy based upon an employer's refusal to renew an
employment contract.” (Touchstone Television Productions v. Superior
Court (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 676, 680 (Touchstone) 
Plaintiff asserts the eighth cause of action remain
valid because it is not premised on Manpower’s refusal to renew an employment
contract, like the plaintiff in Touchstone, but Manpower’s refusal to
contact Plaintiff with respect to other employment opportunities, thereby
terminating and/or constructively terminating his employment. (TAC ¶ 32.) 
The Manpower Defendants assert that even if Manpower
refused to hire Plaintiff for a new position after his contract ended,
Plaintiff’s employment with Manpower had already end such that Plaintiff was
not wrongfully terminated by the mere fact that Manpower did not present him
with another offer of employment. The court agrees. Furthermore, the TAC fails
to allege that Plaintiff’s working conditions were so intolerable or aggravated
that Plaintiff was constructively discharged. (See Turner
v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238, 125.) 
Therefore, Manpower’s
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
III.      Motion to Strike
 
The Manpower Defendants’
move to strike the prayer for punitive damages in the TAC on the basis that
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages is insufficiently pled. Specifically,
Defendants allege that the TAC fails to allege which individual ratified or authorized
the decision to not renew Plaintiff’s contract and whether that individual was
an officer, director, or managing agent of Manpower. 
To state a claim for punitive damages under Civ. Code §
3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant has
been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)¿ The basis for punitive damages must be
pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions
are insufficient. (Id.)¿¿When the defendant is a¿corporation, “the oppression, fraud,
or malice must be perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer,
director, or managing agent of the¿corporation.” (Wilson v. Southern
California Edison Company (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164; see Civ. Code §
3294(b).)¿ 
 
“Malice” is defined in Civ. Code § 3294 (c)(1) as “conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct
which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct
subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).) The term “despicable” has been
defined in the case law as actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.”
(Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc.
(2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 891.) Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)
(3).) 
 
Plaintiff asserts
that Manpower’s lasts production can provide evidence to bolster Plaintiff’s
claim for discrimination but that the documents produced designated documents
as confidential and redacted the last name of employes on all responsive
emails. (Opp. at p. 1:25-2:4.) Therefore, Plaintiff asserts it can set fourth
additional facts once Plaintiff has time to resolve the confidential
designations. The court notes that at the pleading stage, Plaintiff is not
required to prove his claims for punitive damages, only allege sufficient facts
to support a claim for punitive damages. 
 
The court read
Paragraphs 45, 55, 65, 75, 87, 95, and 109 and agrees with the
Manpower Defendants that the allegations are conclusory and devoid of specific
facts to show that Plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages. 
Therefore, the Manpower
Defendants’ motion to strike is granted with leave to amend. 
 
HONDA RACING’S DEMURRER AND
MOTION TO STRIKE[2]
 
I.         Demurrer
 
Defendant Honda Racing Corporation
USA (“Honda”) demurrers to all the causes of action alleged against it in the
TAC on the basis that they are improperly pled. 
 
A.        Demurrer to
1st through 6th Causes of Action 
 
Defendant
Honda demurrer to the first through sixth causes of action for (1) disability
discrimination, (2) failure to engage in the interactive process, (3) failure
to accommodate disability, (4) retaliation in violation of Gov. Code §
12940(m)(2), (5) violation of the California Family Rights Act, and (6) failure
to prevent discrimination and harassment on the basis that Plaintiff failed to
timely exhaust his administrative remedies and Plaintiff did not allege a
“physical disability” under the FEHA. 
 
                        i.          Failure to Exhaust Administrative
Remedies 
 
Under the Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), exhaustion of administrative remedies is a
jurisdictional prerequisite to resort to the courts; failure to do so is ground
for dismissal. (Ellis
v. U.S. Security Associates (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1229.) Here, Defendant Honda asserts that Plaintiff
failed to include a copy of the DFEH administrative Complaint and DFEH’s
right-to-sue letter in the TAC showing that Plaintiff exhausted his
administrative remedies prior to filing this action. (Gov. Code, § 12960(b).)
Paragraph 13 of the TAC states:  
 
Plaintiff filed a timely Complaint of Discrimination with
the California Civil Rights Division and obtained his “right-to-sue” letter.
Plaintiff has exhausted his administrative remedies.
 
Defendant Honda asserts that it has the
right to know the details of Plaintiff’s administrative complaint because “[t]he scope of the written administrative
charge defines the permissible scope of the subsequent civil action.” (Rodriguez v. Airborne Express (9th Cir. 2001) 265 F.3d
890, 897.) Here, Plaintiff failed to state when and what charges were filed
with FEHA so that Defendant Honda can determine if the Plaintiff did in fact
exhaust his administrative remedies and if the charges in his administrative
FEHA Complaint are in fact encompassed in the claims alleged in this action.
(See Yurick v. Superior Court (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1116,
1123 [dismissal of claims appropriate where the administrative charge did not
include an allegation of age harassment despite the claim being alleged in the
Complaint.].)
 
Therefore,
Defendant Honda has sufficiently laid the ground for demurrer on the first
through sixth causes of action on the basis that Plaintiff failed to exhaust
his administrative remedies. 
 
                        ii.         Failure to Allege a Physical Disability
Under FEHA
 
Defendant
Honda asserts that Plaintiff’s alleged disability, gastroesophageal reflux
disease, is a minor and non-chronic gastrointestinal disorder that does not
qualify as a disability for purposes of FEHA. (See TAC ¶ 23.) Defendant Honda
asserts that conditions listed in California Code of Regulations section
11065(d)(9)(B), are considered “mild conditions” that do not sufficiently limit
a major life activity and are excluded from the definition of “physical
disability” under the FEHA including “non-chronic gastrointestinal disorders”
and other conditions “with little or no residual effects.” (2 Cal.  Code Regs § 11065(d)(9)(B).)
 
Therefore,
for the Plaintiff’s gastroesophageal reflux disease to be considered a
disability, Plaintiff must allege facts that it was a chronic condition that
impacted major life activities to qualify as a disability. 
 
Similarly,
for the sixth cause of action, for violation of the California Family Rights
Act, Plaintiff is required to allege that he had a “serious health condition.”
(Gov. Code, § 12945.2(b)(5)(C). “CFRA's regulations
provide that, for an employee to be entitled to a medical leave for her own
serious health condition, the condition must cause her to be unable to work at
all or unable to perform one or more of the essential functions of her
position.” (Neisendorf v. Levi Strauss & Co. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 509, 516–517.) The TAC fails to
allege that Plaintiff had a serious health condition the prevented him from
performing one or more of the essential functions of his job. 
 
Based
on the above, the demurrer to the first through sixth causes of action is
sustained with leave to amend. The court declines to discuss Defendant Honda’s
other basis for demurring to the first through sixth causes of action. 
B.        7th Cause of
Action – Violation of Labor Code §§ 233 and 234
 
Labor
Code § 233 provides in relevant part as follows: 
 
(a) Any employer who provides
sick leave for employees shall permit an employee to use in any calendar year
the employee’s accrued and available sick leave entitlement, in an amount not
less than the sick leave that would be accrued during six months at the
employee’s then current rate of entitlement for the reasons specified in
subdivision (a) of Section 246.5. . . .
 
(c) An employer shall not deny
an employee the right to use sick leave or discharge, threaten to discharge,
demote, suspend, or in any manner discriminate against an employee for using,
or attempting to exercise the right to use, sick leave [for diagnosis, care, or
treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventive care for an
employee....] 
 
(d) Any employee aggrieved by a
violation of this section shall be entitled to reinstatement and actual damages
or one day’s pay, whichever is greater, and to appropriate equitable relief.
 
Labor
Code § 234 states: 
 
An employer absence control policy that counts sick leave
taken pursuant to Section 233 as an absence that may lead to or result in
discipline, discharge, demotion, or suspension is a per se violation of Section
233. An employee working under this policy is entitled to appropriate legal and
equitable relief pursuant to Section 233.
 
Defendants
Honda assert that under Labor Code §§ 233 and 234, employers that provide
"sick leave" to their employees must allow each employee to use, in
any calendar year, the amount of sick leave the employee would accrue during
six months of employment to care for an ill family member, with no negative
employment-related repercussions.
 
Honda
asserts that because section 233 does not require employers to provide sick
leave, the Plaintiff is required to explicitly allege that Honda maintained a
sick leave policy, what the policy stated, and that Honda violated said policy.

 
The
court agrees that Plaintiff is not required to state with specificity what
Handa’s sick leave policy stated, only that Honda had such a policy and
violated that policy. 
 
The
TAC states: 
 
Defendants violated Labor Code
Sections 233 and 234 by discriminating against Plaintiff, including but not
limited to by ending Plaintiff’s employment, refusing to renew Plaintiff’s
contract and refusing to place Plaintiff in another position, because Plaintiff
attempted to exercise the right to use and/or used his sick leave.
(TAC
¶ 104.) Because the TAC fails to allege that Honda had a sick leave policy and
that it violated that policy by refusing Plaintiff’s the right to use said
policy, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action is sustained with leave to
amend. 
 
C.        9th through
14th Causes of Action 
 
Defendant
Honda asserts that 9th through 14th causes of action are barred because they
are premised on violations of the Industrial Welfare Commission (“IWC”) Wage
Orders that do not provide a private right of action. “The
IWC has not created, and has no power to create, a private right of action for
violation of a wage order, and we are aware of no statute that creates a
private right of action for a violation of an IWC wage order when the violation
at issue is not also a violation of the Labor Code.” (Thurman v. Bayshore Transit Management, Inc. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1132 [noting that a PAGA
action “authorizes recovery of civil penalties only for violations of the Labor
Code. (§ 2699, subd. (a).) Although PAGA actions can serve to indirectly enforce certain wage order provisions by
enforcing statutes that require compliance with wage orders [],
the PAGA does not create any private right of action to directly enforce a wage order.”] [italics original].) Moreover, to bring a PAGA action, the
Plaintiff must state that he provided notice to the Labor and Workforce
Development Agency (LWDA) before bringing a PAGA claim. 


Other
than Labor Code § 2699.3 which applies to a PAGA action, Plaintiff fails to
point to a specific provision in the Labor Code or any other California statute
that allows Plaintiff to bring a private right of action for violation of the
IWC’s wage orders. Furthermore, the court agrees that because Plaintiff has
alleged that he is a mechanical engineer (TAC ¶¶ 14, 17.) Therefore, Plaintiff
cannot allege he was a non-exempt worker as a matter of law. (Cal. Code Regs.
Tit. 8, § 11040(1)(A)(3)(a); Wage Order 4-2001(A)(3)(a).) Plaintiff
fails to cite case law to show that an engineer can be considered a nonexempt
employee despite the existence of statutes stating otherwise. 
 
Therefore,
the demurrer to the ninth through fourteenth causes of action is sustained
without leave to amend as Plaintiff has failed to show that the above
deficiencies are capable of amendment. As there is no private right of action to
enforce IWC’s wage orders, the court declines to consider Defendants’ other
arguments in its demurrer to the ninth through fourteenth causes of action. 
 
D.        15th
Cause of Action: Unfair and Unlawful Business Practices 
 
Business and Professions
Code § 17200 (“UCL”) prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act
or practice.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200; see Clark v.
Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.) To plead this statutory
claim, the pleadings must state with reasonable particularity the facts
supporting the statutory elements of the violation. (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.) In
a private unfair competition law action, the remedies are “‘generally limited
to injunctive relief and restitution.’” (Kasky v. Nike,
Inc. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 939, 950, 119; see Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 17203.)
 
Plaintiff
asserts that Defendants failure to comply with wage and hours laws constituted
an unfair and unlawful business practice. (TAC ¶ 149.) Accordingly, Plaintiff
seeks “preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, including but
not limited to orders that Defendants account for, disgorge, and restore to
Plaintiff the wages and other compensation unlawfully withheld from them.
Plaintiff is entitled to restitution of all monies to be disgorged from
Defendants in an amount according to proof at the time of trial, but in excess
of the jurisdiction of this Court.” (TAC ¶ 153.)
 
Plaintiff’s
UCL claim does not just hinge on Defendants failure to pay overtime wages,
which he is not entitled to as a professional and exempt employee, but also on
Defendants’ failure to provide meal periods, permit rest breaks, and pay all
wages upon discharged. (TAC ¶ 149.) 
 
For
example, in Pineda v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2010) 50 Cal.4th 1389, the California Supreme Court found
that the failure to pay wages upon discharge does not entitle the plaintiff to
restitution for purposes of the UCL because the penalties awarded under Labor
Code section 203 are not wages. (Id. at p. 1401.) This contrasts with
the Court’s holding in Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products Co.
(2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, wherein the California Supreme Court found that a “the plaintiff could
seek restitution of unpaid overtime wages via the UCL.” (Pineda,
at p. 1401.) This is because “wages that are due and payable pursuant to
section 200 et seq. of the Labor Code are as much the property of the employee who has given his or
her labor to the employer in exchange for that property as is property a
person surrenders through an unfair business practice.” (Id. at p.
1401.)
 
For
example, Plaintiff’s claim that he is entitled to restitution due to
Defendants’ failure to provide meal periods violation of Labor Code § 226.7 is
premised on Defendants failure to pay wages because the employer was required
to “pay
the employee one additional hour of pay at the employee’s regular rate of
compensation for each workday that the meal or rest or recovery period is not
provided.” (Lab. Code, § 226.7(c).) However, Plaintiff fails to state how the specific
Labor Code violations alleged in the TAC entitle Plaintiff to wages that were
earned such that Plaintiff would be entitled to restitution for those unpaid
wages. Accordingly, Plaintiff has failed to state with reasonable particularity
the Labor Code violations that entitle Plaintiff to restitution for wages
earned but not paid. (Khoury, supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at p. 619.)
Without a showing that Plaintiff is entitled to restitution for lost wages,
Plaintiff’s UCL cause of action fails. 
 
Therefore,
the demurrer to the fifteenth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.

 
III.      Motion to Strike
 
Defendant
Honda moves to strike the Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.
Specifically: 
1)    
Page
26, Prayer for Relief, Paragraph 5: “For punitive … damages where available by
law;”
2)    
Pages
8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 20, Paragraphs ¶¶ 45, 55, 65, 75, 87, 95, 109, 119,
respectively: “Moreover, the malicious, fraudulent and/or oppressive conduct
was engaged in, authorized or ratified by officers, directors or managing
agents of the corporation and/or was the result of the application of unlawful,
malicious or oppressive policies and procedures. As a consequence of the
aforesaid oppressive, malicious, and despicable conduct, Plaintiff is entitled
to an award of punitive damages in a sum to be shown according to proof
pursuant to Government Code §§ 12965 & 12970.”
 
As
explained above in the Manpower Defendants’ motion to strike, the court agrees
that Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages is insufficiently pled. Moreover,
the court has granted Defendant Honda’s demurrer. Therefore, Defendant Honda’s
motion to strike is granted with leave to amend. 
Conclusion
 
Manpower Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
Manpower Defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages from the TAC is granted
with leave to amend.
 
Defendant Honda’s demurrer to the
first to seventh and fifteenth causes of action is sustained with leave to
amend. The demurrer to the ninth and fourteenth causes of action is sustained
without leave to amend. Defendant Honda’s motion to strike is granted with
leave to amend. 
 
Plaintiff is granted 30 days leave
to amend.
 
Defendants to give notice.


