 Case Number:  24STCP01903    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DAVID A. POUGATSCH, D.P.M., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SOM KOHANZADEH, M.D.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCP01903
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR RELIEF
  FROM WAIVER OF OBJECTIONS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 14, 2025



 
On
June 27, 2024, Defendant Som Kohanzadeh, M.D. propounded discovery on Plaintiff
David A. Pougatsch, D.P.M., consisting of 104 special interrogatories and 96 document
demands.  (Levin Decl. ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff’s then-counsel requested and received
several extensions of time to respond due to the July 2024 CloudStrike incident,
counsel’s illness, and counsel’s injuries from an accident.  (Levin Decl. ¶¶ 4-8 & Exs. C-F; see Friedland
Decl. ¶¶ 2-9 & Exs. A-G.)  Plaintiff did
not serve responses by the September 12, 2024 extended deadline.
On
October 9, 2024, Plaintiff substituted counsel. 
On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff’s current counsel served verified responses
to all of the outstanding discovery.  (Lapidus
Decl. ¶ 3 & Exs. B-C.)
On
December 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for relief from waiver of objections
to discovery.
DISCUSSION
A
party who fails to timely respond to discovery waives any objections, including
those based on privilege.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290 [interrogatories], 2031.300, subd. (a) [production of documents].)  The Court may grant relief from waiver if (1)
the responding party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance;
and (2) the failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence,
or excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 [interrogatories], 2031.300, subd. (a) [production of documents].)
A.        Plaintiff’s Responses are Substantially
Compliant.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s responses to discovery are not substantially compliant.  (Opposition at pp. 6-12.)  According to Defendant, the responses “are characterized
by vagueness, evasiveness, and incompleteness,” contain “a list of ‘General Objections
and Preliminary Statements,’” and set forth objections to the requests.  (Id. at pp. 7-8, 11.)
The
assertion of waived objections does not necessarily prevent “substantial compliance.”  (Katayama v. Continental Investment Group
(2024) 105 Cal.App.5th 898, 909.)  “Compliance
analysis should prioritize the nature of the substantive answers in the proposed
response.”  (Id. at p. 910.)  “A tolerant construction of the phrase [“substantial
compliance”] also comports with the . . . statutory scheme for graduated enforcement
[citation], as well as our prioritization of substance over form (Civ. Code, § 3528)
and California’s public policy interest in allowing parties to litigate the merits
of their claims [citation].”  (Id.
at p. 909.)
Plaintiff’s
responses, though prefaced with objections, are substantially compliant.  For example, Plaintiff responded to Requests for
Production with, “Subject to and without waiving these specific objections and the
General Objections, Plaintiff responds as follows: Plaintiff produces concurrently
herewith all responsive, non-privileged documents in his possession, custody or
control.  Other responsive documents may exist
in the possession, custody or control of Defendant.  Discovery and Plaintiff’s investigation are ongoing.”  Plaintiff also provided responses to the interrogatories
after his objections.  These are substantially
compliant responses.  If Defendant took issue
with the “vagueness, evasiveness, and incompleteness” of the responses, it could
have filed a motion to compel further responses.
B.        Plaintiff Has Shown Mistake, Inadvertence,
or Excusable Neglect.
Defendant
argues that, “[w]hile Defendant was accommodating to the numerous excuses Plaintiff’s
counsel presented as reasons for the delays, this Court should not extend the same
level of leniency.  There is a limit to professional
courtesy; ultimately, excuses can become untenable.”  (Opposition at pp. 12-13.)
Plaintiff’s
former counsel continuously communicated with Defendant’s counsel about extensions
of time to respond.  (Levin Decl. ¶¶ 4-6 &
Exs. C-E.)  On August 30, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel was injured and suffered multiple injuries, including hitting her head,
neck, chest, back, hip, knee, and foot.  (Levin
Decl. ¶ 7.)  She eventually was taken to a
hospital emergency room by ambulance on September 5, 2024.  (Levin Decl. ¶ 7.)  That same day, she emailed Defendant’s counsel
to explain the accident and request another extension of time.  (Levin Decl. ¶ 8.)  Defendant’s counsel granted the extension to September
12, 2024.  (Levin Decl. ¶ 8 & Ex. F.)  Plaintiff’s counsel likely sustained a concussion,
and she “consider[s] the accident and the resulting lingering concussive state to
be the cause of [her] failure to properly calendar and/or request another extension
in which to respond to the discovery prior to the due date of September 12, 2024,
and that [her] failure to properly calendar and/or to request another extension
in which to respond to the discovery prior to the due date was due to [her] own
mistake, inadvertence, and/or excusable neglect as a result of the accident and
the resulting concussive state.”  (Levin Decl.
¶ 10.)  Plaintiff’s current counsel substituted
in on October 9, 2024, less than four weeks after the deadline.  (Lapidus Decl. ¶ 2.)  Counsel then served responses with over 600 pages
of documents on October 31, 2024.  (Lapidus
Decl. ¶ 3.)
The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s failure to provide responses by the agreed-upon deadline
of September 12, 2024 was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect,
and thereafter Plaintiff’s new counsel acted diligently in serving responses.
CONCLUSION
The
motion for relief from waiver of objections is GRANTED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 14th day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 