  Case Number:  23CHCV00081    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F-43
Date:
6-4-24
Case
# 23CHCV00081, Urquidez v. Ford Motor Company et al.
Trial
Date: None set
 
JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
MOVING
PARTY:                Defendant Ford Motor
Company
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Rolando Urquidez
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
RULING: The motion is
denied.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Rolando Urquidez filed this lemon law action against defendants Ford Motor
Company and Galpin Motors, Inc. on January 11, 2023. He filed his operative
first amended complaint (FAC) on June 20, 2023. As relevant here, his FAC contains
causes of action for:
 
            7.         Violation
of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA), and
            8.         Violation
of the Magnusson-Moss Warranty Act (MMWA).
 
Defendant
Ford Motor Company (Defendant) now moves for judgment on the pleadings as to
each of these causes of action.
 
Defendant
contends, first, as to the seventh cause of action, that the CLRA does not
apply to the manufacturer of a car and its eventual purchaser, or if it does,
that Plaintiff has not stated a claim because he has not alleged Defendant
affirmatively misrepresented the quality of the subject vehicle. Second, as to
the eighth cause of action, Defendant argues Plaintiff failed to plead a
necessary element of the MMWA: that he engaged with an informal dispute
resolution mechanism before suing.
 
Plaintiff
argues (1) contractual privity with Defendant is not required for a CLRA claim;
(2) a CLRA claim can be based on concealment of material facts rather than
affirmative misrepresentation; and (3) the FAC sufficiently pleads MMWA compliance,
or at least its futility.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed.” (Burnett
v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1064.) “A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of the complaint as a matter of law; as such, it raises only a
question of law.” (Osornio v. Weingarten (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 304,
316.) No matter how unlikely or improbable, the complainant’s allegations must
be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb
Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.) However,
the Court does not need to assume the truth of “contentions, deductions or
conclusions of law.” (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th
962, 967.) If there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state
a good cause of action, it is error to sustain an attack to a pleading without
leave to amend. (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d
240, 245).   
 
As to Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action: the CLRA prohibits certain “unfair
or deceptive acts or practices” in the sale of consumer goods, including
misrepresentations regarding the quality of the goods.  (See Civ. Code, §
1770, subd. (a).)  Both affirmative misrepresentations and the failure to
disclose material facts by a party with a duty to disclose a safety concern are
actionable under the CLRA.  (Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores California
(2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1258 (Gutierrez).)   
 
Defendant
contends a CLRA action can only be maintained against a defendant who “entered
into a consumer transaction” with the plaintiff. (MPA, 3:27-28.) Not so.
Practices described in Civil Code section 1770 are unlawful when “undertaken by
any person in a transaction intended to result or that results in the
sale or lease of goods or services to any consumer”. (Civ. Code, § 1770(a),
emphasis added.) A consumer injured by a practice proscribed in section 1770(a)
may bring an action against the offender. (Id., § 1780(a).)
 
As
alleged, even if Defendant did not enter into a transaction with Plaintiff,
Defendant at least entered in a transaction with a dealership that was intended
to result in the sale or lease of the subject vehicle to Plaintiff. (See Daugherty
v. American Honda Motor Co. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824, 834 (Daugherty)
[dismissing CLRA cause of action against manufacturer on substantive grounds,
while assuming statutory definition satisfied].)
 
Defendant
also argues Plaintiff has not stated a claim because he alleges no “affirmative
misrepresentation” by Defendant. But Plaintiff does not need to. “[D]eceptive
practices proscribed in the CLRA include the concealment or suppression of
material facts. [Citation.] This is because fraud or deceit encompasses the
suppression of a fact by one who is bound to disclose it, or the suppression of
a fact that is contrary to a representation that was made. [Citation.]” (Collins
v. eMachines, Inc. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 249, 255, emphasis added.)
 
“A
failure to disclose a fact can constitute actionable fraud or deceit in four
circumstances: (1) when the defendant is the plaintiff's fiduciary; (2) when
the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material facts not known or reasonably
accessible to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations that are misleading because some other material fact has not
been disclosed.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff’s
allegations, accepted as true, demonstrate Defendant had exclusive knowledge of
material information about the defective transmission that were not reasonably
available to Plaintiff. This states a claim under the CLRA.
 
Defendant’s
motion is denied as to the seventh cause of action.
 
As
to Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action: “The [MMWA], 15 U.S.C. sections 2301 et
seq., authorizes a civil suit by a consumer to enforce the terms of an implied
or express warranty. [The MMWA] ‘calls for the application of state written and
implied warranty law, not the creation of additional federal law,’ except in
specific instances in which it expressly prescribes a regulating rule.
[Citation.]” (Daugherty, supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at pp. 832-833.) The MMWA requires a plaintiff to engage in an informal dispute
resolution procedure maintained by a manufacturer as a precondition to bringing
suit. (See 15 U.S.C. § 2310(a)(3)(C).) Defendant argues Plaintiff did not
allege it satisfied this requirement. 
 
Plaintiff
points to paragraphs 103 and 104 of his complaint: 
 
“Plaintiff has
... met all of Plaintiff’s obligations and preconditions to bring this claim,
or alternatively it would have been futile for Plaintiff to do so. [¶] In
addition, Plaintiff has met all of Plaintiff’s obligations for bringing this
claim as provided in the written warranties, or alternatively, Defendant does
not maintain an informal dispute resolution process for the purpose of
resolving claims for breach of the implied warranty of merchantability, and
does not maintain an informal dispute resolution process for resolving express
warranty claims ... .”
 
(Compl., ¶¶
103-104.)
 
Plaintiff
argues these are “ultimate facts” that satisfy pleading requirements. The Court
agrees. California’s “fact pleading” rules require a pleading to apprise an
adversary of the factual basis of the plaintiff’s claim, providing information
detailed enough for the adversary to prepare a defense. (See Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 719-721; Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
Plaintiff’s allegations place Defendant on sufficient notice to explore the
truth or falsity of the allegations and mount a defense. He has stated a claim.
 
Defendant’s
motion is denied in its entirety.