  Case Number:  23SMCV00235    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  P Tenatitve Ruling 
Hughes v.
Shekhtman, et al., Case No. 23SMCV00235
Hearing Date:
September 9, 2024 
Plaintiff Hughes’
Motion for Leave to File a Second Amended Complaint 
 
Plaintiff Hughes sued defendant
insurance brokers Shekhtman and YS Insurance for professional negligence,
negligent misrepresentation, and breach of fiduciary duty after fire loss
claims were denied. Hughes seeks leave to file a second
amended complaint, adding two new defendants, General Insurance Company of America
and Safeco Insurance, and additional allegations regarding YS Insurance's
negligent use of a Safeco address analyst tool. No opposition is filed. 
 
Leave to amend is permitted under Code of Civil Procedure sections
473(a) and 576. The policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the
same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to
amend can be justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of
great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . ..
[citation]. A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and
probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also comply with the
procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires
a supporting declaration to set forth what allegations are to be added and
where and what new evidence was discovered warranting the amendment and why the
amendment was not made earlier. The motion must include (1) a copy of the
proposed and numbered amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and
lines the allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration
specifying the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of
discovery and reasons for delay. Rule 3.1324(a), (b).
 
The motion
complies with CRC rule 3.1324. Hughes proposes adding defendants, General
Insurance and Safeco and additional allegations regarding YS Insurance's
negligent use of a Safeco address analyst tool. Guzman Decl. ¶6. Hughes' lawyer
states recent discovery has unearthed factual misrepresentations by Safeco and
YS Insurance, giving rise to the amendment. The motion includes a proposed SAC,
specifying allegations to be added. Defendants do not oppose. Leave is GRANTED.
