 Case Number:  22AHCV00604    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ENCORE AUTOMOTIVE, INC., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ROBERT
   Y. LEE, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00604
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF ENCORE AUTOMOTIVE, INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL ROBERT
   Y. LEE’S RSPONSE TO RQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April 16,
  2024



 
On August 24,
 2022, plaintiff Encore Automotive, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against defendant Robert Y. Lee (“Defendant”). On July 24,
2023, the parties filed a stipulation requesting an order lifting the stay
which had been put into place after the parties were sent to arbitration. The
stipulation further stated, “Whereas, on September 22, 2022, Encore served form
interrogatories and requests for production on [Defendant]. In response to this
stipulation, the Court entered an order lifting the stay of this action and as
a result, Defendant’s deadline to respond to the outstanding discovery was
August 23, 2023. 
On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed this
motion to compel Defendant’s responses to requests for production, set one
(“First Set of Requests for Production”). In opposition, Defendant argues that
the discovery requests were not properly served. This assertion is contradicted
by the language within the parties’ stipulation, which admits that Plaintiff
served the First Set of Requests for Production on Defendant and sets forth a
deadline for his responses – effectively, August 23, 2023. Defendant also
argues that this motion is “moot” because he will serve responses and produce
responsive documents by April 22, 2024. The Court disagrees that the prospect
of compliance is sufficient to moot this motion. Where a party fails to serve
timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) Here, it is undisputed that no
responses have been served. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED and
Defendant is ordered to serve verified responses without objections to
Defendants First Set of Requests for Production within 15 days of the date of
this Order.   
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 16th
day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 