  Case Number:  19STCV39777    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ROCIO MACIAS, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GERONIMO
   RODRIGUEZ, M.D., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV39777
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES FROM PLAINTIFF TO
   DEFENDANT’S FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April 16,
  2024




 


 


 



 
          On June 26,
2023, defendant Geronimo Rodriguez, M.D. (“Defendant”) filed this motion for an
order compelling Plaintiff Rocio Macias (“Plaintiff”) to provide further
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One within 10 days. 
          Although the
motion is titled as one which seeks to compel a “further response”, the
evidence attached to Defendant’s motion (and Plaintiff does not dispute) that
no responses were served at all and that Plaintiff has waived her objections. 
          Where a party
fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an
order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) A party that fails
to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones
based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) 
          Plaintiff
states in an opposition brief filed on April 3, 2024, that she will provide
“meaningful and verified further responses” prior to the hearing making this
motion unnecessary. However, Plaintiff does not dispute that she did not timely
serve responses or objections and the Court is not inclined to declare
Defendant’s motion moot without evidence that any responses have actually been
served. 
          Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED and Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified
responses, without objections, to Form Interrogatories, Set One within 10 days
of the date of this Order. 
          
Dated
this 16th
day of April, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 