 Case Number:  BC695119    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YUKA TAMURA,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ESTELLE
   CAMPBELL, et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: BC695119
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS AND CROSS-COMPLAINANTS ESTELLE CAMPBELL AND
   STUDIOS AT WALNUT, LLC’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April
   16, 2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
On February
26, 2018, plaintiff Yuka Tamura (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
defendants Estelle Campbell (“Campbell”) and Studios at Walnut, LLC (“LLC”)
(collectively, “Defendants”). On January 18, 2019, Plaintiff filed the
operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) asserting causes of action for: (1)
breach of implied warranty of habitability, (2) nuisance, (3) breach of
contract, (4) negligence, (5) fraud/concealment, (6) negligent
misrepresentation, (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”),
(8) bad faith retention of security deposit, and (9) constructive eviction. 
On April 26,
2019, the Honorable Curtis A. Kin sustained Defendants’ demurrer as to the
eighth cause of action for bad faith retention of security deposit.
On January
30, 2024, Defendants filed this motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s
third cause of action for breach of contract, fifth cause of action for
fraud/concealment, seventh cause of action for IIED, and Plaintiff’s claim for
punitive damages. The motion is based on the following: 
-      Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for breach of contract action
fails because: (1) she is not a party to the lease, which was a commercial
lease (“Lease”) entered into between Defendants and ModSage, Inc. (“ModSage”)
for Studio 4; Studio 4 is one of several units located on the property at 2888
E. Walnut Street in Pasadena, California (the “Property); (2) even if she were
a third-party beneficiary of the Lease, she cannot prosecute an action on
behalf of ModSage because it is a suspended corporation; (3) Plaintiff was
residing in Studio 4 in violation of the Lease, the Work/Live Ordinance, and
the Conditional Use Permit for the property; and (4) Plaintiff was in material
breach of the Lease because her maintenance of Studio 4 was a fire hazard and
contributed to the rodent problems. (Notice, Issues 1 through 4.) 
-      Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the Fifth Cause of Action for
fraud/concealment on the ground that Defendants made no misrepresentations and
did not have either actual or constructive knowledge of the alleged water
leaks/mold or rodent infestation at the time of the leasing. 
-      Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the Seventh cause of Action for IIED on the
ground that Campbell’s conduct was not intentional and was not so outrageous or
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community to impose liability on her or vicarious liability on LLC. 
-      Defendants
move for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages on the
grounds that Plaintiff cannot establish by clear and convincing evidence that
Campbell’s conduct was done with intent to cause injury or that it was
despicable and done with a willful and knowing disregard of the rights or
safety of another.  
Plaintiff
filed opposition papers on April 2, 2024. 
Defendants
filed reply papers on April 10, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary adjudication
shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Id., subd. (f)(2).)  
A defendant moving for summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).) To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be
established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.” (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) A moving defendant need
not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action, but it is
insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence. (Id.
at p. 854; Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken. (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
III.       
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendants’ request the Court to take
judicial notice of the TAC, the stipulated judgment in the UD Action, City of
Pasadena Code section 17.50.370 (the “Work/Live Units Ordinance”), and ModSage’s
certificate of status on file with the California Secretary of State. The
request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code sections 452(b)-(d). 
IV.       
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
The Court rules on Defendants’
evidentiary objections to evidence material to the disposition of this motion
as follows:
Objection
Nos. 1, 4: Sustained, legal conclusion. 
Objection
Nos. 2, 4, 5, 6: Sustained in part as to Campbell’s awareness and the
admissibility of the text messages, overruled as to the fact of Campbell’s
correspondence with Plaintiff and her husband and Campbell’s acceptance of
rent. 
Objection
No. 7: Sustained as speculative with regard to Campbell’s knowledge, sustained
as legal conclusion with respect “taking over the rights and responsibilities
under the Lease”; overruled as to Campbell’s collection of rent. 
Objection
No. 15: Sustained, hearsay. 
Objection
No. 17: Sustained as Plaintiff’s speculations about Defendants’ subjective
beliefs. 
Objection
No. 20: Sustained, lacks foundation, speculative, legal conclusion. 
Objection
Nos. 21-22: Sustained in part as to Defendants’ intentions. 
Objection
Nos. 23-30: Sustained in part as to legal conclusions about Defendant’s
intentions, overruled insofar as Defendant’s statements and any inferences
available from them.
Objection
Nos. 33-36: Sustained in part as to Defendant’s motivations, overruled insofar
as the testimony describes Plaintiff’s actions or the conditions at the Studio.

Objection
No. 37: Sustained for lack of foundation/personal knowledge with respect to
“attempted to try to fix the root cause of it.” 
Objection
Nos. 38-41: Overruled. 
V.         
DISCUSSION 
A.  
Third Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
1.  
Allegations
of the TAC
Plaintiff alleges that on June 15,
2007, she, through her former corporation, ModSage entered into the Lease with
the LLC, “which obligated Defendants to allow [Plaintiff] to reside at,
exclusively possess and occupy [Studio 4].” (TAC, ¶ 22.) Plaintiff alleges
Studio 4 was approved by the City of Pasadena as a live-work space allowing up
to 2 residential occupants and given Conditional Use Permit #2024. (TAC, ¶ 23.)
During the first two years of her lease, Plaintiff operated an import-export
business at the Property through ModSage; after the two years, the business
ceased operations and Plaintiff continued to use the Property as her residence
for approximately 11 years. (TAC, ¶¶ 24-25.) Plaintiff alleges that during her
tenancy, there was a rodent infestation, water leaks, and mold growth and that
Defendants breached the Lease by failing to address these issues. (TAC, § 86.)
Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants breached the Lease by retaliating against
her for requesting remediation and repair and filing an unlawful detainer
action. (Ibid.) 
2.  
Issue
Nos. 1 and 2
For Issue No. 1 Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s breach of contract action fails because it is undisputed that she
did not sign the Lease. Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot assert the
breach of contract claim because she does not expressly allege that she is a
third-party beneficiary to the Lease. 
Civil Code §1559 provides: “A contract,
made expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him [or
her] at any time before the parties thereto rescind it.” Defendants cite to Schauer
v. Mandarin Gems of Cal., Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 949, 957, in which
the court of appeal found that a plaintiff had standing as a third-party
beneficiary of a sales contract between her former husband and a jewelry store
to enforce a breach of express warranty claim for an engagement ring. The Schauer
court reversed the trial court’s order sustaining the demurrer and stated that
the plaintiff had standing “under the allegation” that the defendant entered
into a written contract with the plaintiff’s fiancée to purchase the ring “for
the sole and stated purpose of giving it [to] her.” (Schauer, 125
Cal.App.4th at p. 957.) The Schauer court emphasized that the defendant
jeweler must have understood the fiancée’s intent to enter into the sales
contract for the plaintiff’s benefit because the alleged stated purpose of the purchase
was to give the ring to the plaintiff. (Id. at p. 958.) 
Schauer also cited to California Emergency
Physicians Medical Group v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th
1127, 1138, in which the court of appeal found that a trial court properly
sustained a demurrer after noting that the plaintiff, a medical group that
provided emergency medical services, was not a third-party beneficiary of the
health insurance policies issued by the defendant health care service plan to
its enrollees. The court stated that the policies did not show an intention to
benefit noncontracting providers such as plaintiff, who are not mentioned in
the contract. (Ibid.) 
Here, the Lease states that it is
between ModSage and the LLC and states that “[t]he space is to be occupied by
no more than two persons.” (TAC, Ex. 1, p. 1.) The Lease is attached to the TAC
and its language is incorporated into the TAC’s allegations. Like in California
Emergency Physicians Medical Group, the Lease does not mention Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff argues in her opposition that
she sufficiently alleges third-party beneficiary status because the TAC states
that she resided at Studio 4 because the Lease “obligated [Defendants] to allow
Plaintiff to [do so].” (TAC, ¶ 22.) However, this conclusory statement is
insufficient. In Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 836-837,
in which the court stated that interpreting a contract to construe third-party
beneficiary status required an examination of the “motivating purpose” of the
contracting parties, the “objectives of the contract”, and the “reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties.” The Goonewardene court held
that a contract between an employer and a payroll company did not confer
standing upon an employee to sue the payroll company, even if the employee
generally received a benefit from the contract because “providing a benefit to
employees is not ordinarily the motivating purpose” of such a contract. (Id.
at p.837.) Rather, the “motivating purpose” would be to benefit the employer to
assist with the cost and efficiency of payroll tasks, not to provide a benefit
to its employees. (Id. at pp. 835-836.) The Goonewardene court
also explained that conferring a right to sue upon the employees was
unnecessary to effectuate the objectives of the contract because the employer
was fully capable of pursuing such a breach of contract action against the
payroll administrator if it breached its contractual obligations. (Id.
at p. 836.) 
Here, Plaintiff does not allege any
facts showing that Defendants understood that the Lease was intended to benefit
her specifically (as opposed to two unidentified persons), even if Plaintiff
was an employee of ModSage. Also, Defendants argue in Issue No. 2 that even if
Plaintiff alleged that ModSage and Defendants intended her to be a third-party
beneficiary, Plaintiff cannot enforce the Lease because ModSage is a suspended
corporation which cannot prosecute or defend an action. (Motion, pp. 7-8.)
Defendants cite to Casiopea Bovet LLC v. Chiang (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th
656, 663-664 (Casiopea) in their moving papers and Beltran v. Capitol
Records, LLC (N.D. Cal. 2013) 2013 WL 968248. In Beltran, the district
court held that the plaintiff could not enforce a recording agreement even as a
third-party beneficiary because the corporation that was a party to the
agreement was suspended with no capacity to sue on the contract or otherwise.
The defendant argued, and the district court agreed, that allowing the
plaintiff to sue would be contrary to Revenue and Tax Code section 23301 (“Section
23301”) because the plaintiff was “the sole shareholder and officer” of the
suspended corporation and allowing the action to proceed would allow plaintiff
to “[use] the corporate entity to contract, yet [] retain the right to sue as
an individual third party beneficiary even when the corporation could not on
account of its failure to comply with its corporate obligations and tax
liabilities.” (Beltran at *4.) The Beltran court emphasized that
the plaintiff “was directly responsible” for the suspended status of the
corporation and “[held] sole authority to revive it.”
Here, it is undisputed that ModSage is
a suspended corporation. (Defendants’ Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) No.
2.2.) In Goonewardene, the California Supreme Court noted that
conferring a right to sue upon the employee was “unnecessary” to the contract
because the employer was capable of bringing suit on its own behalf; here, ModSage
is unable to bring suit on its own behalf because of its suspended status. But,
Plaintiff is no mere employee. Instead, Plaintiff admits in her own declaration
that she is the chief executive officer of ModSage and that ModSage was “mostly
[her] business”. (Tamura Decl. ¶ 2; Plaintiff’s Ex. 2 at 26:5-14, 36:5-8.)
Therefore, she is, as the Beltran court described, a “person standing in
close relation to the suspended corporation.” (2013 WL 968248 at p. * 3.) Allowing
her to sue on the contract that ModSage entered into as a third-party
beneficiary would create an end-run around section 23301. 
3.  
Issue
No. 3
Lastly, Plaintiff alleges that after
ModSage ceased its operations, “Defendants continued to rent the [Studio] to
[her] as her individual residence and no longer as a live-work space” and that
she used the Studio as her residence for approximately 11 years. (TAC, ¶ 25.) Plaintiff
also alleges that Defendants breached the contract “by failing and refusing to
take proper and adequate steps to remediate the mold and wet/damp conditions at
the [Studio], by failing to repair the defective condition of the [Studio], and
ensure that the [Studio] was, at all times during Plaintiffs’ occupancy,
habitable.” (TAC, ¶ 86.) 
Defendants briefly argue in their
memorandum of points and authorities that any alleged oral lease violated the
statute of frauds but submit no evidence in support of this claim. Furthermore,
Defendants assert that they had valid grounds for terminating the lease and
pursuing an unlawful detainer action because Plaintiff was in default of the
alleged lease, but do not explain how evidence of Plaintiff’s default excused
their alleged failure to ensure Studio 4 was habitable.
Therefore, because Defendants fail to
address all of Plaintiff’s theories of liability in the TAC, their motion for
summary adjudication of the Third Cause of Action is denied. (See Hutton v.
Fidelity National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493.) 
B.  
Fifth Cause of Action for Fraud/Concealment
“[T]he elements of an action for fraud
and deceit based on concealment [or nondisclosure] are: (1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5)
as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must
have sustained damage.”¿ (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 748.)¿¿¿ 
Plaintiff alleges as part of her Fifth
Cause of Action that “Defendants concealed or suppressed material facts” about
“the true condition of the Property”, such as the fact that it had “previously
been used a rubber factory” and that Plaintiff “needed a work permit before the
Property could be rented to [her].” (TAC, ¶ 103.) Plaintiff claims Campbell had
knowledge that “the Property had a history of leaks and moisture intrusion,
none of which had been properly repaired, and no remediation had been
performed.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff also alleges that Campbell knew that based
on these earlier leaks, “there was toxic mold growing within the Property.” (Ibid.)
Defendants argue that they made no
misrepresentations and did not have either actual or constructive knowledge of the
alleged water leaks, mold, or rodent infestation at the time of leasing. Campbell
declares that she replaced the roof on Studio 4 in 2001 because it had exceeded
its life expectancy, not because of any leaks, and she has no recollection of
and has never seen any evidence of roof leaks in the building where Studio 4 is
located before ModSage moved in; she never received complaints from former
tenants of Studio 4 as to flooding, water damage, mold or fungal contamination,
or rodent problems. (Campbell Decl., ¶¶ 11, 28.) Campbell also states that when
she first received notice of mold in Studio 4 through an order to correct on
January 10, 2018, she immediately contacted West Coast Precision to repair the
flashing around the A/C unit which was the apparent source of the alleged
moisture and potential mold noted by the city inspector. (Campbell Decl., ¶¶ 46-47.)
This repair was performed on January 23, 2018. (Ibid.) Campbell also
contacted a mold remediation company and arrange to have them (along with Don’s
Pest Control Services) come out to the Property on January 17, 2018, but Plaintiff
would not cooperate with her to allow the repair contractors to enter Studio 4
to perform corrections. (Campbell Decl., ¶¶ 48-52.) 
Campbell also addresses Plaintiff’s
claims about the rodent issues and states that the first notice she received
about any pest issue was in August of 2012. (Campbell Decl., ¶ 56.) She states
that she never ignored Plaintiff’s complaints and responded either by: (1)
giving Plaintiff the phone number of the pest control service, (2) sending the
pest control service directly, or (3) sending the property manager to Studio 4.
(Id., ¶ 57.) Campbell states that she was informed that the rodents were
field mice and may have been coming from the abandoned 13-acre property across
the street. (Id., ¶ 58.) Campbell also states that the rodent
infestation was caused by ModSage’s cardboard boxes and that she observed
rodent blood and hairs where these boxes were stacked, suggesting that the mice
were nesting in them. (Id., ¶ 69-60.) 
Campbell additionally describes the steps
she took to respond to Plaintiff’s reports of leaks in Studio 4 in the spring
and summer of 2013, as well as leaks reported in February, August, and December
of 2014. (Campbell Decl., ¶¶ 61-71.) Campbell states that roofers came out to
complete emergency repairs in 2013 and 2014 from West Coast Roofing (in or
about May 27, 2014 and August 2014) and Aloha Roofing around December 6, 2014
and attaches copies of a proposal from West Coast Roofing and an invoice from
Aloha Roofing. (Ibid.) Then, in November 2016, Campbell decided to
install a new roofing system, which was completed in December 106 by West Coast
Precision Roofing. (Campbell Decl., ¶¶ 69-70.) Plaintiff’s last reported water
leak was in January 2017 and Campbell states the leak was immediately repaired.
(Campbell Decl., ¶ 71.) 
Based on Campbell’s declaration, the
Court finds that Defendants have met their moving burden to show that Plaintiff
cannot establish a cause of action for fraud. The burden thus shifts to
Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants
only focus on representations made at the time the Lease was signed and do not
address Plaintiff’s allegation of misrepresentations that occurred after she
moved in. In particular, Plaintiff emphasizes her allegation that she
“reasonably relied on [Defendants’] assurances that the Property defects had
been properly addressed even though Defendants knew that they had not been
properly addressed.” (TAC, ¶ 109.) The Court disagrees. Campbell’s detailed
declaration provides prima facie evidence that efforts to address the reported
defects were taken. 
Plaintiff claims Campbell knew that the
rat catchers that she had hired were ineffective because Campbell texted her on
November 22, 2013, and said, “We have to get [sic] real exterminator.” (Tamura
Decl., Ex. 5, TAM000400.) On November 23, 2013, Campbell texted: “When can we
talk tomorrow? I will get an exterminator but there are bigger concerns to
address regarding the studio that I think will require clean up and closing
gaps at kitchen.” (Ex. 5, TAM000403.) Plaintiff states that Defendants’ pest
control service never did a full fumigation of the building without any
evidence that a fumigation was the correct response. (Tamura Decl. ¶ 42.)
Plaintiff’s statement that Defendants never “attempted to try to fix the root
cause of it” is conclusory, especially when Plaintiff does not introduce
admissible evidence showing that the rats were in fact coming in through the
roof, only that Campbell stated that a pest control worker “thinks it’s the
roof.” (Tamura Decl., Ex. 5, TAM000373.) Notably, the only other evidence that
Plaintiff submits which reflects issues with a rodent infestation is a text
message from Campbell who states that “the cardboard is really a problem
especially with the problem we have had lately with rodents. It has to be
removed.” (TAM000048.) The factfinder could infer from this text message, which
was sent on October 13, 2016, Plaintiff’s complaints in 2013 were resolved and
there was no other issue with rodents until 2016 because of ModSage’s cardboard
boxes. 
Plaintiff also argues that Campbell only
made “quick fixes” to the roof because she did not have enough money. (Exhibit
5, TAM000381-TAM000383.)  points to a
roofing proposal Campbell received in 2014 from West Coast Roofing with a
quoted cost of $12,275 and claims Campbell did not hire them to perform this
work. (Response to UMF No. 5.5.) But Plaintiff relies on Paragraph 20 of her
declaration, which does not address anything about roof repairs in 2014. Also,
Plaintiff’s characterization of Campbell’s responses as “quick fixes” are baseless
without additional evidence or expert opinion. Plaintiff claims Campbell
“admitted” in a text message sent on April 16, 2013, that the roof needed “a
real fixing” but the text message reveals no such admission. (Tamura Decl., Ex.
5, TAM000382.) Instead, Campbell only reported “the roofer found some openings
in the roof which we will repair when I have a hundred dollars I do not think
it will rain again soon.” (Ibid.)
Accordingly, Defendants are entitled to
summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action for
Fraud/Concealment. 
C.  
Seventh Cause of Action for IIED
The elements of an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, a defendant’s conduct “‘must be
so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 780 [quoting
Trerice v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883].) “Behavior
may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position
which gives him power to damage the plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows the
plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts
intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to
result in illness through mental distress.” (McDaniel v. Gile (1991) 230
Cal.App.3d 363, 372.) 
          Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants engaged in extreme and outrageous acts to cause her
severe emotional and mental distress. (TAC, ¶¶ 123-125.) Defendants cite to
Campbell’s declaration as evidence that Plaintiff cannot show that they acted
intentionally to cause her emotional distress because Campbell made efforts to
repair isolated leaks and address rodent sightings, hired a property management
company from 2014 to 2015, and hired an on-site maintenance handyman who moved
into a vacant unit in order to respond immediately to any maintenance or repair
issues. If the handyman informed Campbell that he was unable to address the
issue, Defendants would hire a licensed contractor to perform the maintenance
or repair. (Campbell Decl. ¶¶ 22-24.) Campbell further declares that she had a
“cordial relationship” with Plaintiff until she moved to evict her. (Id.,
¶ 73.) 
          In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants acted outrageously and claims that
Defendants failed to fix the “real issue” with the roof and rodents by only approving
quick fixes and placing traps. Plaintiff accuses Defendants of inaction with
respect to the roof and rodents; however, absent an intent to injure, inaction is
insufficient to constitute extreme and outrageous behavior for intentional
infliction of emotional distress liability. 
(Davidson v. City of Westminster (1982) 32 Cal.3d 197, 210.) Just as the
Court is unable to see how a reasonable factfinder would infer any intent to misrepresent
or conceal facts, the Court also finds that no reasonable factfinder would be
able to infer an intent to cause Plaintiff emotional distress. Plaintiff also
complains about Campbell’s response to her complaint about gas tanks in front
of her door; however, Plaintiff only complains that Defendant informed her that
they were empty. Plaintiff does not dispute that they were empty or that they
actually posed any danger. 
          Lastly,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants acted outrageously by serving her a notice to
move out. But this is insufficient to provide a basis for liability for IIED
because filing of a notice to move out and initiation of an unlawful detainer
action is privileged conduct. (See Kenne v. Stennis (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 953, 971 [finding that plaintiff cannot prevail on an intentional
infliction of emotional distress claim when it is based upon privileged conduct
that had some logical relationship to lawsuits between the parties].) 
          Therefore,
summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s Seventh Cause of Action for IIED is
appropriate. 
D.  Claim for Punitive Damages 
Last, Defendants move for summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff only prays
for punitive damages in connection with her Fifth and Seventh Causes of Action.
The Court grants Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication on those causes of
action. Accordingly, the motion for summary adjudication is moot with respect
to the punitive damages claim. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as to the Third
Cause of Action and GRANTED with respect to the Fifth and Seventh Causes of
Action. 
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 16th
day of April
2024 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 