 On March 6, 2023, Plaintiff AMAG, Inc. filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) fraudulent conversion, (2) misrepresentation, (3) constructive fraud, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, and (5) declaratory relief.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Vlaze Media Networks, Inc. sought to avoid the judgment against it in case no. BC587406 by fraudulently transferring certain assets to the other Defendants or with the help of the other Defendants.   On May 1, 2023, Anastasiia Arseneva filed the operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) for (1) breach of written contract, (2) quantum meruit, (3) violation of Pen. Code §§ 528.5, 529, and (4) declaratory relief.Arseneva now seeks to quash a subpoena issued to T-mobile for her phone records; she  contends the subpoena merely seeks to harass her and infringe on her privacy rights.  Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 authorizes courts to quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct compliance with it upon the court’s own terms and conditions, including protective orders. In addition, the court may take other appropriate means to protect parties or nonparties “from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).)  Discovery devices are meant to facilitate litigation, not wage it.  (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 221.)The subpoena at issue seeks: “All phone records for Cross-complainant Anastasiia Arseneva's T-Mobile USA Inc. account, phone number 323-797-9203, for the time period of February 20, 2022, through March 5, 2022, including but not limited to: Geo-location data for the cell phone during aforesaid time period, records of calls made and received during the aforesaid time periods, and text messages sent and received during the aforesaid time period. All aforesaid records for the time period of February 20. 2022, through March 5, 2022, for any T-Mobile account held under the name of Anastasiia Arseneva, social security number available upon request if needed.”As an initial matter, Arseneva makes a number of procedural objections, but it is not apparent how she has been prejudiced as she has fully objected to the subject subpoena.  These arguments are rejected. Further, the subject records are relevant to establishing whether the employment agreement asserted in Arseneva’s SACC includes forged signatures from Cross-Defendants.  Zambrano indicates his law office was burglarized and that documents were stolen on February 27, 2022.  His expert indicates that the aforementioned employment agreement contains signatures that appear as though they have been cut-and-pasted.  Zambrano contends these signatures come from the stolen documents and that the phone records at issue will prove Arseneva’s location on the night of the burglary, or, alternatively, show that she planned the burglary before and had some involvement thereafter.  This is a sufficient showing of relevance.On the other hand, the Court will temporally limit the subpoena to February 24 to March 1, 2022 (inclusive).  The Motion is granted in part only in this regard.  The Court declines to award sanctions. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 