  Case Number:  21STCV25399    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 10-7-24 (a/f 10-15-24 a/f 3-11-25)
Case: 20STCV38935 c/w 21STCV25399
Trial Date: Not Set
 
DISQUALIFY COUNSEL
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, 828 Media Capital, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY:  Defendants, SSS Film Capital, LLC, et al. 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Disqualify Counsel
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
20STCV38935
On February 11, 2020, Plaintiffs 828 Media Capital, LLC
and Todd Lunbohm and Defendants David Brown, Clear Distribution, LLC, Clear
Entertainment Inc., and Fallout, LLC, entered into “various agreements” for the
financing and production of a “film” entitled “Fallout.” The terms required a
“commitment amount” of $1,500,000 from 828 Media, with a promised return of
$1,800,000 at or prior to the maturity date established under the terms. The
parties also executed a separate “side letter,” whereby the 828 Media and Clear
Distribution, LLC agreed to an equal distribution of “any and all sales”
following distribution. “throughout the world.” 
 
Following investment of $285,000, the project shut down
due to Covid restrictions. New terms were orally agreed upon whereby 828 Media
would only invest $365,000. Plaintiff denies ever executing any written amended
contract. 
 
Meanwhile, production “unilaterally” continued without
the knowledge of 828 Media and its principal, plaintiff Lundbohm, until the
fourth day of principal photography. Plaintiff was subsequently presented a
follow-up offer to return the $285,000 loan proceeds, due to new investors
joining the project. Plaintiffs maintains the resumption of production without
notice, along with other actions by Defendants, violated the terms of the
contract. 
 
On October 9, 2020, Plaintiffs filed a complaint for
Breach of Contract, Breach of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Breach of Fiduciary
Duty, Aiding and Abetting, and Promissory Fraud. A 170.6 challenge to the
assigned officer led to a transfer of the action to Department 68.
 
On January 11, 2021, the case was ordered to arbitration.
On May 30, 2023, the court lifted the stay on the matter. 
 
On April 3, 2024, defaults were entered as to Clear
Distribution, LLC, David Brown, and Fallout, LLC. 
 
21STCV25399
In the subject action, Plaintiffs 828 Media Capital, LLC,
828 Productions, LLC, and Todd Lunbohm allege said failure of the other referenced
financing agreement with Fallout, LLC, et al. was the result of new financing
obtained from Defendants SSS Film Capital LLC. In exchange, SSS Film Capital
LLC was purportedly provided a “first position producer credit” in direct
conflict with the 828 Plaintiffs’ agreement, as well as sales commission
agreement. Plaintiffs also allege a similar commission agreement with Defendant
SSS Entertainment LLC. Both commission agreements purportedly violate the 50%
commission agreement with the 828 plaintiffs. 
 
On July 9, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint for
Intentional Interference with Contract, and Declaratory Relief. On October 8,
2021, Defendants filed a notice of removal to federal court. On November 6,
2023, the United States District Court, Central District, filed a notice of
remand. 
 
On January 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended
complaint for Intentional Interference with Contract; Fraudulent Conveyance;
False UCC-Filings (Cal. Comm. Code § 9625); Conversion;  Breach of Contract; Breach of Fiduciary Duty;
Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 
Fraud; Declaratory Relief; 
Judicial Foreclosure on Collateral; and, Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage. Plaintiffs added new defendants Shaun Sanghani,
Fallout LLC; Clear Entertainment, Inc.; Clear Horizon Entertainment, LLC; Clear
Distribution LLC; David Raymond Brown F/K/A David Brown F/K/A David Brown Levy;
and, Warner Bros. Pictures.
 
On February 14, 2024, the court deemed the cases related.

 
On February 28, 2024, the court entered the stipulation
for leave to file a second amended complaint. On March 13, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their second amended complaint: 1. Intentional Interference with Contract
2. Fraudulent Conveyance 3. False UCC-Filings (Cal. Comm. Code § 9625) 4.
Aiding and Abetting False UCCFilings (Cal. Comm. Code § 9625) 5. Conversion 6.
Breach of Contract 7. Breach of Fiduciary Duty 8. Aiding and Abetting Breach of
Fiduciary Duty 9. Fraud 10. Declaratory Relief 11. Judicial Foreclosure on
Collateral 12. Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage.
Plaintiffs added in Warner Bros. Pictures (WB) on grounds that the SSS
defendants contracted with WB for “worldwide distribution” of the film for
$5,000,000, thereby violating Plaintiffs’ contract with the Fallout defendants.
Plaintiffs depends on a conspiracy allegation among the parties. 
 
On May 30, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed Warner Brothers
Pictures from the first cause of action for Intentional Interference with
Contract without prejudice. 
 
RULING: Denied
Request and Supplemental Notice for Judicial Notice:
Granted in Part/Denied in Part
The court takes judicial notice of the filed pleadings
for the existence of the documents, but not for the truth of the matter
asserted in any item. The court will not take judicial notice of any proposed
pleadings. The court also takes judicial notice of its prior orders. 
 
Defendants SSS Film Capital LLC, SSS Entertainment LLC and
Shaun Sanghani, move to disqualify counsel for Plaintiffs 828 Media Capital,
LLC, 828 Productions, LLC, and Todd Lunbohm. Defendants bring the motion on
grounds that the previously obtained emails constitutes confidential
information thereby materially prejudicing Defendants. Plaintiffs in opposition
contends the instant motion constitutes the second effort at disqualification;
the first motion was rejected by the arbitrator. Plaintiffs maintain extreme
prejudice in terms of the volume of work required for new counsel and the
incurrence of over $500,000 in attorney fees already billed on the subject
motion. Plaintiffs deny the emails constitute a basis of the operative first
amended complaint based on the ruling of the District Court in granting leave
to amend. Plaintiffs conclude with the delays in bringing the motion
constituted improper dilatory conduct. Defendants in reply contend the
opposition fails to refute core basis of the motion—lack of notification,
continued use of the privileged information, and refusal to return the items.
Defendants minimize any claims of prejudice caused from disqualification, and
deny any sought after tactical advantage in bringing the motion. Prejudice
weighs heavier towards defendants than Plaintiffs. Defendants deny any estoppel
since the case is not at issue.
 
“Motions to
disqualify counsel present competing policy considerations. On the one hand, a
court must not hesitate to disqualify an attorney when it is satisfactorily
established that he or she wrongfully acquired an unfair advantage that
undermines the integrity of the judicial process and will have a continuing
effect on the proceedings before the court. On the other hand, it must be kept in mind that
disqualification usually imposes a substantial hardship on the disqualified
attorney's innocent client, who must bear the monetary and other costs of
finding a replacement…” (Gregori v. Bank of America (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 291, 300; see Oaks Management
Corporation v. Superior Court (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 453, 467.)
 
“‘[D]isqualification
is proper as a prophylactic measure to prevent future prejudice to the opposing
party from information the attorney should not have possessed’; an affirmative
showing of existing injury from the misuse of privileged information is not
required. (Citation.) A trial court, however, may not order
disqualification ‘“simply to punish a dereliction that will likely have no
substantial continuing effect on future judicial proceedings.”’” (McDermott Will & Emery LLP v. Superior
Court (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1083, 1120.)
 
In the August 22, 2024, minute order, the court specifically
found the emails constituted privileged information, and no waiver of any
privilege occurred as to the other jointly participating persons and entities,
including moving defendants, upon the dissemination of the emails by a single
cooperating party. The issue of intentional versus inadvertent disclosure was
not addressed by the parties, and the court declined to sua sponte address the
issue purposes of ruling on the privilege determination itself. The subject
motion however requires consideration of the notification requirements from Plaintiffs’
counsel upon receipt of the information. 
 
Defendants correctly cite to the standard regarding
inadvertently disclosed confidential information, and receiving attorney obligations
to both inform counsel and refrain from using said information. “[T]he
obligation of an attorney receiving privileged documents due to the
inadvertence of another is as follows: When a lawyer who receives materials
that obviously appear to be subject to an attorney-client privilege or
otherwise clearly appear to be confidential and privileged and where it is
reasonably apparent that the materials were provided or made available through
inadvertence, the lawyer receiving such materials should refrain from examining
the materials any more than is essential to ascertain if the materials are
privileged, and shall immediately notify the sender that he or she possesses
material that appears to be privileged. The parties may then proceed to resolve
the situation by agreement or may resort to the court for guidance with the
benefit of protective orders and other judicial intervention as may be
justified. We do, however, hold that whenever a lawyer ascertains that he
or she may have privileged attorney-client material that was inadvertently
provided by another, that lawyer must notify the party entitled to the
privilege of that fact.” (State Compensation Ins. Fund v.
WPS, Inc., supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at pp. 656–657.)
 
The court cannot factually determine whether the forwarding
of the emails constituted an inadvertent act or not within the presented
confines of the motion. Plaintiff represents Brown intentionally forwarded the
materials and agreed to the recording of the conversation, which supports a
finding of intentional conduct. A review of the applicable law presents no particularly
significant distinction between inadvertent versus intentional disclosure in
terms of both the required notification and lack of use to the material
disadvantage of the aggrieved party(ies). (See Clark v. Superior Court (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 37, 48, 54; Rico v. Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (2007)
42 Cal.4th 807, 818-819.) Thus, no matter the means of receipt, the
court finds Plaintiffs’ counsel was still obliged to notify Defendants of the content
given Brown was in no way entitled to waive the privileges of the joint
parties.
 
Defendants extensively note the incorporation of the provided
content into the operative complaint before any determination of privilege,
which Plaintiff disputes as to scope. The ruling of the District Court while
purportedly downplaying the reliance in no way mitigates the impacts from
possession of the knowledge in later proceedings. Dismissal of the impacts by
Plaintiffs based on a conditional sentence in a ruling on a motion for leave to
amend disingenuously downplays the scope of the impact and considerations for
relief. The reliance on the disclosed information in and of itself, regardless
of any after the fact determination of privilege as to the non-consenting
parties in no way relieved Plaintiff of any consequences from utilizing the
information before engaging in proper review and notification protocols. While
the court finds the information privileged, the existence of the information and improper response to
receipt of the information in no way presumes automatic disqualification. (McDermott
Will & Emery LLP v. Superior Court, supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at p.
1121 [The trial court ... could not base disqualification solely on ...
violation of ... State Fund duties, but also must determine
whether there was a likelihood the violation would impact the outcome of the
Action[] and the public's trust in both the scrupulous administration of
justice and the integrity of the bar].)
 
Disqualification depends on a finding of the misuse of
improperly obtained information and prevention of the misuse of said
information. (McDermott Will & Emery
LLP v. Superior Court, supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at p. 1120.) The
information was not acquired through any wrongful means, and in fact
voluntarily disclosed by a joint party. While Plaintiffs’ counsel facilitated
the recording of the conversations disclosing the strategies, Plaintiffs can in no way “unlearn” the
furnished information. Knowledge of the purported agreement(s) and planned
strategy, while extremely useful to Plaintiffs was also not something readily
if ever discoverable, and therefore becoming part of the court record. The
court therefore finds a significant material advantage to Plaintiffs. To
downplay the blatant use of the information obtusely disregards a core link to
the case. [Declarations of Crystal Jonelis, Shaun Sanghani.] (Clark v.
Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th at p. 55.) The sharing of
information by Brown was in no way required, and only benefits Plaintiffs. (See
Roush v. Seagate Technology, LLC (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 210, 225-226.)
 
Nevertheless,
Plaintiffs’ now familiarity with the information in no way prevents Plaintiffs
from passing along the subject information to new counsel should the court
disqualify current counsel. While the information never originated from
Plaintiffs, the court finds the public policy concerns remain the same. (In
re Complex Asbestos Litigation (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 572, 592; see Neal
v. Health Net, Inc. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 831, 841; Bell v. 20th Century Ins. Co. (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 194, 198.)
While Plaintiffs’ counsel clearly violated the notification standards, the
public policy factors require consideration of paramount concern for judicial
integrity and impacts. 
 
The court, in its
discretion must consider the balance between the “genuine likelihood” of
impacts to the outcome of the proceeding balanced against the “‘paramount
concern... to preserve public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice
and the integrity of the bar.’” (Clark v. Superior Court (2011) 196
Cal.App.4th 37, 55 accord (People ex
rel. Dept. of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1145.) “[T]o allow
continued representation of a client after counsel has been provided with, and
then used, improperly obtained confidential information would
undermine the public's trust in the fair administration of justice and the
integrity of the bar.” (Militello v. VFARM 1509 (2023) 89
Cal.App.5th 602, 622.)
 
Plaintiff raises a valid counter in that motions for
disqualification should not be sanctioned as means of obtaining potential
strategic gains in litigation. Replacement costs constitute a significant
factor. (Gregori v. Bank of America (1989)
207 Cal.App.3d 291, 300-301.) Plaintiff also challenges the timing of the
motion as a form of seeking to gain a tactical advantage. (Liberty National
Enterprises, L.P. v. Chicago Title Ins. Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th
839, 847.)
 
The motion comes well after arbitration, where the
information was disclosed. The arbitration began in 2022, and the arbitrator in
fact considered a prior motion for disqualification presented by Brown. [Declaration
of Vikram Arimtraj, Ex. 1.] Defendants in reply however deny any participation
in said arbitration in the related cases of Fallout LLC v. 828 Media Capital
LLC (20STCV38935). Defendants also deny any association with 828 Medical
Capital LLC, et al v. Brown, et al (22STCV36609) or 828 Media Capital LLC v.
Brown, et al. (22STCV27225). 
 
Following arbitration in the related case, the subject case motion
for leave to amend came before district court on October 31, 2022, where the
court granted leave to amend. The action was pending in October 2021.
[Supplemental Declaration of Crystal Jonelis.] 
 
The disclosed information was considered by the court, but
the privilege determination motion was deferred until the return to the
superior court. Following the return to the superior court, Defendants filed
special motions to strike, demurrers, and the privilege determination motion.
The subject motion to disqualify was only filed after the privilege
determination hearing and order.
 
In ruling on the determination of the privileged materials
itself and considering the subject motion to disqualify, the court finds no
specific requirement of the preceding determination of privilege before
consideration for disqualification. The issue of possession of privileged
material can readily be addressed in a motion to disqualify.
 
While it’s not clear if Defendants were aware of the
privileged material prior to the October 31, 2022, hearing for leave to amend,
the court again finds no dispute as to the direct notification no later than
this date. The extensive progression of items leading up to the subject motion demonstrates
a course of conduct apparently somewhat accepting of the acquired, privileged
information before this latest decry of outrage. 
 
Given the prophylactic standard for the motion, Defendants show
no earlier prioritized efforts to disqualify counsel before the case continued
for nearly two more years following the district court hearing. While
Defendants deny any tactical advantage intent, the delays in bringing the
instant motion somewhat undermine a finding of support for a party seeking true
cautionary relief, as opposed to some form of retribution. (McDermott Will & Emery LLP v. Superior Court, supra, 10
Cal.App.5th at p. 1120.) 
 
The court also finds no basis to discount the representation
of counsel in the resources dedicated to the subject case albeit even if in
conjunction with the other identified actions. Disqualification in the subject
action would most certainly complicate representation in coordinating with the
related and unrelated cases (even assuming the other parties also didn’t seek
disqualification as well).
 
In balancing the “paramount” public policy concern of
judicial integrity, relative to the other public policy goal of providing
prophylactic relief and avoidance of retroactive imposition of punishment for
strategic gain, the court finds the circumstances undercut the basis for
requested disqualification. (Clark
v. Superior Court, supra, 196 Cal.App.4th at 55.) The formation
of the possibility of an unfair proceeding effectively appeared during the time
before the federal court, thereby invoking any requirement to seek disqualification
at that time, or at certainly earlier than before filing the other number of
motions before this court. The circumstances therefore demonstrate an (implied)
acceptance of the known information, and undercuts findings of impropriety or
lack of integrity with the judicial process. Later declared unfair advantage
must be tempered by conduct. The hardship imposed on Plaintiff after almost two
years of litigation weighs significantly in the determination in the
consideration of the court. The court finds the prejudice to Plaintiffs
outweighs any perceived improprieties reflecting a lack of judicial integrity
in the adjudication of the subject action, and offers insufficient prophylactic
relief given the procession of the case, even if not at issue yet.
 
The motion is therefore DENIED.
 
The order denying the motion is directly appealable. (Apple Computer, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005)
126 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1263-1264.) The court can stay the action for a limited
period of time, if Defendants wish to appeal. “A petition for extraordinary
relief on the merits accompanied by a request for an immediate stay is
preferable, because generally extraordinary writs are determined more speedily
than appeals. The specter of disqualification of counsel should not be allowed
to hover over the proceedings for an extended period of time for an appeal.” (Reed v. Superior Court (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 448, 455.) Defendants may request a stay for the purpose of the
filing of a writ.
 
Special Motions to Strike on Calendar for December 3, 2024
(pending a potential stay of the action).
 
Defendants
to provide notice to all parties.
 