 Case Number:  23STCV21459    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
4-30-24
Case
#23STCV21459
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Earl Bayless
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Rodney Smith
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint
·        
3rd
Cause of Action: Fraud
·        
5th
Cause of Action: False Promise
·        
6th
Cause of Action: Promissory Estoppel
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
In 1993, Defendants Wild Win, Inc. and Canay Manufacturing,
Inc. hired Plaintiff Rodney Smith as Vice President. In 1996, Plaintiff alleges
an oral agreement, whereby defendant, company owner and president of Wild Win
and Canay Manufacturing, Earl Bayless, offered 20% of “proceeds,” if Plaintiff
stayed on as an employee. The promise was reiterated in “the early 2000’s.” 
 
In 2021, Bayless represented the sale of both companies to
private equity firm, defendant Tide Rock Holdings, LLC. When Plaintiff
mentioned the 20% agreement, Bayless “repudiated” the agreement and instead
told Plaintiff he would receive $250,000. Notwithstanding, Plaintiff continued
employment, and executed a written agreement for the $250,000 payment.
 
The separate agreement relied on the previously executed
Asset Purchase Agreement, whereby Plaintiff was designated as a “key employee.”
The agreement required continued employment for 12 months unless termination
was for “good cause” or the employee quits, in order to receive the $250,000
payment. In March 2022, Plaintiff received a comment from the new CEO of
Bayless regarding an employee complaint about the “tone” of Plaintiff in
communicating with said employee. Plaintiff was subsequently “suspended pending
an investigation,” and terminated in April 2022. The reason given was creation
of a “hostile work environment.” Plaintiff maintains the termination was
pretextual for purposes of insuring the non-payment of the $250,000.
 
On September 6, 2023, and December 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a complaint and first amended complaint for Breach of Contract; 2. Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing; 3. Intentional
Misrepresentation; 4. Negligent Misrepresentation; 5. False Promise; 6.
Promissory Estoppel; 7. Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Relations; 8. Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Relations; and
9. Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy. On February 8, 2024,
Plaintiff dismissed the fourth cause of action for Negligent Misrepresentation.
On February 9, 2024, defendant Wild Win, Inc. answered the first amended
complaint. 
 
RULING: Sustained with
Leave to Amend.
Defendant Earl Bayless submits a demurrer to the third,
fifth, and sixth causes of action for fraud, false promise, and promissory
estoppel in the first amended complaint. Defendant challenges the first amended
complaint on grounds that Bayless is not a party to any agreement relied upon
in the subject causes of action. Plaintiff in opposition maintains the demurrer
constitutes a misstatement of facts and law, and lacks applicable authority.
Plaintiff also maintains liability against Bayless on grounds of alter ego
liability. Bayless in reply reiterates the lack of any agreement with Bayless,
and the employment relationship with the corporate entities. The reply also
denies any alter ego grounds of liability, and the lack of overall factual
support.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules,
where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.] 
 
Bayless is named
in the third, fourth fifth, and sixth, causes of action. With the dismissal of
the fourth cause of action, Bayless challenges the remaining claims on the
basis that Bayless was neither the actual employer of Plaintiff nor a party to
any contract. Bayless was in no way responsible for the payment or termination
of Plaintiff. 
 
3rd
Cause of Action: Fraud
5th
Cause of Action: False Promise
Bayless
maintains that as a non-party to the agreement on conditions for payment of the
$250,000 upon completion of one year of employment, no basis of fraud applies.
Plaintiff counters that the representations convincing Plaintiff to forego the
claim for 20% of “proceeds” in exchange for the $250,000 conditional agreement
was the result of a direct representation by Bayless, thereby rendering Bayless
liable for the later revealed misrepresentation. 
 
“‘The elements of fraud, which
give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
“scienter”); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’” … [¶] ‘Promissory fraud’
is a subspecies of the action for fraud and
deceit. A promise to do something necessarily implies the intention to
perform; hence, where a promise is made without such intention, there is an
implied misrepresentation of fact that may be actionable fraud.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.) “Fraud
in the inducement is a subset of the tort of fraud. It ‘occurs when “‘the
promisor knows what he is signing but his consent is induced by fraud, mutual
assent is present and a contract is formed, which, by reason of the fraud, is
voidable.’”’ (Citations.)” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294-295.) “[I]n
order to support a claim of fraud based upon the alleged failure to perform a
promise, it must be shown that the promisor did not intend to perform at the
time the promise was made. (Conrad v. Bank of America (1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 133, 157 accord Tenzer v. Superscope, Inc. (1985) 39 Cal.3d
18, 30.)
 
The pled facts support a finding of a representation to
induce Plaintiff to forego the 20% of proceeds promise for a $250,000 payment
at the end of a 12-month employment with a known pretense to terminate
Plaintiff “with good cause” prior to the fulfillment of the terms. Such facts
support a foundational underpinning for promissory fraud and/or fraud in the
inducement claim. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 47-49.] The argument of Bayless
relies at least in part on the denial of any written accord between Plaintiff
and Bayless relative to any alleged representations made at the time of entry
into the compensation agreement. The operative complaint itself lacks any
actual statement of the parties to the agreement. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶
22-23, 46, 50.] The argument identifying Bayless as a party to any agreement therefore
remains extrinsic to consideration for purposes of the demurrer. The court
considers the elements of the claim without extrinsic reference.
 
The court finds trouble with the fundamental basis of the claim
as to Bayless. While Bayless may have made representations inducing a change of
position by Plaintiff, the actual “resulting damages” (e.g. the termination of
the contract) was still the result of the new employer(s) action, not Bayless.
In other words, disregarding the lack of any pleading establishing Bayless as a
party to any written agreement, the operative complaint still directly alleges
the termination was the result of new ownership/management rather than any
action of Bayless. The court therefore takes issue with the causation and
damages elements.
 
“‘The causation aspect of actions for
damage for fraud
and deceit involves three distinct elements: (1) actual reliance, (2) damage resulting from
such reliance, and (3) right to rely or justifiable reliance.” (Younan v. Equifax Inc.
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 498, 513, 169 Cal.Rptr. 478 (Younan ).) “In addition to
showing that the defendant knowingly made a false representation, in order to
establish fraud it must be shown that the defendant thereby intended to induce
the plaintiff to act to his detriment in reliance upon the false
representation. (Citations.) The defendant must intend to induce a particular
act of the plaintiff and is not liable in fraud for unintended consequences. (Citation.) And it must be
shown that the plaintiff actually and justifiably relied upon the defendant's
misrepresentation in acting to his detriment.” (Conrad v. Bank of America, supra,
45 Cal.App.4th at p. 157.) There are two causation elements in a fraud cause of
action. First, the plaintiff's actual and justifiable reliance on the
defendant's misrepresentation must have caused him to take a detrimental course
of action. Second, the detrimental action taken by the plaintiff must have
caused his alleged damage. (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1062.) “Actual
reliance occurs when a misrepresentation is an immediate cause of [a
plaintiff's] conduct, which alters his legal relations, and when, absent such representation,
he would not, in all reasonable probability, have entered into the contract or
other transaction.” (Conroy v. Regents of University of California
(2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1256 (internal quotation marks omitted).) “The
plaintiff must also plead the injury or damage suffered and its causal
connection to plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's misrepresentations.” (Thrifty
Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230,
1239.) 
 
Thus, again,
disregarding the extrinsic references regarding the parties to the contract,
the operative complaint still lacks a nexus between the purported
(pre)contractual representation(s) of Bayless, and the actual functional
termination of employment and cancellation of payment pursuant to the written
contract for which it remains omitted as to whether Bayless was even a party
responsible for any compliance with the terms of the contract. [First Amend.
Comp., ¶¶ 24-26.] The demurrer is therefore sustained.
 
6th
Cause of Action: Promissory Estoppel
Bayless
again challenges the claim based on a non-party to any agreement for payment of
the $250,000. Plaintiff counters with the citation to the elements of
promissory estoppel. 
 
“The elements of a promissory
estoppel claim are ‘(1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2)
reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) [the] reliance must be
both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must
be injured by his reliance.’” (Aceves v.
U.S. Bank, N.A. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 218, 225 (internal quotation marks
omitted).) Again, the operative pleading alleges the existence of a
misrepresentation by Bayless prior to entry into the written agreement, but
otherwise avoids identifying the exact parties to the written agreement. [First
Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 21-22.] The court finds no basis of
reasonable reliance between Plaintiff and Bayless under the pled allegations. (Granadino v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 411, 418.) Any alleged representations
regarding the later intended conduct by management after Bayless ceased
involvement with control of the companies constitutes a logical gap not
overcome by the subject allegations. 
 
The court declines to consider the
alter ego argument submitted in the opposition. Nothing in the operative
complaint actually alleges an alter ego basis of liability. Even considering
the argument, the court cannot determine basis of potential liability given the
subsequent termination apparently occurred after the sale of the businesses. The
court therefore sustains the demurrer.
 
In summary, the court sustains the
demurrer with 30 days leave to amend in order to allow Plaintiff an opportunity
to articulate the basis of liability against Bayless. The court grants
Plaintiff leave to amend given this is the first review of the action. Whether
Plaintiff elects to continue omitting reference to Bayless from said agreements
or not remains at the discretion of Plaintiff, but it will not prevent later
consideration of extrinsic evidence in potential, applicable future law and
motion. Plaintiff may not add any new causes of action without leave of
court, but may articulate additional facts in order to support the challenged
claims. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th
1018, 1023.) New allegations or omissions may also be subject to the sham
pleading standard should Plaintiff seek to alter the allegations in order to
rectify potentially perceived deficiencies. Any new causes of action added
without leave of court may be subject to a motion to strike. 
 
The court will concurrently conduct a case management
conference.
 
Defendant to give notice. 
 