  Case Number:  21STCP00191    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date:
4-30-24 c/f 2-1-24
Case
#21STCP00191
 
HEARING ON OSC RE: CONTEMPT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Respondents, Pressed Down, LLC, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Petitioners, Chul Lim Choe, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Hearing
on OSC re: Contempt
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION:

On
January 25, 2021, Chul Lim Choe and Protech Minerals, Inc. filed a Petition to
Correct the Arbitration Award and Enter Judgment as to arbitration decision
entered as to respondents Pressed Down, LLC, Protech Minerals, LLC, and Protech
Minerals RE LLC. On October 17, 2023, the court denied the petition as to
petitioners, and granted as to respondents. Petitioners filed a notice of
appeal on July 2, 2021. On June 24, 2022, the order on the petition was
affirmed on appeal. Remittitur was issued on September 12, 2022. 
 
RULING: Continued to
July 19, 2024.
On
June 9, 2023, respondents Pressed Down, LLC, Protech Minerals, LLC, and Protech
Minerals RE LLC filed an Application for OSC re: Contempt and Sanctions for
Failure to Comply with the Court Order in favor of Respondents. The core of the
dispute involves an order for injunctive relief transferring interests in
certain mining claims, which includes payment of certain annual claim mining
fees to the Bureau of Land Management by Petitioner or persons/entities
associated with Petitioner. Petitioner denies any wrongful conduct in violation
of the order and appellate opinion. Respondent in reply reiterates the basis of
the violation. 
 
Beginning
on August 9, 2023, the court continued the hearing multiple times, until August
23, 2023, when the parties announced a stipulation. On August 24, 2023, the
court entered the stipulation of the parties, whereby it was agreed that: “Judgment
Debtors and their officers:
 
“1.
Shall not renew or cause any other person, including, but not limited to,
Jennifer Choe, Anthony Chee a/k/a Choe, Hannah Kang and Patrick Kang, Katherine
Choi a/k/a Choe and Andrew Cobb, Peter Han, Grace Han, Abraham Han, Monica Han,
Sam Choe, Hah K. Han, Jisoo Han, Joseph S. Han, Katelin Aldridge, Jennifer
Logsdon, Janeen Tyler, Jarrod Tyler and Joyce Han, to renew any of the Mining
Claims, by any means, including, but not limited to, payment of the annual
unpatented mining claim maintenance fee to the BLM, filing of a small-miner’s
waiver and/or proof of annual assessment work; 
2.
Shall not record or cause to be recorded in the Official County Records, any
affidavit or notice of intent to hold or notice of intent to locate, related to
the Mining Claims; 
3.
Shall not take any other action or cause any person to take any other action
that causes the Mining Claims to be renewed by any person or entity other than
Judgment Creditors or persons and/entities associated therewith; 
4.
Shall not stake or cause any other person to stake new mining claims in a
1-mile radius of any of the Mining Claims identified above; and 5. Shall not
communicate the anticipated status of expiration of any of the Mining Claims to
any other person or entity.”
 
In
a September 5, 2023, status report, Petitioners challenged certain aspects of
the “Plan of Operations,” which subsequently became part of the contempt
hearing considerations. Beginning on September 6, 2023, the court again began a
series of continuances of the OSC re: Contempt. 
 
On
October 9, 2023, Petitioner filed a Notice of Settlement and Request for OSC
re: Dismissal. On October 17, 2023, the court again continued the hearing on
the OSC re: Contempt and set a hearing for “Plans of Operation Issue.” The
parties were ordered to submit a “Joint Report” on any “remaining issues no
later than” November 15, 2023. On November 17, 2023, the hearings were again
continued to January 16, 2024, and again to February 1, 2023.
 
On
February 1, 2024, the court reviewed the action for the first time. The court
assumed the application remained for the setting of a contempt hearing, and
requested an updated status prior to considering the setting of any contempt
hearing. The court continued the hearing and requested supplemental briefs. 
 
The
parties submitted a joint statement, whereby the parties represent continued
efforts to comply with the terms through the collection of “signatures from
various co-locators.” The parties request the court set a deadline for
compliance with the the return of the “fully executed settlement release and
escrow agreement.” Judgment Creditors request a deadline of May 31, 2024, and a
status conference date 60 days from the date of this hearing.
 
The
court agrees with the joint request of the parties to continue the hearing and
set hearings in follow-up regarding compliance with the settlement agreement
and completion of escrow. The court will be dark for one-half of June, however,
and therefore cannot offer a status conference date for 60 days from the
instant hearing date. The court instead sets the OSC re: Compliance with the
Settlement Agreement and Completion of Escrow for July 19, 2024. The
parties are ordered to submit one of three items: a representation of proof of
compliance with the settlement agreement, another request for continuance, or a
renewed request for a hearing on the setting of the contempt hearing. Any
updated brief, request or renewal is due no later than 14 days before the new
hearing date (e.g. July 5, 2024). Any briefs are limited to five (5) total
pages per side. If the parties represent full compliance and escrow closes, the
parties may also take the hearing off-calendar via the electronic system and/or
contacting the courtroom.
 
Respondents
to give notice.
 