  Case Number:  22CHCV01266    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept. F49




Date: 6/25/24




Case Name: Jane Doe v. Los Angeles Unified School
  District, et al.




Case No. 22CHCV01266



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

JUNE 24, 2024
 

MOTION TO QUASH OR
MODIFY DEPOSITION SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 22CHCV01266

 
Motion filed: 5/10/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Troy Betz (“Betz” or the
“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District (“LAUSD” or the “Responding Defendant”)
NOTICE: OK.¿¿¿ 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order from this Court quashing
or modifying LAUSD’s subpoena for deposition and production of documents
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 30, 2022, Plaintiff
Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”), a former student at Arleta High School, filed this
action for damages arising from an alleged sexual relationship with Betz that
commenced when she was a minor. Subsequently, on January 19, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants LAUSD
and Betz,  alleging the following seven
causes of action: (1) Sexual Battery/Abuse of a Minor (against Betz and Does
1-10), (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (against Betz and Does
21-30), (3) Negligent Hiring, Supervision & Retention of an Unfit Employee
(against LAUSD and Does 1-20), (4) Breach of Mandatory Duty: Failure to Report
Suspected Child Abuse (against LAUSD and Does 1-20), (5) Negligent Failure to
Warn, Train or Educate (against LAUSD and Does 1-20), (6) Negligent Supervision
of a Minor (against LAUSD and Does 1-20) and (7) Negligence (against Does
31-50). 
 
On February 16, 2023, LAUSD filed
its Answer to the FAC. 
 
On April 3, 2023, a Default was
entered by the Clerk against Betz. 
 
On May 10, 2024, Betz filed the
instant Motion to Quash or Modify LAUSD’s Deposition Subpoena. Subsequently,
LAUSD filed its Opposition on June 11, 2024. Betz replied on June 17, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.1 provides that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.1; Southern Pac. Co. v. Superior Court (1940) 15 Cal. 2d 206.)
 
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section¿2025.410, subdivision (c) provides that a motion to quash a
deposition notice must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.  
 
The Court finds
that Betz has satisfied the meet and confer requirement. (See
Levin Decl. ¶¶ 4-6, 9.)
            
B.    
Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena
 
Betz moves to quash LAUSD’s deposition
subpoena, served on April 26, 2024, for a deposition of May 16, 2024 (the
“Subpoena”). 
 
The Subpoena requests for personal
attendance as well as a production of the following documents:
 
“All documents in your possession
related to [Plaintiff] including but not limited to photos, videos, journals,
diaries, electronic mail, text messages, social media posts, social media
direct messages, electronic messages of any sort, electronically stored
information, and paper documents.”
 
(Mot. at p. 4, Levin Decl. Ex. “B.”)

 
Here, the Motion does not contest the
subpoena for personal attendance; however, it argues that the production of
documents should be quashed on multiple grounds, the main basis being his
invocation of Fifth Amendment Privilege. 
 
Thus, the Court will first proceed to
analyze the Fifth Amendment Privilege issue.
 
1)     
Betz’s Fifth Amendment Privilege
 
The right not to bear witness
against oneself is enshrined in both the United States Constitution (Fifth
Amendment) and the California Constitution (Article 1, § 15). (People v.
Merfeld, 57 Cal.App.4th 1440, 1443 (1997).) The privilege
applies in any proceeding, civil or criminal. (United States v. Balsys (1998)
524 U.S. 666, 672; Kastigar v. United States (1972) 406 U.S. 441,
444-445; see also, Evid. Code, § 940.)
 
“Under cases of
the Supreme Court, there are four requirements that together trigger [the Fifth
Amendment self-incrimination] privilege: the information sought must be (i)
incriminating; (ii) personal to the defendant; (iii) obtained by compulsion;
and (iv) testimonial or communicative in nature.” (Izazaga v. Superior Court
(1991) 54 Cal.3d 356, 366 (Izazaga) [internal quotations omitted].)
“Statutorily mandated discovery of evidence that meets these four requirements
is prohibited. Conversely, discovery of evidence that does not meet each of
these requirements is not barred by the self-incrimination clause.” (Ibid.)

 
Once a person
claims the Fifth Amendment privilege, “the trial court must
undertake a particularized inquiry with respect to each specific claim of
privilege to determine whether the claimant has sustained his burden of
establishing that the testimony or other evidence sought might tend to
incriminate him.” (Warford v. Medeiros (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d
1035, 1045.) 
 
“Ultimately, a
trial court may reject an assertion of the privilege only when it appears to
the court perfectly clear, from a careful consideration of all the
circumstances in the case, that the witness is mistaken, and that the answer[s]
cannot possibly have such tendency to incriminate.” (People v. Trujeque (2015)
61 Cal.4th 227, 267 [internal quotations omitted].) 
 
i.                   
Incriminating
Information
 
The information
sought need not be directly incriminatory. Rather, the information sought
is considered incriminating if the information might provide a link in the
chain of evidence of guilt (Hoffman v. United States (1951) 341 U.S.
479, 486 (Hoffman); People v. Lucas (1995) 12 Cal.4th 415, 454)
or might lead to incriminating evidence even though the information itself is
not inculpatory. (United States v. Hubbell (2000) 530 U.S. 27,
35-36.) The witness must have reasonable cause to apprehend danger from a
direct answer. (Hoffman, supra, at p. 486.)  A danger
of incrimination “of ‘imaginary and unsubstantial character’ will not suffice. [Citation.]” 
(Ohio v. Reiner (2001) 532 U.S. 17, 21.) 
 
Here, Betz argues
that any information concerning any relationship (if any) between him and
Plaintiff may provide a link to a criminal prosecution under state sex
statutes, including “evidence tending to establish motive, desire or
opportunity to engage in the conduct proscribed.” (Mot. at p. 9) He further
argues that even if the information were not itself evidence of a crime, his compliance
with subpoena, specifically the act of production of the documents, would
involve testimonial self-incrimination by admitting their existence, possession
and authenticity of the documents. (Id. at pp. 7-8.)
 
Betz seeks to
establish that any association with Plaintiff, even as an adult, creates a
potential nexus for sex crimes, citing support from Zonver v. Superior Court
of Los Angeles County (1969) 270 Cal.App.2d 613 (Zonver).
 
The Zonver
court considers a claim of Fifth Amendment Privilege in refusing to answer
inquiries into the claimants’ social and sexual relationship. It held that
information about the locations and times a married man, Mr. Zonver, had
visited his female bookkeeper could be a strong link in a chain of evidence
proving guilty of a variety of state misdemeanors and felonies, making
self-incrimination realistic. (Zonver, supra, 270 Cal.App.2d at
pp. 619-621.)  
 
Notably, the Zonver
court emphasized that it is “emphatically wrong” for the trial court to think
Mr. Zonver’s privilege in connection with possible prosecution under the
federal Mann Act was adequately protected by restricting its order to questions
related only to “activities within the State of California.” It reasoned that although
“activities within the State of California” are not directly related to
“interstate transportation”, a conduct proscribed in the Mann Act, they may
nevertheless be relevant to illuminate the purpose or opportunity in later
transportation, resulting in self-incrimination future charges based on the
possible Mann Act prosecution. (Id. at p. 619.)
 
The Court notes
that although Zonver is not factually most similar to this case, as it
does not involve a minor victim or production of documents, it finds the Zonver
court’s reasoning in justifying the Fifth Amendment Privilege, as applied to
the discovery of social and sexual relationship involving the claimant,
directly in point. 
 
Firstly, LAUSD
requests “all documents ... related to [Plaintiff] including but not limited to
photos, videos, journals, diaries, electronic mail, text messages, social media
posts, social media direct messages, electronic messages of any sort ...” (Levin
Decl. Ex. “B.”) At a minimum, this information could directly reveal the nature
of the social relationship between Betz and Plaintiff. Furthermore, even
innocuous photos and videos undoubtedly provide insights into the environment
and timings of their interactions. Additionally, diaries, messages, and social
media posts, whether created during Plaintiff’s adulthood or earlier, could
contain references to past activities or relationships. These pieces of
information are more than the “locations and times” that one visited another in
the Zonver case, providing an even stronger link in a chain of evidence
proving a violation of state sex statutes.
 
Secondly, the
Court rejects LAUSD’s argument that such information is not incriminating
merely because “Betz has not been criminally charged, nor even arrested.”
(Opp’n. at p. 10.) Just as in Zonver, where there was a danger of
possible prosecution under the Mann Act, there is no question that the Fifth
Amendment Privilege may be asserted, where like here, by civil defendants who
face future or possible criminal charges based on the same facts as the civil
action. (See Zonver, supra; Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1984) 162 Cal.App.3 686, 688-689.)
 
Accordingly, the
Court determines that the first requirement in Izazaga is satisfied
here, finding the information sought by LAUSD’s subpoena for production of
documents to be incriminating.
 
ii.                 
Personal to Betz
 
“The Fifth Amendment privilege ...
being personal to the defendant, does not extend to the testimony or statements
of third parties called as witness at trial.” (United States v. Nobles
(1975) 422 U.S. 225, 234.)
 
            Here,
it is uncontested that Betz is the person subpoenaed and would be the subject
to possible criminal prosecution. 
 
            Thus,
the second Izazaga requirement is met.
 
iii.               
Obtained by
Compulsion
 
The Court
reiterates that “[t]he constitutional guarantee against compelled
self-incrimination protects an individual from being forced to testify
against himself or herself in a pending [] proceeding ... ‘civil or
criminal, formal or informal,’ where he or she reasonably believes the answers
might incriminate him or her in a criminal case. [Citations.]” (Oiye v. Fox
(2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1052.) (Underlines added.) “[a]
party may claim the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination where to
disclose [] information might lead to prosecution under [certain]
statutes.” (In re Marriage of Sachs (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1156.)
(Underlines added.)
 
However, the
privilege “cannot be maintained in relation to ‘records required by law to be
kept in order that there may be suitable information of transactions which are
the appropriate subjects of governmental regulation and the enforcement of
restrictions validly established.’” (Shapiro v. United States (1948) 335
U.S. 1, 633 (Shapiro).)
 
Here, LAUSD
argues that Betz’s production of documents would not be compelled because he
voluntarily created those documents. (Opp’n. at p. 8.) Yet, LAUSD concedes that
“his act of production would be compelled” if the Court compels their
production. (Id. at p. 9.)
 
The Court notes
that the “act of production” falls within the scope of “disclose information”
and “testify” that the Fifth Amendment privilege protects against
self-incrimination. (See Oiye v. Fox, supra, 211 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1052; In re Marriage of Sachs, supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at
p.1156.)
 
Furthermore, it is
uncontested that the production of documents sought by LAUSD target Betz’s
private papers/information rather than public documents or business records
that are excepted from the privilege under the “required records doctrine.” (Shapiro,
supra, 335 U.S. at p. 33.)
 
Based on the
above, the Court concludes that this part of the Izazaga test is also
satisfied based on Betz’s compelled act of production.  
 
iv.               
Testimonial or
Communicative in Nature
 
It is clear that the Fifth
Amendment does not independently proscribe the compelled production of every
sort of incriminating evidence but “applies only when the accused is compelled
to make a Testimonial Communication that is incriminating.” (Fisher
v. U.S. (1976) 425 U.S. 391, 408 (Fisher).) “[W]e leave
intact the firmly established precedents that hold the self-incrimination
privilege inapplicable to, and allow mandatory production of, nontestimonial
evidence such as fingerprints, blood samples, breath samples, appearances in
lineups, and handwriting and voice exemplars.” (People v. Collie (1981)
30 Cal.3d 43, 55, fn. 7)
 
Additionally, an act in producing evidence in response to a
subpoena may have testimonial aspects, depending on the facts and circumstances
of particular cases. (Curcio v. United States, (1957) 354 U.S. 118, 125;
Fisher, supra, 425 U.S. at p. 410) 
 
However, despite the fact that
producing the documents tacitly admits their existence and their location in
the hands of their possessor, the Supreme Court of the United States has also
time and again allowed subpoenas against the custodian of corporate documents
or those belonging to other collective entities such as unions and partnerships
and those of bankrupt businesses over claims that the documents will
incriminate the custodian  (Fisher,
supra, 425 U.S. at pp. 411-412. [internal citations omitted.]) 
 
Furthermore, when the
existence and location of the papers are a foregone conclusion, and the
compliance with the subpoena adds little or nothing to the information to the
party compelling the subpoena, the question is “not of testimony but of
surrender.” (Fisher, supra, at p. 411, [holding that the
existence and locations of the documents prepared by an accountant working on
the tax return of his client adds little or nothing to the sum of the total of
the Government’s information, therefore the client’s act of producing them,
which implicitly admitting the existence and possession of the documents, does
not rise to the level of testimony with the protection of the Fifth Amendment]
[internal citations omitted.])
 
Here, LAUSD does not contest that
the contents of the documents are of testimonial nature. Instead, it makes an
incomplete argument, stating, “the act [of producing the documents] would be
incriminating only if that act ‘admit[ed] facts previously unknown to LAUSD –
namely, “that the [respective documents] existed, were in his possession or
control, and were authentic.”’” (Opp’n. at p. 9.) However, LAUSD concedes that
it does not know if any responsive documents exist, by noting, “Betz has not
endeavored to provide either the Court or LAUSD with a privilege log. How would
anyone know what responsive documents [Betz] has in his possession that may or
may not be subject to the Fifth Amendment privilege? We must assume that he
must have some responsive documents ...” (Opp’n. at p. 7.) (Italics in
original.)
 
It is evident to the Court that
LAUSD has not sufficiently demonstrated that the existence of any of Betz’s
responsive documents is a foregone conclusion or his compliance with the
subpoena adds little or nothing to the sum total of LAUSD’s information. Thus,
the Court concludes that the effect of the documents sought by the subpoena is
of testimony. 
 
Therefore, the Court’s analysis of
the four-part requirements under Izazaga leads to the conclusion that Betz’s
claim of Fifth Amendment privilege is justified.
 
2)     
LAUSD’s Other Arguments
 
Besides its argument focused on the Izazaga requirements,
LAUSD, in its Opposition, argues that the Motion should be denied as Betz has
made a blanket objection to all documents. LAUSD contends that this is
evidenced by Betz’s failure to submit a separate statement or a privilege log,
prevent the Court from assessing whether each responsive document would violate
Betz’s Fifth Amendment right. (Opp’n. at pp. 6-10.)
 
As further discussed below, the Court finds LAUSD’s
contention unpersuasive.
 
i)                  
Blanket Refusal
 
“ [A] blanket refusal to testify is
unacceptable; a person
claiming the Fifth Amendment privilege must do so with specific reference to
particular questions asked or other evidence sought.... [O]nce this
is done, the trial court must undertake a particularized inquiry with respect
to each specific claim of privilege to determine whether the claimant
has ... establish[ed] that the testimony or other evidence sought might tend to
incriminate him.” (Warford v. Medeiros (1984) 160
Cal.App.3d 1035, 1045 (Warford), [citations and italics omitted]; Fisher v. Gibson (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 275, 286.)
(Underlines added.)
 
            Here, LAUSD
argues that Betz must identify each document to be reviewed for privilege on a
case-by-case basis. (Opp’n. at p. 8.) The Court disagrees.
 
The requirement for specificity is not applied for “each
document” that Betz claims his Fifth Amendment privilege, but rather is
required for “each question” that Betz thinks objectionable. (See Warford,
supra, 160 Cal.App.3d at 1045.) 
 
Here, LAUSD only makes one inquiry for the production of
documents. Assuming the inquiry is well-defined and narrowly tailored to meet
the standard of discovery purpose, it is nonetheless barred by the Fifth
Amendment privilege as discussed above for finding all conditions in Izazaga
are satisfied.
            
            Betz asserts
his Fifth Amendment privilege against LAUSD’s only inquiry and specifies his
fear that his response to this inquiry and request for production of documents
may provide a link to a possible criminal prosecution for sexual crimes. Thus,
the Court finds that Betz has met his burden in both referencing the particular
inquiry and asserting a specified privilege. 
 
ii)                
Separate
Statement
 
A motion to quash the production of documents at a deposition
must be accompanied by a separate statement setting forth the particular
documents or demands at issue and the factual and legal reasons why production
should not be compelled.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(5).)
However, rule 3.1345 does not necessarily preclude an order in the absence of a
separate statement. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pac.
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 409 n.14 (Sinaiko).)
 
Here, Betz contends that a separate statement is not required
under the exception outlined in California Rules of Court rule 3.1345(b)(1),
which states, “A separate statement is not required under the following
circumstances: (1) When no response has been provided to the request for
discovery[.]” He maintains that since he has not served a written objection to
the subpoena, the “no response” exception is applicable here.
 
In response, LAUSD does not argue whether the California
Rules of Court rule 3.1345(b)(1) functions as an exception to the separate
statement requirement, or whether the exception applies to the present case.
Instead, it posits that “[Betz’s] motion may be denied on that ground alone.”
(Opp’n. at p. 7.)
 
The Court finds that the Sinaiko court’s instruction
on the effect of the absence of a required separate statement controls in this
case. Additionally, even if the Court accepts LAUSD’s argument that failure to
submit a separate statement may be a ground for denial of the motion, it has no
effect in preventing the Court from granting the motion based on its finding,
in alignment with Sinaiko.
 
            Given that
the Court has granted the Motion based on the finding of satisfactory Izazaga
requirements, it determines that the absence of a separate statement does
not affect the ruling.
 
iii)              
Privilege Log
 
LAUSD contends that the Motion is further procedurally
deficient for failure to submit a privilege log. To support its contention, it
relies upon Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.240, subdivision (c), which
provides, “If an objection is based on a claim of privilege or a
claim that the information sought is protected work product, the response shall
provide sufficient factual information for other parties to evaluate the merits
of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.” (Underlines
added.)
 
In
the Reply, Betz argues that Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.240,
subdivision (c) does not apply to subpoenas, but instead governs “Response to
Inspection Demand.” (Reply at p. 8.) He notes that under the codes that govern
subpoenas, no response – much less a privilege log – is required to be served
in response to a subpoena, citing Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.010, et
seq. (Ibid.) More importantly, Betz asserts that he would effectively
waive the Fifth Amendment privilege by providing the information in the
privilege log, as LAUSD demands, such as “the identity and capacity of those
who authored, sent, or received each document, the document’s date, a brief
description of its contents, and the specific privilege claimed.” (Id.
at p. 9.)
 
The
Court agrees with Betz to the extent that the privilege log under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.240, subdivision (c) does not apply to the situation
where a claim of Fifth Amendment privilege is invoked. To conclude otherwise is
to compel an act of production that not tacitly but expressly concedes the
existence and authenticity of self-incriminating documents, against which the
Fifth Amendment privilege protects.
 
Therefore,
the Court finds LAUSD’s argument for the requirement of a privilege log to be
unconvincing.
 
In sum, the Court GRANTS Betz’s Motion to Quash or Modify Subpoena
as to the production of documents, finding that compelling the production of
documents would violate Betz’s Fifth Amendment right against
self-incrimination. Therefore, the Subpoena for Productions of Documents is
hereby quashed. The rest of the Subpoena, including the personal
appearance of the Betz, is not affected by this ruling.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant Troy Betz’s Motion to Quash or Modify Subpoena is
GRANTED. 
 
The Court hereby modified the subpoena issued to Troy Betz
as follows:
1.     
The
requirement for the personal attendance of Troy Betz for deposition remains in
effect.
2.     
The
requirement for production of documents is hereby quashed in its entirety, as
it violates the deponent’s Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.
 
Moving party to give notice.