 Case Number:  21STCV36031    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Petition for
Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem Jeanette Martinez
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Petition for
Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem Jeanette Martinez
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Petition for
Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem Jeanette Martinez
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Forward Progress Management Real Estate Fund II LLC
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
 
The December 11, 2023 hearing on the Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is ADVANCED to December 8, 2023. Any
party that wishes to contest this may do so at the hearing on December 8, 2023.

 
Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem Jeanette Martinez’s Petitions are GRANTED, with the one change
indicated above — i.e., that no attorney’s fees or costs are to be subtracted
from the $5,000.00
awarded to each of the minor plaintiffs. 
 
The Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On September
30, 2021, Plaintiffs Jeanette Martinez, Javier Martinez, Ayleen Giselle
Martinez, Romualdo Matthew Martinez, and Jeavier Noah Martinez filed their
Complaint against Defendant Forward Progress Management Real Estate Fund II LLC
on causes of action arising from Plaintiffs’ tenancy with Defendant. 
 
On November 9
and 10, 2021, the Court appointed Plaintiff Jeanette Martinez as the guardian
ad litem for Plaintiffs Ayleen Giselle Martinez, Romualdo Matthew Martinez, and
Jeavier Noah Martinez. 
 
On October 5,
2023, for each of the minor plaintiffs, Plaintiff/Guardian ad Litem Jeanette
Martinez filed Judicial Council Form MC-350, Petition for Approval of
Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor
or Person with a Disability. With each of the Petitions, Plaintiff/Guardian ad
Litem concurrently filed Judicial Council Form MC-351, which is a proposed
order.
 
No
oppositions or other responses have been filed to the Petitions. 
 
On October
16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed Judicial Council Form CM-200, Notice of Settlement
of Entire Case. 
 
On November
15, 2023, Defendant filed its Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement. Defendant concurrently filed its Proposed Order. 
 
On November
30, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Non-Opposition and Request that the Court
Grant the Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Preliminary Issues
 
The Court first considers the Petitions for
Minor’s Compromise. The Court then considers the Motion for Determination of
Good Faith Settlement.
 
The Petitions are scheduled to be heard on
December 8, 2023. The Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is
scheduled to be heard on December 11, 2023. These items consider similar
issues, and the Parties have indicated that these items will not be contested. 
 
The Court ADVANCES the December 11, 2023
hearing on the Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement to December 8,
2023. Any party that wishes to contest this may do so at the hearing on December
8, 2023. 
 
II.       Petitions
for Minor’s Compromise
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“The guardian or
conservator of the estate or guardian ad litem so appearing for any minor,
person who lacks legal capacity to make decisions, or person for whom a
conservator has been appointed shall have power, with the approval of the court
in which the action or proceeding is pending, to compromise the same, to agree
to the order or judgment to be entered therein for or against the ward or
conservatee, and to satisfy any judgment or order in favor of the ward or
conservatee or release or discharge any claim of the ward or conservatee
pursuant to that compromise. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 372, subd. (a)(3).)
 
“A petition for court approval of a compromise or covenant not to sue
under Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must comply with rules 7.950 or
7.950.5, 7.951, and 7.952.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1384(a).)
 
“A petition for court approval of a compromise of, or a
covenant not to sue or enforce judgment on, a minor's disputed claim; a
compromise or settlement of a pending action or proceeding to which a minor or
person with a disability is a party; or the disposition of the proceeds of a
judgment for a minor or person with a disability under Probate Code sections
3500 and 3600-3613 or Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must be verified by
the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all information that has
any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise, covenant, settlement, or
disposition. Except as provided in rule 7.950.5, the petition must be submitted
on a completed Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of
Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person With a Disability (form
MC-350).” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950.)
 
“In all cases under Code of Civil Procedure section 372 or
Probate Code sections 3600-3601, unless the court has approved the fee
agreement in advance, the court must use a reasonable fee standard when
approving and allowing the amount of attorney's fees payable from money or
property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a minor or a person with a
disability.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(a)(1).)
 
“The court must give consideration to the terms of any
representation agreement made between the attorney and the representative of
the minor or person with a disability and must evaluate the agreement based on
the facts and circumstances existing at the time the agreement was made, except
where the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a
disability contemplated that the attorney's fee would be affected by later
events.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(a)(2).)
 
“A petition requesting court approval and allowance of an
attorney's fee under (a) must include a declaration from the attorney that
addresses the factors listed in (b) that are applicable to the matter before
the court.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(c).)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff/Guardian ad Litem Jeanette Martinez
petitions the Court for approval of a compromise that includes: (1) Plaintiff
Ayleen Giselle Martinez, who is an eight-year-old minor; (2) Romualdo Matthew
Martinez, who is a four-year-old minor; and (3) Jeavier Noah Martinez, who is a
two-year-old minor. 
 
        Among other things, the
Gross Settlement Amount is $215,000.00, which consists of a $100,000.00 payment
to Plaintiff Jeanette Martinez, a $100,000.00 payment to Plaintiff Javier
Martinez, a $5,000.00 payment to Plaintiff Ayleen Giselle Martinez, a $5,000.00
payment to Plaintiff Romualdo Matthew Martinez, and a $5,000.00 payment to
Jeavier Noah Martinez. (Petitions, Item 11.b.(5).) According to the Petitions,
the difference in the amounts per plaintiff is because the adult plaintiffs are
the ones who suffered significant damages, paid the rents, purchased properties
damaged by the condition in the unit, and so on. (Petitions, Attachment 17(e).)
 
        According to the attached
Attorney Client Contingency Fee Agreements, the percentage of attorney’s fees
to be assessed from each of the minor plaintiffs is 25% of their respective
awards (and an even higher 40% for the adult plaintiffs). (Petitions, Exh. A,
p. 1; see also Petitions, Decl. Oronsaye, ¶ 16.) No costs or expenses are
assigned to the minors in this case. (Petitions, Decl. Oronsaye, ¶ 7.)
 
        Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 372 and California Rules of Court, rules 7.950 and 7.955, the Court
finds that the Compromise is generally reasonable and that the applicable
procedures have been followed. 
 
        The Court will grant the petition with
the following change: the attorneys are not to assess any attorney’s fees or
costs against the funds allotted to the minors. In other words, each of the
minors is to receive the full $5,000.00 awarded. 
 
        With the above change, the Court GRANTS
the Petition. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem Jeanette Martinez’s Petitions are GRANTED, with the one change
indicated above — i.e., that no attorney’s fees or costs are to be subtracted
from the $5,000.00
awarded to each of the minor plaintiffs. 
 
III.     Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“Any party to an action in which it
is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided
in subdivision (b) of Section 1005.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“In the alternative, a settling
party may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together
with an application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed
order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(a)(2).)
 
“The issue of the good faith of a
settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served
with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the
court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendant moves the Court to issue an order
determining that the settlement between Plaintiffs and Defendant was reached in
good faith and thus they are protected from any present or future claims
against this Defendant pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
(Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement, p. 7:18–25.)
 
        Among other things, Defense
Counsel declares: (1) Plaintiffs and Defendant have come to a settlement; (2)
Plaintiffs will dismiss with prejudice their Complaint and have signed a
settlement agreement and general release; (3) the Parties will pay their own
costs and fees in this matter; (4) the settlement was reached after the Parties
engaged in negotiations; and (5) Defendant submits that its settlement with
Plaintiffs is in good faith. (Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement, Decl. Fornwalt, ¶¶ 4–7.)
 
        Plaintiffs agree with
Defendant. 
 
        Although the
parties agree, Defendants are misinterpreting CCP §877.6.  As stated above:
 
“Any party to an action in which it is alleged that two or
more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be
entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or
co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided in subdivision (b) of
Section 1005.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)
 
Pursuant to the language of the statute, a motion for good
faith settlement is only used when there are two or more joint tortfeasors. In
this case, there is only one defendant and hence a motion for good faith
determination is neither required nor needed.
 
        Further,
Defendant’s motion asks the Court to rule that
 
“Any and all past, present, or
future claims by any person or entity against moving defendant for equitable
comparative contribution, total, partial, or comparative indemnity or
contribution, declaratory relief, or for implied contractual indemnity in
connection with, or arising out of, the circumstances which are the subject of
this action, are forever barred    .” 
(Motion, p. 2:8-12.)
 
        During oral
argument, Plaintiffs’ counsel told the Court that the settlement agreement
precluded Plaintiffs from filing further actions against the current owner of the
building, and that Plaintiffs had no intention of doing so.  Therefore, according to Plaintiffs counsel,
this motion was moot.
 
        Also during oral
argument, Defense counsel argued that Gackstetter v. Frawley (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th
1257, was authority for this Court to grant its motion for good faith
determination.  It is true that in Gacksetter,
the trial court granted a motion for good faith determination against a party
not named in the underlying lawsuit. 
However, the propriety of the trial Court granting that motion was not addressed
by the Court of Appeal.  Hence Gacksetter
is not authority for this Court granting the Motion.  (See, e.g., Hinerfeld-Ward, Inc. v. Lipian (2010)
188 Cal.App.4th 86, 101 [“It is elementary that the language used in any
opinion is to be understood in the light of the facts and the issue then before
the court. Further. cases are not authority for propositions not considered.”].)
 
        Defendant also
requests that the Court rule that the complaint is dismissed with
prejudice.  (Motion, p. 2:13.)  The parties do not need a Court ruling; rather,
the parties can agree that Plaintiffs will simply dismiss this case themselves
upon signing the settlement agreement.


C.      Conclusion
 
The Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement is DENIED. 
 