 Case Number:  23STCV02658    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
3-4-24
Case
#23STCV02658
 
VACATE DEFAULT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Tania Muradian, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Coastline Re Holdings Corp.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Vacate Default
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
March 25, 2013, a stipulated judgment was entered between Coastline Re Holdings
Corp. v. Creative Video Logic, Inc., a California corporation; Khachik V.
Mouradian, also known as Jack Mouradian, an individual, et al. for
$1,257,902.31 (LC096145). The judgment was renewed on June 17, 2022 for
$2,419,353.
 
Plaintiff
alleges defendant Khachik Mouradian transferred title to certain real property
to Tania Muradian and Elize Achjian in order to evade any potential future
collection efforts. Plaintiff also alleges a deed of trust, as well as multiple
other judgments recorded as notices of attachment from other named defendants
recorded on the property, including Desert Palace, Inc., a Nevada corporation
doing business as Caesars Palace; and Paris Las Vegas Operating Company, LLC
also known as Las Vegas Operating Co., LLC, a Nevada limited liability company
doing business as Paris Las Vegas.
 
On
February 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed its complaint for Conspiracy to Fraudulently
Conceal Assets, Aiding and Abetting Fraudulent Concealment of Assets, Voidable
Transfer, and Declaratory Relief. On May 24, 2023, the clerk entered defaults
against Desert Palace LLC, a Nevada limited liability company, formerly known
as and/or as successor in interest to Desert Palace, Inc., a Nevada corporation
doing business as Caesars Palace; Paris Las Vegas Operating Company, LLC also
known as Las Vegas Operating Co., LLC, a Nevada limited liability company doing
business as Paris Las Vegas. On June 5, 2023, the clerk entered defaults against
Khachik V. Mouradian, also known as Jack Mouradian, also known as Kachik V.
Mouradian, also known as Kachik Mouradian, also known as Khachic V. Mouradian,
an individual; Elize H. Achjian, also known as ELIZE ACHJIAN, also known as Elo
Muradian; Tania Muradian, also known as Tania Mouradian.
 
RULING: Granted.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted.
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declarations of Elize Achjian and Tania Muradian: Overruled.
 
Defendants The Estate of Khachik V. Mouradian, Elize H.
Achjian, and Tania Muradian move to vacate the June 5, 2023, entered default on
grounds of lack of actual notice of the complaint, or alternatively on grounds
of mistake, inadvertence, and/or excusable neglect. Plaintiff Coastline Re
Holdings Corp. in opposition asserts service was proper, the motion lacks
support under the improper service standard, and lacks evidence of mistake,
inadvertence or support. Plaintiff also challenges the lack of any designated
personal representative for the Estate of Khachik V. Mouradian. Defendants in
reply maintain sufficient evidence was provided establishing invalid service in
that substituted service failed to apprize Defendants of their need to defend
the subject action. Defendants alternatively maintain a right to relief under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). Finally, Defendants
represent that Elize Achjian is the personal representative of Khachik
Mouradian. 
 
The motion in fact fails to indicate which if any of the
individual defendants, or another person, represents the estate. Only in reply,
does Elize Achjian identify as the personal representative of the estate, as
the widow of Khachik V. Mouradian. The reply also contains a copy of the death
certificate. 
 
The
court accepts the representations of Elize Achjian. Given the estate is in
default and therefore unable to proceed in the civil portion of the action both
without seeking to vacate the default and then proceed with appointment of a
successor, the court considers the application as to all parties for purposes
of the subject motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 377.31, et seq.; Devlin
v. Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 381, 385–386.)
 
As for Elize H. Achjian, and Tania Muradian, both submit
declarations denying any service of the summons and complaint, and only became
aware upon service of the notice of default. [Declarations of Elize H. Achjian,
and Tania Muradian.]
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473.5 provides in part:
 
(a) When service of a summons has
not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a
default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action,
he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or
default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall
be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the
earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or
her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that
the default or default judgment has been entered.
…
(c) Upon a finding by the court that the motion was
made within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of
actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or
default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend
the action.
 
A plaintiff has the initial burden to establish valid
statutory service of a summons and complaint. (Dill v. Berquist Const. Co., Inc. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426,
1439-40; Floveyor Internat. v. Sup. Ct. (1997)
59 Cal.App.4th 789, 794.) The proofs of service on Elize H. Achjian and Tania
Muradian was executed by a licensed process server by leaving the summons and
complaint with a person apparently in charge identified as Jane Doe on April 13,
2023. The proof of service complies, including a declaration of diligence
showing three prior attempts, and mailing upon completion of service. The
proofs of service were filed on April 25, 2023, with service completed at 17517
Rushing Drive.
 
“The return of
a process server registered [under] Division 8 of the Business and Professions
code upon process or notice establishes a presumption, affecting the burden of producing
evidence, of the facts stated in the return.” (Evid. Code, § 647.) “If a copy of the summons and
complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90,
a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s
dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, in the
presence of a competent member of the household or a person apparently in
charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing address other
than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least 18 years of age,
who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy
of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the
person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were
left. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day
after the mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., 415.20, subd.
(b).) Service in this context is allowed “upon a person upon a person whose ‘relationship with the person to be served makes it
more likely than not that they will deliver process to the named party.’” (Bein v. Brechtel-Jochim Group,
Inc. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1387, 1393; see Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 546
(footnote 3).) 
 
The parties do not factually
dispute the process server in fact left the papers with Jane Doe for the
parties. The parties also acknowledge the address without any dispute as to
residency. Substituted service on a
person apparently in charge of the premises is allowed where the “‘relationship with the
person to be served makes it more likely than not that they will deliver
process to the named party.’” (Bein v. Brechtel-Jochim Group, Inc., supra, 6
Cal.App.4th at p. 1393; Ellard v. Conway, supra, 94 Cal.App.4th at p. 546
(footnote 3); Code Civ. Proc., 415.95, subd. (a).)
 
Other than a conclusive denial of awareness, the motion
itself lacks any support establishing a basis of invalid notice given the lack
of facts accounting for service at the undisputed address. Furthermore, counsel
in opposition references a conversation with an attorney purportedly
representing the family in June 9, 2023, thereby further undermining any claims
of unawareness. [Declaration of Hal Goldflam.] The proofs of service, paucity
of facts in the motion and supporting declarations, and challenging counter-declaration
undermines any finding for relief under the lack of actual notice standard. 
 
Only in the reply, do the declarants offer new information.
The subsequently filed declarations deprive Plaintiff of the opportunity to
respond to the new information. Even considering the new declaration, however,
the declarations continue to deny knowledge of the identified “Jane Doe”
fitting the physical description in the proof of service. [Second Declarations
of Elize H. Achjian, and Tania Muradian, ¶¶ 4-6.]
 
The court finds the new information insufficient. A simple
denial of awareness fitting the description still fails to overcome the
implicit admission of a valid address, and the evidentiary presumption entitled
to the process server that the papers were left with a person apparently in
charge regardless of a disputed personal description. The therefore denies the
motion on this basis.
 
The court considers the alternative request. Code of Civil
Procedure section 473 subdivision (b) provides in part: 
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
 
“The six-month
time limit for granting statutory relief is jurisdictional and the court may
not consider a motion for relief made after that period has elapsed.
(Citation.) The six-month period runs from entry of default, not entry of
judgment.” (Manson, Iver & York v.
Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36, 42.)
 
“[A] trial court is obligated
to set aside a default, default judgment, or
dismissal if the motion for mandatory relief (1) is filed within six months of
the entry of judgment, (2) ‘is in proper form,’ (3) is accompanied by
the attorney affidavit of fault, and (4) demonstrates that
the default or dismissal was in fact caused by
the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.’” (Martin Potts & Associates, Inc. v.
Corsair, LLC (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 432, 443.) 
 
The motion was filed on December 4, 2024, exactly one day
short of the six month cutoff for the timely presentation of the motion. The
motion lacks any declaration from any attorney regarding any conduct by counsel
leading to the default. The application purely depends on the lack of awareness
by the individual defendants. Again, the court considers the motion within
context of counsel purportedly informing Plaintiff of representation, yet still
waiting until the cusp of the deadline before seeking leave for relief, and
without accounting for the estate.
 
A discretionary standard applies to the motion given the
lack of an attorney statement and dependence on the individual parties’
explanations. (Lang
v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1251-1252; see Rodriguez v. Brill (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 715, 727.) Public policy favors adjudication of claims on the
merits. Nevertheless, where conduct by the party acting in pro per represents a
deliberate, strategic decision, public policy vests the court with discretion
to find no basis for relief. (Benedict v. Danner Press (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 923, 929-930; Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225,
1251-1252.)
 
The second set of declarations admits to the retention of
current counsel, but specifically admits to withholding authorization for
counsel to seek relief from the default, due to distraction with the passing of
Khachik V. Mouradian, and lack of understanding of the “severity” and
importance of the “situation.” [Second Declarations of Elize H. Achjian, and
Tania Muradian, ¶¶ 7-8.] The court again acknowledges the lack of an
opportunity for Plaintiff to respond to the second set of declarations.
 
The court also takes into account that the motion was filed on
the last day possible for statutory relief consideration. Further briefing in
order to both preserve the statutory deadline and allow for additional
challenge to the new argument will not likely alter the factors presented to
the court. The declarations while more forthcoming continue to raise valid
challenges to the credibility of the decision making process, and demonstrate a
potential deliberate decision. The death occurred on December 26, 2021, which
is well after the service and default dates, and Defendants were admittedly in
touch with counsel following the notice of default. 
 
Public policy still favors adjudication on the merits. Given
the equities of the subject case relative to the widow and daughter of
decedent, and other potential efforts for judgment collection by other judgment
creditors, lien holders and/or secured interests, the court finds a compelling
public policy interest to allow the action to proceed on the merits rather than
via default. The motion is therefore granted under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b).
 
The motion lacked a copy of the requisite responsive
document. The court orders the individual defendants to answer the complaint
within 20 days of the subject order, and schedule a motion for appointment of a
designated successor upon appearance in the action and pending appointment with
the Probate Court or other means for establishing Elize Achjian as the estate
representative, as applicable.
 
Defendants to give notice to all parties.
 