 Case Number:  23PSCV03011    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Jane JB Doe’s Motion to Compel the West Covina  Police Department to Produce its Reports Related to the Sexual Battery  Involving Plaintiff Jane JB Doe Respondent: Non-Party West  Covina Police Department TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff Jane JB Doe’s Motion to Compel the West  Covina Police Department to Produce its Reports Related to the Sexual Battery  Involving Plaintiff Jane JB Doe is GRANTED. The West Covina Police Department is ordered to serve  the requested records on Plaintiff Jane JB Doe within twenty (20) days of the  issuance of this order. BACKGROUND This  is an action for sexual abuse and assault. In 2019, Plaintiff Jane JB Doe  joined Troop 78394 of Defendant Girl Scouts of Greater Los Angeles (Girl Scouts  LA). During Doe’s time with Troop 78394, Brittany Boyd served as a leader for  the teenage girls. Doe alleges Boyd showed a special interest in Doe by  repeatedly sitting with Doe, touching Doe’s thighs, hugging Doe, giving Doe  gifts, and repeatedly messaging Doe. From January to March 2023, Doe alleges  Boyd sexually assaulted Doe on multiple occasions before troop meetings. Doe  also alleges Boyd took Doe to a hotel in February 2023 and forced Doe to  participate in sexual activities. In March 2023, Doe told Doe’s parents about  Boyd’s alleged sexual assaults when they discovered text messages from Boyd on  Doe’s phone. After Doe’s parents reported the incident to law enforcement, law  enforcement had Doe call Boyd while they monitored the conversation in which  Boyd allegedly admitted to sexual abuse. Boyd was then arrested. On  October 2, 2023, Doe, through guardian ad litem Jessica Corona, filed a  complaint against Defendant Girl Scouts of the United States of America (Girl  Scouts USA), erroneously named as “Girl Scouts of America,” and Does 1-100,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) negligent  supervision, (3) sexual battery, and (4) sexual harassment. On  February 16, 2024, Doe filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Girl  Scouts USA, Girl Scouts LA, and Does 1-100, alleging the same causes of action. On  April 15, 2024, Doe filed the present motion. A hearing on Doe’s motion is set  for July 2, 2024, along with a case management conference on September 11,  2024. ANALYSIS Doe  moves to compel non-party West Covina Police Department’s (WCPD) compliance  with a deposition subpoena for records of WCPD’s investigation into Boyd’s  alleged sexual abuse. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Doe’s  motion. Legal  Standard A  party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may  obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena  for production of business records. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.) A  deposition subpoena may command: (1) only the attendance and testimony of the  deponent, (2) only the production of business records for copying, or (3) the  attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business  records, other documents, electronically stored information, and tangible  things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) Service of a deposition subpoena shall  be done with sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the  deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated  documents and, where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to  travel to the place of deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).) Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent  who is a resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the  subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a  court session if the subpoena so specifies. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220,  subd. (c).) If  a deponent fails to appear or produce requested documents for a deposition, the  deposing party may file a noticed motion to compel deponent’s compliance. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) A deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena  may also be punished for contempt without the necessity of a prior court order court  directing compliance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.) A noncompliant deponent  may also be ordered to pay $500 to the deposing party in addition to any  damages the deposing party incurred as a result of the deponent’s failure to  attend the deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240, citing Code Civ. Proc., §  1992.) Discussion On  March 25, 2024, Doe served a deposition subpoena on WCPD requesting their  investigative file for Report No. 23-02769 and any other criminal complaints  involving sexual abuse committed by Boyd. (Vallejos Decl., ¶ 2.) On March 27,  2024, WCPD objected to the subpoena and stated a court order would be required.  (Vallejos Decl., ¶ 3.) Doe then filed the present motion. In  opposition, WCPD argues the requested records are confidential and require a  showing of compelling reasons for disclosure and in-camera review of any such  records. (Opp., p. 4:21-26.) But while WCPD cites Michael P. v. Superior  Court (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1036 (Michael P.) in support of this argument,  the Court finds this case is inapposite for three reasons. First, Michael P.  involved the use of death investigation files in juvenile dependency  proceedings. (Id., at p. 1040-1041.) Second, the party requesting the  investigation records in Michael P. was the alleged perpetrator while  the requesting party in the present action is the victim. (Ibid.) And  last, Michael P. did not hold an in-camera review is required anytime  investigation records involving a minor are disclosed. Instead, Michael P. held  that the important interests at issue in dependency proceedings required the  juvenile court to hold an in-camera review of the requested investigation files.  (Id., at p. 1046.) WCPD  also contends the requested records are confidential because they involve child  abuse investigations pursuant to the Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act  (CANRA). (Opp., p. 4:21-23.) WCPD fails, however, to explain how this  confidentiality applies to Doe as the victim. And even if a compelling need for  these records is required before their disclosure, the court finds Doe has met  this burden since records of an investigation into Boyd’s sexual abuse of Doe  is directly relevant to Doe’s claims arising from that abuse. Accordingly,  Doe’s motion is GRANTED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Doe’s  motion to compel is GRANTED and WCPD is ordered to provide the records  requested to Doe within twenty (20) days of the issuance of this order.