  Case Number:  24STCV03085    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, September 11, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCV03085
CASE NAME:                        Olivia Pass v. Del Amo Hospital, Inc. 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Compel
Arbitration of Individual PAGA Claim and Stay Representative Action 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Del Amo Hospital,
Inc.
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Olivia Pass
OPPOSITION:                        19 July 2024
REPLY:                                  25
July 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is
denied. Defendant to give notice. 

                                                                                                

 
PROCEEDING:                      Motion for Reconsideration
of Dismissal
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Del Amo Hospital,
Inc.
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Olivia Pass
OPPOSITION:                        38 August 2024
REPLY:                                  4
September 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant’s motion for reconsideration is
denied. Defendant to give notice. 

                                                                                                

 
Background
 
On February 5, 2024, Olivia Pass
(“Plaintiff”) filed this PAGA action against Del Amo Hospital, Inc.
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 50. 
 
The operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”), filed April 11, 2024,  alleges
eight causes of action: 
 
1)    
Violation
of Labor Code §§ 204, 510, 1194, 1198 (Failure to Pay All Wages);
2)    
Violation
of Labor Code §§ 226.7, 512 (Failure to Provide Meal Periods);
3)    
Violation
of Labor Code § 226.7 (Failure to Provide Rest Periods);
4)    
Violation
of Labor Code § 226, (Failure to Keep Accurate Itemized Wage Statements);
5)    
Violation
of Labor Code §§ 201-203, (Failure to Pay Wages Upon Termination of
Employment);
6)    
Violation
of Labor Code § 2802 (Failure to Reimburse for Necessary Expenditures); 
7)    
Violation
of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq. (Unfair Business Practices);
and
8)    
Violation
of the Private Attorneys General Act, Labor Code sections 2698, et seq.
 
On April 24, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed
her individual claims for relief. On June 18, 2024, Defendant moved to compel
Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims to arbitration and stay the representative
PAGA action. Plaintiff opposed the Motion. At the August 21, 2024, hearing on
this motion, at Defendant’s request the Court continued the hearing to allow
the court to also consider Defendant’s motion for reconsideration. Both matters
are now before the court. 
 
Motion to
Compel Arbitration
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
“California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes.¿ To further that policy, Code of Civil
Procedure, section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.¿ Those statutory
exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds
exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a
third party creates the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or
legal¿ issues.”¿ (CCP, § 1281.2; Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate
Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967.)¿ Similarly, public policy under
federal law favors arbitration and the fundamental principle that arbitration
is a matter of contract and that courts must place arbitration agreements on an
equal footing with other contracts and enforce them according to their terms.¿
(AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
In deciding a motion or petition
to compel arbitration, trial courts must first decide whether an enforceable
arbitration agreement exists between the parties and then determine whether the
claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.¿(Omar v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)¿ The opposing party has the
burden to establish any defense to enforcement.¿ (Gatton v. T-Mobile USA,
Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 571, 579 [“The petitioner ... bears the burden
of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement and the opposing
party, plaintiffs here, bears the burden of proving any fact necessary to its
defense.”].)¿ 
 
II.        Request for Judicial Notice
 
The
court may take judicial notice of records of any court of record of the United
States. (Evid. Code, § 452(d)(2).) However, the court may only judicially
notice the existence of the record, not that its contents are the truth. (Sosinsky
v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.) 
 
Defendant’s
requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
Class Action Complaint filed on
February 5, 2024, and First Amended Complaint
filed on April 11, 2024 by Plaintiff in
the Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 24STCV03085. (Cal. Evid. Code §
452(d)(1)).
 
2)    
Exhibit 1:
Declaration of Lilit Tunyan in Support of Plaintiff’s Application to Dismiss
Class and Individual Claims for Relief One Through Seven Against Defendant
Without Prejudice filed on April 22, 2024. (Cal. Evid. Code § 452(d)(1)). 
 
3)    
Exhibit 2:
April 23, 2024 Order Dismissing Class and Individual Claims for Relief One
Through Seven Against Defendant Without Prejudice. (Cal. Evid. Code §
452(d)(1)). 
 
Defendant’s request
for judicial notice is granted. 
 
Plaintiff requests judicial
notice of the following: 
 
1)    
Exhibit A: Order dismissing Plaintiff
Olivia Pass’ individual PAGA claim against Defendant Del Amo Hospital, Inc.
without prejudice.
 
Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
III.      Discussion
 
Defendant
moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate her individual PAGA claims
and stay the action as to the representative claims pending arbitration.
Plaintiff opposes the Motion  on the ground
that she dismissed her individual PAGA action and there are no individual PAGA
claims to order to arbitration such that the Motion should be denied. 
 
            A.        Existence of A Valid Agreement to Arbitrate
 
Defendant
asserts that as part of the onboarding process, on November 4, 2022, Plaintiff
reviewed and executed the Alternative Resolution For Conflicts Agreement (the
“ARC”). (Shanner Decl., Ex. B.) Defendant’s records show that during the
onboarding process, Plaintiff used a unique username and password to access the
ARC and, after being apprised that a checkbox is the equivalent to a
handwritten signature, checked the box stating “yes” to having reviewed and
agreed to abide by the ARC terms. (Shanner Decl., ¶¶ 3-9. Ex. A.)
 
The
ARC states in the relevant parts: 
 
1.
How This Agreement Applies
 
This Agreement is governed by
Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1 . . . Excepts as it otherwise provides,
this Agreement applies to any past, present or future dispute arising out of or
related to Employee’s application for employment, employment, and/or
termination of employment . . . 
 
Except as it otherwise
provides, this Agreement is intended to apply to the resolution of disputes
that otherwise would be resolved in the court of law or before a forum other
than arbitration. 
 
Except as it otherwise
provides, this Agreement applies, without limitation, to disputes regarding the
employment relationship, compensation, breaks and rest periods, seating,
privacy, retaliation, discrimination, termination, or harassment . . . 
 
[ ]
 
             6. How
Arbitration Proceedings are Conducted
 
[ ]
 
You and the Company agree to
bring any dispute in arbitration on an individual basis only. Accordingly, . .
.
 
(c) Private Attorneys
General Act (“PAGA”) Individual Action Requirement. Your and the Company
agree to arbitrate PAGA claims on an individual basis only. Therefore, any
claim by You under PAGA to recover Your unpaid wages, penalties, or other
individual relief must be arbitrated under this Agreement. The Arbitrator is
without authority to preside over any PAGA claim by you on behalf of any other
person or joined by or consolidated with another person’s or entity’s PAGA
claim. This PAGA Individual Action Requirement clauses will be severable from
this Agreement if there is a judicial determination that it is invalid,
unenforceable, unconscionable, void or voidable. In such case, the PAGA action
must be litigated in a civil court of competent jurisdiction-not in
arbitration-but the portion of the PAGA Individual Action Requirement that is
enforceable will be enforced in arbitration. 
 
[ ]
 
            10.       Enforcement
of this Agreement
 
This Agreement is the full and
complete agreement relating to the formal resolution of employment-related
disputes. Any contractual disclaimers the Company has in any handbooks, other
agreements, or policies do not apply to this Agreement. This Agreement will
survive the termination of Your employment and the expiration of any benefit,
and it will also continue to apply if You are transferred or rehired by an
affiliate of the Company and/or separated and rehired by the Company or its
affiliates. In the event any portion of this Agreement is deemed unenforceable,
the remainder of this Agreement will be enforceable. However, under no
circumstances may the Arbitrator hear or preside over any class, collective, or
other claim joined by or consolidated with another person's or entity's claim,
unless all parties agree in writing. This Agreement does not alter the
"at-will" status of Your employment.
 
(Shaner
Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. B.) 
 
Plaintiff
does not deny that she signed the ARC on November 4, 2022. Instead, Plaintiff
asserts that because she dismissed her individual PAGA claim, there is no
individual PAGA claim to arbitrate, and the motion should be denied. Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff’s action fails because a PAGA cause of action requires
an individual PAGA claim yet fails to cite any authority to support this
proposition. 
 
B.        Plaintiffs’ Dismissal of Her Individual
PAGA Claim does not Deprive her of Standing to Assert a Representative PAGA
Claim
 
California
law holds “a plaintiff's inability to obtain individual relief is not
necessarily fatal to the maintenance of a PAGA claim.” (Kim v. Reins
International California, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 73, 85) (Kim).  “Where a plaintiff has brought a PAGA action
comprising individual and non-individual claims, an order compelling
arbitration of the individual claims does not strip the plaintiff of standing
as an aggrieved employee to litigate claims on behalf of other employees under
PAGA.” (Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1114 (Adolph).
The Plaintiff asserts that pursuant to Adolph, PAGA claims are severable
and that she can bring a representative PAGA claim without bringing an
individual PAGA claim.  
            
Therefore,
Plaintiff need not maintain an individual PAGA claim to have standing to pursue
a representative PAGA claim. In Balderas v. Fresh Start
Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533, the Court of Appeal for the
Second District found that even if an employee does not bring an individual
PAGA action, the employee retains standing to bring a representative PAGA
action. “[W]e hold that an employee who does not bring an individual claim
against her employer may nevertheless bring a PAGA action for herself and other
employees of the company.” (Ibid.) 
 
The Balderas Court
rejected the trial court finding that “because [the plaintiff] had not filed an
individual action seeking PAGA relief for herself, she lacked standing to
pursue a “non-individual” or representative PAGA action on behalf of other
employees.” (Balderas, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at p. 533.) The Balderas
court explained that despite the plaintiff not bringing an individual PAGA
action, the plaintiff retained standing under Adolph to bring a
representative PAGA claim because in her complaint:  
 
She
alleged that she 1) was an “aggrieved” employee of Fresh Start, and 2)
was subject to one or more Fresh Start violations. She alleged, “[W]hen
Employees including Ms. Balderas started work for Fresh Start at around 6:00
a.m. or 7:00 a.m., they regularly were not provided a meal period until after 5
hours of work for shifts longer than 5 hours.” This delay in providing timely
meal periods for her and other employees violated their right to have “a meal
period within the first five (5) hours of work.” 
 
(Balderas, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at p. 533.) 
 
Accordingly, the
plaintiff in Balderas met the only two requirements needed for PAGA
standing: (1) she was an employee of the alleged violator and (2) was someone
“against whom one or more of the alleged violations was committed.” (Balderas,
supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at p. 533; see Lab. Code, § 2699) (c).) Consistent
with the California Supreme Court’s findings in Adolph and Kim, the Balderas Court declined to
impose additional standing requirements, such as requiring the plaintiff to
bring both an individual and a representative PAGA action.  
 
As
Defendant fails to show that a PAGA action requires Plaintiff to maintain an
individual PAGA claim, Defendant also fails to show that Plaintiff’s action
should be dismissed for failure to state a cause of action.
 
Lastly,
while the question of whether Plaintiff is an “aggrieved employee” “against
whom one or more of the alleged violations was committed” (Lab. Code, §
2699(c)) is a dispute that is usually subject to arbitration, the ARC at issue
expressly created an exception for PAGA actions which states in the relevant
parts:
 
You and the Company agree to
arbitrate PAGA claims on an individual basis only. . . The Arbitrator
is without authority to preside over any PAGA claim by You on behalf of any
other person or joined by or consolidated with another person's or entity's
PAGA claim. . . In such case, the PAGA action must be litigated in a
civil court of competent jurisdiction-not in arbitration-but the portion of
the PAGA Individual Action Requirement that is enforceable will be enforced in
arbitration.
 
(Shaner
Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. B, § 6(c) [bold added].) 
 
As
the issue of Plaintiff’s standing to assert a representative PAGA claim is not
an individual PAGA claim subject to arbitration, the court cannot order
Plaintiff to arbitrate the issue of standing. Therefore, the motion to compel
arbitration is denied. 
 
MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION
 
I.         Legal
Standard
 
¿CCP § 1008 states in relevant part:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
(a) When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the same judge or court
that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the
prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
(b) A party
who originally made an application for an order which was refused in whole or
in part, or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent
application for the same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure
to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may
be revoked or set aside on an ex parte motion.¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
(c) If a
court at any time determines that there has been a change of law that warrants
it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may do so on its own motion and
enter a different order.¿ 
¿ 
(d) A
violation of this section may be punished as a contempt and with sanctions as
allowed by Section 128.7. In addition, an order made contrary to this section
may be revoked by the judge or commissioner who made it, or vacated by a judge
of the court in which the action or proceeding is pending.¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
(e)¿This
section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to
all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the
renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section. . . .¿ 
 
II.        Discussion
The court is unpersuaded
by Defendant’s contention that Plaintiff’s dismissal of her individual PAGA
claim was not in conformity with CCP § 581:
 
A plaintiff may dismiss his or her complaint, or any cause of
action asserted in it, in its entirety, or as to any defendant or defendants,
with or without prejudice prior to the actual commencement of trial.


(CCP § 581(c).)
 
In Adolph v. Uber
Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, the California Supreme Court
confirmed that pursuant to Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022)
142 S.Ct. 1906, PAGA claims can be split and severed into representative and
individual PAGA claims. “[W]e hold that the FAA preempts the rule of Iskanian
insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions into individual and
non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate.” (Viking River,
at p. 1924.) In Viking River, “[t]he high court explained that an
anti-splitting rule ‘unduly circumscribes the freedom of parties to determine
‘the issues subject to arbitration’ and ‘the rules by which they will
arbitrate,’ [citation], and does so in a way that violates the fundamental
principle that ‘arbitration is a matter of consent.’ ” (Adolph, at pp.
1118-1119 citing Viking River, at p. 1294.) 
 
“Where
a plaintiff has brought a PAGA action comprising individual and non-individual
claims, an order compelling arbitration of the individual claims does not strip
the plaintiff of standing as an aggrieved employee to litigate claims on behalf
of other employees under PAGA.” (Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 1114.)
Therefore, Plaintiff need not maintain an individual PAGA claim to have
standing to pursue a representative PAGA claim. In Balderas v.
Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533, the Court of
Appeal for the Second District found that even if an employee does not bring an
individual PAGA action, the employee retains standing to bring a representative
PAGA action. “[W]e hold that an employee who does not bring an individual claim
against her employer may nevertheless bring a PAGA action for herself and other
employees of the company.” (Ibid.) 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff may
dismiss her individual PAGA action without losing standing to bring a
representative PAGA action so long as she alleges (1)
she was an employee of the alleged violator and (2) was someone “against whom
one or more of the alleged violations was committed.” (Balderas, supra,
101 Cal.App.5th at p. 533; see Lab. Code, § 2699)(c).) Defendant cites no case
law that requires a PAGA claim to have both an individual and representative
component in order to be a viable cause of action. To find as Defendants assert
would mean that a plaintiff who brings a PAGA claim cannot split her PAGA claim
by seeking a dismissal of the individual claim but not the representative claim
while a plaintiff, like the one in Balderas, can split her PAGA claim if
she initially brings only a representative PAGA claim without asserting an
individual PAGA claim. (See Balderas, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at
p. 535.) 
 
Therefore,
the court finds that in dismissing her individual PAGA claim, the Plaintiff did
dismiss an entire cause of action, rather than a partial cause of action. 
 
Defendant
further asserts that the dismissal was wrongful because Defendant did not have
an opportunity to be heard. Defendant fails to cite any legal authority
entitling Defendant to have a hearing prior to Plaintiff requesting dismissal
of a cause of action. 
 
The right of a plaintiff to voluntarily dismiss an action
before commencement of trial is not absolute. Code of Civil Procedure section
581 recognizes exceptions to the right; other limitations have evolved through
the courts' construction of the term ‘commencement of trial.’ These exceptions
generally arise where the action has proceeded to a determinative adjudication,
or to a decision that is tantamount to an adjudication.
 
(Harris v. Billings
(1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.) Defendant has failed to articulate an
exception under section 581 that prevents Plaintiff from voluntarily dismissing
her individual PAGA claim. 
 
The court is also aware
that Balderas did not involve a motion to compel arbitration. The
inclination of the court is to compel arbitration as the question of whether
the Plaintiff is an aggrieved employee when the arbitration agreement is broad
in scope. However, as explained in the ruling regarding the motion to compel
arbitration, Defendant’s arbitration agreement was of limited scope and
expressly prohibited the Arbitrator from presiding over any representative PAGA
claim and expressly mandated that the PAGA action be litigated in civil court.
To order Plaintiff to arbitrate the question of whether she is an aggrieved
employee, for purposes of standing to bring a representative PAGA claim, would
be contrary to the express agreement of the Parties. 
 
To the extent that
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s Complaint still alleges an individual PAGA
claim, Defendant must file a separate motion to challenge the pleadings. 
 
Lastly, Defendant failed
to present a declaration articulating what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law require reconsideration. (CCP § 1008(a).) This
requirement is a jurisdictional prerequisite for motions for reconsideration. (Kerns
v. CSE Ins. Group (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 368, 391.)
 
Accordingly, the motion
for reconsideration is denied.   
 
Conclusion
 
The Court denies Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and
Defendant’s motion for reconsideration. Defendant to give notice. 
 