 Case Number:  24STCV12580    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, September 11, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCV12580
CASE NAME:                        La’Shay Renne
Davidson, et al. v. 1647 W 147 LLC, et al.
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants 1647 W 147 LLC and
Youhanna Labib
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs La’Shay
Renee Davidson, individually and as Guardian ad Litem for minor children
Savanna Adora Mayberry; Sa’Riya Destiny Lee; and Sasha Delilah Lee
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to
Strike Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        27 August 2024
REPLY:                                  03
September 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth is
sustained with leave to amend and the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend. Defendants’ motion to strike is granted with
leave to amend. Plaintiff is granted 10 days leave to amend. The court sets the
OSC RE: Amended Complaint for October 2, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. The Court also
advances the Case Management Conference (“CMC”) on September 30, 2024, to
today, and continues the CMC to October 2, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  Defendants to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On May 17, 2024, La’Shay
Renee Davidson, individually and as Guardian ad Litem for minor children
Savanna Adora Mayberry; Sa’Riya Destiny Lee; and Sasha Delilah Lee
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against 1647 W 147 LLC; Youhanna Labib;
Richard Chertow; Inland Pacific Management; and Does 1 to 20. 
 
The Complaint alleges
seven causes of action: 1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; 
2) Tortious Breach of
Implied Warranty of Habitability; 3) Negligence; 4) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (“IIED”); 5) Private Nuisance; 6) Violation of Civ. Code §
1924.5; and 
7) Violation of Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17200. 
 
Defendants 1647 W 147
LLC (“LLC”) and Youhanna Labib (“Labib”) (collectively “Defendants”) now
demurrer to the Complaint and seek to strike Plaintiffs’ request for punitive
damages. Plaintiffs oppose both motions. The matter is now before the court. 
 
LEGAL STANDARDS
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
Demurrer[1]
 
I.         Discussion
            A.        Summary of Allegations in Complaint 
 
Plaintiffs are tenants of an apartment unit
(the “Unit”) located in Gardena, CA (the “Property”). (Compl., ¶ 1, Ex. A.)
From January 11, 2021, to the present, Defendant LLC has been the owner and
manager of the Property and thereby ratified any tortious or wrongful conduct
by its officers, directors, or managing agents, Keri Melena, Vivianne Garcia,
and Patricia Guillen. (Id., ¶ 4.) Defendant Labib is a managing member
of Defendant LLC and manages the day to day business of the Property and
directs the conduct and business activities of Defendant LLC. (Id., ¶
5.) Plaintiffs moved in on or about March 27, 2020, and continue to reside in
the Unit. (Id., Exs. A, B.)
 
The Complaint alleges that Defendants
intentionally and/or negligently failed to repair and maintain the Unit, the
Property, and other rental units on the Property. (Compl., ¶ 13.) Defendants
had actual and/or constructive notice of the various defects of the Unit and
Property but failed to take timely or reasonable steps to abate and/or remedy
the defects. (Id., ¶ 13.)  This
included undertaking repairs that were inadequate and/or exacerbated the
problem. (Id.) Defendants failed to repair or abate the problems to save
money and increase their cash flow and net income. (Id.) Consequently,
Defendants did not spend sufficient money to repair, maintain, and control
pests consistent with the applicable standard of care. (Id.) 
 
The Unit and Apartment suffered from severe and
persistent cockroach infestation, and despite knowing about the infestation,
Defendants did nothing to legitimately abate the infestation and intentionally
and/or negligently failed to abate or eradicate the cockroach infestation to
save money and increase cash flow. (Compl., ¶ 13(a).) Chronic water leaks
resulted in mold, yet D Defendants did nothing to legitimately abate the
infestation and intentionally and/or negligently failed to repair and eliminate
the water leaks and mold in order to save money and increase cash flow. (Id.,
¶ 13(b).)The Unit and Property suffered from physical defects such as “stained
and water damaged
ceilings; crumbling walls; faulty heater; peeling paint and plaster; unstable,
rotten, and/or deteriorated floors; torn or missing window screens; broken or
deteriorated cabinets; wood rot; and other indicia of slum or substandard
housing.” (Id., ¶ 13(c).) These physical defects exacerbated the vermin infestation,
and the Defendants did nothing to legitimately fix the physical defects and
intentionally and/or negligently failed to do so. (Id.) Consequently,
Plaintiffs have suffered bodily injury, emotional distress, and property
damage. (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs assert that
Defendants knew about the above defects due to complaints from prior tenants,
but Defendants repeatedly and intentionally ignored the Complaints. (Compl., ¶
15.) “Defendants knowingly and intentionally preyed on and took advantage of
Plaintiffs in failing to repair, maintain, and exterminate the Apartment.” (Id.,
¶ 28.)”Defendants repeatedly failed or delayed making repairs to the Apartment
and the Property. Defendants repeatedly lied to Plaintiffs that they would make
repairs then failed to do so.” (Id., ¶ 29.) 
 
Defendants now demurrer
to the fourth and fifth causes of action for IIED and Private Nuisance. 
 
          B.        Fourth Cause of Action – Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED)
 
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress requires: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct
by appellants with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the appellants’ outrageous conduct. [Citation.] 
Conduct is considered outrageous when it is ‘so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ [Citation.]” (Belen
v. Ryan Seacrest Productions, LLC(2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 1145, 1164.) Whether
Defendants’ conduct was outrageous, oppressive or malicious is a question of
fact for the jury. (Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d
493, 499.)
 
The fourth cause of
action alleges that “Defendants' conduct in intentionally failing to repair,
maintain, and exterminate the Apartment and the Property was outrageous and
beyond all boundaries of decency and reasonable civilized conduct.” (Compl., ¶
44.) Defendants knew their actions would result in a severe vermin infestation
“that was sure to cause Plaintiffs bodily injury and severe emotional distress.”
( Id.) Defendants failed to repair and maintain the unit in order to
save money, increase their cash flow, and “intimidate Plaintiffs into not
complaining and/or to cause Plaintiffs' to abandon the Apartment.” (Id.)
Consequently “Plaintiffs have and continue to suffer emotional distress and
related physical symptoms or bodily injury including anxiety, fright,
sleeplessness, depression, nausea, worry, and fatigue.” (Id., ¶ 45.) 
 
As Defendant LLC is a
corporation, it can only act through its employees. (See Presbyterian Camp
& Conference Centers, Inc. v. Superior Court (2021) 12 Cal.5th 493, 515
[“Because a corporation is a legal fiction, it cannot act but through the
agency of natural persons.”].) Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action is devoid of
facts as to which of Defendant LLC’s agents engaged in extreme and outrageous
conduct. Plaintiffs failed to state to which agent they made complaints about
the vermin infestation, water leaks, mold, and physical defects. Plaintiffs
failed to state which agent of Defendant LLC ignored the complaints and which
agent acted intentionally to ensure that the repairs were inadequate and
instead exacerbated the problems. (Compl., ¶¶ 13, 15.) The Complaint is devoid
of facts as to how often Plaintiffs complained about problems, how often they
were ignored, what and for how long were repairs ignored, and if repairs were
done, why were the repairs intentionally negligent. 
 
In a conclusory manner,
Plaintiffs assert that a managing agent of Defendant LLC “authorized, directed,
and/or ratified” Defendants’ conduct without stating facts as to how such
conduct was authorized, directed and/or ratified and which specific agent was
responsible the conduct. (Compl., ¶¶ 16, 28, 30.) “These conclusionary
allegations, which allege no specific acts, are insufficient to survive
demurrer.” (Bagatti v. Department of Rehabilitation (2002) 97
Cal.App.4th 344, 366, fn. 8.) Plaintiffs also allege they were harassed and
intimidated to not complain about the Unit, but fail to state who harassed
Plaintiffs and what conduct the agent engaged in that constituted harassment.
(Compl., ¶ 30.) 
 
The defendant must
either intend their conduct to inflict injury or engaged in it with the
realization that injury will result. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1050-1051.) In sum, there are no facts that Defendant LLC is vicariously
liable for the extreme and outrageous conduct of its agents because the
Complaint is devoid of facts illustrating specific instances of agents engaging
in intentional or reckless conduct such as intentionally failing to repair or
intentionally making negligent repairs to the Unit and Property.
 
The demurrer to the
fourth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
                    C.             Fifth
Cause of Action - Private Nuisance
 
The essence of an action
for private nuisance is a substantial, unreasonable interference with the
plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of his property. (See Mendez v. Rancho
Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263; see Civ.
Code, § 3481.) Residential tenants are typically deemed to have a sufficient
property interest to confer standing to bring an action for nuisance. (Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920.) Moreover, California
recognizes claims for nuisance based on residential habitability issues such as
the ones alleged here. (Ibid.)
 
The fifth cause of
action asserts that “the vermin infestation, mold, water leaks, and physical
defects impacting the Property harmed Plaintiffs' health resulting in
respiratory and dermatological symptoms, bodily injury, emotional distress and
other health problems.” (Compl., ¶ 49.) “These conditions, which were created by
Defendants' ownership, operation and management of the [Unit].” (Id, ¶
50.)“Defendants’ negligent ownership, operation and management of the Property
generated no public benefit, and Plaintiffs never consented to such conduct.
Defendants' ownership, operation and management of the Property and the
physical condition of the Property constituted a private nuisance within the
meaning of Civil Code, Sections 3479 and 3481.” (Id., ¶ 52.) 
 
Defendant argues that
the fifth cause of action is duplicative of the third cause of action for
negligence. “ ‘Where negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on the same
facts about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is a negligence claim.’ ” (Melton
v. Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 542 citing El Escorial Owners'
Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1348.) 
 
The third cause of
action is premised on the fact that Defendants failed to comply with their
legal obligations governing care and maintenance of residential dwellings as
set forth in “Civil Code, Sections 1941 and 1941.1, Health & Safety Code,
Section 17920.3, the California Code of Regulations, the Los Angeles County
Code, local codes and other statutes, regulations or local ordinances designed
and intended to regulate the operation and management of rental properties.”
(Compl., ¶ 38.) By failing to adhere to the proper standard of care,
“Defendants failed to properly operate and manage the Property, the [Unit] and
the remaining rental units at the Property as required by law.” (Id., ¶
39.) “Defendants' breach of the applicable standard of care forced Plaintiffs
to live in an uninhabitable dwelling infested with vermin and rife with water
leaks and mold and other defects which harmed Plaintiffs and their children.” (Id.)

 
The court finds that the
fifth cause of action as pled is duplicative of the third cause of action for
negligence. “Where the ‘overriding issue’ is a ‘traditional tort’ like
negligence, that traditional tort ‘should not be litigated under the guise of a
nuisance action.’ ” (Bregan v. John Stewart Company (N.D. Cal., Feb. 19,
2024, No. 23-CV-01823-LB) 2024 WL 695400, at *12 citing El Escorial Owners'
Assn., supra,  154
Cal.App.4th at p. 1348.) The Complaint fails to show how the nuisance claim
differs from the negligence claim. The negligence and nuisance claims are
premised on the same facts, Defendants’ failure to properly operate and manage
the Unit and the Property as required by law. The negligence cause of action
asserts that lack of care caused “Plaintiffs [to] have suffered and continue to
suffer bodily injury, emotional distress and property damage[.]” (Compl., ¶
40.) The nuisance claim similarly asserts that “Defendants' negligent
ownership, operation and management of the Property” caused “Plaintiffs [to]
have suffered and continue to suffer actual damage including, but not limited
to, bodily injury, emotional distress, and property damage[.].” (Id., ¶
40.)
 
Accordingly, the court
agrees that as pled, the nuisance claim “is merely duplicative pleading which
adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory[.]” (Award Metals,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1135.) The demurrer to
the fifth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants seek to
strike the Complaint’s request for punitive damages as requested in Paragraphs
34, 41, 46, and 54 and the Prayer for Relief. 
 
To state a claim for
punitive damages under Civil Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific
facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)¿
The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory
allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Ibid.)¿¿“Malice”
is defined in Civ. Code § 3294 (c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” “Oppression” is “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(2).) The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions
that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.”¿ (Shade Foods, Inc. v.
Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847,
891.)¿¿ 
 
When the defendant is
a¿corporation, “the oppression, fraud, or malice must be perpetrated,
authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent of
the¿corporation.” (Wilson v. Southern California Edison Company (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164; see Civ. Code, § 3294(b).) 
 
As stated above, the
Complaint fails to identify which managing agent of Defendant LLC engaged in malice,
oppression, or fraud. Conclusory allegations devoid of facts showing how a
managing directed, authorized, or ratified “wrongful conduct” is not sufficient
to support a claim for punitive damages against a corporation. The Complaint is
also devoid of allegations as to who engaged in malice, oppression, or fraud.
Lastly, the Complaint is unclear as to whether the malice, fraud, or oppression
is due to the managing agents’  inaction
in failing to undertake repairs or affirmative conduct such as doing repairs in
a negligent manner. Moreover, the fact that repairs were negligently done is
insufficient to justify an award for punitive damages. “Mere negligence, even
gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive
damages. (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50
Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) 
 
Therefore, the motion to
strike is granted with leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth
is sustained with leave to amend and the demurrer to the fifth cause of action
is sustained without leave to amend. Defendants’ motion to strike is granted
with leave to amend. Plaintiff is granted 10 days leave to amend. The court
sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint for October 2, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. The Court
also advances the Case Management Conference (“CMC”) on September 30, 2024, to
today, and continues the CMC to October 2, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  Defendants to give notice.


