  Case Number:  22STCV16018    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  30 GABRIELLE MICHELLE QUIROZ vs HOLLYWOOD PRESBYTERIAN MEDICAL CENTER, et al.TENTATIVEThe Court excuses the personal appearance of the claimant and the guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference call.The Court has reviewed the Petition to Approve Compromise of Disputed Claim of a Minor Gabrielle Michelle Quiroz (Age 9). The Court finds the settlement is reasonable and approves and GRANTS the petition, effective upon filing a corrected proposed order as indicated below.The court makes the following findings pursuant to Probate Code section 3604(b)1. The SNT beneficiary has a disability which substantially impairs the individual’s ability to provide for her own care or custody and constitutes a substantial handicap;2. The SNT beneficiary is likely to have special needs that will not be met without the trust;3. The money to be paid to the trust does not exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to meet the SNT beneficiary’s special needs.Petitioner requests authority for trustee to invest in proprietary funds, mutual funds, and bonds with maturity dates greater than five years to provide for diversification and a higher rate of investment return. The request is GRANTED.The proposed trust instruments meet the requirements set forth in California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 7.903(c) and LASC rule 4.116(b), and therefore, the Court approves the creation and/or funding of the trust.TRUSTEE AND BONDThe proposed initial trustee is Westamerica Bank. Normally, bond must be required of a trustee unless the trustee is a corporate fiduciary. (California Rules of Court, Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code section 2320.) The proposed trustee meets that requirement, and the Court does not require bond.NOTICEWhen seeking approval of a SNT, service must be made upon three state agencies including the Dept. of Mental Health, Dept. of Developmental Services, and Dept. of Health Care Services. (Probate Code section 3611(c).) This requirement is met.THE PROPOSED ORDERThe proposed order must also include the following:1. The Order provides for satisfaction of state liens. Specifically, the order provides that plaintiff’s counsel shall hold the full amount of the state Medi-Cal lien in the client trust account until resolution of the lien. However, Petitioner should add language that any amount saved by a negotiated reduction of the lien shall also be funded into the SNT.2. While the Order requires first trust accounting, Petitioner should also add a 14-month calendar due date at the blank provided at p. 24, para. 10 which is a date that will be picked up by the Probate filing window to set an OSC to ensure the filing of the first accounting.3. The Order sets OSC in this civil department in approximately 60 days to ensure funding of settlement, submission of bond if required, purchase of annuity if relevant, and filing of LASC Form PRO 044 to open trust supervision action in probate. But Petitioner needs to add the date, time, and department in the blank provided at p. 24, para. 9.Accordingly, the petition is CONTINUED. Counsel is ordered to submit a proposed order amended to include the above-identified language.The Court also requires first trust accounting in one year and sets a calendar due date for filing in 14 months.The Court sets an OSC in approximately 60 days to ensure funding of settlement, purchase of annuity if relevant, and filing of LASC Form PRO 044 to open trust supervision action in probate.Moving party is ordered to give notice.