  Case Number:  21STCV21804    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  13, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV21804




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Good Faith Settlement




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant/Cross-Complainant Poiema
  Enterprise, Inc. dba La Mexicana Meat Market




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  North Atlantic Investment Co., LLC 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant /Cross-Complainant Poiema Enterprise, Inc. dba La Mexicana
Meat Market (“La Mexicana Meat Market”) moves for an order that the settlement
entered between Plaintiff Ameila Aguilar (“Plaintiff”) and it, was made in good
faith. Co-defendant North Atlantic Investment Co., LLC (“NAI”) opposes and La
Mexicana Meat Market replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under section 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, “[a] determination by
the court that [a] settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint
tortfeasor . . . from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor .
. . for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 877.6 (c).) Any party to an action may move for an order
determining whether a settlement between the plaintiff and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors was made in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a)(1).) “The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of
proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) 
 
Section 877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements
made under its aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the .
. . statute’s dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs
among the parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes
by way of settlement.) (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (hereafter, Tech-Bilt).) In
Tech-Bilt, the court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement is made in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are:
(1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants. (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 498-501.) Not every factor will apply in every case.
(Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Shell Oil Co.) (2015) 242
Cal.4th 894, 909.) 
 
 
“ ‘A determination as to the good faith of a settlement, within the
meaning of section 877.6, necessarily requires the trial court to examine and
weigh a number of relevant factors, [fn. omitted] one of the most important of
which is the settling party's proportionate liability.’ [citation.] If ‘there
is no substantial evidence to support a critical assumption as to the nature
and extent of a settling defendant's liability, then a determination of good
faith based upon such assumption is an abuse of discretion.’” (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1350.)
 
“All affidavits relied upon as probative must state evidentiary facts;
they must show facts and circumstances from which the ultimate fact sought to
be proved may be deduced by the court. [citation.] Affidavits or declarations
setting forth only conclusions, opinions or ultimate facts are to be held
insufficient; even an expert's opinion cannot rise to the dignity of
substantial evidence if it is unsubstantiated by facts. [citation.]” (Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834.)
 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to
demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in
relation to [the above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of [Section 877.6]. Such a demonstration would establish that the
proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms
of section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
La Mexicana Meat Market has entered into a settlement with Plaintiff
for $75,000 from its insurance policy.
 
This case arises from a trip and fall accident at La Mexicana Meat
Market that occurred on June 19, 2019. The shopping center where the incident
occurred is owned by NAI. Plaintiff tripped on ADA mats outside La Mexicana
Meat Market, that were placed by NAI. 
 
Plaintiff has completed two independent medical examinations: one with
Dr. Kvitne for orthopedic injuries and one with Dr. Kuhn for a
neuropsychological exam. Dr. Kvitne determined the reasonable value of
Plaintiff’s medical bills was $64,000. (Motion, 10.) However, this conclusion
is not presented in an affidavit under penalty of perjury. Moreover, La
Mexicana Meat Market does not set forth a rough approximation of Plaintiff’s
claim for damages.[1] As a
result, La Mexicana Meat Market has not presented sufficient admissible
evidence of a rough approximation for Plaintiff’s total recovery. Additionally,
the declaration of Sandra D. Carter does not describe facts about La Mexicana
Meat Market’s proportionate liability as a tenant. Though NAI placed the mats
in front of La Mexicana Meat Market, La Mexicana Meat Market does not explain
how this affects its liability and how that is reflected in the settlement
amount.  
 
Therefore, based on the above, La Mexicana Meat Market has not met its
burden of demonstrating the Tech-Bilt factors. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the application for determination of good faith settlement
is DENIED.
 
La Mexicana Meat Market shall give notice of the Court’s order and
file a proof of service of such.


