 Case Number:  22STCV01372    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  13, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV01372




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant/ Cross-Complainant Century
  Housing Corporation and Century Villages at Cabrillo, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed (Cross-Defendant Quentin Darnell Black)



 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 12, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed a complaint against Defendants and Cross-Complainants Century Housing
Corporation, Century Villages at Cabrillo, Inc. (“Cross-Complainants), and Defendant/
Cross-Defendant Quentin Darnell Black (Cross-Defendant) pertaining to a motor
vehicle accident. On August 10, 2023, Cross-Complainant moved to compel the
deposition of Cross-Defendant. This motion is unopposed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Any party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions,
by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the
action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.)  A properly served deposition
notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend
and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).)
 
The party served with a deposition notice waives any
error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at
least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is
scheduled.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410,
subd. (a).)  In addition to serving this
written objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the
deposition and quashing the deposition notice. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).)
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party . . .
without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . .
described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an
order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . .
of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section §
2025.450 requires the Court to compel the deposition unless it finds a valid
objection was served under §2025.410. The objecting party has the burden to
justify objections asserted. (See Denari v. Superior Court (1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 1488, 1494-95.) 
No meet and confer is required to
compel initial deposition attendance, but instead there must be a declaration
showing that moving party inquired about the nonappearance.  (Code Civ.
Proc. §2025.450(b)(2).)  "Implicit in the requirement that
counsel contact the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance is a
requirement that counsel listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith
attempt to resolve the issue," including by rescheduling.  (Leko
v. Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal. App. 4th 1109, 1124.) 

 
DISCUSSION
 
On April 12, 2023,
Cross-Complainants served an amended notice of deposition on Quentin Darnell
Black. (Lunn Dec.¶ 2.) Mr. Black failed to appear. (Id. ¶ 3.)
Cross-complainants contacted counsel for Mr. Black and served a second amended
notice of deposition according to the dates provided. (Id. ¶ 4-5.) Mr. Black
failed to appear without serving any objections. Accordingly, the Court grants
the motion to compel.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS the motion to compel Quentin Darnell Black’s
deposition and orders him to appear for deposition within 30 days.
 
Defendant shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 