 Case Number:  22STCV28075    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  13, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV28075




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Bryan Medrano




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Bryan Medrano (Plaintiff)
moves to compel Defendant 123 Ramona LLC (Defendant) to serve responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set Two. Defendant responds that counsel missed
the discovery request and will provide responses within 15 days and pay a
monetary sanction. Plaintiff did not respond to counsel’s offer and has
confirmed that the motions will remain on calendar.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff served Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two on Defendant
on June 19, 2023. (Jensen Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) No responses have been served. Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion to compel.
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount of $1,060 (3 hours of attorney
time at $400 plus the filing fee). The Court finds that monetary sanctions are
warranted, but finds the amount to be excessive in light of the type of motion
at issue and the lack of an opposition. Therefore, the Court grants sanctions
in the amount of $460 (1 hour of attorney time plus the filing fee).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production
of Documents Set Two is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide verified responses,
without objection, within 15 days.
 
Defendant and counsel of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to
pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $460 to counsel for Plaintiff within 30
days.
 
Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 