 Case Number:  23STCV06788    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  13, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV06788




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories and Requests for Production




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Joo Hye Song




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Joo Hye Song (Plaintiff)
moves for monetary sanctions against Defendant Target Corporation (Defendant)
for failing to timely provide responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and First
Set of Requests for Production. Defendant has not filed an opposition.
Plaintiff has filed a reply.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a monetary
sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 (c).)
Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff served Requests for Production, Set One and Form
Interrogatories, Set One on Plaintiff on May 1, 2023. (Glassman Dec. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.)
After four extensions, Defendant served objections without verified responses
on August 18, 2023. (Glassman Dec. ¶ 13.) Defendant thereafter served
additional responses on November 15, 2023. (Reply at p. 2.) Accordingly, it
appears that the current motions to compel are moot, as Plaintiff indicates
that new motions to compel further will need to be filed to address the current
responses. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount of $2,461.65 for each motion (3
hours of attorney time at $800 plus the filing fee for each motion). The Court
finds that monetary sanctions are warranted due to the discovery abuse, but
finds the amount requested to be excessive in light of the type and similarity
of the motions at issue. Therefore, the Court grants sanctions in the amount of
$2,461.65 total (1.5 hours of attorney time plus the filing fee for each motion).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court orders that Defendant and counsel of record,
jointly and severally, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,461.65
to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days.
 
Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 