 Case Number:  21STCV35913    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  13, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV35913




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Terminating Sanctions   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Authority




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Authority (Defendant)
moves for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff Kimberly Vanderhorst (Plaintiff, in pro per) for
failure to comply with the Court’s discovery order. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“To
the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method
or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected
party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may
impose…sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2023.030.) The court may impose a
terminating sanction for misuse of the discovery process by any of the
following: “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings
of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; (2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed; (3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that
party; (4) An order rendering a judgment by default against that party.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(d).)  Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery, or
disobeying
a court order to provide discovery, constitutes a
misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d), (g).)

 
“The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse
‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390,
quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1246.)   
 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly.  But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los Defensores,
supra, 223 Cal. App. 4th at p. 390 [citation omitted].)    
 
“Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders.”
(Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 citing Lang, supra, 77
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1244-1246 [discussing cases]; see, e.g., Collisson &
Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622 [terminating
sanctions imposed (by striking the defendant’s Answer and subsequently granting
default judgment) after defendants failed to comply with one court order to
produce discovery]; Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 481, 491, disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v. McCutchen (1997)
16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n. 4 [terminating sanctions imposed against the plaintiff
for failing to comply with a discovery order and for violating various
discovery statutes].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
On August 22, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to compel
responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One,
and Request for Production of Documents, Set One. The Court ordered Plaintiff
to provide verified responses within 30 days of the order and ordered Plaintiff
to pay monetary sanctions. (Min. Order, 8/22/23.) Plaintiff contacted
Defendant’s counsel on September 25, 2023 and requested that the discovery be
sent in oversized font due to her vision issues. (Anvari Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff
also stated she has mobility issues. (Id.) Defendant then re-served the
discovery responses in oversized font to her email address; Plaintiff confirmed
email was an acceptable means of communication. (Id.) Defendant then gave
Plaintiff until October 9, 2023, to respond. (Id. ¶ 9.) Defendant’s counsel
states that since then, Plaintiff has not contacted him or sent responses. (Id.
¶ 10.) Neither party appeared for the Final Status Conference. (See Minute
Order Dated November 29, 2023.) No opposition to this motion has been filed.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff was aware of the discovery orders and
has failed to comply with them. Monetary sanctions have been insufficient. She
also appears to have abandoned the case due to her failure to appear at the
Final Status Conference. Accordingly, the Court grants the motion.
 
In light of the Court’s ruling, Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions is denied.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED.
The case is dismissed with prejudice. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 