  Case Number:  24VECV00659    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  U I.BACKGROUNDThis case is a lemon law action.On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff Terence McCorry filed his complaint against Defendant General Motors, LLC, alleging: (1) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2 (d); (2) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2 (b); (3) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2 (a)(3); (4) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability; and (5) fraudulent inducement – concealment.On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed his first amended complaint (the “FAC”) against Defendant, again alleging: (1) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2 (d); (2) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2 (b); (3) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2 (a)(3); (4) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability; and (5) fraudulent inducement – concealment.On August 1, 2024, Defendant filed its demurrer for sufficiency as to Plaintiff’s fifth causes of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment in the FAC. Also on August 1, 2024, Defendant field its motion to strike portion of the FAC related to seeking punitive damages.On December 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition briefs.2On December 17, 2024, Defendant filed its reply briefs.II.LEGAL STANDARDa.DemurrerA demurrer is a procedure to object to a pleading set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, et seq. Because a demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters, a demurrer analysis considers only those defects which appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905. When considering demurrers, courts assume the truth of the facts alleged in the pleading and read the allegations liberally and in context. Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.A demurrer for sufficiency attacks a pleading on the ground that it does not contain facts sufficient to state a cause of action. Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 (e); Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747. Parties may also demur to causes of action individually. In either case, the procedure is also called a ‘demurrer for sufficiency,’ and it tests the pleading by itself, alone and disconnected from extraneous matters. Hahn at p. 747.b.Motion to Strike The Court has broad authority to strike any portion of a pleading drawn not within conformity the law and its orders. Code Civ. Proc., § 436. The trial court shall strike an allegation of punitive damages on motion unless the plaintiff has pleaded ultimate supporting facts. Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (Clauson).III.DISCUSSIONDefendant demurs for sufficiency as to Plaintiff’s fifth causes of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment in the FAC. Defendant also moves to strike portion of the FAC related to seeking punitive damages.3The demurrer will be sustained, with leave to amend. The motion to strike will be granted, with leave to amend to clarify the transactional relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant. If Plaintiff elects not to amend his pleading, the FAC will proceed as the operative pleading in this case without a fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment and without a claim for punitive damages.a.Summary of Allegations in the FACPlaintiff pleads that on December 10, 2018, he entered a warranty contract with Defendant regarding a 2018 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 (the “Vehicle”). Plaintiff pleads defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested within the applicable express warranty period, including transmission, engine, and climate control defects. (FAC, ¶¶ 6, 11.)Plaintiff pleads that on May 7, 2020, December 3, 2020, and December 27, 2023, he delivered the Vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair facility for repairs. Plaintiff pleads that after each visit to the authorized repair facility, the facility represented to Plaintiff that the Vehicle had been repaired. Plaintiff pleads that despite the repair facility representations, the Vehicle still suffers from defects which cause safety hazards. (FAC, ¶¶ 21-25.)Plaintiff pleads that Defendant committed fraud by allowing the Vehicle to be sold to Plaintiff without disclosing to Plaintiff that the Vehicle was susceptible to certain defects. Plaintiff pleads that Defendant was aware of the defects and deliberately concealed their existence from Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶¶ 63-80.)b.The demurrer will be sustained, with leave to amend, as to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment.Defendant demurs for sufficiency as to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment.4The necessary elements for fraudulent concealment are: (1) that the defendant concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) that the defendant was under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) that the defendant intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff; (4) that the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted in the same way had she known of the concealed fact; (5) causation; and (6) that the plaintiff sustained damages. Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 868. See also City of Pomona v. Superior Court (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 793, 803 (Pomona) (any action sounding in fraud must be pleaded with particularity).“[A] duty to disclose may arise from the relationship between seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual agreement.” LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 337. “[A] duty to disclose arises in this context only where there is already a sufficient relationship or transaction between the parties.” Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 312 (Bigler-Engler) (no duty to disclose where no transactional relationship existed between parties).Here, Plaintiff alleges no facts to establish any direct transactional relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant at the time of the alleged non-disclosure re: the Vehicle’s defects. Plaintiff does not allege that he purchased the Vehicle from Defendant. Rather, Plaintiff alleges that he purchased the Vehicle from Sierra Chevrolet in Monrovia. (See FAC, ¶ 6.) If Sierra Chevrolet rather than Defendant is the entity with which Plaintiff transacted, Plaintiff has no concealment claim against Defendant absent some allegation of a direct transactional relationship which imposed on Defendant some duty to disclose. See Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 312.Plaintiff argues that the Court should find otherwise based on the holding in Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843-844. In Dhital, the Court5determined that the economic loss rule would not preclude a lemon law Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claim. The Supreme Court granted review of Dhital on February 1, 2023. On December 18, 2024, the Court dismissed the petition for review. In the appellate opinion, the Fifth District Court of Appeal determined as follows:“As with all fraud claims, the necessary elements of a concealment/suppression claim consist of (1) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. [Citation.] Suppression of a material fact is actionable when there is a duty of disclosure, which may arise from a relationship between the parties, such as a buyer-seller relationship. [Citation.] Fraud, including concealment, must be pleaded with specificity. [Citation.]“Plaintiffs alleged the above elements of fraud in the SAC. As we have discussed, plaintiffs alleged the CVT transmissions installed in numerous Nissan vehicles (including the one plaintiffs purchased) were defective; Nissan knew of the defects and the hazards they posed; Nissan had exclusive knowledge of the defects but intentionally concealed and failed to disclose that information; Nissan intended to deceive plaintiffs by concealing known transmission problems; plaintiffs would not have purchased the car if they had known of the defects; and plaintiffs suffered damages in the form of money paid to purchase the car.”Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at pp. 843-844 (internal quotations omitted).As an initial matter, the Court notes that this case is distinguishable from Dhital. The Dhital Court held “that concealment-based claims for fraudulent inducement are not barred by the economic loss rule.” Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 840. While the Dhital Court also addressed whether the plaintiff sufficiently pleaded the elements of fraudulent concealment (see6Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at pp. 843-844), the Dhital Court did not address the question presented by the instant demurrer.That question, as posed by Defendant in its demurrer, is whether Bigler-Engler's direct transactional relationship requirement may be met where, as here, the plaintiff bought his vehicle from an intermediary dealership and not from the manufacturer. See Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 312 (Bigler-Engler) (no duty to disclose where no transactional relationship existed between parties).Followed to its logical conclusion, the holding in Dhital would essentially eliminate the Bigler-Engler requirement that a plaintiff must allege a direct transactional relationship to prevail on a concealment claim, which would essentially turn Plaintiff’s claim into a strict products liability action. Merely alleging that the Vehicle was delivered to Plaintiff with defects and nonconformities to warranty is insufficient to show that Plaintiff and Defendant ever entered a transactional relationship which gave rise to Defendant’s duty to disclose any defect to Plaintiff.The Court notes that in paragraphs 46-57 of the complaint, Plaintiff alleges facts to support Defendants’ executives’ knowledge of the defect and failure to disclose. It is only the transactional element with which this Court takes issue.Plaintiff takes the position that even if this case is not analyzed according to the holding in Dhital, Plaintiff has still met his pleading burden under Bigler-Engler because Plaintiff has alleged that he entered a warranty contract with Defendant. For purposes of alleging fraud, the Court finds this bare allegation of a relationship insufficient to show a direct, transactional relationship. See Pomona, supra, 89 Cal.App.4th at p. 803 (any action sounding in fraud must be pleaded with particularity). Whatever transactional relationship, if any, exists between Plaintiff and Defendant, Plaintiff must specifically plead the existence and nature of that relationship in his complaint. Referring generally to a warranty contract with Defendant is7inadequate. Absent particularized allegations showing some relationship giving rise to Defendant’s duty to disclose, Plaintiff has no cause of action for concealment against Defendant. See Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 312.The Court notes that this determination is in keeping with other appellate authority issued after Dhital. See, e.g., Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, 41, quoting Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 312 ("Such a transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large”).The demurrer will be sustained, with leave to amend, as to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment. In any amended complaint, Plaintiff will be required to include particularized allegations showing some transactional relationship giving rise to Defendant’s duty to disclose. Absent such allegations, the Court may summarily sustain a future demurrer to Plaintiff’s second amended complaint, without leave to amend.Because the Court has reached its conclusion based on Defendant’s argument that it has no transactional relationship with Plaintiff, the Court need not examine Defendant’s statute of limitations argument.c.The motion to strike will be granted, with leave to amend.Defendant moves to strike portions of the complaint related to seeking punitive damages.The trial court has broad authority to strike any portion of a pleading drawn not within conformity of the law and its orders. Code Civ. Proc., § 436. The trial court shall strike an allegation of punitive damages on motion unless the plaintiff has pleaded ultimate supporting facts. Clauson, supra, 67 Cal.App.4th at p. 1255.“In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or8malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” Civ. Code, § 3294 (a).Here, the Court has already determined that absent additional facts, Plaintiff’s allegations in the FAC are insufficient to show that Defendant fraudulently concealed information from Plaintiff. For the same reasons, the FAC is without sufficient allegations to support a punitive claim. Plaintiff has not included particularized facts showing that Defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. By all appearances, this is a basic lemon law case. Merely alleging that Defendant manufactured a defective vehicle is insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.The motion to strike will be granted, with leave to amend. In any amended complaint, Plaintiff will be required to include particularized allegations showing some transactional relationship giving rise to Defendant’s duty to disclose or some other basis for a punitive claim.IV.CONCLUSIONThe Court SUSTAINS, with leave to amend, the demurrer filed by Defendant General Motors, LLC as to Plaintiff Terence McCorry’s fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment against Defendant General Motors, LLC in the First Amended Complaint.The Court GRANTS, with leave to amend, Defendant General Motors, LLC’s motion to strike portions of Plaintiff Terence McCorry’s First Amended Complaint related to seeking punitive damages.Plaintiff Terence McCorry is ORDERED to file his Second Amended Complaint within ten (10) days. See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1320(g). If Plaintiff Terence McCorry elects not to file a Second Amended Complaint, the First Amended Complaint will proceed as the operative pleading in this case without a claim for fraudulent inducement – concealment and without a claim for punitive damages.Defendant General Motors, LLC is ORDERED to give notice.DATED: December 24, 2024