 Case Number:  21STCV21544    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  57  
Emanuel Shirazi (“Shirazi”) was insured
for property damage under an insurance policy (“the Policy”) issued by California
Automobile Insurance Company (“CAIC”).   Shirazi sued CAIC for breach of contract and
breach of the implied covenant and good faith and fair dealing, alleging that
CAIC failed to provide coverage that Shirzai says he was owed under the Policy for
damage he sustained to his property arising from a water leak that occurred when
a plumbing supply line burst.  Pending
before the Court is Shirazi’s motion to compel an appraisal of the amount of
his loss from the damage to his property.  CAIC opposes the motion on the ground that
Shirzai has waived his right to an appraisal by unreasonably delaying in
requesting one.  The Court agrees with CAIC
and is therefore denying Shirazi’s motion. 
 
Both
Shirazi and CAIC have a right to an appraisal under the Policy.  In pertinent part, the Policy provides that if
the parties cannot “agree on the amount, cause or extent of the loss, either
one can request that the amount, cause or extent of the loss be set by
appraisal.”  This provision conforms to the
requirements of standard form insurance policies set forth in Section 2071 of
the Insurance Code, which states, in pertinent part, that in the event of a
dispute “as to the actual cash value [“ACV”] or the amount of loss,” either the
insurer or insured may “request” an appraisal to determine the ACV or amount of
loss.  Section 2071 goes on to set forth
the appraisal procedure “[w]here the request is accepted.” (Ins. Code, § 2071.)
 
“Appraisal proceedings are a form of
informal arbitration and generally are subject to the rules governing
arbitration. “ (Croskey, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Insurance Litigation (The
Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 15:357 [“Croskey”].) This fundamental point is manifested in
the California Arbitration Act, which defines arbitration agreements to include
“agreements providing for . . . appraisal . . 
. .”  (Code of Civil Procedure, §
1280(a); see ( Louise Gardens of Encino Homeowners’ Ass’n, Inc. v. Truck
Ins. Exchange, Inc. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 648, 658 [“An agreement to
conduct an appraisal contained in a policy of insurance constitutes an
‘agreement’ within the meaning of section 1280, subdivision (a), and therefore
is considered to be an arbitration agreement subject to the  statutory contractual arbitration law.”)  Among the rules governing arbitration is that
a contractual right to arbitration can be waived.   (Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.2(a).)  To determine whether such a waiver has
occurred, courts apply the following factors: “(1) whether the party’s actions
are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether the litigation
machinery has been  substantially invoked
and the parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit before the party
notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party
either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for
a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking
arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings;
(5) whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial
discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place; and (6)
whether the delay affected, misled, or prejudiced the opposing party.”
[Citation] (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003)
31 Cal.4th 1187, 1196.)  The
party claiming that there has been a waiver of arbitration rights bears the
burden of proving that to be the case.  (Id.
at p. 1195.)
 
Based on the factual record the
parties have assembled in connection with Shirazi’s motion for an appraisal,
the Court finds that CAIC has carried its burden of proving that Shirazi waived
his right to an appraisal.  The record shows
the following events.
 
The water leak at Shirzai’s property
from which this case stems occurred on or about November 23, 2019.   Shirazi’s made a claim on or about that day
to CAIC under the Policy for water damage to his property arising from the leak.
 Shortly thereafter, CAIC’s adjuster inspected
Shirazi’s property and wrote an estimate for damages to the kitchen and dining room
at the property, concluding that the damages were limited to the drywall and
paint in those rooms.  Next, CAIC
reassigned the claim to Romeo Gateb, who inspected Shirzai’s property on
December 9, 2019.  During that inspection,
Gateb concluded that kitchen cabinets, wood flooring and the electrical panel
did not show signs of water damage.  As a
result of Gateb’s inspection, CAIC made a building payment to Shirazi for
$2,572.79 on December 27, 2019.  An additional
policy limit payment for $5,000.00 was also made on December 27, 2019 for the
mold remediation
related to the loss.  A supplemental building payment was  made on February 4, 2020 for $1,051.60.

On October 30, 2020, Shirazi, by and through his public adjuster Leland Coontz,
requested an appraisal.  By letter to
Coontz dated November 5, 2020, CAIC acknowledged receipt of Shirazi’s request
for appraisal and asked Shirazi/Coontz for clarification on the parts of Shirazi’s
claim on which he was requesting an appraisal. 
CAIC explained that it could not start the appraisal process until Shirazi
provided that additional information.   By
letter dated December 3, 2020, CAIC reiterated that it is in receipt of
Shirazi’s appraisal request on October 30, 2020 but stated that it had not
received a response to its November 5, 2020 letter requesting clarification.  CAIC again asked for a response from Shirazi to
its clarification request.   
 
On June 9, 2021, Shirazi filed suit
against CAIC.  His complaint alleged that
he attempted to avoid litigation by invoking the appraisal process under the Policy,
but that CAIC had refused to agree to an appraisal.    Thereafter,
the parties conducted discovery.  During
the pendency of the litigation, the Court has heard discovery motions and a
motion for summary adjudication.   On
August 7, 2023, the Court set the trial in the case for May 13, 2024.  An earlier trial date, in October 2023, previously
had been set.
 
On December 19, 2023, Shirazi renewed
his request for an appraisal.  On March
1, 2024, CAIC declined the renewed request based, inter alia, on “timing” of it.  Shirazi filed the pending motion for an appraisal
on March 5, 2024.  
 
Applying the factors for determining
whether a waiver has occurred to the factual record, the Court finds that Shirazi
waived his right to an appraisal.  Shirzai
delayed for nearly three-and-one-half years from the time of his initial request
for an appraisal (October 30, 2020) to the time that he moved to compel an appraisal
(March 2024).  During that period, Shirazi
never responded to CAIC’s requests for clarification, made in November and
December 2020, regarding Shirazi’s appraisal demand.  Instead, during that period, Shirazi initiated
and conducted the litigation.  Merely
filing a lawsuit does not waive a right to an appraisal.  But here, the litigation machinery was substantially
invoked long before Shirazi moved to compel an appraisal.  The bottom line is that Shirazi’s actions in conducting
the litigation appear to the Court to be entirely inconsistent with the
exercise of his appraisal rights.  And
now, trial in the case is right around the corner: Shirazi’s motion to compel an
appraisal finally came just two months before the May 13, 2024 start date of
the trial.   At this juncture, Shirazi’s
delay in moving to compel an appraisal misled, affected, and prejudiced CAIC,
which has been gearing up for trial by, for example, filing more than a dozen motions
in limine in advance of the final status conference before the trial, which is
set for May 3, 2023 -- just three weeks way from today.
 
In arguing that he has not waived his
right to an appraisal, Shirazi says that the parties entered into informal settlement
discussions on April 5, 2023.    That fails to explain, however, why Shirazi
did not file a motion to compel appraisal before then -- for example, at some
point following CAIC’s requests for more information regarding his appraisal
demand.  Nor does the fact that informal
settlement discussions began on April 5, 2023 explain why Shirazi waited for
more than a year after that to file a motion to compel an appraisal. 
 
Shirazi also tries to make hay out
of the fact that he wanted an appraisal but CAIC refused to engage in one.  The problem is that the appraisal process
cannot begin until one party’s request for an appraisal is accepted by the
other party.  (See Croskey, ¶ 15:357.)  After CAIC did not accept Shirazi’s request
for an appraisal way back in late 2020, Shirzai could have, and should have,
moved to compel an appraisal.  He did
not do that until March 2024.  At this point,
the motion is too late.
 
Finally, the Court notes that the
parties’ briefs in connection with Shirazi’s motion devote substantial
attention to what it is that happens in an appraisal, with CAIC, in particular,
focusing on the fact that an appraisal cannot determine whether an insurance
policy covers a particular loss -- it just determines the amount of the
loss.    The parties’ discussion of this aspect of the
appraisal process has no bearing on whether Shirazi waived his right to arbitrate.    That
said, at this point, it is unclear what purpose an appraisal would serve given
that a trial is about to begin not on the amount of Shirazi’s asserted loss,
but whether he has suffered the asserted loss for which he seeks coverage under
the Policy and on which his suit against CAIC is premised.