  Case Number:  22TRCV01291    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
JANE
  DOE R.H., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01291




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DOE
  1, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 







 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 22,
2024
Moving Party:                         Defendant Centinela Valley
Union High School District
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Jane Doe R.H.
Judgment
on the Pleadings
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
            On November 21, 2022, plaintiff Jane
Doe R.H. filed a complaint against defendants Doe 1, Doe 2, and Doe 3 through
60 for (1) childhood sexual abuse, (2) IIED, (3) negligence based on Gov. Code
§§815.2 and 820, (4) failure to report suspected child abuse, (5) negligent
supervision of a minor, and (6) negligence. 
Plaintiff alleges that in 1993/1994 schoolyear when she was around 16 or
17 years old and a student at Leuzinger High School, she was a victim of
unlawful childhood sexual assault by an athletics coach and/or teacher.  
            On March 21, 2023, the court granted
plaintiff’s ex parte application to name and serve Doe defendants. 
            On April 13, 2023, plaintiff filed
amendments to complaint designating Centinela Valley Union High School District
as Doe 1 and Charles Wright as Doe 2.
An
Observation
Rule of Court 8.1115 essentially
provides that only published California Supreme Court or Cout of Appeal
decisions may be cited.  Other cases
“must not be cited or relied on by the court or a party in any other action.”  How does this rule apply to (unpublished)
Superior Court rulings by other judges? 
Is it proper to note how other Superior Court Judges have ruled on
similar pleadings?  Perhaps the failure
of the Rule to address this question leads counsel to believe that it is proper
to argue to the Court that other Superior Court judges have ruled a particular
way in cases similar to the one before the Court.  This bench officer does not believe that it
is correct to reach such a conclusion, as to do so essentially is turning
non-citable rulings into “citations.”
This bench officer believes that it
is not proper to “cite” the conclusions of other Superior Court judges as a
basis for ruling a particular way.  That
is essentially asking this Court to “follow” the uncitable determinations.
Request for judicial notice DENIED.
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 438 states, in relevant
part:  “(b)(1) A party may move for
judgment on the pleadings. . . . (c)(1) The motion provided for in this section
may only be made on one of the following grounds:  (A) If the moving party is a plaintiff, that
the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action
against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense to the complaint. 
(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either of the following
conditions exist: . . . . (ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”  
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings “has the purpose and effect of a general demurrer.”  Smiley
v. Citibank (s.D.), N.A. (1995) 11 Cal. 4th 138, 146 (citation
omitted).  “[T]he trial court generally
confines itself to the complaint and accepts as true all material facts alleged
therein.  As appropriate, however, it may
extend its consideration to matters that are subject to judicial notice.  In this, it performs essentially the same
task that it would undertake in ruling on a general demurrer.”  Id.
(citations omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Centinela Valley Union High School District (“District”) requests judgment on
the pleadings as to the 3rd, 4th, and 5th
causes of action asserted against it on the ground that the allegations are
insufficient to constitute a cause of action because plaintiff failed to comply
with the claims presentation requirements of the Government Claims Act. 
The
complaint alleges exemption from Tort Claims Act, pursuant to Government Code §905(m),
and as such, plaintiff was not required to present a government tort claim to
Doe 1. Complaint, ¶27.  
Government
Code §905(m) states that, “There shall be presented in . . . all claims for
money or damages against local public entities except any of the
following:  . . . (m) Claims made
pursuant to Section 340.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure for the recovery of
damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault.”
The court
also notes that CCP §340.1(q) states:  “Notwithstanding
any other law, a claim for damages described in paragraphs (1) through (3),
inclusive, of subdivision (a) that has not been litigated to finality and that
would otherwise be barred as of January 1, 2020, because the applicable statute
of limitations, claim presentation deadline, or any other time limit had
expired, is revived, and these claims may be commenced within three years of
January 1, 2020.  A plaintiff shall have
the later of the three-year time period under this subdivision or the time
period under subdivision (a) as amended by the act that added this subdivision.”
(Italics added.)
Defendant
argues that Assembly Bill 218, which was enacted in 2019, purports to strip
statutory government immunity from public entities and violates Article XVI,
section 6 of the California Constitution, which prohibits gifts of public
funds.  Defendant asserts that AB 2018
made two significant changes to Gov. Code ¶905: 
first, it eliminated the language in Section 905(m) declaring the
exemption only applied to claims arising from conduct occurring after January
1, 2009; second, it added subdivision (p) to Section 905 stating that the
changes made to the statute “are retroactive.” 
Defendant argues that the California Supreme Court has repeatedly held
that the Legislature has no power to impose liability on a public entity for a
past occurrence, where, prior to the passage of the law, the plaintiff had no
enforceable claim.  Defendant cites to Chapman
v. State (1894) 104 Cal. 690, 693 (“the legislature has no power to create
a liability against the state for [] past act of negligence.”); Heron v.
Riley (1930) 209 Cal. 507, 517 (the imposition of liability against a
school district for a “past act of negligence” of an employee “would, in
effect, be the making of a gift.”); Jordan v. Department of Motor Vehicles
(2002) 100 Cal. App. 4th 431, 450 (“The term ‘gift’ in the
constitutional provision ‘includes all appropriations of public money for which
there is no authority or enforceable claim,’ even if there is a moral or
equitable obligation.”) (citation omitted). 

In
opposition, plaintiff argues that Coats v. New Haven Unified School District
(2020) 46 Cal. App. 5th 415 upholds the constitutionality of CCP §340.1
and rejects the arguments made by defendant. 
Further, plaintiff argues, defendant makes no logical or persuasive
argument that the “gift” clause applies since there has been no actual
appropriation of public funds.  Plaintiff
also asserts that AB 218 serves the public purpose of assisting victims of
childhood sexual abuse and punishing their abusers and that “[t]he
determination of what constitutes a public purpose is primarily a matter for
the Legislature, and its discretion will not be disturbed by the courts so long
as that determination has a reasonable basis.” 
County of Alameda v. Carleson (1971) 5 Cal. 3d 730, 744-47.  Moreover, plaintiff argues, none of the cases
cited by defendant stand for the principle that reviving a lapsed claim or
removing claims presentation requirements creates or imposes liability against
a public entity.  Additionally, plaintiff
contends, defendant’s request is improperly asking the court to usurp the
authority of the Legislature.
            In
reply, defendant reiterates its arguments that the California Supreme Court
expressly prohibits the action taken by the Legislature in passing AB 218
because the Legislature purported to create liability against a public entity
for past acts of negligence, and that “this use of legislative power is
expressly prohibited” because it violates the “gift” clause.  Defendant asserts that plaintiff is
requesting monetary damages and, if granted, a liability would be imposed on
the District.  Defendant also argues that
the Coats decision does not address the constitutional provision at
issue (whether AB 219 violates Article XVI, section 6 of the California
Constitution) and is therefore inapposite. 
Moreover, defendant asserts, the appropriation of public funds for
unenforceable claims serves no public purpose as a matter of law.  Finally, defendant contends, it is not asking
the court to usurp the role of the legislature; rather, “it is asking the Court
to enforce the California Constitution.”
            The
court rules as follows:  The court finds
that the allegations are sufficient to constitute a cause of action and that
plaintiff sufficiently alleges an exemption under the Tort Claims Act.  The court is inclined to determine that AB
218, and specifically, Gov. Code §905(m) is constitutional as there is no
appellate case law or statutory law determining otherwise.  The closest case addressing AB 218’s
constitutionality is Coats v. New Haven Unified School District (2020)
46 Cal. App. 5th 415, which determined that AB 218, including the
claims requirement exemption, is constitutional (although defendant’s argument
as to the gift clause was not raised).  In
Coats, the plaintiffs had alleged that they were not required to present
a claim to the school district under the Government Claims Act due to the
exemption for claims of sexual abuse of a minor stated in Gov. Code §905(m)—that
section at the time provided an exception for the recovery of damages suffered
as a result of childhood sexual assault arising out of conduct occurring on or
after January 1, 2009 as opposed to the current Gov. Code §905(m) which applies
retroactively.  The appellate court noted
the legislative history of the 2008 amendment, which states that, “’340.1’s
delayed discovery provisions recognize’ that ‘for many victims, the emotional
and psychological trauma from childhood sexual abuse does not manifest itself
until well into adulthood’” and that the intention is “’to ensure that victims
severely damaged by childhood sexual abuse are able to seek compensation from
those responsible, whether those responsible are private or public entities.’”  Id. at 422 (citations omitted).  When the appeal was pending, AB 218 was
signed into law, and the appellate court noted that of direct relevance was the
addition of CCP §340.1(q) and the amendment to Gov. Code §905(m).  In further briefing, the defendant school
district responded that “Assembly Bill 218 raises serious constitutional issues
in that it ‘imposes liability and sanctions of a punitive nature for conduct
that was not previously actionable’ and thereby ‘runs afoul of the
constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws and the due process clauses
of the 5th and 14th Amendments to the United States
Constitution and the California counterpart.”” 
Id. at 424.  The appellate court
then noted that “[t]he only question before us on this appeal is whether
appellants’ suit is barred by their failure to timely file a claim with the
District under its administrative regulation for board policy.”  Id. at 426.  The appellate court concluded:  “The present case, of course, involves
revival of a cause of action barred by a claim presentation requirement, not a
statute of limitations.  But we are aware
of no reason the Legislature should be any less able to revive claims in this
context, as it expressly did in Assembly Bill 218.”  Id. at 428.  “In Assembly Bill 218, the Legislature made
clear its intent to revive causes of action previously barred by government
claims presentation requirements.”  Id.  The appellate court noted that “[i]n Assembly
Bill 218, the Legislature has again attempted to balance the competing concerns
of protecting public entities from stale claims and allowing victims of
childhood sexual abuse to seek compensation. 
This time, the Legislature came to a different conclusion, with an
express revival provision for claims against public entities as well as those
against private defendants.”  Id.  The appellate court acknowledged though that
the changes made through AB 218 were not implicated in the Coats case,
including the retroactive application, but stated “[t]he District offers no
reason for finding the claim revival provisions of Assembly Bill 218
unconstitutional.”  
The court
also finds that defendant has not shown that the “gift clause” is applicable or
triggered because there has been no determination of defendant’s liability or
allocation of public funds at the pleading stage.  In any event, the court’s role is to
interpret the statute, which is plain on its face as to an exemption.  See Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority v. Alameda Produce Market, LLC (2011) 52 Cal. 4th
1100, 1112 (citation omitted).  
 “Courts should exercise judicial restraint in
passing upon the acts of coordinate branches of government; the presumption is
in favor of constitutionality, and the invalidity of the legislation must be
clear before it can be declared unconstitutional.”  Dittus v. Cranston (1959) 53 Cal. 2d
284, 286.  The court exercises judicial
restraint in passing upon the acts of the Legislature and the invalidity of
Gov. Code §905(m) is not “clear” and thus it cannot be declared
unconstitutional.
ORDER:
            The
motion is thus DENIED. 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.