 Case Number:  23TRCV02930    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
JOSHUA
  DAVIDSON, 


 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02930




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
RIVIAN,
  LLC,


 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 22, 2024
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Rivian, LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Joshua Davidson
Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay the Action
The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED and the action is STAYED. 
BACKGROUND
On September 6, 2023, Joshua
Davidson filed a complaint against Rivian, LLC for violations under
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and Magnusson-Moss Warranty Act.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.”
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . .
with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .
with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention
or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among
the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .
. . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”  
DISCUSSION
Defendant Rivian, LLC requests that
the court compel arbitration and to stay the case.
The complaint alleges that on March
4, 2022, plaintiff purchased a new 2022 Rivian R1T.  Complaint, ¶7.  The vehicle was delivered to plaintiff with
serious defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed other serious
defects and nonconformities to warranty including, its drivetrain components
and passenger safety restraint system. 
Id., ¶8.  The vehicle required
five separate repair visits and multiple manufacturer-mandated safety recalls
were issued for the unresolved defects plaguing some of the vehicle’s most
critical components.  Id., ¶9.
Existence of an agreement to
arbitrate
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Defendant Rivian presents evidence
that on March 4, 2022, plaintiff purchased a new Rivian Model R1T from Rivian
for $86,900.68.  Lauren Seimas decl.,
Exh. A.  Plaintiff executed a “Rivian
Purchase Agreement” using OneSpan, a third-party electronic signature vendor
similar to DocuSign.  Id., ¶¶2-5.  As Rivian asserts, the purchase agreement
contains an arbitration agreement, which states in part in bold:  “THIS AGREEMENT REQUIRES THE USE OF
ARBITRATION ON AN INDIVIDUAL BASIS TO RESOLVE DISPUTES, RATHER THAN JURY TRIALS
OR CLASS ACTIONS.  PLEASE REFER TO
SECTION 16 FOR ADDITIONAL DETAILS.” 
Section 16 is titled “DISPUTE RESOLUTION—ARBITRATION, CLASS ACTION
WAIVER” and is presented within a border. 
The section states in part:  “To
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law . . . or if You choose to
opt-out as provided below, You and Rivian agree to resolve any claims, demands,
disagreements, or disputes between us whether based in contract, tort, statute
or otherwise arising from or related to this Agreement or Our relationship,
including . . . the purchase or condition of the Vehicle by binding arbitration
conducted by the American Arbitration Association (‘AAA’) in accordance with
the AAA Consumer Arbitration Rules, unless you and We agree otherwise. . . .”
In his opposition, plaintiff does
not address or dispute that an arbitration agreement exists.
The court finds that an arbitration
agreement exists between plaintiff and defendant Rivian and that plaintiff did
not opt-out.
Scope of agreement 
The court finds that the scope of
the arbitration agreement covers plaintiff’s claims against Rivian as they
relate to the condition of the vehicle. 
Enforceability
            Unconscionable?
“Courts analyze the
unconscionability standard in Civil Code section 1670.5 as invoking elements of
procedural and substantive unconscionability. 
The procedural element of unconscionability focuses on whether the contract
is one of adhesion.  Procedural
unconscionability focuses on whether there is ‘oppression’ arising from an
inequality of bargaining power or ‘surprise’ arising from buried terms in a
complex printed form.  The substantive
element addresses the existence of overly harsh or one-sided terms.  An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable
only if both the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied.  However, Armendariz
held, ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ (Armendariz,
at 114).”  McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th 76, 87
(citations omitted).
Defendant asserts that the
arbitration agreement is not unconscionable and that, as an initial matter, the
parties delegated all issues related to the contract enforceability or
formation to the arbitrator.
In the opposition, plaintiff argues
that the arbitration agreement is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable because it is an adhesion contract as it was presented to
plaintiff with predetermined terms and plaintiff was not afforded any
meaningful opportunity to negotiate or discuss any of the terms in the purchase
agreement.  Plaintiff also argues that
the Consumer Arbitration rules precludes plaintiff adequate discovery as AAA
Rule 22 does not expressly allow for written discovery or depositions and is
void as against public policy because it precludes plaintiff from fairly
vindicating his statutory rights. 
As asserted by defendant and as the
court notes, the arbitration agreement contains a delegation clause, stating
under “Arbitrator’s Powers”:  “The
arbitrator, and not any federal, state, or local court or agency, shall have
exclusive authority to resolve all disputes arising out of or relating to the
interpretation, applicability, enforceability, or formation of this Section,
including but not limited to any claim that all or any part of this Section is
void or voidable, whether a claim is subject to arbitration or the question of
waiver of litigation conduct.”  
To be enforceable, the “delegation
clause” itself must be clear and unmistakable, and not revocable under state
contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.  Tiri v. Luck Chances, Inc. (2014) 226
Cal. App. 4th 231, 242.  See
also B.D. v. Blizzard Ent., Inc. (2022) 76 Cal. App. 5th 931,
957 (arbitration agreement clearly and unmistakably delegates question of
arbitration to arbitrator by statement that the arbitration “has authority to
decide all issues of arbitrability”).  The
court finds that the delegation clause is clear and unmistakable.  Plaintiff does not address the delegation
clause or dispute it in the opposition. 
Accordingly, the court does not address plaintiff’s arguments as to
unconscionability as they fall under the arbitrator’s powers.  
ORDER
1.      The motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED.
2.      The action is STAYED.
3.      Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.