 Case Number:  22STCV19510    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  29  
Tentative Ruling 
The Court withdraws the discovery order issued on February 8,
2024.
The Court issues a new and different order, in compliance with
the alternative writ issued by the Court of Appeal on April 17, 2024, granting
in part and denying in part Plaintiff’s motion.
Background
This case arises out of an incident on April 1, 2022, in which
Plaintiff Gerard Dunn (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he was injured when material
for sale at a Home Depot store fell and hit him.  On June 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed the
Complaint in this action asserting a cause of action for negligence against
Defendants Home Depot U.S.A., Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 10.  Defendant filed an answer on August 16, 2022.
After some prior efforts, on October 13, 2023, Plaintiff
noticed the deposition of the Defendant’s person most qualified (“PMQ”) on 8
topics (some with sub-parts) and requested production at the deposition of 2
categories of documents (one of which had 8 sub-parts).  (Van Gelder Decl., Exh. 10.)  The deposition was noticed for November 15,
2023, but Defendant’s PMQ did not appear and produce documents.
Following an attempt to resolve the dispute through the
meet-and-confer process and an Informal Discovery Conference (held on January
8, 2024), Plaintiff filed this motion on January 12.  In the moving papers, Plaintiff states that
the disputes between the parties relate to deposition topics Nos. 5-8 and
request for production of documents No. 1.
Defendant filed its opposition on January 29.  Plaintiff filed his reply on February 1.  Neither party seeks sanctions.
The motion came on for hearing on February 8.  At the close of the hearing, the Court took
the matter under submission.  Later that
day, the Court issued an order granting in part and denying in part Plaintiff’s
motion (the “Discovery Order”).
Defendant filed a petition for a writ of mandate.  On March 11, 2024, the Court of Appeal stayed
the Discovery Order.  On April 17, 2024,
the Court of Appeal issued an alternative writ of mandate, requiring the Court
either to vacate the Discovery Order in part and issue a new and different
order or to show cause.
On April 18, 2024, the Court issued an order setting Plaintiff’s
motion for further hearing on May 3 and advising the parties that the Court was
considering vacating a portion of the Discovery Order and issuing a new and different
order to comply with the alternative writ. 
The Court authorized the parties to submit supplemental briefs by no
later than April 26.
Plaintiff filed a response on April 24, and Defendant filed a
response on April 26.  Both parties requested
that the Court vacate a portion of the Discovery Order and issue a new and
different order in compliance with the Court of Appeal’s alternative writ.
Legal Standards
“[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence, or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking
discovery or of any other party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)  
 
In resolving disputes about the scope of permissible discovery, a
court must take into consideration “the liberal policies underlying the
discovery procedures,” and any “doubts as to relevance should generally be
resolved in favor of permitting discovery.” 
(Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Super. Ct. (1982) 31
Cal.3d 785, 790; see also, e.g., Gonzalez v. Super. Ct. (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546 [the “rules are applied liberally in favor of
discovery”].)
 
“Any party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210
through 2025.280 provide the requirements for (among other things) what must be
included in a deposition notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and
how and when the notice must be served.  
 
“The service of a deposition notice … is effective to require any
deponent who is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent,
or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection
and copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).)
 
Section 2025.230 provides: “If the deponent named is not a natural
person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the
matters on which examination is requested. 
In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the
deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or
agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to
the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the
deponent.”  
 
Section 2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a
written objection at least three days before the deposition if the party
contends that a deposition notice does not comply with the provisions of
sections 2025.210 through 2025.280.
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action
or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or
a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for¿inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (Id.,  § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  Any such motion to compel must show good
cause for the production of documents and, when a deponent has failed to
appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
Discussion
The Court vacates the Discovery Order and now issues a new and
different order in compliance with the alternative writ issued by the Court of
Appeal on April 17, 2024.
The Court has carefully considered the evidence and argument
submitted by the parties and rules as follows:
Deposition Topic No. 5.
Plaintiff seeks to depose:
The Person Most Knowledgeable regarding any incident inside
the SUBJECT HOME DEPOT STORE between January 1, 2016 and April 1, 2022 in which
an allegation was made that a PERSON suffered an injury as the result of being
struck by falling merchandise or equipment including but not limited to, the
date of the incident, the location of incident, whether the claim resulted in
litigation, and the name of the litigation, and a factual summary of the
incident.  (For example, April 1, 2022,
customer was struck by falling MDF boards at lumber display, the claim resulted
in litigation currently pending in Los Angeles County Superior Court, Dunn
v. Home Depot USA.)  Please note the
name and contact information of the customer making the Claim may be redacted
if the claim did not result in a publicly filed lawsuit.
The topic, as described, seems to have been crafted for a
document request, rather than a PMQ topic (including, for example, the
reference to redactions).  
Defendant argues that this topic (and all discovery) should be
limited to falling lumber, and should not extend to all “falling merchandise
and equipment,” because Plaintiff claims that he was injured by an improperly
secured piece of lumber, and other incidents of customers being injured by
other merchandise for sale in a Home Depot store (such as paint cans or toilet
seats) would shed little light on the facts and circumstances surrounding
Plaintiff’s injury.  Defendant also
argues that the term “PERSON” should be replaced with customer (or some other
term that excludes employees), because Plaintiff is not and was not an
employee.  
There is merit to the arguments on both sides.  The scope of discovery is broad, and there is
no requirement that Plaintiff must prove his claims before conducting
discovery.  That would put the cart
squarely before the horse.  But the scope
of discovery is not limitless, and the gist of Plaintiff’s claims is that he, a
customer (not an employee), was injured by falling vertically stacked construction
materials (not other merchandise that may or may fall and hit customers or
employees at Home Depot stores).  In
balancing these competing interests, and recognizing the limited probative value
and potential undue burden of discovery regarding injuries from falling merchandise
other than vertically stacked construction materials, the Court will narrow the
scope of this topic.
Defendant also objects that the phrase “and equipment” should
be stricken, as Plaintiff’s claim (broadly construed) relates at most to
falling merchandise, not falling store equipment (such as forklifts or ladders
used by store employees to reach items on high shelves).  The Court sustains this objection.  This case is about merchandise (that is,
items for sale), not equipment used or operated by store personnel. 
Accordingly, to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.230, and to incorporate the concerns identified above, the Court narrows
Request No. 5 as follows:
The Person Most Knowledgeable regarding any incident inside
the SUBJECT HOME DEPOT STORE between April 1, 2019 and April 1, 2022 in which
an allegation was made that a customer suffered an injury as the result of
being struck by falling vertically stacked construction materials.
As narrowed, the Court overrules Defendant’s other objections,
including that the topic is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence, is overly broad, or is unduly burdensome, and orders Defendant
to produce one or more PMQs to testify on Topic No. 5.  
Deposition Topic No. 6.
Plaintiff seeks to depose:
The Person Most Knowledgeable regarding any incident inside …
any HOME DEPOT STORE in California between January 1, 2019 and April 1, 2022 in
which an allegation was made that a PERSON suffered an injury as the result of
being struck by falling merchandise or equipment including but not limited to,
the date of the incident, the location of incident, whether the claim resulted
in litigation, and the name of the litigation, and a factual summary of the
incident.  (For example, April 1, 2022,
Home Depot North Hollywood, customer Gerald Dunn was struck by falling MDF
boards at lumber display, the claim resulted in litigation currently pending in
Los Angeles County Superior Court, Dunn v. Home Depot USA.)  Please note the name and contact information
of the customer making the Claim may be redacted if the claim did not result in
a publicly filed lawsuit.
The topic, as described, seems to have been crafted for a
document request, rather than a PMQ topic (including, for example, the
reference to redactions).  
In addition, and more importantly, the Court finds that
Defendant has shown that this topic is overly broad, is not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and is unduly
burdensome.  In particular, the Court
notes the substantial burden on Defendant associated with educating and
preparing a witness to testify regarding the facts relating to every falling
merchandise incident in more than 200 stores over a period of more than three
years – many of which would likely not involve lumber displays or safety cables,
which are at the core of Plaintiff’s claim. 
Based on the information in the record, the limited amount of
potentially discoverable information that Plaintiff might obtain from a
deposition on this topic is far outweighed by the undue and substantial burden
on Defendant.
The Court sustains Defendant’s objections to Topic No. 6.
Deposition Topic No. 7.
Plaintiff seeks to depose:
The Person Most Knowledgeable regarding any incident inside …
any HOME DEPOT STORE between January 1, 2019 and April 1, 2022 in which an
allegation was made that a PERSON suffered an injury as the result of being
struck by falling merchandise or equipment including but not limited to, the
date of the incident, the location of incident, whether the claim resulted in
litigation, and the name of the litigation, and a factual summary of the
incident.  (For example, April 1, 2022,
Home Depot North Hollywood, customer Gerald Dunn was struck by falling MDF
boards at lumber display, the claim resulted in litigation currently pending in
Los Angeles County Superior Court, Dunn v. Home Depot USA.)  Please note the name and contact information
of the customer making the Claim may be redacted if the claim did not result in
a publicly filed lawsuit.
The topic, as described, seems to have been crafted for a
document request, rather than a PMQ topic (including, for example, the
reference to redactions).  
In addition, and more importantly, the Court finds that
Defendant has shown that this topic is overly broad, is not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and is unduly
burdensome.  In particular, the Court
notes the substantial burden on Defendant associated with educating and
preparing a witness to testify regarding the facts relating to every falling
merchandise incident in more than 2000 stores over a period of more than three
years – many of which would likely not involve lumber displays or safety
cables, which are at the core of Plaintiff’s claim.  Based on the information in the record, the
limited amount of potentially discoverable information that Plaintiff might
obtain from a deposition on this topic is far outweighed by the undue and
substantial burden on Defendant.
The Court sustains Defendant’s objections to Topic No. 7.
Deposition Topic No. 8.
Plaintiff seeks to depose:
The Person Most Knowledgeable regarding who and how HOME DEPOT
as a company tracks/records INCIDENTS inside HOME DEPOT STORES involving people
claiming they were injured by falling merchandise and equipment.  (NOTE: This request is not asking for the
identities of every store manager at every HOME DEPOT STORE.  This request is looking for information about
how HOME DEPOT at a corporate level tracks/records INCIDENTS across HOME DEPOT
as an organization.)
Defendant repeats many of its objections to the other deposition
topics in response to Topic No. 8.  But Defendant
has not shown that this request is unduly burdensome.  Moreover, this topic is reasonably calculated
to obtain facts regarding the quality of Defendant’s monitoring of safety
issues in its stores.  If the monitoring
is poor, this could help support Plaintiff’s claims; if it is strong, this
could help support Defendant’s defenses; but either way it is reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
As noted above, Plaintiff is entitled to conduct discovery to
support his claim that Defendant has a problem with falling merchandise in its
stores.  Defendant denies that any such
problem exists, and contends that not all falling merchandise is the same.  Defendant may well be correct, but Plaintiff
need not take Defendant’s word. 
Plaintiff is entitled first to conduct discovery within the scope set
forth in the Civil Discovery Act to attempt to gather support for the claims he
is asserting in this lawsuit.
Defendant contends that the information within this topic is
proprietary and protected as a trade secret, but the Court has already issued a
Protective Order in this matter to address Defendant’s legitimate concerns
about proprietary and confidential information. 
Defendant has not shown that the information within this topic is so
sensitive that the existing provisions of the Protective Order are inadequate.
For the reasons stated above, the Court strikes the phrase
“and equipment” from Topic No. 8.  The
Court overrules Defendant’s other objections and orders Defendant to produce
one or more PMQs to testify on Topic No. 8. 

Request for Production of Documents No. 1.
Plaintiff seeks:
All DOCUMENTS  that
describe and/or detail any incident inside … any HOME DEPOT STORE between
January 1, 2019 and April 1, 2022 in which an allegation was made that a PERSON
suffered an injury as the result of being struck by falling merchandise or
equipment including but not limited to, the date of the incident, the location
of incident, whether the claim resulted in litigation, and the name of the
litigation, and a factual summary of the incident.  (For example, April 1, 2022, Home Depot North
Hollywood, California customer Gerald Dunn was struck by falling MDF boards at
lumber display, the claim resulted in litigation currently pending in Los
Angeles County Superior Court, Dunn v. Home Depot USA.)  Please note the name and contact information
of the customer making the Claim may be redacted if the claim did not result in
a publicly filed lawsuit.
The Court finds that Defendant has shown that the request, as
worded, is overly broad and unduly burdensome. 
In particular, the phrase “All DOCUMENTS” in this request creates an
undue and potentially overwhelming burden on Defendant, as it would require
Defendant to track down and produce (among other things) entire investigation
and litigation files on numerous incidents.
The evidence in the record indicates that Defendant gathers
information about accidents in its stores using a short document called an
“Incident Report.”  The evidence also
indicates that Defendant uploads and maintains information from the Incident
Reports into a searchable database.  (See
Soukup Decl., ¶¶ 5-6; Maurice Decl., Exh. C [Angulo Deposition], at 133:4-134:21.)
 
Defendant argues that the process of searching and producing
the requested documents would be burdensome. 
The evidence in support of the burden argument, however, was quite
limited.  Defendant produced a
declaration from Elizabeth Soukup, a Senior Legal Specialist in the Legal
Department.  In paragraph 9 of her
declaration, Ms. Soukup states:
As phrased and demanded by the plaintiff, the entire process
to search, review and obtain the necessary information and documentation from
2000 stores will depend on the number of incidents from each store that need to
be reviewed.  For example, if 40
incidents from one store needed to be researched as set forth above, and
conservatively estimating 10 to 30 minutes per incident, then for one store it
would take anywhere from 6.6 hours to 20 hours per store to conduct the
review.  Thus, for over 2000 stores, it
would take anywhere from approximately 13,200 hours to 40,000 hours to complete
the review.  Although this review cannot
be done by a minimum wage employee, using the California minimum wage of $16
per hour, the cost involved would range from over $200,000 to over $600,000.
(Soukup Decl., ¶ 9.)
But this information is not particularly helpful.  The first sentence of paragraph 9 is no doubt
true, as it states that the scope of the project will depend on the number of
incidents.  The remainder of the paragraph
is couched in hypothetical projections. 
The arithmetic is what it is, but Ms. Soukup does not tell us whether
she in fact determined that there were, for some sample of stores, 40 incidents
per store; rather, it appears that she simply selected that number as a
speculative guess, and the true figure could be anything, whether higher or
lower.
Moreover, Ms. Soukup’s projections were based on Plaintiff’s
request “[a]s phrased and demanded.”  The
Court has already stated that the request, as worded, is overly broad and
unduly burdensome.  The Court will not
order compliance with the request as originally presented by Plaintiff in the
deposition notice at issue.
To address Defendant’s arguments regarding burden, the Court narrows
the request in five respects.  
First, as above, the Court limits the request to customers,
and not all persons.
Second, and also as above, the Court limits the request to
incidents in which an allegation was made that a customer suffered an injury as
a result of being struck by failing vertically stacked construction materials.
Third, the Court limits the request to incidents inside
Defendant’s stores located within the State of California.  This strikes the appropriate balance between
the broad discovery authorized by the Civil Discovery Act and the concern
raised by Defendant about undue burden.
Fourth, the Court limits the request to electronically stored
Incident Reports in Defendant’s databases. 
This will eliminate any concerns about requiring Defendant to track down
litigation files held by counsel or files (whether paper or electronic) in
individual stores.  Alternatively, in
lieu of producing the Incident Reports themselves, the Court will allow
Defendant, at its option, to comply with the request by producing all
information contained in the Incident Reports that is stored in Defendant’s databases.
Fifth, the Court limits the time period to the eighteen-month
time period of October 1, 2020 through April 1, 2022.  Allowing discovery for this time period, the
Court finds, strikes the appropriate balance here: it reduces the burden on
Defendant while still providing Plaintiff with information over a sufficient
period to allow Plaintiff to assess whether there is factual support for his
contention that, at the time of the accident (on April 1, 2022), Defendant had
a company-wide problem with falling vertically stacked construction materials in
stores and knew or should have known about it.
Taking into account all of the above, the Court narrows
Request No. 1 as follows:
All Incident Reports electronically stored in Defendant’s databases
regarding any incident inside any HOME DEPOT STORE in the State of California between
October 1, 2020 and April 1, 2022 in which an allegation was made that a customer
suffered an injury as the result of being struck by falling vertically stacked
construction materials.  (In lieu of
producing the Incident Reports themselves, Defendant may, at its option, produce
all of the information contained in the Incident Reports that is stored in
Defendant’s databases.)  The name and
contact information of the injured customer and non-employee witnesses may be
redacted if the claim did not result in a publicly filed lawsuit.
As narrowed, the Court orders Defendant to produce documents responsive
to Request No. 1 at or before the PMQ deposition.
Conclusion
The Court vacates the Discovery Order and now issues a new and
different order in compliance with the alternative writ issued by the Court of
Appeal on April 17, 2024.
The motion is granted in part and denied in part.
Defendant is ordered to produce one or more persons most
qualified to testify at deposition regarding Topics Nos. 5 and 8 (as modified
above) within 30 days of notice (or on such other date agreed to by the
parties).
Defendant is ordered to produce, at or before the deposition,
documents responsive to Request for Production of Documents No. 1 (as modified
above).
The motion is otherwise denied.
The Court orders Plaintiff to give notice.