 Case Number:  22STCV15141    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Quash filed by Specially
Appearing Defendant Sherman
Pointe, Inc.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
BACKGROUND 
 
On May 6, 2022,
Francisco Larranaga (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Sherman Pointe,
Inc. (“Sherman”), 6851 Sepulveda Blvd., Inc., and Does 1 through 100 for
general negligence and premises liability arising from a trip and fall
occurring on May 7, 2020. 
 
On September 20,
2023, Plaintiff filed a proof of service on Sherman.  According to the proof of service, Sherman’s
registered agent (Rijesh Desai) was served by registered mail, sent to an
address on Riverside Drive in Los Angeles.
 
On October 17,
2023, Sherman filed this motion to quash service of summons. No opposition has
been filed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
C.C.P. §415.10 provides the requirements of
personal service of summons and the complaint as follows: “A summons may be
served by personal delivery of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to
the person to be served. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete
at the time of such delivery.  The date
upon which personal delivery is made shall be entered on or affixed to the face
of the copy of the summons at the time of its delivery. However, service of a
summons without such date shall be valid and effective.”
“When a defendant challenges the court’s
personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service of process ‘the burden
is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter
alia, the facts requisite to an effective service.’”  (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 403, 413.) Although the filing of a proof of service by a
registered process server creates a rebuttable presumption that service was
proper (see Evid. Code § 647), that presumption may be impeached by contrary
evidence submitted by a defendant. (See, e.g., Fernandes v. Singh (2017)
16 Cal.App.5th 932, 941 n.6.)  
C.C.P. § 418.10(a)(1) provides that, “A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion… To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” 
If service of summons is not properly and
validly effectuated by one or more of the approved methods, California courts
lack personal jurisdiction over the defendants, and any judicial actions taken
without such service violates principles of fundamental due process and is
therefore void. (Cnty. of San Diego v. Gorham (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th
1215, 1231.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Sherman contends service was improper as
service was not made properly on its agent for service of process, Ritesh Desai.  While the summons and complaint were sent by certified
mail, no copy was left at the location to be served. (Motion, 3:20-23.)
 
“A summons may be served by leaving a copy
of the summons and complaint during usual office hours in his or her office …
with the person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing
a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the
person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were
left.” (C.C.P. §
415.20(a).)
 
Sherman attached the Declaration of Ritesh
Desai, who states he is the agent for service of process, and he has not been
personally served with the summons and complaint. (Desai Decl., ¶¶ 2, 3.) The
proof of service only has the boxes checked for mailing the summons and
complaint, and no box selected for leaving a copy at a business, home or
physical address unknown. (Exh. A.)
 
”The burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of
jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective
service.”  (Summers v. McClanahan
(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.) Although the filing of a proof of service by
a registered process server creates a rebuttable presumption that service was
proper (see Evid. Code § 647), that presumption may be impeached by contrary
evidence submitted by a defendant. (See, e.g., Fernandes v. Singh (2017)
16 Cal.App.5th 932, 941 n.6.)  Here,
Defendant has submitted contrary evidence, and Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition.
 
The Court finds that Sherman has shown
that there was no proper service of the summons and complaint.  As
such, the motion to quash is GRANTED.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
 
The Court GRANTS Specially Appearing
Defendants’ motion to quash service of the summons.
 
The Court
requests that the Judicial Assistant give notice.