 Case Number:  22STCV21438    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Petition for Approval of Compromise of Minor (Max Torres-Lopez, Age 10) 
Petition for Approval of Compromise of a Person with Disability (Christina
Villareal, Age 35).
 
Tentative:
 
 
The Court excuses the personal appearance of the claimant and the
guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference
call.  
 
The Court has reviewed the
petitions for the approval of minor’s compromise filed on April 11, 2024, and
the proposed orders filed on April 29, 2024. 
 
The Court finds that the following
issues must be addressed in both petitions before the Court can approve the petitions:
 
(1)  Item
11b(6).  The reasons for the apportionment
of settlement payments as among claimant and other plaintiffs must be set forth
in an Attachment 11b(6).  No attachment
provided. 
 
(2)  Item
17e.  The Petitions state that counsel is
not representing any other party involved in the matter.  It appears, however, that the same attorney
is representing the two claimants as to which petitions have been filed, as
well as two other plaintiffs in this action. 
If this item was marked incorrectly, and the answer is that counsel is
representing other parties in the matter, an Attachment 17e must be provided.
 
(3)  Item 18b(3).  Both Petitions
state that the net settlement proceeds will be used to invest in a single-premium
deferred annuity.  The terms and
conditions of the annuity must be specified in Attachment 18b(3).  No attachment provided.  (Once this issue is addressed, a
corresponding modification of the proposed order may also be required.)
 
(4)  Moreover, as to claimant Christina, the Petition includes an Attachment
18b(2).  That is to be used when Item
18b(2) is checked and the settlement proceeds will be deposited into a blocked
account.  But here Item 18b(2) is not
checked.  This inconsistency must be
addressed.  (Once this issue is
addressed, a corresponding modification of the proposed order may also be
required.)
 
Accordingly,
the hearings on these two Petitions are CONTINUED so that Petitioners may
address these issues.
 
Moving
party to give notice. 