  Case Number:  20STCV04571    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendants’ Motion to Compel deposition of Plaintiff
Eddie Baker
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On February 4, 2020, Eddie Baker, Eddie Baker, Jr., and
Erin Baker filed a complaint against Humberto Antonio Ramirez and Eugenio
Sanchez-Ramirez (collectively “Defendants”) for negligence arising out of motor
vehicle incident occurring on February 8, 2018. 

 
Defendants filed their answer on December 5, 2022.  On the same day, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint against Eddie Baker and Roes 1 through 10.  Defendants filed a request for dismissal of the
cross-complaint on January 8, 2024.  
 
As it relates to the matter set for hearing on May 3,
Defendants noticed the deposition of Plaintiff Eddie Baker for March 8,
2024.  (Gonzalez Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh.
D.)  Plaintiff did not serve any
objection.  (Id., ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff did not appear for the noticed
deposition.  (Id., ¶ 7 & Exh.
G.)  Defendants inquired about the
non-appearance and received no response. 
(Id., ¶¶ 8-9 & Exh. H.)
 
On March 25, 2024, Defendants filed and served this motion
to compel the deposition of Plaintiff Eddie Baker.  Defendants also seek sanctions.  No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
“Any
party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person, including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the
requirements for (among other things) what must be included in a deposition
notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice
must be served.  
“The
service of a deposition notice … is effective to require any deponent who is a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd.
(a).)
Section
2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a written objection at
least three days before the deposition if the party contends that a deposition
notice does not comply with the provisions of sections 2025.210 through
2025.280.
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization
that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  Any such motion to compel
must show good cause for the production of documents and, when a deponent has
failed to appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that
the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (Id., subd.
(b).)  
When
a motion to compel is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
In Chapter 7 of
the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses
of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery.” 
Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery
process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030,
subd. (a).)
Discussion
Defendants
seek an order compelling Plaintiff Eddie Baker to appear for deposition and to
produce documents.
 
On February 13, 2024, Defendants noticed the deposition
of Plaintiff for March 8, 2024. 
(Gonzalez Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh. D.) 
Plaintiff did not serve an objection. 
(Id., ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff did
not appear.  (Id., ¶ 7 & Exh.
G.)  Defendants inquired about the
non-appearance and received no response. 
(Id., ¶¶ 8-9 & Exh. H.)
 
Plaintiff
Eddie Baker has not filed any opposition to the motion.
 
Defendants
need not show anything more.  Plaintiff
Eddie Baker did not appear for a properly noticed deposition, did not object,
and did not oppose the motion. 
Defendants have shown good cause for production of the requested
documents.
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel is GRANTED.
 
The
Court also GRANTS in part Defendants’ request for sanctions.  The Court is granting the motion to compel; the
conduct of Plaintiff and counsel in essentially ignoring the notice of
deposition is not substantially justified, and the imposition of sanctions
would not be unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
 
The Court
sets sanctions in the amount of $705, calculated based on two hours of attorney
time, multiplied by counsel’s reasonable billable rate of $150 per hour, plus
costs of a $345 fee for the court reporter on the date of the non-appearance and
a $60 filing fee.  (See Gonzalez Decl., ¶¶
10-12 & Exh. I.)
 
Conclusion
 
The
Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel the deposition.
 
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff Eddie Baker to appear for his deposition, produce the
requested documents, and answer questions under oath, on May __, 2024, at 10:00
am, through a virtual appearance, with a link to be provided by Defendants’
counsel.
 
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff Eddie Baker and counsel of record Hesam Yazdanpanah of
the Law Offices of D. Hess Panah & Associates, jointly and severally, to
pay monetary sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act in the amount of $705
within 30 days of notice.
 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.
 