 Case Number:  23STCV00599    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendant City of Los
Angeles.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted in part.
Background
On January 11, 2023, Bridget
Christian (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles (“City”) and
Does 1 through 100 for premises liability and general negligence arising from a
trip and fall occurring on October 15, 2022, on a sidewalk running parallel to
North Vermont Avenue in Los Angeles. 
City filed its answer on February 16, 2023.
 
On March 30, 2023, Plaintiff amended
the complaint to name Blake Bartlett and Cara Bartlett as Does 51 and 52.  On June 27, 2023, Blake and Cara Bartlett
filed their answers.
 
On April 9, 2024, Defendant filed
this motion to continue trial. Plaintiff filed a declaration of counsel in
opposition later on April 9, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,
18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be
analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is
present. A court considers factors such as: 

“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
City’s counsel states he is unavailable for the current trial date due
to a vacation scheduled for July 1 through July 16, 2024. (McGuire Decl., ¶ 2.)
City also notes that there some discovery remains.
City requests a 90-day continuance. 
City does not explain, however, why a two-week vacation necessitates (or
is good cause for) a 90-day continuance. 
In addition, with a short continuance, it appears that there will be sufficient
time to complete the identified discovery.
Plaintiff does not oppose a brief continuance but opposes the request
for 90 days.
Based on the evidence in the record, the arguments of both sides, and
the consideration of the applicable factors set forth in the Rules of Court,
the Court finds good cause for a 30-day continuance of the trial date.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
in part the motion to continue trial.
The Court
advances and continues the trial date to approximately August 9, 2024.  Final Status Conference and all deadlines are
reset based on the new trial date.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.