 Case Number:  24STCV21621    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CHRISTINA BALIAN 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
MACY’S INC., et al.

 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV21621 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: January 21, 2025



 
            Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. This action is stayed pending the
completion of arbitration. 
 
            On
8/26/2024, Plaintiff Christina Mary Balian (Plaintiff) filed suit against
Macy’s Inc., Macy’s Retail Holdings, LLC, Macy’s West Stores, LLC dba Macy’s,
Macy’s Northridge Fashion Center, and Armis Ananian (collectively, Defendants),
alleging: (1) employment discrimination; (2) unlawful harassment; (3) failure
to engage in timely, good faith interactive process; (4) failure to provide
reasonable accommodation; (5) retaliation; (6) failure to take all reasonable
steps necessary to prevent discrimination; (7) wrongful termination; and (8)
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            On
12/18/2024, Defendants moved to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her Complaint. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“Where
the Court has determined that an agreement to arbitrate a controversy exists,
the Court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy …unless it determines that… 
grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support rescission are fraud, duress, and
unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky
Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The Court may also decline
to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
1.      Defendants’
Burden
 
The party
moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving [the] existence [of
an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party also bears the burden
of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of the arbitration
agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
            
A.   
Existing Agreement
 
Defendant
submitted evidence that Plaintiff signed a New Hire Acknowledgement form which
included an arbitration provision. (See Sherrick Decl. Ex. G; Ripak
Decl. Exs. B-C.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contend that Defendants have failed to meet their burden
to show that Ms. Balian affirmatively agreed to the terms, as the arbitration
requirement lacks any signature. 
 
However, a
review of the documents clearly shows electronic assent. Plaintiff further
argues that the electronic signature forms fail to make any express reference
to the Acknowledgement Form containing the arbitration provision, and thus
Defendants cannot present any proof that Plaintiff signed the Acknowledgement
Form.
 
However, Defendants
submitted extensive evidence to show that: 
 
(1)  Plaintiff
was required to complete and electronically sign certain Online Forms before
she could begin working. The Online Forms could only be completed at designated
Macy’s computers within Macy’s locations. The Online Forms included, among
others, a Direct Deposit form, a Form W-4, a Travel Accident Insurance
Beneficiary Designation form, and a Solutions InSTORE New Hire Acknowledgement
form. (Sherrick Decl., Exh. A.)
 
(2)  To
access the online forms, the new employee must enter unique personal
information – her Social Security Number, month and day of birth, and zip code
– in the appropriate fields on the Online Forms Login screen and then click
“submit.” (Sherrick Decl., Exh. B.)
 
(3)  After
the employee enters the above information and clicks “submit,” the employee
sees the Online Forms Main Menu screen. This screen lists the online forms that
the employee is required to complete to begin employment. Included among those
forms is the Solutions InSTORE New Hire Acknowledgement. (Sherrick Decl., Exh.
C.) 
 
(4)  Once
the employee clicks the “Fill in Form” link next to Solutions InSTORE, the next
screen the employee will see is the Solutions InSTORE New Hire Acknowledgement.
(Sherrick Decl., Exhs. A,C.)
 
(5)  By
clicking on the “I Certify” link at the bottom of the New Hire Acknowledgement
form (Ex. A), the employee certifies that she has received a copy of the
Solutions InSTORE brochure and Plan Document and that the employee understands
she has 30 days from the date of hire to review the Solutions InSTORE
information and postmark a completed Election Form to the Office of Solutions
InSTORE if the employee does not wish to agree to Step 4 – Arbitration. The
employee also certifies her understanding that information about the Solutions
InSTORE Program, including a copy of the Plan Document, is available from: (1)
www.employeeconnection.net, Benefits tab, Solutions InSTORE; (2) Human
Resources; and (3) the Office of Solutions InSTORE. (Sherrick Decl., Exhibits A,
G.)
 
(6)  Once
the employee clicks the “I Certify” link at the bottom of the page, a dialogue
box appears requesting that the employee electronically sign the Solutions
InSTORE New Hire Acknowledgement. To electronically sign the form, the employee
must enter her Social Security Number, month and day of birth, and zip code in
the appropriate fields and then click the “Continue” link in the electronic
signature dialogue box. (Sherrick Decl., Exh. D.) 
 
(7)  Each
electronic signature submitted during the Online Forms completion process is
validated separately. First, the information entered in the fields of the
electronic signature dialogue box is validated against the user’s session
values (i.e., the information entered to Login) to ensure that the Social
Security Numbers match. If the Social Security Numbers do not match, the user
is prompted to re-enter her personal information. After five invalid attempts,
the account is locked, and the session is terminated. If the Social Security
Numbers match, the database is then queried to ensure that the zip code also
matches. If they match, the application saves these fields along with all the
other form fields to a database record in an XML format through an encrypted
and secured internal data feed.
 
(8)  Once
the application saves the electronic signature, a dialogue box appears stating:
“Your changes have been saved successfully.” This means that the employee’s
electronic signature data was successfully saved to the database. A true and
correct copy of an exemplar of the dialogue box acknowledging that the
electronic signature was saved is attached as Exhibit E. In addition, the
status of the Solutions InSTORE New Hire Acknowledgement on the Online Forms
Menu is updated to “Complete.” (Sherrick Decl., Exh. F.) 
 
(9)  After
the application saves the electronic signature to a database record, no one
employed by the company can change the signature. Additionally, only a select
few Online Form Administrators have access to the electronic signature
database. Individual electronic signatures are accessed only when that
information becomes relevant to handling an employee’s claim.
 
Moreover, Mr.
Sherrick stated in declaration that he located Plaintiff’s electronic signature
to the Solutions InSTORE New Hire Acknowledgement Form in the electronic
signature database. (See Sherrick Decl., ¶ 13.) 
 
Taken
together, the Court finds that the preponderance of evidence supports a finding
that Plaintiff electronically signed the New Hire Acknowledgement Form which
contained an arbitration provision. This is especially true given that the
completion of these forms was a necessary prerequisite to her employment, and
because Plaintiff does not indicate that she was provided some of the
pre-employment documents and not others. Rather, she categorically denies receiving
the Employment Brochure, the Election Form, nor the Plan Document, all of which
did not relate exclusively to arbitration. 
 
Finally,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants have failed to demonstrate that she did not
opt out of the arbitration agreement. However, Defendants submitted evidence
that no evidence of opting-out was located in her file. Moreover, in
opposition, Plaintiff does not contend that she ever opted out. Indeed, it
would be contradictory for Plaintiff to argue that she never received the
arbitration agreement, only to then argue that she also opted out of the
provision. 
 
Given that
Defendant has established by a preponderance of the evidence that an
arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s claims are covered by that
agreement, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to establish that the arbitration
clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236. (Pinnacle).)
 
2.      Plaintiff’s Burden
 
The party opposing
arbitration bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence any
defense, such as unconscionability or duress. (Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th at
p. 236.) 
 
Plaintiff did not advance any argument of unconscionability. Accordingly,
Plaintiff has not met her burden to show that the agreement should not be
enforced.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted. This action is
stayed pending the completion of arbitration.
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 