 Case Number:  23STCV26952    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Angelina Leo, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV26952 (Related to 20STCV48450)




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Li Wang,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: April 19, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint and
Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendant Li Wang
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Angelina Leo, Steven Nia
and W1, Inc.
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO THE SECOND AND
THIRD CAUSES OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED. THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AND FOURTH
CAUSES OF ACTION IS OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED AS TO PUNITIVE DAMAGES
ONLY.
 
PLAINTIFFS TO FILE AND SERVE A SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
WITHIN 
30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. DEFENDANT
TO FILE AND SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiffs
Angelina Leo, Steven Nia and W1, Inc. filed the operative first amended
complaint against Defendant Li Wang, asserting causes of action for (1) breach
of fiduciary duty; (2) unpaid wages; (3) fraud; and (4) conversion. 
 
The action arises from a joint business
venture to sell cannabis products under a company called Lucky. Plaintiffs
allege Defendant, an officer of W1, misappropriated corporate funds and
misrepresented their ownership of and access to a cannabis factory in Kentucky.
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice
is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not as to the truth of the
matters asserted therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Statute of
Limitations
 
Defendant
demurs to the complaint on the grounds that it is barred by the applicable
three-year statute of limitations. Defendant asserts that pleadings in the
related case “clearly indicate” Plaintiffs knew of the allegations in this
action no later than October 2020 when Nia and Leo left Lucky. Defendant argues
that this action must have been filed no later than October 2023. Plaintiffs
filed the complaint on November 2, 2023.
Defendant
provides no explanation as to how the pleadings show Plaintiffs knew of their
claims in October 2020. Defendant merely concludes so. The demurrer cannot be
sustained on this basis.
B. First Cause
of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
The elements for a breach of fiduciary duty
cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and
damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 594, 604.)
Defendant demurs to the first cause of action on the grounds that it is
uncertain and fails to state sufficient facts. Plaintiffs, shareholders of
Lucky, allege Defendant owed them fiduciary duties as an officer of Lucky,
Defendant breached this duty by selling products off the books and embezzling
and converting funds, and Plaintiffs were damaged by this breach. This is
sufficient to allege breach of fiduciary duty.
 
The demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
C. Second Cause
of Action for Unpaid Wages
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of action on the grounds that it is
barred by the statute of limitations and that Defendant, an individual, cannot
be held liable for the company’s failure to pay wages. The FAC lacks
allegations showing how Defendant Wang is personally liable for failure to pay
wages.
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
D. Third Cause
of Action for Fraud 
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
Defendant demurs to the third cause of action
on the ground that it is not pleaded with the requisite specificity. The Court
agrees. Plaintiffs allege Haifeng Wu, Defendant’s husband, made various
misrepresentations about Lucky’s assets and access to cannabis products.
Plaintiffs do not allege that Wang herself made any misrepresentations. This is
insufficient to support a claim of fraud against Wang.
The demurrer to the third cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
E. Fourth Cause
of Action for Conversion
 
To plead a cause of action for conversion, one must allege (1) the
plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s
disposition of the property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3)
resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
Defendant asserts Plaintiffs have failed to state sufficient facts to
support a cause of action for conversion. Plaintiffs allege Defendants
converted money and assets belonging to Plaintiffs. This is sufficient to
allege conversion.
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
F. Motion to
Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
response to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part" of that pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or
improper matter asserted in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Defendant moves to strike the prayer
for punitive damages and certain allegations that Defendant believes conflict
with pleadings in the related case. As Plaintiffs have failed to allege
sufficient facts to establish fraud, Plaintiffs have not alleged entitlement to
punitive damages. The Court declines to strike the remaining allegations.
Plaintiffs’ allegations do not clearly conflict with the other pleadings.
 
The motion to strike is GRANTED as to
punitive damages only.


 