 Case Number:  22STCV31051    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




richard rodger furton

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
mohammad r. talai-shahir

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV31051




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   25, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to strike answer or,
  alternatively, for issue, evidentiary, and monetary sanctions
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Richard Rodger Furton 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Mohammad R. Talai-Shahir
Motion to Strike Answer or, Alternatively, for Issue, Evidentiary, and
Monetary Sanctions
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Richard Rodger Furton (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an
order striking the answer filed by defendant Mohammad R. Talai-Shahir
(“Defendant”) or, alternatively, imposing issue, evidentiary, and/or monetary
sanctions against Defendant and in favor of Plaintiff. 
If a party engages in a misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.030.)¿ Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 provides, in relevant
part, that “[m]isuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited to,
the following: . . . . (d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery. . . . . (g) Disobeying a court order to provide
discovery.”¿¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2023.010, subds. (d), (g).)  “The trial
court should consider both the conduct being sanctioned and its effect on the
party seeking discovery and, in choosing a sanction, should attempt[] to tailor
the sanction to the harm caused by the withheld discovery.”  (Victor Valley Union High School District
v. Superior Court of San Bernardino County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1121, 1158
[internal quotation marks and citations omitted].)
On May 22, 2024, the court issued an order (1) granting Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s Supplemental
Interrogatory, and ordering Defendant to serve a full and complete verified
answer, without objections, to that interrogatory within 15 days of the date of
service of the court’s order, and (2) granting Plaintiff’s motion to compel
Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One (supplemental), and ordering Defendant to serve a full and complete
verified response, without objections, and to produce all responsive documents
in his possession, custody, or control to that demand within 15 days of the
date of service of the court’s order. 
(May 22, 2024 Order, p. 3:10-27.)  On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff served counsel for Defendant
with notice of the court’s ruling by email. 
(May 22, 2024 Notice of Ruling, p. 3 [proof of service].) 
Plaintiff filed the pending motion on June 11, 2024.  In support of his motion, Plaintiff presented
evidence showing that Defendant had not served responses within the time
ordered by the court.  (Spielfogel Decl.,
¶ 6 [As of June 11, 2024, counsel’s “office ha[d] not received a response
either to the supplemental request for production of documents or the
supplemental interrogatory”].)  Defendant
has opposed Plaintiff’s motion, asserting that, “[c]ontemporaneously with [the]
filing of this Opposition, Defendant’s responses for supplemental discovery
requests are being served on Plaintiffs.” 
(Nehoray Decl., ¶ 16.)  However,
Defendant did not submit evidence in support of this assertion, such that the
court cannot determine that Defendant has now complied with the court’s
order.  Moreover, Plaintiff’s reply does
not clearly state whether Defendant’s responses have or have not been served. 
Thus, the court finds that (1) Plaintiff has shown that Defendant did
not comply with the court’s May 22, 2024 order by failing to serve responses
within the time ordered by the court, and (2) Defendant has not shown that he
has since complied with the court’s order. 
The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has shown that Defendant
engaged in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d) [it
is a misuse of the discovery process to fail to respond to an authorized method
of discovery], (g) [it is a misuse of the discovery process to disobey a court
order to provide discovery].)  However,
the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that the court
should exercise its discretion to impose terminating sanctions against
Defendant based on his failure to comply with the court’s May 22, 2024 order to
serve responses to Plaintiff’s supplemental discovery requests.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).) 
The underlying discovery requests (1) ask Defendant to review his
responses to all previous interrogatories and, if any of those responses are
determined to no longer be correct and complete, to identify the response and
state whatever is necessary to make the response correct and complete, and (2) ask
Defendant to review his responses to all previous document demands and, if any
of those responses are determined to no longer be correct and complete, to
identify the response and produce all documents necessary to make the response
correct and complete.  (Pl. Mot. to
Compel Response to Supp. Interrogatory filed April 11, 2024, Spielfogel Decl.,
Ex. 1, p. 2:5-13; Pl. Mot. to Compel Response to Supp. Req. for Production
filed April 11, 2024, Spielfogel Decl., Ex. 1, p. 2:5-13.)  
While Plaintiff is entitled to Defendant’s responses to this
discovery, the court finds that Defendant’s failure to respond to the
supplemental discovery requests has not unduly prejudiced Plaintiff or rendered
Plaintiff unable to prove his case.  Thus, the court finds that terminating
sanctions are inappropriate and would exceed that which is required to protect
the interests of Plaintiff as the party entitled to but denied this discovery.  (Victor Valley Union High School District,
supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 1158 [“Discovery sanctions should be
appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery”] [internal
quotation marks and citations omitted].)
The court further finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show
that the court should exercise its discretion to impose the requested issue and
evidence sanctions against Defendant based on his failure to comply with the
court’s May 22, 2024 order to serve responses to Plaintiff’s supplemental
discovery requests because (1) Plaintiff has requested that the court impose
issue sanctions that, inter alia, Defendant breached the lease and the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing and engaged in other wrongful conduct,
which are not appropriately tailored to the harm caused by Defendant’s failure
to respond to discovery requesting the review of his previous discovery
responses, and (2) Plaintiff has requested that the court impose evidence
sanctions that Defendant not be permitted to testify about material issues in
this case, including the termination of the subject lease, his compliance with
his obligations thereunder, and his other wrongful conduct, which are not
appropriately tailored to the harm caused by Defendant’s failure to respond to
discovery requesting the review of his previous discovery responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subds. (b), (c);
Victor Valley Union High School District, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1158.) 
The court finds that, in order to address the harm caused by
Defendant’s failure to respond to this discovery, it is appropriate (1) to
order Defendant to serve responses to the subject discovery within 5 days of
the date of this order, and (2) to grant Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions in the amount of $2,060 ((5 hours x counsel’s $400 hourly rate) + $60
filing fee).  (Spielfogel Decl., ¶¶ 6-7; Victor
Valley Union High School District, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p.
1158.) 
ORDER
            The court grants in part plaintiff
Richard Rodger Furton’s motion to strike answer or, in the alternative, issue,
evidentiary, and monetary sanctions as follows. 
            The court orders defendant Mohammed
R. Talai-Shahir (1) to serve a full and complete verified answer, without
objections, to plaintiff Richard Rodger Furton’s Supplemental Interrogatory,
which complies with Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.220-2030.250, within
5 days of service of this order, (2) to (i) serve a full and complete verified
response, without objections, to plaintiff Richard Rodger Furton’s Request for
Production of Documents, Set One (Supplemental), which complies with Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2031.210-2031.250, and (ii) to produce to plaintiff Richard Rodger
Furton all documents and things in defendant Mohammed R. Talia-Shahir’s
possession, custody, or control which are responsive to that supplemental
request, within 5 days of service of this order, and (3) to pay to plaintiff
Richard Rodger Furton monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,060 within 30 days of service of
this order. 
            The court denies all other relief requested. 
            The court orders plaintiff Richard Rodger Furton
to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 25, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court