  Case Number:  24SMCV00059    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  O  Case Name:  Graciano v. California Food Management LLC, et al. Case No.: 24SMCV00059 Complaint Filed: 1-5-24 Hearing Date: 7-2-24  Discovery C/O: N/ACalendar No.: 11 Discovery Motion C/O: N/APOS: OK  Trial Date: NoneSUBJECT: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATIONMOVING PARTY: Defendant California Food Management LLC dba Burger KingRESP. PARTY: Plaintiff Martha Renteria GracianoTENTATIVE RULING Defendant California Food Management LLC dba Burger King is GRANTED. The action is stayed pending resolution of arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.4. Defendants proved the existence of a valid and agreed upon arbitration agreement. Plaintiff did not meet their burden to prove a defense to enforcement.  Defendant’s RJN is GRANTED as to the existence of the court documents, but not to the “truth of the hearsay statements in the documents.” (In re Vicks (2013) 56 Cal.4th 274, 314.) Plaintiff Martha Renteria Graciano objections are OVERRULED.  Defendant California Food Management LLC dba Burger King objection to the Graciano Decl., ¶ 8 is SUSTAINED. REASONING Under both the Title 9 section 2 of the United States Code (known as the Federal Arbitration Act, hereinafter “FAA”) and the Title 9 of Part III of the California Code of Civil Procedure commencing at section 1281 (known as the California Arbitration Act, hereinafter “CAA”), arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract.  (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)   “The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)   “The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.” (Rice v. Downs (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223, citing Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686-87.)   “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner…”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) “A party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Olvera v. El Pollo Loco, Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 447, 453.) CCP §1281.2 only allows the Court to deny enforcement of an applicable arbitration agreement where the party resisting arbitration demonstrates (1) waiver; (2) grounds for rescission of the agreement; or (3) subsection (c) grounds involving third parties to the arbitration agreement and potential for inconsistent rulings of fact or law. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)I. Petitioner Meets Burden to Prove Existence of Valid Arbitration Agreement Defendant California Food Management LLC dba Burger King (“Defendant”) moves to compel arbitration based on an agreement to arbitrate (“Agreement”) within the Defendant’s employment onboarding documents allegedly agreed upon and electronically signed by Plaintiff Martha Renteria Graciano (“Graciano”) on 6-29-20. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. 2 (the “Agreement”).) The relevant portions of Agreement state as follows:Any controversy, dispute or claim between any employee and California Food Management, LLC, or its officers, agents or other employees, shall be settled by binding arbitration, at the request of either party. The arbitrability of any controversy, dispute or claim under this policy shall be determined by application of the substantive provisions of the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. Sections 1 and 2) and by application of the procedural provisions of the state law. Arbitration shall be the exclusive method for resolving any dispute; provided, however, that either party may request provisional relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided in California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.8, where applicable. The claims which are to be arbitrated under this policy include, but are not limited to, claims for wages and other compensation, claims for breach of contract (express or implied), claims for violation of public policy, wrongful termination, tort claims, claims for unlawful discrimination and/or harassment (including, but not limited to, race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, gender identity or expression, medical condition, marital status, age, pregnancy, sex or sexual orientation ) to the extent allowed by law, and claims for violation of any of the federal, state, or other government law, statute, regulation, or ordinance, except for claims for workers' compensation, unemployment insurance benefits and petitions or charges that could be brought before the National Labor Relations Board. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 10, Ex.1 at p. 5.) Defendants provides a declaration from Kathi Churchill (“Churchill”) the Defendant’s Controller who is “one of the custodians of [Defendant’s] personnel documents, and is involved in the coordination of employees receiving and agreeing to onboarding documents and [Defendant’s] policies.” (Churchill Decl., ¶¶ 1–3.) Churchill declares that Defendant used an online portal, called Talent Reef, that Churchill helped set up, which allows Defendant to “digitally send onboarding documents to candidates and new employees for review and electronic signature.” (Id., ¶ 5.) Churchill declares that on 6-27-20 Defendant received an employment application from Graciano, and on 6-28-20, Defendant would have sent onboarding materials to Graciano including the Arbitration Agreement which is “included in the Employee Handbook and Acknowledgment and Agreement.” (Id., ¶¶ 8–10; Ex. 1.) Churchill declares that Graciano sent an electronically signed copy of the Acknowledgement and Agreement on 6-29-20. (Id., ¶ 11, Ex. 2.) Churchill’s declaration provides details regarding Talent Reef’s security precautions, the use of a unique username and password, the specific steps an employee would take to electronically sign the Acknowledgement and Agreement, and that Graciano took these specific steps. (Id., ¶¶ 12–21.)  Graciano argues the Defendant has not properly authenticated Graciano’s electronic signature claiming Defendant does not explain “how, or upon what basis, it was inferred that the electronic signature on the writing was indeed the act of the plaintiff,” and argues that Graciano does not recall signing the arbitration agreement document. (Oppo., pp. 9–10.) Graciano cites to Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836 (“Ruiz”) to support her argument. In Ruiz the court held that when a Plaintiff states they cannot recall electronically signing an arbitration agreement, the fact the arbitration agreement “had an electronic signature on it in the name of [the Plaintiff], and a date and time stamp for the signature, was insufficient to support a finding that the electronic signature was, in fact, the act of the [the Plaintiff].” (Ruiz, supra 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 844.)  The situation here differs from Ruiz, since here, the Defendant declares more than just a conclusory statement showing that the arbitration agreement had an electronic signature with a date and time stamp. As explained above, the situation here is more akin to Espejo since the Defendant provides a declaration from the Controller showing the security precautions, the use of a unique username and password, the specific steps an employee would take to electronically sign the Acknowledgement and Agreement, and that Graciano took these specific steps. (Churchill Decl., ¶¶ 12–21.) These additional declarations provided here fill the critical gap in information that was lacking in Ruiz, thus allowing for proper authentication of Graciano’s signature.  Additionally, in the reply, the Defendant includes a declaration from Graciano’s manager, Gustavo Gonzalez Santana (“Santana”) which elaborates on the Churchill’s declaration that Graciano was the only person who could apply with her specific username and password. The Court can consider this declaration within the reply because it does “nothing more than elaborate upon the information provided in the initial declaration submitted with the initial briefing.” (Savea v. YRC Inc. (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 173, 182; (Professional Engineers in California Government v. Brown (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 861, 875 [Where “supplemental” evidence submitted for the first time with a reply brief “raise[s] no new theories or arguments,” “[i]t [is] well within the court's discretion to consider it.”].) Santana declares he only provided Graciano with the link to the Talent Reef website, and he did not know or have access to the username and password for Graciano’s account. (Santana Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4, 8.) Thus, the Santana Declaration expands on the Churchill declaration to show how and when Graciano agreed to the arbitration agreement, thus properly authenticating the electronic signature.  Graciano argues that an IP address was not included and thus the electronic signature cannot be authenticated, however, this argument is not persuasive given the other facts declared to authenticate the signature. IP addresses are not required to authenticate an electronic signature as long as the party “presents evidence that the signatory was required to use a unique, private login and password to affix the electronic signature, along with evidence detailing the procedures the person had to follow to electronically sign the document and the accompanying security precautions.” (Garcia v. Stoneledge Furniture LLC (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 41.) The Defendant has provided all the necessary information to authenticate the electronic signature and thus the IP is not necessary in this instance.  The Court finds that the Defendant has met their burden to prove Graciano electronically signed valid arbitration agreement. In order to authenticate an electronically signed arbitration agreement an employer needs to provide a declaration detailing the electronic portal’s security precautions, the use of a unique username and password, the specific time and date the agreement was electronically signed, as well as the steps an applicant would have to take to place his or her name on the signature line of the employment agreement.” (Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (“Espejo”) (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1062.) Churchill’s declaration provides all of the necessary details included in Espejo to authenticate Graciano’s electronic signature on the arbitration agreement. Thus, the Court finds that Defendant has met their burden to prove the existence of a valid arbitration agreement. The burden now shifts to Graciano to prove a defense to enforcement of the arbitration agreement. II. Plaintiffs Burden to Prove a Defense to Enforcementa. Unconscionability Graciano argues the arbitration agreement is procedurally and substantively unconscionable, and the degree of unconscionability cannot be cured by severing any unconscionable provisions. (See Oppo., pp. 11–19.)  “The prevailing view is that procedural and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.  But they need not be present in the same degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.  In other words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1243–1244, quoting Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114).i. Procedural Unconscionability “The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power.  Oppression occurs where a contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise where the allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.  When the contract is a contract of adhesion imposed and drafted by the party with superior bargaining power, the adhesive nature of the contract is evidence of some degree of procedural unconscionability. However, the fact that an agreement is adhesive is not, alone, sufficient to render it unconscionable.”  (Malone v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1551, 1561.) “The term contract of adhesion signifies a standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.”  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 113.)  Thus, a form agreement presented on a preprinted form and offered on a take-it-or-leave-it-basis would render it a contract of adhesion.  (Baltazar, supra, 62 Cal.4th at p. 1245.)  Where a contract of adhesion is presented but there is no element of surprise or oppression, the Court must be “particularly attuned” to a claim of unconscionability, but the agreement is “not subject[ed] to the same degree of scrutiny as contracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices.”  (Ibid.)   “The circumstances relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not limited to (1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity of the challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the party's review of the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.”  (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126–127.) Graciano argues the Agreement is oppressive because the Agreement was a contract of adhesion and Graciano was allegedly not given the opportunity to modify or negotiate the terms. However, at most this type of employment contract would amount to minimal procedural unconscionability since adhesion contracts, like the contract at issue here, have been routinely upheld unless there is a finding of substantive unconscionability. (See Roman, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at p. 1471 [“whatever measure of procedural unconscionability may be present in this case involving an adhesive employment agreement between parties with unequal bargaining power, procedural unconscionability alone does not render an agreement unenforceable. There must also be some measure of substantive unconscionability.”].) Defendant has shown that by their standard practices Graciano was given time to review the agreement, and declining to sign the agreement would not have resulted in a refusal to hire Graciano. (See Churchill Decl., ¶¶ 16–19, 22.) Thus, at most this type of oppression results in minimal procedural unconscionability. Graciano argues the Agreement contains the surprise factor of procedural unconscionability because the Acknowledgement mentions the arbitration agreement once, but “buries it in extremely small font that does not and would not bring a reasonable individuals attention to it,” and bolds other sentences around the mention of the arbitration agreement sentence as to “hide any mention of the purported arbitration agreement.” (Oppo., p. 14:6–19.) Graciano provides no authority that this type of wording, or layout, has ever been found to be a form of surprise leading to a finding of procedural unconscionability. Again, at the very most this can be found to a minimal procedural unconscionability. Arbitration is mentioned in the first paragraph, it is not bolded, but this is not hidden or buried enough to find any higher levels of procedural unconscionability.    At most, this type of employment contract including an arbitration agreement, would create a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability, thus substantive unconscionability must be present to “render an agreement unenforceable”. (Roman, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at p. 1471 [“whatever measure of procedural unconscionability may be present in this case involving an adhesive employment agreement between parties with unequal bargaining power, procedural unconscionability alone does not render an agreement unenforceable. There must also be some measure of substantive unconscionability.”].)  ii. Substantive UnconscionabilitySubstantive unconscionability focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those terms are “so one sided as to “’shock the conscience.’” (Kinney v. United Healthcare Services, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal. App.4th 1329, 1330.)  “To reiterate, we assess unconscionability with a sliding scale approach. [Citation] In light of the high degree of procedural unconscionability, even a low degree of substantive unconscionability could render the arbitration agreement unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 85.) Graciano argues the agreement lacks mutuality because “Defendant has the sole discretion to modify the terms of the purported agreement and Ms. Graciano with no prior notice of those terms, would still be bound by said terms,” thus creating an illusory agreement. However, this argument is not persuasive. The agreement allows for the Defendant to modify the terms of the agreement “only as is necessary to make this “policy enforceable under any federal, state, or local law or other applicable case law effective after this policy's initial dissemination to its workforce.” (Churchill Decl., Ex. 1.) This type of language is in line with Harris v. TAP Worldwide, LLC (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 373, a case referenced by Graciano to support her argument, but actually supports the Defendant’s position. In Harris, the court found the agreement was enforceable and not illusory because the agreement contained language that limited the employer’s authority to modify the agreement, just like the agreement at issue here. (See Harris, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at pp. 385–386.) Graciano argues the right to appeal is relegated to another arbitrator rather than to a state court and thus substantively unconscionable.  Graciano provides no authority for this argument. This argument is unpersuasive as the agreement states, “The final award may be appealed to another arbitrator who will be chosen by the parties in the same manner as the original arbitrator. All the rules governing judicial appeals of judgments from the Superior Court shall apply to any appeal of this award, including but not limited to the time frames, deadlines and the standards of review.” (Churchill Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 1, emphasis added.) The use of the word “may” does not mandate an appeal to another arbitrator, and thus an appeal to a state court is still available. Graciano argues the arbitration agreement does not provide adequate discovery rights in a FEHA action relying on Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702. However, in Fitz, the arbitration agreement placed more restrictive discovery limitations on the parties than what is allowed in the arbitration agreement here. The arbitration agreement here allows for the “reasonable discovery “and gives the arbitrator authority to determine the scope of what is reasonable, not requiring a “compelling need” for discovery as was the case in Fitz. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 1 [“The parties shall be entitled to conduct reasonable discovery and the arbitrator shall have the authority to determine what constitutes reasonable discovery”]; Fitz, supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at p. 718.) Thus, this argument is incorrect and inconsistent with the findings in Fitz. Graciano lastly argues that the arbitration agreement is unlawful, and thus substantively unconscionable, because it deprives Graciano of “remedies which would be available to her under FEHA,” including “attorney fees, expert witness fees, and other forms of recovery supersede the standard Section 1032 recovery rules.” (Oppo., pp. 17–18.) Graciano specifically points to the section of the agreement which requires each party to bear its own costs and attorney’s fees, and also providing the arbitrator with the authority to require either party to pay the costs of and attorney’s fees of the other party. (Ibid.) The arbitration agreement specifically states:The cost of the arbitrator and other incidental costs of arbitration that would not be incurred in a court proceeding shall be borne by California Food Management, LLC The parties shall each bear their own costs and attorneys' fees in any arbitration proceeding, provided however, that the arbitrator shall have the authority to require either party to pay the costs and attorneys' fees of the other party, as is permitted under federal or state law, as a part of any remedy that may be ordered. (Churchill Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 1.)The Court finds this argument unpersuasive and not in line with the holding in Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 110–111 [“when an employer imposes mandatory arbitration as a condition of employment, the arbitration agreement or arbitration process cannot generally require the employee to bear any type of expense that the employee would not be required to bear if he or she were free to bring the action in court.”].) The costs and attorney’s fees required by the arbitration agreement are the same as would be required by pursuing an action in court and thus the agreement does deprive Graciano of her rightful remedies under a FEHA claim. The Court finds the arbitration agreement is not substantively unconscionable, and thus the agreement is not unconscionable. Graciano has not met her burden to prove a defense to the enforcement of the arbitration agreement. Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. III. Stay pending resolution of arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.4  “If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) The action is stayed pending resolution of arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.4.