 Case Number:  21STCV22711    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




marilyn jimenez

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
rpb lending, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV22711




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   28, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for defendant oscar favela
(2)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for defendant cp electric, llp
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Zulu Ali, Esq. and Law Offices
of Zulu Ali & Associates, LLP          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Oscar Favela
(2)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant CP Electric, LLC 
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Zulu Ali, Esq. and Law Offices of Zulu Ali & Associates, LLP
(“Defendants’ Counsel”) separately move to be relieved as counsel for
defendants Oscar Favela (“Favela”) and CP Electric, LLC (“CP Electric”) (collectively,
“Defendants”).  In the interest of
efficiency, the court discusses Defendants’ Counsel’s two motions together. 
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For
a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice
of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿¿ 
The court denies Defendants’ Counsel’s motions to be relieved as
counsel for Defendants because Defendants’ Counsel did not (1) provide
Defendants with sufficient notice of these motions, and (2) comply with
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.
First, the court finds that Defendants’ Counsel did not provide
Defendants with sufficient notice of these motions. 
“[A]ll moving and
supporting papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the
hearing.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿1005, subd. (b).)¿ “[A]ny right or duty to do
any act or make any response within any period or on a date certain after
service of the document, which time period or date is prescribed by statute or
rule of court, shall be extended five calendar days, upon service by mail, if
the place of address and the place of mailing is within the State of California
. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1013, subd.
(a).) 
The proofs of service attached to the pending motions establish that
Defendants’ Counsel served Defendants with these motions by mail on June 4,
2024.  (Mot. to be Relieved as Counsel
for Favela, p. 4 [proof of service on Favela]; Mot. to be Relieved as Counsel
for CP Electric, p. 4 [proof of service on CP Electric].)  For a hearing date of June 28, 2024,
Defendants’ Counsel was required to serve Defendants with these motions by at
least May 31, 2024 (16 court days + 5 calendar days for service by mail).  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1005, subd. (b), 1013,
subd. (a).)  
Thus, Defendants’ Counsel, in serving Defendants with these motions on
June 4, 2024, did not provide Defendants with sufficient notice of the hearings
on the pending motions to be relieved as their counsel of record in this
action.  The court therefore denies
Defendants’ Counsel’s motions due to insufficient notice. 
Second, even if Defendants’ Counsel had given Defendants sufficient
notice of the hearings on these motions, the court finds that Defendants’
Counsel has not complied
with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. 

Although
Defendants’ Counsel filed two “Notice[s] of Motion[s] and Motion[s] to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil” directed to Defendants, Defendants’ Counsel did
not file, as to both Defendants, (1) a declaration made on the mandatory
“Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel” form
(Judicial Council form MC-052), or (2) a proposed “Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil,” made on Judicial Council form
MC-053.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1362, subds. (c), (e).)  Further,
because Defendants’ Counsel did not file declarations on the mandatory Judicial
Council form, Defendants’ Counsel did not submit evidence establishing that service
on Defendants was made by mail (1) at Defendants’ current residence or business
address, or (2) at the last known residence or business address of Defendants,
and that Defendants’ Counsel was unable to locate a more current address after
making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the
motions.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule
3.1362, subd. (d)(1).) 
Thus, the court
finds that Defendants’ Counsel did not comply with California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362.
 
ORDER
The court denies Zulu
Ali, Esq. and Law Offices of Zulu Ali & Associates, LLP’s         (1) motion to be relieved as counsel for defendant Oscar
Favela, and (2) motion to be relieved as counsel for defendant CP Electric,
LLC, without prejudice to Zulu Ali, Esq. and Law Offices of Zulu
Ali & Associates, LLP’s filing
new motions that are served on defendants Oscar Favela and CP Electric, LLC
within the time required by the Code of Civil Procedure and comply with
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.
            The court orders Zulu Ali, Esq. and
Law Offices of Zulu Ali & Associates, LLP to give notice of this ruling to
defendants Oscar Favela and CP Electric, LLC, and to all other parties who have
appeared in this action. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 28, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court