 Case Number:  23STCV17534    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




sheakh imranul kabir

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
wesco iii bex, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV17534




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   28, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendants’
  demurrer to first amended complaint
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion to strike portions of first amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Wesco III Bex, LLC,
Essex Management Corporation, and Essex Property Trust, Inc. (sued as Doe
defendant 3)        
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Sheakh Imranul Kabir
(1)  
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with the
demurrer and motion to strike. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendants
Wesco III Bex, LLC, Essex Management Corporation, and Essex Property Trust,
Inc.’s request for judicial notice. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c); Yvanova v. New Century Mortgage Corp. (2016)
62 Cal.4th 919, 924, n. 1 [trial court properly took judicial notice of
recorded documents].)
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Sheakh Imranul Kabir
(“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint in this action on
November 30, 2023, against defendants Wesco III Bex, LLC (“Wesco”), Essex
Management Corporation (“Essex Management”), and Essex Property Trust, Inc.
(“Essex Property Trust”)[1] (collectively, “Defendants”).  
Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint alleges 11 causes of action for (1) statutory breach of the implied
warranty of habitability; (2) tortious breach of the implied warranty of
habitability; (3) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (4) breach of
contract; (5) negligence; (6) negligent hiring, training, and supervision; (7)
private nuisance; (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (9) unfair
competition; (10) violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code section 45.33; and
(11) violation of section IX of the County of Los Angeles COVID-19 Tenant
Protections Resolution.
Defendants now move the court
for an order (1) sustaining their demurrer (i) to the First Amended Complaint
as alleged against defendant Essex Property Trust in its entirety, and (ii) to
the second, fourth, and eighth causes of action as alleged against Defendants,
and (2) striking from the First Amended Complaint Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages and related allegations. 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
The court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, in its entirety, as
alleged against defendant Essex Property Trust on the ground that Plaintiff
cannot allege any cause of action against that defendant based on Defendants’
argument that it is not the landlord or owner of the subject property because
the First Amended Complaint (1) states facts sufficient to constitute causes of
action against Essex Property Trust, and (2) is not ambiguous or unintelligible
and therefore is not uncertain.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f).) 
First, the court finds that
Defendants have not shown that Essex Property Trust, as the management company
or operator of the subject property, cannot be held liable on all of the causes
of action alleged in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint on the ground that it
is not an owner of the subject property. 

The court acknowledges that the
grant deed, of which the court has taken judicial notice, establishes that
defendant Wesco is the owner of the subject property.  (RJN Ex. A, Grant Deed, pp. 2, 5 [listing
subject real property to include lots 1-2 of West Ninth Street, Los Angeles,
and lots 371-373 of Wilshire Harvard Heights, Los Angeles]; FAC ¶ 1 [describing
subject property to be located at 900 South Irolo Street, Los Angeles, which
has the legal description of lots 1 and 2 of West Ninth Street Heights, and
lots 371, 372, and 373 of Wilshire Harvard Heights].) However, Plaintiff has
also alleged Essex Property Trust was the “management company and/or operator
of the Subject Property” (FAC ¶ 10). 
Defendants have not presented adequate argument or authority
establishing that, because Essex Property Trust is not the owner of the subject
property, Plaintiff cannot allege any of his causes of action against it. 
Second, the court finds that
Defendants have not shown that the allegations, exhibits attached to the First
Amended Complaint, and the judicially noticed document (i.e., the grant deed)
establish that Plaintiff has not and cannot allege that Essex Property Trust is
a landlord of the subject property.
As set forth above, Plaintiff
has alleged that Essex Property Trust was, at all relevant times, “the owner,[2] management company and/or
operator of the Subject Property” (FAC ¶ 10). 
Further, in support of the first through third, sixth, and eighth causes
of action, Plaintiff has     alleged that
“Plaintiff and Defendants were in a landlord-tenant relationship” (FAC ¶¶ 57,
72), Defendants owed Plaintiff certain duties “[b]y virtue of their
landlord-tenant relationship” (FAC ¶¶ 68, 80), or referenced Defendants’
position as landlords (FAC ¶ 115).  
The court also acknowledges, as
noted by Defendants in their moving papers, that the lease agreement attached
to the First Amended Complaint identifies the landlord to be defendant Essex
Management on several pages, which would ordinarily take precedence.  (FAC Ex. A, Lease Agreement, p. 1; Kim v.
Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 283 [“‘If facts
appearing in the exhibits contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits
take precedence.’  [Citations.]”)  But (1) Plaintiff has also alleged that (i) “at
all relevant times, there existed a unity of ownership and interest between two
or more of the Defendants and DOES such that any individuality and separateness
between has ceased, and are the alter egos of one another” (FAC ¶ 13), (ii) Defendants
“exercised domination and control over one another to such an extent that any
individuality or separateness dose not, and at all times herein mentioned did
not, exist” (FAC ¶ 13), and (iii) it would be unjust to adhere to the fiction
of Defendants’ separate existence (FAC ¶ 13), such that Plaintiff has
sufficiently pleaded that Essex Property Trust is an alter ego of Essex
Management, and (2) the lease agreement—while identifying Essex Management as
the landlord on various pages thereof—also identifies Essex Property Trust to
be the landlord on various addendums to the lease.  (Cam-Carson, LLC v. Carson Reclamation
Authority (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 535, 549 [two conditions before alter ego
doctrine will be invoked].) 
Specifically, on the first
page of the lease agreement, Essex Management is defined as “‘Landlord[,]’” and
Essex Management signed the lease on June 16, 2022 as “LANDLORD.”  (FAC Ex. A, pp. 1, 19.)  However, on that same date, the parties
executed several addendums to the lease, three of which identify Essex Property
Trust to be the landlord as follows.  The
“Activities Participation and Recreational Facility Use Agreement, Waiver of
Rights and General Release” identifies the landlord to be Essex Property Trust,
Inc., “as agent for the Owner of the community commonly known as Windsor Court
. . . .”  (FAC Ex. A, Activities
Addendum, p. 1 [emphasis omitted]; FAC Ex. A, Lease Agreement, p. 1, § A
[stating that Essex Management is the landlord and “agent for the Owner of the
Property commonly known as Windsor Court”] [emphasis omitted].)  Similarly, the “Mold Addendum” identifies Essex
Property Trust to be the landlord and “agent for Owner of the Community” for
rental of the subject premises.  (FAC Ex.
A, Mold Addendum, p. 1.)  The “Utilities
Addendum” also identifies Essex Property Trust to be the agent for the owner of
the property known as Windsor Court and as the “‘Landlord[.]’”  (FAC Ex. A, Utilities Addendum, p. 1.) 
Thus, the court finds, based
on (1) the allegations of the existence of a landlord-tenant relationship
between Plaintiff and Defendants (i.e., including Essex Property Trust), (2)
the references to Essex Property Trust as a landlord in the addendums to the
lease agreement attached to the First Amended Complaint, and (3) the
allegations regarding the theory of alter ego liability, that Plaintiff has
alleged facts sufficient to establish that Essex Property Trust was either
acting as the landlord of the subject property, or may be held liable as an
alter ego of the landlord.  The court
therefore overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the First Amended Complaint as
alleged against defendant Essex Property Trust. 
The court overrules Defendants’
demurrer to the second cause of action for tortious breach of the implied
warranty of habitability because it states facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since (1) “a tenant may state a cause of action in tort against
his landlord for damages resulting from a breach of the implied warranty of
habitability[,]” and (2) Plaintiff has alleged facts establishing that
Defendants breached the warranty of habitability by alleging that (i) there
existed material defective conditions affecting the premises’ habitability,
including, inter alia, a continuing cockroach infestation (FAC ¶¶ 22, 47),
electrical wall outlet shortages (FAC ¶ 29), and piled up garbage outside of
the garbage room (FAC ¶ 41), (ii) Plaintiff notified Defendants of the
conditions within a reasonable time after discovery of the conditions (FAC ¶¶
22, 29), (iii) Defendants were given reasonable time to correct the deficiency
(Ibid.), and (iv) resulting damages to Plaintiff (FAC ¶¶ 73, 75-76).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 918-919; Erlach v. Sierra Asset
Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297 [setting forth elements of
affirmative claim for breach of the habitability warranty]; Civ. Code, §
1941.1, subds. (a)(5), (a)(6).)
The court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the fourth cause of action for breach of contract because it does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has
not alleged facts establishing that Defendants breached the parties’ lease
agreement.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e); Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 394, 402 [elements of cause of action for breach of contract]; FPI
Development, Inc. v Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 383 [in an action
for breach of a written contract, the plaintiff must plead the terms of the
written contract that “establish the obligation in issue” and “the breach of
that obligation”].)  Here, Plaintiff has
alleged that (1) Defendants were obligated to comply with all laws (FAC ¶ 88),
and (2) Defendants breached the contract by “failing to perform their central
duties under the contract – i.e. – not interfering with Plaintiff’s quiet
enjoyment of his home, and not demanding or collecting any monies to which they
are not lawfully entitled” (FAC ¶ 90). 
However, these facts do not appear to allege Defendants’ breach of a
specific obligation set forth in the parties’ lease, and instead alleges
Defendants’ violations of law, including the breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment. 
The court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the eighth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that Defendants’
conduct was so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community and therefore has not alleged the element of extreme and
outrageous conduct.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e); Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051
[elements of cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress].) 
MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT
Defendants move the court for an order striking (1) the prayer for punitive
damages, and (2) the allegations made in support of the prayer for punitive
damages, as set forth in paragraphs 52-55, 77, 99, 105, 112, 118, 140, and 147
of the First Amended Complaint. 
First, the court denies as moot Defendants’ motion to strike paragraph
118, because that fact is alleged in support of the eighth cause of action, to
which the court has sustained Defendants’ demurrer, and therefore this cause of
action and all supporting allegations are removed from the First Amended
Complaint. 
Second, the court grants Defendants’ motion to strike the prayer for
punitive damages (FAC, Prayer, ¶ 3) and supporting allegations (FAC ¶¶ 52-55,
77, 99, 105, 112, 140, and 147) because Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing that (1) Defendants are guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, or
(2) Defendants’ officers, directors, or managing agents had advance knowledge
and conscious disregard of, or authorized, ratified, or committed, an act of
oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
ORDER
            The court sustains defendants Wesco
III Bex, LLC, Essex Management Corporation, and Essex Property Trust, Inc.’s demurrer
to plaintiff Sheakh Imranul Kabir’s
fourth and eighth causes of action. 
            The
court overrules defendants Wesco III Bex, LLC, Essex Management
Corporation, and Essex Property Trust, Inc.’s demurrer to all other challenged
causes of action.
            The court grants defendants Wesco
III Bex, LLC, Essex Management Corporation, and Essex Property Trust, Inc.’s
motion to strike.  The court orders that the
prayer for punitive damages (FAC, Prayer, ¶ 3) and supporting allegations (FAC
¶¶ 52-55, 77, 99, 105, 112, 140, and 147) alleged in the First Amended
Complaint are stricken.   
            The court grants plaintiff Sheakh
Imranul Kabir 20 days leave to file a Second Amended Complaint that cures the
deficiencies set forth in this ruling as to (1) the fourth and eighth causes of
action, and (2) the request for punitive damages. 
            The court orders defendants Wesco
III Bex, LLC, Essex Management Corporation, and Essex Property Trust,
Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 28, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


