 Case Number:  EC063446    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVMEBER 3,
2023

MOTION
TO AMEND JUDGMENT TO ADD JUDGMENT DEBTORS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # EC063446

 



MP:  


Reon Roski (Judgment Creditor)




RP:  


CJ Rudolph, CJ’s Custom
  Construction, Inc., Snug Harbor, LLC, Ram Building, Inc., Ram Building
  Supply, Inc., and Green Acres Estates, LLC (Non-Parties)



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS:

 
Before
the Court is a motion by Judgement Creditor Reon Roski (“Roski”) to amend the
judgment obtained against Judgment Debtor R & R Construction (“R&R”).
Roski seeks to add CJ Rudolph (“Rudolph”), CJ’s Custom Construction, Inc.
(“Custom”), Snug Harbor, LLC (“Snug Harbor”), Ram Building, Inc. (“Ram
Building”), Ram Building Supply, Inc. (“Ram Supply”), and Green Acres Estates,
LLC (“Green Acres”) (collectively “the Entities”) as judgment debtors pursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) § 187. Plaintiff alleges
Rudolph and the Entities are mere alter-egos of R&R such that they may be
held liable for the judgment. Rudolph and the Entities each oppose the motion
and Roski Replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE: 
 
Roski
requests judicial notice of several documents obtained from the California
Secretary of State website pertaining to R&R and each of the Entities
pursuant to Evidence Code § 452. Rudolph objects to judicial notice on grounds
that these records are not properly authenticated pursuant to Evidence Code §
1401. 
 
Courts
also routinely take judicial notice of documents filed with the Secretary of
State, including information available to the public on the Secretary of
State’s website. (See, e.g., Jones v. Goodman (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 521,
528, 542 fn. 6.) As such, Roski’s request for judicial notice of the Secretary
of State Documents is GRANTED. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS: 
 
Rudolph’s
evidentiary objections to the declaration of Anthony Oliva are OVERRULED as to
Paragraph 17 and SUSTAINED as to all others. 
 
Roski’s
evidentiary objections to the declaration of CJ Rudolph are OVERRULED as to
Nos. 1-3, 5, 10, 12-16, 21, and 23 and SUSTAINED as to Nos. 4, 6-9, 11, and
17-22. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD:
 
“Under
CCP section 187, the trial court is authorized to amend a judgment to add
additional judgment debtors. As a general rule, a court may amend its judgment
at any time so that the judgment will properly designate the real defendants...
Judgments may be amended to add additional judgment debtors on the ground that
a person or entity is the alter ego of the original judgment debtor Amendment
of a judgment to add an alter ego is an equitable procedure based on the theory
that the court is not amending the judgment to add a new defendant but is
merely inserting the correct name of the real defendant Such a procedure is an
appropriate and complete method by which to bind new ... defendants where it
can be demonstrated that in their capacity as alter ego of the corporation they
in fact had control of the previous litigation, and thus were virtually
represented in the lawsuit.” (Hall, Goodhue, Haisley & Barker, Inc. v.
Marconi Conf. Center Bd. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1551, 1554-55 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].)
 
“There is
no litmus test to determine when the corporate veil will be pierced; rather the
result will depend on the circumstances of each particular case. There are,
nevertheless, two general requirements: (1) that there be such unity of
interest and ownership that the separate personalities of the corporation and
the individual no longer exist and (2) that, if the acts are treated as those
of the corporation alone, an inequitable result will follow.” (Greenspan v.
LADT, LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 511 [internal quotations and
citations omitted].)
 
The alter-ego
test includes a number of factors such as: 
 
1.      commingling of funds and other assets; 
2.      failure to segregate funds; 
3.      treatment by an individual of the assets of the
corporation as his own; 
4.      the failure to obtain authority to issue stock; 
5.      the failure to maintain minutes or adequate
corporate records; 
6.      confusing the records of separate entities; 
7.      identical equitable ownership in the two
entities; 
8.      the use of the corporation as a mere shell for a
single venture or business of an individual, 
9.      the disregard of legal formalities and the
failure to maintain arm's length relationships among related entities; 
10.  the diversion of assets by a person to the
entity to the detriment of the creditors; and
11.  manipulation of assets and liabilities between
entities to concentrate the assets in one and the liabilities in the other
 
No single
factor is determinative. (Greenspan supra, 191 Cal.App.4th at 513.)
 
MERITS:
AS TO RUDOLPH 
 
Control
of the Litigation 
 
C.C.P. §
187 applies to third parties only if they controlled the underlying
litigation and were virtually represented. (Greenspan supra, 191
Cal.App.4th at 517.) In Greenspan the California Court of
Appeals ruled that a trustee, Barry Shy (“Shy”) and his affiliated companies
controlled the underlying litigation by virtue of Shy’s direction of the
defense at arbitration on behalf of himself and all entities which were under
his control. (Id.) 
 
Factors
speaking to control over litigation are whether the nonparty hired counsel in
the matter, were kept fully informed of the suit’s progress, were familiar with
all the issues, and helped draft documents for the litigation. (See Alexander
v. Abbey of the Chimes (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 39, 46.)
 
Roski
submits that Rudolph exercised the requisite control over the litigation
required to show he was R&R’s alter-ego. Roski offers Rudolph’s statement
at the judgement debtor examination for R&R that he attended each day of
the arbitration. (Oliva Decl. Exh. 6 at 114.) 
The statement is as follows: 
 
Q: Okay. And during the last five years you have
been the only officer of R & R Construction, correct? 
 
A: Correct.
 
Q: And during the litigation of this matter with
Ms. Roski you have been the only member of R & R in control of that
litigation, correct? 
 
A: Yes. 
 
Q: And you attended -- and I'm saying this for
the record, I know this because I was there with you -- you attended every day
of the arbitration, correct? 
 
A: I did.
 
Roski
also argues Rudolph “hired legal counsel to represent [R&R], testified on
behalf of Debtor at deposition and the arbitration hearing…directed the
bankruptcy action, directed the Rudolph entities to loan funds to Debtor so
that it could pay its bills and legal fees, and appeared for both judgment
debtor examinations.” (Mot. p. 18.) Roski provides no evidentiary citations for
the claims that Rudolph hired counsel in the matter, nor do any appear in the
Court’s review of the moving papers. The Court agrees that Rudolph participated
in both days of debtor examination, evidenced by his testimony attached as
Exhibit 6. However, Roski provides no evidence that Rudolph directly hired the
attorneys which represented R&R at the arbitration or otherwise. 
 
Rudolph
claims in his declaration that R&R’s insurer appointed counsel, who subsequently
controlled case strategy and law and motion. (Rudolph Decl. ¶¶ 89-93.)
Rudolph also states that he answered the debtor examination question of whether
he “controlled the litigation” in the affirmative because he thought the
question was asking whether he was the representative for R&R at the
arbitration. (Id.) 
 
The Court
finds there is adequate evidence to find Rudolph controlled the arbitration
proceedings within the meaning of the statute. Rudolph was the only officer of
R&R and R&R’s participation in the arbitration could not have been
possible without him. 
 
Unity of
Interest
 
Commingling
of Funds 
 
Roski
submits that Rudolph and R&R frequently commingled funds in that both used
a corporate American Express (“AMEX”) card issued to CJ’s Custom Construction.
Rudolph stated at the debtor examination that the AMEX card was used to
purchase materials on behalf of R&R. (Oliva Decl. Exh. 6 at 100.) Rudolph
also stated the card was used by his friend Craig Haze, his son, and his wife.
(Id. at 101.) Rudolph also stated that R&R authorized his son and
wife to make personal purchases on the AMEX card. (Id. at 102.) These
personal charges included ski passes for North King Lodge, tickets to
Stagecoach Music Festival, and private school tuition for Rudolph’s children. (Id.
at 120.) Rudolph stated that if the AMEX card was used for personal expenses,
he would instruct his accounting personnel to reduce the amount of debt R&R
owed him by the amount charged rather than reimburse R&R directly. (Id.
at 108.) Roski asserts that the financial records provided in discovery reveal
that no such deductions were ever made. (See Oliva Decl. Exhs. 4-8.)  
 
Rudolph
contends that there was no commingling. Rudolph stated he never used his
personal card for R&R expenses. (Id. at 122.) Rudolph also stated he
would deposit loan funds into a separate R&R account. (Id. at 165.)
Rudolph does not raise any argument as to why the financial records do not
reflect any deductions for the personal use of the AMEX card. 
 
The Court
finds Roski has presented adequate evidence of the commingling of funds. From
the evidence presented it is clear that Rudolph and his family used the CJ’s Construction
AMEX card personally and in connection with various Rudolph entities. Further,
it appears the card was regularly used to purchase building materials essential
to the operation of R&R. Despite Rudolph’s contentions that records were
kept of these uses, the evidence shows no corresponding deductions were ever
made from the debt R&R owed to Rudolph and his other ventures. 
 
Undercapitalization

 
Roski
further argues that R&R was kept afloat exclusively by personal loans from
Rudolph. Attached as Exhibit D to Roski’s compendium of evidence are
approximately 54 promissory notes issued from Rudolph to R&R construction
from 2016 to 2020. Roski states that R&R was operating at a loss almost
every year during this period. (Oliva Decl. Exh. 8, R&R Tax Returns.) As of
January 31, 2022, R&R had a balance of $666.47 in its checking account. (Oliva Decl. Exh. 9, R&R Bank Statement.)
In addition, other entities alleged to be controlled by Rudolph would issue
“loans” to R&R with regularity. (Oliva Decl. Exh 6 at p. 138, Exh. 7 at
176-177.) Roski argues that the frequency with which these promissory notes
were issued is indicative of the fact that R&R was never adequately
capitalized to conduct its reconstruction business or cover its liability. 
 
Rudolph argues that the Court cannot rely on the
undercapitalization factor because Roski never established what adequate
capitalization for a reconstruction business looks like. Rudolph cites Carlesimo
v. Schwebel (1948) 87 Cal.App.2d 482, where the First District
Court of Appeals ruled that the burden is on the party seeking to pierce the
corporate veil to establish what would constitute reasonable capital. Rudolph
argues Roski has offered no affirmative evidence of what adequate
capitalization for a reconstruction business looks like. 
 
The Court does not find Rudolph’s argument
persuasive. Carlesino concerned a case where neither side had
produced any evidence as to the nature or amount of business transacted. (Carlesino
supra,
87 Cal.App.2d at 490.) Here, Roski has provided ample evidence of the business
transacted by R&R and has provided ample evidence that R&R was
consistently unable to provide capital to conduct its business. Rudolph stated
in the debtor examination that these loans were issued to cover payroll as well
as to finance the purchase of materials for construction projects. (Oliva
Decl., Ex. 7 at pp. 164-165, 173-174.) It stands to reason that if Roski
presents evidence that R&R consistently relied upon loans from Rudolph to
continue its day-to-day operation, R&R was undercapitalized. Regardless of
the nature of the business transacted, it is common sense that any corporation
which repeatedly cannot meet its basic obligations is undercapitalized. 
 
Further, the Court is unpersuaded by Rudolph’s comparison
to Sonora Diamond Corp. v Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
523. The court in Sonora only discussed undercapitalization to
state that it was a factor in determining alter ego (Sonora
supra,
83 Cal.App.4th at 540.) The Sonora court’s decision regarding
alter-ego instead focused entirely on the fact that plaintiff in that case
failed to prove any wrong doing. (Id.) To reiterate, the Sonora decision does not
substantively address the undercapitalization factor in any way. 
 
The Court finds Rudolph’s citation to Arnold v.
Browne
(1972) 27 Cal.App.3d 386 similarly unpersuasive. Rudolph claims that Arnold court held that
loans were an appropriate form of capitalization for a corporation. (Arnold
supra 27
Cal.App.3d at 396.) However, the loan referred to in the Arnold decision was taken from the Bank of Montreal, personally
guaranteed by a corporate officer, and used to provide initial capitalization.
Nothing in the Arnold decision addresses loans made from a sole
corporate officer directly to his company on a consistent basis. 
 
Ownership
 
It is
undisputed that Rudolph is the sole owner and corporate officer of R&R.
Rudolph argues that sole ownership is insufficient to establish alter-ego and
the Court agrees to the extent that sole ownership alone is an insufficient
basis. However, Roski does not base her claims of alter-ego theory solely on
the ownership of R&R by Rudolph. Rudolph cites Eleanor Licensing LLC v.
Classic Recreations LLC (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 599, where the court held
that co-ownership was insufficient evidence to support a finding of alter-ego.
However, the court in Eleanor was presented with no evidence as to any
of the other alter-ego factors. (Eleanor supra 21 Cal.App.5th at 616.)
Here, Roski has provided ample evidence as to the other alter-ego factors such
that, in conjunction with sole ownership, Rudolph can be said to be the
alter-ego of R&R as its sole owner. 
 
Inequitable
Result 
 
Roski
argues that failure to regard Rudolph as an alter-ego will produce an
inequitable result. The Court agrees. 
 
An
inequitable result occurs as a matter of law where the actions of an alter-ego
have left a judgement debtor insolvent. (Relentless Air Racing, LLC v.
Airborne Turbine Ltd. Partnership (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 811, 813.)
Further, an inequitable result does not require a showing of wrongful intent.
Roski has shown Rudolph kept R&R funded only so far as to cover its
existing obligations and without capital to cover its liability. Roski further
argues that Rudolph unilaterally directed R&R to file for bankruptcy after
the judgement was filed. (Oliva Decl., Ex. 6 at p. 113.)  Roski’s judgement has resulted in the
suspension of R&R’s contracting license and the company currently has
approximately $667 dollars in its account and no appreciable assets.  (RJN Exh. 17 p. 24; Oliva Decl. Exh. 9; Oliva
Decl. Exh. 8 at pp. 326, 344, 368, 390.) This leaves R&R incapable of ever
satisfying Roski’s judgment. Further, it was Rudolph’s actions, as evidenced by
Roski, that have resulted in the current state of R&R.  Whether Rudolph was acting out of malice or
neglect is irrelevant. 
 
Rudolph
suggests that Roski needs to show more than the standard enumerated in Relentless.
Rudolph cites to JPV I L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 172, which
held “difficulty in enforcing a judgment or collecting a debt does not, by
itself, constitute an inequitable result for purposes of the alter ego
doctrine.” (Koetting supra, 88 Cal.App.5th at 200.) Much like the
Koettings, Roski is not solely relying on the difficulty of enforcement.
Contrary to Rudolph’s contention, Roski has set forth evidence that Rudolph
purposefully undercapitalized R&R such that it could never possibly satisfy
any obligations that arose from its corporate liability. Roski has demonstrated
that R&R conducted business under these conditions in full knowledge of
this undercapitalization. Roski’s inability to collect its judgment at the
behest of Rudolph’s actions is most certainly an inequitable result. 
 
Conclusion

 
The Court
finds the alter-ego factors weigh in favor of granting Roski’s motion. Roski
has presented ample evidence that R&R and Rudolph’s financial existences
were virtually indistinguishable. Roski has also shown that funds flowed to
R&R through Rudolph and his other entities only as the need arose, such
that the company was never adequately capitalized. Lastly, Roski has shown that
the actions of Rudolph, as sole owner and corporate officer, have produced the
inequitable result of Roski’s inability to collect upon her judgment. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to add CJ Rudolph as judgment debtor is GRANTED. 
 
MERITS:
AS TO ENTITIES 
 
The Court
notes that Roski does not include allegations speaking to the control of
underlying litigation by CJ’s Custom Construction, Inc., Snug Harbor, LLC, Ram
Building, Inc., Ram Building Supply, Inc., or Green Acres Estates, LLC (“the
Entities”). While Rudolph is the sole owner of these entities, it does not
follow that these entities controlled the litigation by Rudolph’s presence
during the arbitration proceedings. There is no evidence that Rudolph attended
these proceedings as a representative of any entity other than R&R. No
evidence is offered that any of these entities financed the litigation or
exerted any control over the litigation strategy. 
 
Additionally,
while the evidence put forth by Roski certainly supports Rudolph as R&R’s
alter-ego, it does not follow that every corporation in which he has ownership
is also the alter-ego of R&R. Roski’s evidence speaking to the alter-ego
factors are as follows: 
 
R&R, Custom, Snug Harbor, Ram Building, Ram
Supply, and Green Acres all share a principal place of business at 1428 9th
Street in Santa Monica, CA. (RJN Exhs. 10-16.) 
 
R&R shared employees with Ram Building, Ram
Supply, and Snug Harbor. (Oliva Decl., Ex. 6 at pp. 66-67.) 
 
Snug Harbor made six loans totaling $96,000 to R&R
in 2017 (Oliva Decl., Ex. 6 at pp. 136-137.)
 
Green Acres made loans totaling $400,000 to
R&R (Oliva Decl. Exh. 7 at pp. 189-190.)
 
The Court
finds the evidence offered in support of the entities as alter-egos of R&R
to lack the cohesiveness of the evidence leveled at Rudolph himself. While
Roski offers evidence regarding some factors of alter-ego, her motion is silent
as to the others. The Court is not satisfied with these showings alone that
each entity is the alter-ego of R&R. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to add CJ’s Custom Construction, Inc., Snug Harbor, LLC, Ram
Building, Inc., Ram Building Supply, Inc., and Green Acres Estates, LLC as
judgment debtors is DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Reon Roski’s Motion to
Amend Judgment to Add Judgment Debtors came on
regularly for hearing on November 3, 2023, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION IS GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART. 
 
THE MOTION TO ADD CJ RUDOLPH AS JUDGMENT DEBTOR
IS GRANTED. 
 
THE MOTION TO ADD CJ’S CUSTOM CONSTRUCTION,
INC., SNUG HARBOR, LLC, RAM BUILDING, INC., RAM BUILDING SUPPLY, INC., OR GREEN
ACRES ESTATES, LLC AS JUDGMENT DEBTORS IS DENIED. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, REON ROSKI TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: November
3, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 