 Case Number:  22AHCV00887    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 3,
2023

MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22AHCV00887

 



MP:  


La Kaffa International Co. Ltd. and
  Henry Wang




RP:  


Bake Code 1001 Inc. and Sam Leung



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Bake Code 1001 Inc.
(“Bake Code”) and Sam Leung (“Leung”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) bring this
action against La Kaffa International Co. Ltd. (“La Kaffa”) and Henry Wang
(“Wang”), as well as several other parties. Wang is a resident of Taiwan where
he operates La Kaffa. Plaintiffs allege Wang and La Kaffa conspired with parties
in the U.S. to sell Leung a Bake Code franchise which did not exist with the
promise that Leung would receive an EB-5 Visa. Plaintiffs’ action seek
restitution for the investment made into the nonexistent franchise. 
 
Only July 7, 2023, a
hearing was held on La Kaffa and Wang’s motion to quash service of summons. The
Court granted the motion to quash, finding that Plaintiffs had never properly effectuated
service pursuant to the Hague Service Convention and California Code of Civil
Procedure. 
 
La Kaffa and Wang
(“Moving Parties”) now once again move to quash the service of the summons for
lack of jurisdiction. Plaintiffs oppose and Moving Parties reply. 
 
Both parties focus
their motion papers on whether the service of the summons should be quashed for
lack of personal jurisdiction. That is whether Moving Parties have sufficient
ties to the forum to grant this Court jurisdiction. In bringing this motion,
Moving Parties state the following: 
 
Plaintiffs seemingly tried to mail serve Mr. Wang and
La Kaffa in Taiwan but did not include a copy of a summons. It is not clear if
Plaintiffs are relying on that attempted service, as Plaintiffs have not yet
filed a proof of service of process. In any event, Mr. Wang and La Kaffa are
focusing this motion on the substantive personal jurisdiction defects (which
the Court did not reach in ruling on the prior motion, see id. at p. 5), and
therefore are not raising challenges here to what perhaps were further
defective service attempts.
 
(Mot. p. 6, fn. 2.) 
 
Regardless of
Moving Parties’ focus in bringing this motion, the Court remains concerned with
the service of process in this action. The previous motion to quash was
granted, and as a result the previous service was quashed. No proof of service
has been filed after the motion was granted. No proof of service is attached to
Plaintiffs’ opposition. Nor have Moving Parties stipulated to accept service
for the purpose of making this motion. From the information available to this
Court, Moving Parties have not been served. 
 
Procedural
statutes governing service are in place for the safeguard of due process and to
bestow jurisdiction on this Court. The Court cannot sidestep these measures for
the purpose of ruling on a legal question which, as of right now, is not at
issue. In short, the Court cannot quash what does not exist.  
 
Accordingly, the
motion to quash service of summons is DENIED without prejudice. The Court is
denying the motion without prejudice subject to renewing the arguments once proper
proof of service is filed. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
La Kaffa
International Co. Ltd. and Henry Wang’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons came on regularly for hearing on November 3, 2023, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS IS DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVEN NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 3, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 