 Case Number:  22STCV03004    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 3,
2023

MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH BUSINESS RECORDS SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22STCV03004

 



MP:  


Jane
  Doe (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


California
  Commission on Teacher Credentialing (non-party) 



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) brings this actions against the Los
Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) and William Clyde Allen (“Allen”).
Plaintiff alleges that from 1996-1999 Allen, then a teacher with the LAUSD,
sexually assaulted her several times. Plaintiff states causes of action for (1)
Childhood Sexual Assault (as against Allen), (2) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (as against Allen), (3) Negligence (as against LAUSD), (4)
Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse (as against LAUSD), and (5) Negligent
Supervision of a Minor (as against LAUSD).
 
Before the Court is a motion by Plaintiff to compel non-party
California Commission on Teacher Credentialing (“the Commission”) to comply
with a deposition subpoena for the production of business records. The
Commission opposes the motion and Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS:

 
I.           
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §
1987.1(a) provides: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of... documents... at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion... may make an order... directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare” C.C.P. § 1987.1 does not contain a meet
and confer requirement, nor a requirement that good cause for production of
documents be shown. 
 
However, C.C.P. § 2031, which applies to
document production requests served on a party, requires a party seeking to
compel such production to set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. C.C.P. § 2020, the
statute at issue, contains no such specific requirement. Since both sections
are part of a single statutory scheme, and since it is unlikely the Legislature
intended to place greater burdens on a nonparty than on a party to the
litigation, we read a similar requirement into the latter section. 
 
In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing
that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.           
MERITS
 
Plaintiff’s served its subpoena seeking
the following documents: 
 
1.     
Any and all
DOCUMENTS, including statements of decision, findings, summaries, opinions,
rulings, and/or minutes regarding any California Commission on Teacher
Credentialing investigation and/or hearing regarding WILLIAM CLYDE ALLEN (DOB:
XXXXXXXX), who was licensed by the California Commission on Teacher
Credentialing. 
 
2.     
Any and all
DOCUMENTS regarding any disciplinary action imposed on WILLIAM CLYDE ALLEN, who
is licensed by the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing. 
 
3.     
Any and all
DOCUMENTS regarding complaints about inappropriate behavior by WILLIAM CLYDE
ALLEN. 
 
4.     
Any and all
DOCUMENTS regarding any response by WILLIAM CLYDE ALLEN to any complaints made
against him. 
 
5.     
Any and all
DOCUMENTS regarding any alleged improper behavior by licensee WILLIAM CLYDE
ALLEN
 
6.     
Any and all
DOCUMENTS submitted to the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing by
WILLIAM CLYDE ALLEN, including but not limited to applications, statements,
fingerprints, and forms. 
 
7.     
Any and all
DOCUMENTS referring and/or regarding correspondence and/or communications
between the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing and WILLIAM CLYDE
ALLEN. 
 
8.     
Any and all
DOCUMENTS referring and/or regarding correspondence and/or communications
between the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing and LOS ANGELES
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT regarding WILLIAM CLYDE ALLEN. 
 
9.     
The California
Commission on Teacher Credentialing’s complete file of WILLIAM CLYDE ALLEN.
 
The
Commission subsequently produced responsive documents. Among these documents,
the Commission provided redacted copies of Allen’s applications to renew and
reissue his teaching credentials. The Commission redacted Allen’s responses to
questions related to his “Personal and Professional Fitness” which Plaintiff
claims are directly related to her causes of action. 
 
In
subsequent meet and confer efforts, the Commission explained that it possessed
no responsive documents relating to disciplinary records created by any agency.
(Lee Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) The Commission informed Plaintiff that they possessed a
copy of the criminal case court docket history and the initial incident report
created by the Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”). However, the Commission
did not produce these records as they were not the custodians of them, and the
records were publicly available to Plaintiff through other means. (Id.) 
 
Outside
of meet and confer, the Commission has identified two additional documents
withheld from production. These documents are: 
 
(1)  
an August 23,
2006 Notice of Delay List issued by the Commission pursuant to Education Code
section 44332 and California Code of Regulations, title 5, section 80441 (1
pg.); and 
 
(2)  
an August 16,
2006 Notice of Application Reject issued by the Commission to Allen (1 pg.)
 
Plaintiff
now moves for the production of Allen’s credential applications in an
unredacted form. Plaintiff also moves for the production of the criminal
records and the two documents the Commission further discovered. 
 
Good
Cause 
 
To
succeed in this motion, Plaintiff must show good cause for production of each
of these documents. Plaintiff states that the unredacted applications contain
Allen’s answers to questions regarding disciplinary action taken against him and
any potential criminal activity. (Lewis Decl. ¶ 6.) The criminal case file in
the Commission’s possession, which it appears both parties believe to be the
criminal case file stemming from Allen’s abuse of Plaintiff. The two records
withheld from productions may under certain circumstances be relevant to Plaintiff’s
case, in that they concern the refusal of the Commission to issue Allen’s
credentials after the abuse came to light. Moving Party does not show that this
underlying information was communicated to the Los Angels Unified School
District (“LAUSD”).  The LAUSD may have
learned that the teaching credential was not issued, but whether the LAUSD
followed up with the Commission was not set forth.   Furthermore, the LAUSD, and not the
Commission, would have the files upon which the LAUSD acted.
 
Plaintiff
has not indicated for example, that they have obtained the personnel file from
the LAUSD as to what information they relied upon in making its hiring
determination nor policy and procedures concerning hiring, supervision and
retention that would require they rely upon underlying documents from the
Commission.  The basis for the documents
requested is for the negligent hiring, supervising, and retaining of
Allen.  Without further discussion
concerning what documents were reviewed by LAUSD, the Court does not find that
good cause exists to make an order compelling further compliance from a third
party.  What was relied upon by the
Commission in credentialing a teacher may or may not have been communicated to
LAUSD.   The Court is uncertain if LAUSD
completes its own investigation and simply relies upon the Commission for a
determination if the applicant is credentialed. 
 
 
 
 
In
short, the Court finds Plaintiff have not shown good cause for the production
of each document. The Court need not address the other issues raised in the
moving papers as the Plaintiff has not met the initial burden to show good
cause to support the motion to compel.
 
Seperately,
the Plaintiff states in reply she has exhausted all options for obtaining
criminal records. Plaintiff states that subpoenas to various law enforcement
agencies have produced scant criminal records, and the Commission possesses the
most complete record. However, Plaintiff submits no declaration of her counsel
attesting to this fact, nor has she attached any such subpoena to her moving
papers. For example, did the law enforcement agencies provide crime reports and
investigation reports?  If not, did the
agency indicate why?  Often these reports
have been digitized and can be located by law enforcement agencies with some
effort.  The fact remains that Plaintiff
has produced no evidence of her efforts to obtain these records from their
actual custodians. Likewise, the Commission is not the custodian of records for
these underlying records.  (Cooley v.
Superior Court), supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at 1044.  
 
As
for the criminal case court docket history for cases in Los Angeles
County.   This information is publicly
available to Plaintiff’s counsel and Plaintiff has set forth no reason why they
are unable to obtain a copy from the Criminal Division of the Los Angeles
Superior Court.
 
Conclusion

 
The
Court finds Plaintiff has not shown good cause for the production of the
documents requested in her subpoena. The Plaintiff has not shown the relevance
of this unredacted information in light of what was discussed in the
declaration concerning the need to obtain this information base on a cause of
action for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention.  
 
The
Motion to Compel will be denied without prejudice.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s
records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Jane Doe’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Business Records Subpoena came on regularly for hearing on November 3,
2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH BUSINESS
RECORDS SUBPOENA IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, THE COMMISSION
IS TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.  
 
DATE: November 3,
2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of
California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 