 Case Number:  23BBCV00407    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 3,
2023

MOTIONS
TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00407

 



MP:  


Hratchia
  Bardakjian (Defendant)




RP:  


10415
  Commerce, LLC (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is
received. 
 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
10415 Commerce, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
brings this action against Hratchia Bardakjian (“Defendant”) prevented Plaintiff
from entering the properties owned by Plaintiff at 703 and 707 E. Angeleno
Ave., Burbank, CA 91501 (the “Property”) thereby leading to waste. Plaintiff’s principal
is Arman Yegiyants (“Yegiyants”) with whom Defendant has had a long running
business dispute. This is one of many cases relating to the prior business
relationship of Defendant and Yegiyants. 
Before the Court is a
motion to quash a subpoena for business records issued to the Burbank Police
Department by Plaintiff. Plaintiff requests video footage taken by the body
camera of an officer responding to an altercation between the parties on November
2, 2022. While the parties present conflicting accounts of this altercation,
both state that it occurred outside the Subject Property. 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) § 1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a
subpoena when necessary.  C.C.P. § 1987.1 states, “If a subpoena requires
the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the
court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”   
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
Relevance
 
Defendant first
argues the subpoena must be quashed because it concerns matters which are not
relevant to this action. Defendant argues that this action for determination of
waste could not possibly require the discovery of the video. 
 
Discovery is
relevant if it is admissible as evidence, or “appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (C.C.P. § 2017.010.) “Discovery
may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any
other party to the action.” (Id.)
 
Here, it is
clear that the police were called to the subject property following a
disagreement about Plaintiff’s access to the property. Yegiyants states in his
declaration that he called the Police when Defendant refused him entry to the
Property. (Yegiyants Decl. ¶ 4.) Yegiyants further states the incident
took place on the sidewalk and the street in front of the Property. (Id.)
Plaintiff’s responses to Form Interrogatories describe the events as follows: 
 
On November 2, 2022, when YEGIYANTS visited the
PROPERTIES, contractors were there again. The person apparently in charge said
he was going to call “the owner” and ask him to come to the PROPERTIES.
BARDAKJIAN then did come to the PROPERTIES, came over to YEGIYANTS, yelled at
YEGIYANTS, and physically placed hands on him. YEGIYANTS called the police to
complain about these events on the PROPERTIES, but BARDAKJIAN falsely stated to
the police that PLAINTIFF’s lawyer had said they could be on the PROPERTIES until
November 8, 2022, and so the police declined to take action.
 
(Gamzo Decl., ¶
4, Ex. 3.) 
 
Defendant’s
declaration does not contain an account of how the police became involved, only
stating that he spoke to the police while he was in his car with his wife and
children. (Bardakjian Decl. ¶ 13.) Defendant states the officer asked him
several questions, one of which was where his children attended school. (Id.)
Defendant does not state the nature of the other questions. 
 
Plaintiff argues
in opposition that this evidence is directly relevant to their attempts to
inspect the property for waste. Defendant has asserted the defense that
Plaintiff’s action for waste is time barred. Plaintiff states that the footage
is reasonably calculated to lead to evidence as to whether Plaintiff had the
opportunity to discover the waste. 
 
The Court agrees
the video is reasonably calculated to lead to the discoverability of admissible
evidence. Plaintiff seeks evidence to rebut the statute of limitations defense
presented by Defendant. From these submissions, it is quite clear that some dispute
about entry to the property occurred on November 2, 2022. If Plaintiff was not
permitted to enter the property to discover the waste, the video would be
direct evidence of such a fact. Whether the evidence will ultimately be
admitted at trial, and for what purpose, is irrelevant to the determination of
its discoverability. 
 
Privacy
Concerns 
 
Defendant also
argues that the subpoena is violative of his right to privacy. When the production
of such private information is sought by way of discovery, the burden falls on
the party asserting a privacy interest to show that their privacy interests are
so serious that they outweigh the interests of the subpoenaing party’s
prospective invasion. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
557.)
 
Here, Defendant
argues the video violates his privacy by virtue of featuring identifying
information about his wife and children. (Bardakjian Decl. ¶ 13.)
Defendant believes that if Plaintiff is allowed to obtain this video, Yegiyants
will publish the video online to harass and threaten Defendant. (Id. ¶
14.) Defendant also states he fears what Yegiyants will do with the information
about where his children attend school. (Id. ¶ 13.) Defendant states
that Yegiyants has physically assaulted him in 2008 and published video of the
altercation on YouTube. (Id. ¶¶ 7-9.) 
 
In return,
Plaintiff disputes the validity of the comments in Defendant’s declaration. Yegiyants
states he has never hit Defendant and the police refused to press charges in
2008 after reviewing security footage. (Yegiyants Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff also
states that their counsel extended several offers to stipulate a protective
order to assuage Defendant’s privacy concerns. Plaintiff states their counsel
offered to stipulate that the video will not be used outside of litigation.
(Gamzo Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 5.) Plaintiff states Defendant declined this
stipulation. (Id.) Plaintiff further states that they are amendable to
an order redacting any identifying information of Defendant’s wife/children.
(Opp. p. 11.) Defendant does not address this offer in his opposition. 
 
The Court finds
Defendant’s showings are insufficient to assert his privacy interest such as to
preclude discovery of the video. The only personally identifying information
Defendant attests to is the location of his children’s school. The conversation
recorded took place on a public street with a police officer, and at least
partially in direct earshot of Yegiyants. Defendant’s belief that Yegiyants
will use this video to harass or intimidate him is based entirely on Defendant’s
account of events from 2008, which Yegiyants has vehemently disputed. The Court
does not dispute some privacy interests are at stake here, but Defendant has
failed to make a showing that they are so severe as to negate Plaintiff’s
interest in the discovery. 
 
However, the
Court is sensitive to the needs of Defendant to protect his family’s private
information. To that extent the Court will order the subpoena modified in the
following ways: 
 
The Burbank Police Department shall produce the police
bodycam footage of the November 2, 2022 incident. The Police Department shall
redact any identifying information relating to Hratchia Bardakjian’s family,
including blurring the faces of his wife/children and omitting the location of
his children’s school. Further, Plaintiff is prohibited from publishing this
footage in any capacity. 
 
The Court orders that the redacted body worn video
shall be lodged by the Burbank Police Department only with a discovery referee
selected by the parties to assure compliance with the Court’s order concerning redaction.   If the discovery referee is satisfied with
the redaction, it shall be released to the parties, if not the discovery
referee shall file a report with the Court concerning any compliance concerns.  The cost of the discovery referee shall be split
evenly between the parties.  Defendant
shall prepare a protective order reflecting the Court’s ruling and Plaintiff
shall reimburse the Burbank Police Department for any costs incurred with the
redacting of the video.  That
reimbursement shall be made prior to the releasing of any video.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Hratchia Bardakjian’s
Motion to Quash
Deposition Subpoena came on
regularly for hearing on October 20, 2023, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO QUASH IS DENIED. 
 
DEFENDANT’S
SUBPOENA TO THE BURBANK POLICE DEPARTMENT IS ISSUED AS MODIFIED IN THE COURT’S
ORDER.
 
The Court orders that the redacted body worn video shall be lodged
by the Burbank Police Department only with a discovery referee selected by the
parties to assure compliance with the Court’s order concerning redaction.   If the discovery referee is satisfied with
the redaction, it shall be released to the parties, if not the discovery
referee shall file a report with the Court concerning any compliance
concerns.  The cost of the discovery
referee shall be split evenly between the parties.  Defendant shall prepare a protective order
reflecting the Court’s ruling and Plaintiff shall reimburse the Burbank Police
Department for any costs incurred with the redacting of the video.  That reimbursement shall be made prior to the
releasing of any video.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO PROVIDE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.  
 
DATE: November
3, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 