 Case Number:  22BBCV01199    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 3,
2023

MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT/VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01199

 



MP:  


Francisca Ruiz (Defendant)




RP:  


State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
  Company (Plaintiff)



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) brings this action
against Francisca Ruiz (“Defendant”) for subrogation in connection with a motor
vehicle accident. On March 3, 2023, the Court entered default against Defendant
for failure to file a responsive pleading. On May 7, 2023, the Court entered
default judgment against Defendant. 
 
Defendant
now moves to vacate the default judgment and set aside the default pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) § 473. Defendant states the default and
default judgment were entered as a result of the neglect of her counsel. Plaintiff
submits no opposition. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Plaintiff
seeks relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b). Code of Civil
Procedure §
473(b) has both a discretionary relief provision and a mandatory relief
provision. (Jackson supra, 32 Cal. App. 5th 166, at 173.)  The discretionary provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b), in pertinent
part, reads as follows: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…
 
The
mandatory provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) reads, in pertinent
part, as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. 
 
The
general underlying purpose of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) is to
promote the determination of actions on their merits. (Even Zohar
Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015)
61 Cal.4th 830.) Under this statute, an application for relief must be made no
more than six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit
of fault attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect of the
moving party or its attorney. (C.C.P., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business
Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Defendant
now asks that the Court enter an order setting aside the default and default
 
Defendant submits the
declaration of her counsel, Alexandra Barreno. Barreno states that she
neglected to file a responsive pleading in this matter in a timely fashion.
(Barron Decl. ¶ 3.) Barrone also states she failed to reach out to
Plaintiff’s counsel with respect to requesting an extension on time to answer.
(Id.) Barrone reached out to Plaintiff’s counsel on July 14, 2023 to
explain the inadvertent failure to respond and Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to a
stipulation setting aside the default/judgment. (Barrone Decl. ¶ 4, Exh.
A.) According to Barrone, changes at Plaintiff’s
counsel caused the file to change hands. (Barrone Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B.)
Barrone was in contact with the new managing attorney who originally agreed to
keep the stipulation, but then later informed he would be unable to. (Id.)

 
In
addition to the affidavit of attorney mistake, Defendant also submits a
proposed answer in accordance with C.C.P. § 473(b). 
 
Given
the above, the Court finds Defendant has made the sufficient showings under
statute to support the default judgment be vacated and the default set aside.
Accordingly, Defendant’s unopposed motion to set aside default/vacate
default judgment is GRANTED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Francisca Ruiz’s Motion
to Set Aside Default and Vacate Default Judgment came
on regularly for hearing on May 18, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO SET ASIDE THE DEFAULT AND VACATE
DEFAULT JUDGMENT IS GRANTED. 
 
DEFENDANT TO FILE THEIR ANSWER WITHIN 10 COURT
DAYS.
 
COURT SETS A CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE FOR FEBRUARY
29, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: November
3, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 