 Case Number:  22BBCV01067    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 3,
2023

MOTION
TO DISMISS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01067

 



MP: Harvey Weinstein (Defendant)




RP:  Marisa Falero (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
On September 21, 2023,
this Court granted an anti-SLAPP motion brought by Harvey Weinstein
(“Weinstein”) pertaining to the Complaint of Marisa Falero (“Plaintiff”). Plaintiff
alleges several well-known entertainment production
companies and personalities incorporated details of her life into several dozen
motion pictures and television shows over the period of several decades without
her permission. By virtue of granting the anti-SLAPP motion, the Court
struck all causes of action alleged against Weinstein. 
 
On September 26,
2023, Weinstein filed a motion for dismissal from this action. Plaintiff
opposes the motion and Weinstein replies.  
 
California Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) § 916 provides in relevant part, “[T]he perfecting
of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order
appealed from or upon the matters embraced therein or affected thereby,
including enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed
upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment
or order.” 


 
A matter is embraced
in or affected by the appealed judgment or order within the meaning of C.C.P. §
916(a) only if trial court proceedings on the matter would affect the
effectiveness of the appeal. (Henry M. Lee Law Corp. v. Superior Court
(2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1383.) 
 
Further, the
California Supreme Court has explicitly held that an appeal from an order
granting or denying an anti-SLAPP motion automatically stays all further trial
court proceedings, including trial, on the merits of the causes of action
targeted by the motion. (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005)
35 Cal.4th 180, 191-192.)
 
On October 4, 2023,
Plaintiff filed her notice of appeal of the Court’s ruling in the anti-SLAPP
motion. Any order from the Court concerning dismissal of Weinstein from the
case would be an order affecting the efficacy of Plaintiff’s appeal.
Accordingly, the Court lacks jurisdiction until receipt of remittitur. As such,
the motion to dismiss is DENIED. 
 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Harvey Weinstein’s Motion
to Dismiss came on regularly for hearing on November
3, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION
TO DISMISS IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  
 
DATE:  November 3, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 
 