 This is a lemon law action.  Plaintiff Rogelio Badajoz seeks to compel further responses to his form interrogatory no. 12.1 propounded on Defendant General Motors, LLC.Form interrogatory no 12.1 seeks witness identifying information for the incident that underlies this action.  Defendant General Motors LLC responded as follows:GM objects to this Interrogatory on grounds the term "incident" is vague and ambiguous in the context of this lawsuit, which asserts breach of warranty claims based upon the performance of  a specific vehicle over a period of time and not for a single, identifiable "incident." GM also  objects to this Interrogatory to the extent it calls for information protected by the attorney client privilege and the work-product doctrine. (See, Nacht & Lewis Arch. v. Sup. Ct. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 214.) GM also objects to this Interrogatory to the extent it seeks information equally available to Plaintiffs as it is to GM. Subject to and without waiving its Objections, GM responds as follows with respect to (a-d): Other than (i) Plaintiffs, (ii) employees of the dealership(s) where Plaintiffs' vehicle was serviced, and (iii) GM call center advisors with whom Plaintiffs may have communicated regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE, GM is not aware of any other individuals who may have responsive information. Accordingly, and pursuant to California Civil Code § 2030.230, GM refers Plaintiffs to the following documents, which GM is producing in response to Plaintiffs' Requests for Production of Documents, in which Plaintiff may identify the individuals with the information sought: Any incidentally obtained repair orders regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE; Service Activity Report(s); and the Global Warranty History Report. The objections asserted largely lack merit as basic witness information is being sought, and even if an interrogatory is vague, Defendant should do its best to provide a response.  (See Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783.) Further, the response does not require a reference to documents and is insufficient because it is not apparent that the referenced documents actually provide Plaintiff with names, addresses, and telephone numbers, as requested.  There is no merit to the argument that many of these individuals are not employed by Defendant.  Some of these individuals work at dealerships that essentially administer Defendant’s warranties and, thus, the information is not equally available to Plaintiff.  A complete response should be provided. Thus, the Motion to Compel Further Response to Form Interrogatory No. 12.1 is granted.  A further response should be provided within thirty days.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 