  Case Number:  21STCV37567    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November 2, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV37567




MOTION


Motion to Strike Portions of Fifth Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Dale Prokupek, M.D.; Dale Prokupek, M.D., Inc.;
  Millennium Medical Associates, Inc.; and Andrew Gelis




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Pericles Chamis



 
MOTION
 
Defendants Dale Prokupek, M.D.; Dale Prokupek M.D., Inc.; Millennium
Medical Associates, Inc.; and Andrew Gelis (“Defendants”) seek to strike portions
of Plaintiff Pericles Chamis’s (“Plaintiff”) Fifth Amended Complaint for
medical malpractice, breach of fiduciary duty, and intentional
misrepresentation.  Plaintiff opposes,
and Defendants reply.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants request that the Court
take judicial notice of (1) the Notice of Ruling Re: Defendant Jeanne K.
Hershey-Weber’s (“Hershey-Weber”) Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of the
Third Amended Complaint, filed by Defendant Hershey-Weber on April 10, 2023;
(2) Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Add a Claim for Punitive Damages, filed on
January 19, 2023; and (3) the Notice of Ruling Re: Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave
to Add a Claim for Punitive Damages, filed by Defendants Dale Prokupek, M.D.;
Dale Prokupek M.D., Inc.; and Millennium Medical Associates, Inc. on April 25,
2023.  Plaintiff opposes the request on
the grounds that the records are hearsay. 

 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the requested documents are all part of the Court’s record for
this case, the Court may take judicial notice of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of these documents as a matter of
court record, but not the truth of the arguments or allegations contained
therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Defendants move to strike the following from the Fifth Amended Complaint:
 
·        
Page 3, Lines 2-3: the words “established by
Defendant Dale Prokupek to avoid collection of judgments against the business
proceeds of Dale Prokupek M.D. Inc.”
 
·        
Page 3, Line 7: the word “fraudulently”
 
·        
Page 3, Lines 9-10: the words “to falsify
medical records if and when their fraudulent activities were uncovered or a
patient was injured”
 
·        
Paragraphs 40-41, 44-47, and 55-62 in their
entirety
 
·        
Page 15, Lines 3-4 the words “and to further the
criminal enterprise established by Defendant Dr. Prokupek and Defendant Soma
Surgery Center”
 
·        
Page 17, Lines 23-24: the words “and to further
the criminal enterprise established by Defendants Dr. Prokupek and Soma Surgery
Center”
 
·        
Page 19, Lines 25-26: the words “and to further
the criminal enterprise established by Defendants Dr. Prokupek and Soma Surgery
Center”
 
Defendants move to strike these allegations on the bases that they are
improper and directly contravene the Court’s prior Orders.
 
By way of background, on April 6, 2023, the Court sustained Defendant
Hershey-Weber’s demurrers to the second and third causes of action alleged in
the Third Amended Complaint on the grounds that when Plaintiff substituted her
in as a Doe defendant, Plaintiff did not allege any specific facts or conduct
as to Defendant Hershey-Weber.  (April 6,
2023 Minute Order.)  The Court granted
Plaintiff leave to amend the allegations as to Defendant Hershey-Weber with
respect to the second and third causes of action.  (Ibid.)
 
The Court also granted Defendant Hershey-Weber’s unopposed motion to
strike the request for punitive damages and related allegations.  (Ibid.)  The Court noted there was an upcoming motion
for leave to include punitive damages, and denied leave to amend with respect
to the punitive damages claims and allegations until that motion was
heard.  (Ibid.)
 
On April 24, 2023, the Court denied Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to
Add Punitive Damages on the grounds that it was untimely brought and did not
present evidence that Defendants fell below the applicable standard of care to
show Plaintiff had a substantial probability of prevailing on the merits.
 
Defendants argue that paragraphs 40-62 are improper to include because
they “are practically verbatim the ‘Background Facts’ as set forth in the
Motion for Leave to Add Punitive Damages on pages 3 to 8; the facts that would
have been included in the amended pleading had leave to amend been granted” and
that the remaining allegations should be stricken as conclusory.
 
The allegations in paragraphs 40-62 are detailed factual allegations
derived from information Plaintiff apparently obtained through discovery and at
deposition.  For example, paragraph 40
indicates:
 
Defendant Dr. Prokupek testified at his
deposition on October 19, 2022, that: (1) Plaintiff's primary care provider was
a Nurse Practitioner named Jeanee Hershey-Weber; (2) Hershey-Weber was the
person who improperly instructed Plaintiff on stopping his Xarelto regimen; (3)
Hersey-Weber performed minor surgery on Plaintiff without physician
supervision; (4) Defendant Dr. Prokupek was not present when Plaintiff was
treated by Jeannee Hershey-Weber; (5) Defendant Dr. Prokupek had not seen the
patient since 2016 prior performing surgery on Plaintiff on November 4, 2020;
(6) Defendant ANDREW GELIS while employed by Defendant MILLENNIUM MEDICAL
ASSOCIATES was responsible for altering Plaintiff’s medical records, to cover
Hershey-Weber’s improper instructions she gave to Plaintiff regarding stopping
his Xarelto regimen, and (7) Defendant SEAN RAVAEI was in charge of the
Defendants unlawful scheme to injure Plaintiff. None of these facts are
referenced in Plaintiff’s medical records and at no time during the first year
of litigation in this matter did Defendants disclose these facts.
 
            That these allegations were also
included in Plaintiff’s motion for leave to add punitive damages (which was
ultimately denied as untimely and for insufficient evidence that Defendants
fell below the applicable standard of care) does not mean the allegations
themselves are inappropriate to add to the complaint.  These allegations specify the various
defendants’ conduct and are relevant to issues separate and apart from punitive
damages claims.  The Court therefore
denies Plaintiff’s request to strike paragraphs 40-41, 44-47, and 55-62.
 
            As for the remaining allegations,
the Court declines to strike them at this juncture.  Ultimately, whether Defendants were motivated
to avoid collection judgments, fraudulently presented themselves as doctors, or
falsified medical records are factual issues and questions to be examined through
discovery and ultimately at trial.  The
Court cannot, at this stage of the litigation, strike disputed allegations as
false.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court denies Defendants’ Motion to Strike
in its entirety, and orders Defendants to file and serve an Answer to the Fifth
Amended Complaint on or before November 15, 2023.  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  November 2, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior CourtTENTATIVE RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


Thursday, November 2, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV37567




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Andrew Gelis




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Pericles Chamis



 
MOTION
 
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff Pericles Chamis (“Plaintiff”) filed the
fifth amended complaint (“5AC”) against various doctors and a surgery center,
alleging causes of action for (1) medical malpractice; (2) breach of fiduciary
duty; and (3) intentional misrepresentation. 
Defendant Andrew Gelis (“Defendant” or “Gelis”) demurs to all three
causes of action for failure to state causes of action pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).
 
            Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and
Defendant replies.  On reply, Defendant
has requested that the Demurrer be converted to a Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.    First
Cause of Action – Professional Negligence (Medical Malpractice)
 
“Medical providers must exercise that degree of skill, knowledge, and
care ordinarily possessed and exercised by members of their profession under
similar circumstances. (Powell v. Kleinman (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 112,
122.)  “Thus, in any medical malpractice
action, the plaintiff must establish: (1) the duty of the professional to use
such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's negligence.”  (Ibid.)
 
The Code of Civil Procedure defines “Health care provider” as “any
person licensed or certified pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with section
500) of the Business and Professions Code, or licensed pursuant to the
Osteopathic Initiative Act, or the Chiropractic Initiative Act, or licensed
pursuant to Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1440) of Division 2 of the
Health and Safety Code; and any clinic, health dispensary, or health facility,
licensed pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 1200) of the Health
and Safety Code.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
340.5m, subd. (1).)  “Health care
provider” includes the legal representatives of a health care provider.”  (Ibid.)
 
Further, “Professional negligence” is defined as “a negligent act or
omission to act by a health care provider in the rendering of professional
services, which act or omission is the proximate cause of a personal injury or
wrongful death, provided that such services are within the scope of services
for which the provider is licensed and which are not within any restriction
imposed by the licensing agency or licensed hospital.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.5, subd. (2).)
 
Here, Gelis argues that the first cause of action alleges that the
conduct of the various doctors and nurses attending to Plaintiff before and
during the subject medical procedure, fell below the appropriate standard of
care, resulting in Plaintiff’s injuries. 
However, Gelis is not alleged to be a licensed nurse or doctor, etc., or
anyone who provided health care to Plaintiff at all.  Rather, Gelis is alleged to be an employee of
“Millennium Medical Associates, Inc.” which allegedly was established by Defendant
Dale Prokupek. (Fifth Amended Complaint [5AC] ¶¶ 11, 14, 40) who is allegedly
the person who altered Plaintiff’s medical records “after [Dr. Prokupek] found
out he was being sued[….]”  (5AC ¶ 85;
see also 5AC ¶ 82.)
 
Plaintiff argues in reply, “Based on the information obtained by
Plaintiff, he is informed and believes that Gelis provided documentation and
medical research to Dr. Prokupek and Nurse Hershey-Weber to mislead Plaintiff
into agreeing to stop taking his Xarelto and agree to a very risky surgery at
SSC.”  (Opp. at p. 4.)  However, these allegations appear nowhere in
the 5AC, but even if they did, Plaintiff does not allege Gelis is a licensed
medical professional to whom professional negligence applies.
 
Thus, the 5AC does not allege that Gelis is a “health care provider”
or that Gelis “rendered professional services,” to Gelis.  As such, the Court sustains Gelis’ demurrer
to the first cause of action for professional negligence.
 
B.     Second
Cause of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Lack of Informed Consent
 
To prevail on a claim of breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiff must
prove (1) the existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty;
and (3) damage proximately caused by the breach. (Jameson v. Desta
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1164.) “A physician has a fiduciary duty to
disclose all information material to the patient’s decision when soliciting a
patient’s consent to a medical procedure. (Ibid.)  
 
“A claim based on lack of
informed consent—which sounds in negligence—arises when the doctor performs a
procedure without first adequately disclosing the risks and alternatives.”  (Saxena v. Goffney (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 316, 324; see also Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990)
51 Cal.3d 120, 129 [“[I]n soliciting the patient's consent, a physician has a
fiduciary duty to disclose all information material to the patient's decision”].)  “[W]e hold, as an integral part of the
physician's overall obligation to the patient there is a duty of reasonable
disclosure of the available choices with respect to proposed therapy and of the
dangers inherently and potentially involved in each.” (Cobbs v. Grant
(1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 243.)  
 
[T]he patient's right of
self-decision is the measure of the physician's duty to reveal.  That right can be effectively exercised only
if the patient possesses adequate information to enable an intelligent choice.
The scope of the physician's communications to the patient, then, must be
measured by the patient's need, and that need is whatever information is
material to the decision.  Thus the test
for determining whether a potential peril must be divulged is its materiality
to the patient's decision.  . . .   There
must be a causal relationship between the physician's failure to inform and the
injury to the plaintiff. Such causal connection arises only if it is
established that had revelation been made consent to treatment would not have
been given. Here the record discloses no testimony that had plaintiff been
informed of the risks of surgery he would not have consented to the operation.
 
(Id. at p. 245 [cleaned up]
To prevail on a claim for failure to obtain informed consent, a
plaintiff must prove (1) the defendant performed a medical procedure on
Plaintiff; (2) the defendant did not disclose to Plaintiff the important
potential results and risks of and alternatives to the medical procedure; (3) a
reasonable person in Plaintiff’s position would not have agreed to the medical
procedure if that person had been adequately informed; and (4) Plaintiff was
harmed by a result or risk that the defendant should have explained.  (CACI No. 533.)
 
As to Gelis, Plaintiff alleges that Gelis altered Plaintiff’s medical
records “to obscure the cause of Plaintiff’s massive stroke” “after [Dr.
Prokupek] found out he was being sued[….]” 
which “further delayed the proper diagnosis and treatment of Plaintiff”
and “further exasperated his injuries.” (5AC ¶¶ 82, 85, 95-96.)  There is no allegation that Gelis performed
any medical procedure on Plaintiff, or that Gelis had any conversation with
Plaintiff prior to Plaintiff’s procedure with Dr. Prokupek.  
 
Thus, the Court finds that the 5AC fails to state a cause of action
for lack of informed consent as to Gelis. 

 
C.    Third
Cause of Action – Intentional Misrepresentation
 
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.”  (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare
Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.)
 
As to Gelis, Plaintiff alleges Gelis was “employed by Defendant
Millennium Medical Associates” (5AC ¶¶ 40, 82), a company alleged to be
established, owned, and operated by Defendant Prokupek (5AC ¶¶ 11, 118.)  In the course of this employment, Gelis
allegedly altered Plaintiff’s medical records “to obscure the cause” of
Plaintiff’s stroke after Dr. Prokupek “found out he was being sued” (5AC ¶ 118,
120, 121.)  Plaintiff further alleges
that Defendants, working “in concert,” communicated the false information in the
altered medical records to Plaintiff’s representatives, which delayed the determination
and treatment of Plaintiff’s condition by nearly a year.  (5AC ¶¶ 110-112.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged facts as to Gelis to
withstand demurrer as to the third cause of action.
 
D.   
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff contends in Opposition that “Based on the
information obtained by Plaintiff, he is informed and believes that Gelis
provided documentation and medical research to Dr. Prokupek and Nurse
Hershey-Weber to mislead Plaintiff into agreeing to stop taking his Xarelto and
agree to a very risky surgery at SSC.” 
(Opp. at p. 4.)  But even if
Plaintiff were to add these allegations to the complaint, Plaintiff still does
not allege that Gelis is a licensed medical professional who administered
healthcare treatment to Plaintiff, to substantiate a claim for professional
negligence or failure to obtain informed consent.
 
Plaintiff also explains that “Gelis’ deposition is currently scheduled
for December 21, 2023” and “The Defendants text messages, emails, and
interoffice memos which have not been produced in discovery to date, will
contain the smoking gun evidence to determine each of the Defendant’s role in
the Defendants collective actions to intentionally convince Plaintiff to agree
to a highly risky and unlawful surgery for financial gain.”  (Opp. at pp. 2-3; 5.)  Plaintiff also asserts “A
trial court has discretion to continue a demurrer pending discovery.”  (Opp. at p. 5.)  
 
But professional healthcare licenses are matters of public
record.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s ability
to plead causes of action against Gelis for professional negligence and failure
to obtain informed consent does not hinge on any discovery Plaintiff may
obtain.  As such, the Court denies leave
to amend.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Gelis’s demurrer as to the
first and second causes of action for professional negligence (medical
malpractice) and breach of fiduciary duty – lack of informed consent without
leave to amend.  The Court overrules
Gelis’ demurrers regarding the third causes of action.  
 
Further, the Court orders Gelis to file and serve an answer to the
Fifth Amended Complaint on or before November 22, 2023.
 
Gelis shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  November 2, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court