 Case Number:  24STCV14592    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
14, 2024                           TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Hong Tao Su, et al. v. First General Bank, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV14592
 





















 
SPECIAL
MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE COMPLAINT AND FOR AN AWARD OF MANDATORY
ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND COSTS
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT DISCOVERY PURSUANT 
TO
CAL. CODE CIV. PROC. § 425.16(g)



 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
This case stems from the non-judicial foreclosure of the
property located at 314 E. Mission Road, San Gabriel, California 91766 (the
Property).  On June 11, 2024, Plaintiffs
Hong Tao Su (Su) and Xiao Ling Tao (Tao) (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed a
Complaint against defendants First General Bank (the Bank) and Franklin Shen
aka Feiuye Shen dba Lender’s Foreclosure Services (Shen), for (1) Failure to
Give Notice of Non-Judicial Foreclosure; (2) Violation of Plaintiffs’ Rights as
Eligible Tenant Buyers; (3) Unlawful Chilling Restraint of Bids; (4)
Negligence; (5) Cancellation of Instrument (Trustee’s Deed); (6) Violation of
Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et seq; and (7) Declaratory Relief.
 
Before the court are two motions: (1) the Bank’s Special
Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
(CCP) section 425.16 (the Anti-SLAPP Motion), and (2) Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Leave to Conduct Discovery pursuant to CCP section 426.16(g) to oppose the
Anti-SLAPP Motion.  Because the court
denies the Anti-SLAPP Motion for the reasons stated herein, the court does not
address Plaintiff’s motion for discovery.
 
Procedural Background 
 
On July 29, 2024, the Bank filed the Anti-SLAPP Motion.[1]
 
On October 31, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.
 
On November 6, 2024, the Bank filed a reply.  
 
II.        EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The parties submitted evidentiary objections.  Because the court does not reach Prong 2 of
the anti-SLAPP analysis, the court need not and does not rule on the
objections. 
 
III.       LEGAL
STANDARD
CCP section 425.16 permits a court to strike causes of
action arising from an act in furtherance of the defendant’s right of free
speech or petition, unless the plaintiff establishes that there is a
probability the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.    
 “The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a
defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden of
frivolous litigation.”  (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393
(Baral).)  “The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate defendants
from any liability for claims arising from the protected rights of petition or
speech. It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at an early stage,
meritless claims arising from protected activity.”  (Id. at p.
384.)  
Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two
steps.  “At the first step, the moving defendant bears the burden of
identifying all allegations of protected activity, and the claims for relief
supported by them.  When relief is sought based on allegations of both
protected and unprotected activity, the unprotected activity is disregarded at
this stage. If the court determines that relief is sought based on allegations
arising from activity protected by the statute, the second step is reached.
There, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate that each challenged
claim based on protected activity is legally sufficient and factually
substantiated. The court, without resolving evidentiary conflicts, must
determine whether the plaintiff's showing, if accepted by the trier of fact,
would be sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. If not, the claim is
stricken. Allegations of protected activity supporting the stricken claim are
eliminated from the complaint, unless they also support a distinct claim on which
the plaintiff has shown a probability of prevailing.”  (Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at p. 396.)  
 
The California Supreme Court has “described this
second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ [Citation.] The court does
not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is
limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made
a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It
accepts the plaintiff's evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant's showing
only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff's claim as a matter of law. [Citation.]
‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’ [Citation.] …. As to
the second step inquiry, a plaintiff seeking to demonstrate the merit of the
claim ‘may not rely solely on its complaint, even if verified; instead, its
proof must be made upon competent admissible evidence. [Citation.]’ ” (Sweetwater
Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931,
940.)  
 
IV.       ANALYSIS
 
A.   
Factual
Allegations in the Complaint
 
Plaintiffs have been tenants of Unit B at 314 E. Mission
Road, San Gabriel, California 91766 since August 1, 2021.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 10, 15.)  In February 2024, Shen[2]
conducted a non-judicial foreclosure of the property at the Bank’s behest.  (Complaint, ¶ 17.)  Plaintiffs were unaware of the foreclosure,
and unaware of the pendency of Shen’s sale. 
(Id.)  Ji Li (Li),
the landlord of the Property, asked Su whether Plaintiffs wanted to make a bid
to purchase the Property as eligible tenant buyers under Civil Code section
2924m.  (Complaint, ¶ 18.)  Su stated they did and days later, executed a
Letter of Intent addressed to Lender’s Foreclosure Services. Li delivered the Letter
of Intent and supporting affidavit to the Bank. 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 18-20.)  However,
instead of honoring Plaintiffs’ rights to make a bid to purchase the Property,
the Bank and Shen thwarted the bid.  (Complaint,
¶ 21.)  Among other things, the Bank,
through its Vice President Jennifer Ku, falsely asserted that Plaintiffs were
not occupying Unit B in the Property as their primary residence, and therefore
were not eligible tenant buyers.  In
making that determination, the Bank knowingly relied on a false “rental roll”
of tenants provided by Li which did not include Plaintiffs.  (Complaint, ¶ 22.)  In March 2024, Shen executed the Trustee’s
Deed which transfers title to the Property to the Bank.  (Complaint, ¶ 23.)  Plaintiffs advised the Bank they are ready,
prepared, and able to purchase the Property for an amount that exceeds the
Bank’s full credit bid for the Property.  (Complaint, ¶ 24.)  Plaintiffs demanded that the Bank convey the
Property to Plaintiffs. The Bank refused and commenced an unlawful detainer
proceeding with respect to the Property. 
(Id.)[3]
 
B.    
Prong 1: The
Protected Activities 
 
To
satisfy the first prong of the two-prong test, a movant defendant
must demonstrate that the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains
were taken ‘in furtherance of the defendant’s right of petition or free
speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a
public as defined in the statute.  (Equilon Enterprises v.
Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67 (Equilon);
see City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78 (City
of Cotati) [“[i]n the anti-SLAPP context, the critical point is
whether the plaintiff's cause of action itself was based on an act in
furtherance of the defendant's right of petition or free speech”].)  
 
An “ ‘act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or
free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection
with a public issue’ includes: (1) any written or oral statement or writing
made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other
official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or
writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place
open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public
interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e); City of
Cotati, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 75 [“section 425.16 expressly
‘defines the types of claims that are subject to the anti-SLAPP procedures’
[citation omitted] i.e., causes of action arising from any act of protected
speech or petitioning as these terms are defined in subdivision (e)(1)–(4) of
the statute”].)
 
“[A] claim may be struck [as a SLAPP] only if the speech or
petitioning activity itself is the wrong complained of, and not just evidence
of liability or a step leading to some different act for which liability is
asserted. [Citation].” (Wong v. Wong (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 358,
364.)  “Thus, in evaluating anti-SLAPP
motions, ‘courts should consider the elements of the challenged claim and what
actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis
for liability.” [Citation.] (Id.) 
The fact “[t]hat a cause of action arguably may have been triggered
by protected activity does not entail that it is one arising from such.”
(City of Cotati, supra, 29 Cal. 4th at p. 78 [emphasis
added].)  It is the “[t]he ‘principal
thrust or gravamen’ of the plaintiff's claim [which] determines whether section
425.16 applies. [Citations.]” (Renewable Resources Coalition, Inc. v. Pebble
Mines Corp. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 384, 394-395.)
The Bank seeks an order striking each cause of action
pursuant to CCP section 425.16, subdivisions (e)(2) and (e)(3).  The Bank’s protected activity is comprised of
three alleged “acts”: (1) Shen’s failure to give Notice of Trustee’s Sale to
Plaintiffs, (Complaint ¶¶ 17, 25-28, 37-41); (2) the Bank’s restraint of Plaintiffs’
Right of First Refusal in the Post-Auction Bidding Process (Complaint, ¶¶ 22,
33-36); and (3) Shen’s delivery of the Trustee’s Deed to the Bank (Complaint, ¶¶
23, 37-41, 42-46, 51-57).  
1.  Failure to Give Notice of
Trustee’s Sale
The Bank argues Shen’s service of the Notice of Trustee’s
Sale “is a statement made in a place open to the public or a public forum in
connection with an issue of public interest.” 
(Motion, p. 6, citing CCP § 425.16, subd. (e)(3)).  
The first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis requires the
defendant to make “a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is
one arising from protected activity.”¿ (Equilon, supra,
29¿Cal.4th at p. 67; § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)¿ “[T]he statutory phrase ‘cause
of action . . .¿ arising from’ means simply that the defendant’s act underlying
the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of
the right of petition or free speech. [Citation.] In¿the
anti-SLAPP context, the critical point is whether the plaintiff’s cause of
action itself was based on an act in furtherance of the defendant’s right of
petition or free speech.”¿ (City of Cotati, supra, 29
Cal.4th at p. 78.)  Thus, “[t]he only means specified in section 425.16 by
which a moving defendant can satisfy the [‘arising from’] requirement is to
demonstrate that the defendant's conduct by which plaintiff claims to have
been injured falls within one of the four categories described in
subdivision (e)....” (Equilon, supra, 29¿Cal.4th
at p. 66.)  As such, a trial court must examine “the elements of a claim
and determine what actions supply those elements and consequently form the
basis for the defendant’s alleged liability.”  (Park v. Board of
Trustees of California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1063.) “In
deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is met, a court considers ‘the
pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which
the liability or defense is based.’ ”¿ (City of Cotati, supra, 29
Cal.4th at p. 79, quoting § 425.16, subd. (b).) 
The argument fails from the start.  Plaintiffs allege “that the BANK and SHEN
failed to post or otherwise provide written notice of the TRUSTEE’S SALE to
Plaintiffs as required by California Civil Code § 2924f, including the NOTICE
TO POTENTIAL BIDDERS and NOTICE TO TENANT required by subdivision (b)(8) of Section
2924f. Plaintiffs did not receive or see any such notice until in or about May
2024, when they first obtained it from the LANDLORD, not any Defendant.”  (Complaint, ¶ 26, emphasis in original.)  The gravamen of the allegations is Shen’s failure
to serve a Notice of Trustee’s Sale which complied with Civil Code section
2924.8(a).  As alleged, Plaintiffs
complain of inaction or noncompliance.  The purported protected activity is not an
activity.  
Further, the court is hard-pressed to read the foregoing
allegations as a statement made by Defendants. 
There is no alleged statement, written or oral.  The court is not aware of any authority, and
the Bank does not point to any, to support the proposition that a non-statement
may support a special motion to strike.  “[T]hat a cause of action arguably may
have been ‘triggered’ by protected activity does not entail that it is one
arising from such. [Citation.] In the anti-SLAPP context, the critical consideration
is whether the cause of action is based on the defendant's protected
free speech or petitioning activity. [Citations.]” (Navellier v. Sletten (2002)
29 Cal.4th 82, 87.)  Rather, a “failure
to speak cannot fall in any of the first three categories [of subsection (e) of
Section 425.16], which protect only ‘statement[s] or writing[s],’ and not the
failure to make them.”  (Ratcliff v.
The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 982,
1011.)  
Moreover, even
if serving of the Notice of Trustee’s Sale were an issue, the Court of Appeal
in Garretson v. Post (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 1508 (Garretson) forecloses
the act of noticing a nonjudicial foreclosure as petitioning activity.  There, the Court of Appeal stated, “in the
instant case, defendant’s act of noticing a nonjudicial foreclosure is
analogous to a business dealing or transaction. The foreclosure notice was only
incidental or collateral to the principal purposes of private nonjudicial
foreclosure proceedings.”  (Garretson,
at p. 1523.)  So too here.  The Bank fails to
carry its burden to show the failure of complying with the statutory notice
provisions is protected activity. 
2.  The Bank’s Restraint on Plaintiffs’ Right of
First Refusal
Plaintiffs
allege the Bank restrained Plaintiffs’ initial right to bid on the Property.  As alleged in the Complaint, 
“after LI
submitted SU’s Letter of Intent and Affidavit to the BANK, the BANK, through
its Vice President Jennifer Ku, falsely asserted that Plaintiffs were not
occupying Unit B in the PROPERTY as their primary residence, and therefore were
not eligible tenant buyers. Plaintiffs are also informed and believe, and
therefore allege, that the BANK knowingly relied on a false “rental roll” of
tenants provided by LI that did not identify Plaintiffs as occupying the
PROPERTY as their primary residence. And, Plaintiffs are informed and believe,
the BANK and the TRUSTEE colluded and conspired in a fraudulent scheme to deny
Plaintiffs’ status as eligible tenant buyers, as a pretext for interfering with
Plaintiffs’ rights to submit a Letter of Intent and bid to purchase the
PROPERTY, and chilling, retraining and thwarting bidding on the PROPERTY
pursuant to Civil Code Section 2924m.”  
(Complaint, ¶ 22.)
The Bank points
to “WeChat” communications between Li and Ku regarding Plaintiffs’ residency in
the Property as Ku’s purported false statements.  (See Ku Decl., Ex. B.)  Whether Plaintiffs are residents of the
Property is relevant to whether Plaintiffs are eligible tenant buyers of the
Property.  The Bank argues Ku made those
statements “in connection with an issue under consideration by an official
proceeding authorized by law.”  (Motion,
p. 6, citing CCP § 425.16, subd. (e)(2)). 
Specifically, the Bank argues Plaintiffs’ residency at the Property was
an issue made in connection to the post-auction bidding process.  In essence, the Bank attempts to parse the
post-auction bidding from the nonjudicial foreclosure process.  And with good reason.  Under Garretson, supra, the nonjudicial
foreclosure proceeding is not an official proceeding for purposes of an
anti-SLAPP pursuant to CCP section 425.16, subdivision (e)(3).  This is so because “nonjudicial foreclosure
proceedings, including notice of a foreclosure sale, are not closely linked to
any governmental, administrative, or judicial proceedings or regulation, such
as the state licensing and regulation of physicians in Kibler [v.
Northern Inyo County Local Hospital Dist. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 192 (Kibler)].
Nonjudicial foreclosure merely provides a nonjudicial, private alternative to
judicial foreclosure.”  (Garretson,
156 Cal.App.4th at p. 1521.) 
The Bank
does not provide any authority for the proposition that the post-auction
bidding process should be viewed as a separate process. Rather, the weight of
authority supports the proposition that the post-auction bidding process is a part
of the nonjudicial foreclosure process.  
“California
substantially modified its foreclosure scheme in 2020, effective January 1,
2021 through January 1, 2026.”  (In re
Hager (Bankr. E.D. Cal. 2023) 651 B.R. 873, 880, citing Senate Bill (“SB”)
1079, Cal. 2019-20 Reg. Sess. (eff. Jan. 1, 2021).) “When California amended
its foreclosure scheme in 2020, effective January 1, 2021, certain contingent
overbid rights were given to any ‘prospective owner-occupant,’ ‘eligible tenant
buyer,’ and ‘eligible bidder.’”  (Id.,
at p. 881.)  “The statutory scheme for
determining sale finality and overbid procedure, if applicable, was expanded by
enacting [Civil Code] § 2924m(c).”  (Id.)
“By modifying the rules for finality of a foreclosure sale the California
Legislature intended to afford an opportunity for prospective owner-occupants
to have, in effect, a right of first refusal in the nature of contingent
overbid rights following a trustee’s sale.” 
(In re Spikes (Bankr. E.D. Cal. 2024) 662 B.R. 704, 709.) 
When “the
prevailing bidder is not a prospective owner-occupant, then a 15-day window
opens after the sale. While the window is open, eligible third parties may
submit bids or notices of intent to bid, and the sale will not be deemed final
until the earliest of one of the conditions specified in [Civil Code] §
2924m(c)(1) through (c)(4) are satisfied.” 
(In re Hager, supra, at p. 882.) During that “15-day
window, any current tenant in the property and all other eligible bidders can
submit a higher offer than the foreclosure sale price or a non-binding notice
of intent to bid.”  (Id. at pp.
882-83, citing Civ. Code § 2924m(c)(2).) “Should either of these occur, an
additional window of time opens lasting until the 45th day after the
foreclosure sale.”  (In re Hager,
at p. 883.) “[I]f an eligible bidder who timely provided a notice of intent to
bid to the trustee in the first 15-day window submits a bid that exceeds the
foreclosure sale price within the 15-day window, the sale is deemed final at
the conclusion of the 45-day window.” (Id., citing Civ. Code §
2924m(c)(4)(B).) “The eligible bidder with the highest offer will take title to
the property.” (Id.) But if “by the 45th day at 5:00 p.m., no eligible
bidders or eligible tenant buyers have submitted bids pursuant to their timely
notices of intent to bid, then the sale will be final at the end of the 45th
day, and the last, highest bidder at the initial foreclosure sale auction will
take title to the property.” (In re Hager, at p. 883, citing Civ. Code §
2924m(c)(4)(A).)
To be
considered an eligible tenant buyer, Civil Code section 2924m(a)(2) requires the
prospective buyer to (A) occupy the real property as their primary residence;
(B) occupy the property under an agreement entered in an arm’s length with the
borrower before Notice of Default was given, and who attaches evidence of the
tenancy to the affidavit required; (C) not be the borrower, or the child,
spouse or parent of the borrower; (D) not be acting as the agent of any other
person; and (E) not have filed a bankruptcy during the sale of the property. 
Based on
the foregoing, the determination whether Plaintiffs are eligible tenant buyers
and the procedures for such buyers to make bids is part of a comprehensive
process which comprises the nonjudicial foreclosure process.  The Bank argues the post-auction bidding
process is similar to the medical peer review process which, under Kibler,
supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 203 is an official proceeding within the meaning
of the anti-SLAPP statute because Civil Code section 2924m requires reporting
to the state via the Attorney General.  (Civ.
Code, § 2924m, subds. (i), (j).) This argument fails for three reasons.  First, the Bank fails to show that the
post-auction bidding process is separate and distinct from the nonjudicial
foreclosure process.  Second, the Garretson
court considered Kibler and found medical peer review hearings were
distinguishable from nonjudicial foreclosure proceedings because such nonjudicial
foreclosure proceedings “are not closely linked to any governmental,
administrative, or judicial proceedings or regulation, such as the state
licensing and regulation of physicians in Kibler. Nonjudicial
foreclosure merely provides a nonjudicial, private alternative to judicial
foreclosure.”  (Garretson, supra,
156 Cal.App.4th at p. 1521.)  Finally,
the argument fails because nonjudicial foreclosure is not a state action. (See Lyons
v. Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s Office (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1499, 1504.)
 A statute which requires reports to be
made to the Attorney General does not automatically convert the process into an
official proceeding.  And, it certainly
does not convert the process here because Plaintiffs do not base their claims
on any reports submitted to the Attorney General.  
 The court is not persuaded the two proceedings
(post-auction bidding and nonjudicial foreclosure) are independent proceedings.  The post-auction bidding is dependent on the
occurrence of a nonjudicial foreclosure. 
That eligible tenant buyers are afforded an opportunity to purchase a
nonjudicially foreclosed property cannot realistically be seen as an event that
occurs in a vacuum.  The foreclosure
proceedings precede the post-bidding auction.  The Bank does not carry its burden to show Ku’s
statements were made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by
an official proceeding. 
3.  Delivery of the Trustee’s Deed to the Bank
 
The Bank seeks to strike paragraphs 23, 37-41, 42-46, 51-57
in the Complaint.  The underlying
allegation which the Bank challenges is set forth at paragraph 23.  It states: 
 
Plaintiffs
are informed and believe that on or about March 28, 2024, SHEN executed the TRUSTEE’S
DEED attached hereto as Exhibit A, which purports to transfer title to the
PROPERTY to the BANK, and the BANK caused the TRUSTEE’S DEED to be recorded in
the Official Records of the Recorder’s Office, Los Angeles County.  (Complaint,
¶ 23.)
 
            The Bank
summarily argues delivery of the deed of trust is protected activity under CCP
section 425.16, subdivision (e)(2) because it was a statement made in
connection with an issue under consideration by an official proceeding authorized
by law.  This argument is based on the view
that the post-auction bidding process is an official proceeding.  As discussed above, the court has considered
and rejected this view.  The post-auction
bidding process is not a separate process from nonjudicial foreclosure nor is
it an official proceeding.  Moreover, the
delivery of a deed of trust does not fall into any of the categories enumerated
under the anti-SLAPP statute.  The delivery
of a deed is neither a written or oral statement (CCP section (e)(1)), let
alone one made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any
other official proceeding (CCP section (e)(2)), or in connection to an issue
under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or
any other official proceeding (CCP section (e)(3)).  
 
C.    
Prong 2:
Plaintiffs’ Probability of Prevailing on Claims
 
Because the Bank does not meet its prong 1 burden, the court
need not and does not move on to prong 2. 

 
D.   
Attorney Fees 
 
Plaintiffs request an award of attorneys’ fees as the
prevailing party.  Plaintiffs are
directed to reserve a hearing and file a separate motion for attorneys’ fees. 
 
V.        CONCLUSION 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, Defendant’s Special Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion for Leave to Conduct Discovery is MOOT. 
 
            Plaintiffs are
to seek their attorneys’ fees by way of noticed motion.
 
Plaintiffs to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   November 14,
2024                           




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 


