 Case Number:  23STCV26655    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California 
County of Los Angeles 
 



 
MICKEY BEARMAN COMPANY, 
 
                            
  Plaintiff, 
 
                 
  vs. 
 
LIBERTY MUTUAL INSURANCE CO., et al., 
 
                             
  Defendants. 


Case No.:   23STCV26655
 
DEPARTMENT 45 
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING 
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:   10/31/2023
Trial Date:   Not
  set. 



 
Hearing Date:              March 28, 2024
Moving Party:             (1) Attorney Maria G. Enriquez
                                    (2)
Attorney Daniel I. Schlessinger 
Responding Parties:    None
(1)  
Application for
Pro Hac Vice of Maria G. Enriquez to Appear as Counsel for Plaintiff. 
(2)  
Application for
Pro Hac Vice of Daniel I. Schlessinger to Appear as Counsel for Plaintiff. 
The
court considered the verified applications and accompanying declarations.  No opposition was received. 
The
court GRANTS Maria G. Enriquez’s application to appear as counsel pro hac vice.

The
court GRANTS Daniel I. Schlessinger’s application to appear as counsel pro hac
vice. 
Discussion 
Maria G. Enriquez and
Daniel I. Schlessinger each apply for pro hac
vice admission to appear as counsel for plaintiff Mickey Bearman Company, along
with counsel Mary Craig Calkins, for the purpose of this action.  
CRC, Rule 9.40 provides
that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear
pro hac vice in this State by way of written application upon due notice to all
interested parties, as well as service on the State Bar in San Francisco with
payment of a $50 fee, provided that the attorney (a) is not a California
resident, (b) does not work in California, and (c) does not perform regular or
substantial business, professional or other activities in California.
An application for pro hac
vice admission must set forth: (1) the applicant attorney’s residence and
office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant attorney has been
admitted and dates of admission; (3) a representation that the attorney applicant
is a member in good standing in the courts of admission and is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in
which the applicant attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the
prior two years; and (5) the name, address and phone number of the active
California State Bar member with whom the applicant is associated.  (CRC, Rule 9.40(d).)
Under CRC, Rule 9.40(b),
“[a]bsent special circumstances, repeated appearances by any person under this
rule is a cause for denial of an application.”
As to Maria G. Enriquez’s pro hac
vice application, Ms. Enriquez attests that she is a member of good standing in
the State Bar of Illinois and all the courts she has been admitted (with
dates of admission), is an Illinois resident and not a resident of California,
is not regularly employed in California, and is not regularly engaged in
substantial business, professional or other activities in California.  (Declaration of Maria G. Enriquez, ¶¶ 1-3.)  Ms. Enriquez submits the name, address and
phone number of the active California State Bar member with whom the applicant
is associated.  (Id. at ¶ 6.)  She also attests that, in the preceding two
years, she has not applied to appear pro hac vice in any other California
Superior Court actions.  (Id. at ¶
5.)  Further, Ms. Enriquez attests that
she is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court.  (Id. at ¶ 4.)  Both Ms. Enriquez and Mary Craig Calkins,
counsel for Plaintiff, declare that the necessary fee for the application has
been paid.  (Enriquez Decl., ¶ 8; Ex.
“A”; Declaration of Mary Craig Calkins, ¶ 3.) 
Copies of the application have been served on all interested parties and
on the State Bar of California.  (Enriquez
Decl., ¶ 7; Calkins Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. “A.”)  
Based on the foregoing,
the court finds that Ms. Enriquez establishes that she satisfied the
requirements to appear as counsel pro hac vice pursuant to CRC, Rule 9.40.  The court therefore GRANTS Maria G. Enriquez’s application
to appear as counsel pro hac vice.
As to Daniel I. Schlessinger’s pro hac
vice application, Mr. Schlessinger attests that he is a member of good standing
in the State Bar of Illinois and all the courts she has been admitted
(with dates of admission), is an Illinois resident and not a resident of
California, is not regularly employed in California, and is not regularly
engaged in substantial business, professional or other activities in
California.  (Declaration of Daniel I.
Schlessinger, ¶¶ 1-3.)  Mr. Schlessinger
submits the name, address and phone number of the active California State Bar
member with whom the applicant is associated.  (Id. at ¶ 6.)  He also attests that, in the preceding two
years, he has not applied to appear pro hac vice in any other California
Superior Court actions.  (Id. at ¶
5.)  Further, Mr. Schlessinger attests
that he is not suspended or disbarred in any court.  (Id. at ¶ 4.)  Mr. Schlessinger declares that the necessary
fee for the application has been paid.  (Id.
at ¶ 8; Ex. “A.”)  Copies of the
application have been served on all interested parties and on the State Bar of
California.  (Id. at ¶ 7.)  
Based on the foregoing,
the court finds that Mr. Schlessinger establishes that he satisfied the
requirements to appear as counsel pro hac vice pursuant to CRC, Rule 9.40.  The court therefore GRANTS Daniel I. Schlessinger’s application
to appear as counsel pro hac vice.
It is so ordered.
Dated: March
28, 2024
_______________________
ROLF M.
TREU
    Judge of the Superior Court