 Case Number:  23STCV22390    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



MIGUEL A. LICEA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
THE FINISH LINE, INC. d/b/a
  FINISHLINE.COM, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV22390




Hearing Date:


July 10, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANT THE
  FINISH LINE, INC.’S DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 



            
Background
On September 18, 2023,
Plaintiff Miguel A. Licea (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant The
Finish Line, Inc., dba Finishline.com. The original Complaint alleges causes of
action for (1) violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act - Penal Code § 631 and 
(2)
violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act -
Penal Code § 632.7.  
The Finish Line Inc. (“Defendant”) demurred to both causes of action
of the Complaint. On February 28, 2024, the Court issued an Order sustaining
Defendant’s demurrer to the first and second causes of action of the Complaint,
with leave to amend. 
On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC alleges causes of action for (1) violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act - Penal Code § 631 and (2) violations of the
California Invasion of Privacy Act - Penal Code § 632.7.  
On April 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal of the
second cause of action of the FAC, without prejudice. Dismissal was entered on
April 29, 2024. 
Defendant now demurs to the first cause of action of the FAC.
Plaintiff opposes. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice. 
Discussion
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.     Allegations of the FAC
In the FAC, Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendant secretly enables and allows a third-party
spyware company to eavesdrop on the private conversations of everyone who
communicates through the chat feature at https://www.finishline.com/ (the
“Website”). The spyware company then exploits and monetizes that data by
sharing it with other third parties, who use the private chat data to bombard
the unsuspecting visitor with targeted marketing.” (FAC, p. 2:2-6.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[t]o
enable eavesdropping, Defendant paid a third party named Genesys Cloud Services
Inc. to embed its chat technology code into the chat feature offered on
Defendant’s Website. Indeed, whenever a consumer chats via Defendant’s Website,
the chat is routed through Genesys’s servers so they may simultaneously collect
a transcript of that chat, along with other user data, in real time and save it
for later access.” (FAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that “[w]ithin the last year,
Plaintiff visited Defendant’s Website. Plaintiff – like all visitors – shared
personal data and personally identifying information with Defendant via the
Website chat feature.” (FAC, ¶ 34.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant did not
inform Plaintiff that Defendant was secretly allowing, aiding, and abetting a
third party to intercept and eavesdrop on the conversations during
transmission, or that the third party provided data from such transcripts to
Meta through ‘integration’ with Meta software.” (FAC, ¶ 36.) 
 
C.    
First Cause of Action for
Violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act –
Penal Code Section 631 
Plaintiff’s first cause of action is for violations of the California
Invasion of Privacy Act, specifically, Penal Code
section 631. 
Penal Code section 631, subdivision (a)
provides in pertinent part as follows: 
 
“Any person
who, by means of any machine, instrument, or contrivance, or in any other
manner, intentionally taps, or makes any unauthorized connection, whether
physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any
telegraph or telephone wire, line, cable, or instrument, including the wire,
line, cable, or instrument of any internal telephonic communication system, or
who willfully and without the consent of all parties to the communication, or
in any unauthorized manner, reads, or attempts to read, or to learn the
contents or meaning of any message, report, or communication while the same is
in transit or passing over any wire, line, or cable, or is being sent from, or
received at any place within this state; or who uses, or attempts to use, in
any manner, or for any purpose, or to communicate in any way, any information
so obtained, or who aids, agrees with, employs, or conspires with any person
or persons to unlawfully do, or permit, or cause to be done any of the acts or
things mentioned above in this section, is punishable by a fine not
exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500), or by imprisonment in the
county jail not exceeding one year, or by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision
(h) of Section 1170, or by both a fine and
imprisonment in the county jail or pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170…” (Emphasis added.) 
Plaintiff
appears to allege that Defendant violated the foregoing underlined portion of Penal Code section 631, subdivision (a) “by ‘aiding,
abetting, and conspiring’ to allow a third party to intercept, eavesdrop upon,
learn, share, and monetize the contents of Defendant’s chat conversations.”
(FAC, ¶ 39, emphasis omitted.)  
In the demurrer, Defendant cites to People v.
Beeman (1984)
35 Cal.3d 547, 560, where the
California Supreme Court “conclude[d] that the weight of
authority and sound law require proof that an aider and abettor act with
knowledge of the criminal purpose of the perpetrator and with an intent or purpose either of
committing, or of encouraging or facilitating commission of, the offense.”
(Emphasis in original.) Defendant asserts that “[f]or the second time,
Plaintiff has failed [sic] allege Defendant had knowledge of Genesys’ supposed
nefarious intentions when it licensed the Genesys chat feature, that Defendant
knew anything of the sort when it ‘paid a third party named Genesys Cloud
Services Inc. to embed its chat technology code into the chat feature offered
on Defendant’s Website’ to ‘enable’ eavesdropping or the even more attenuated
wrongful conduct vis-à-vis targeted advertising…” (Demurrer at p. 11:22-26.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff argues that “the fourth
clause of section 631(a) omits the word ‘abet’ so
the statute does not impose an ‘aid and abet’ requirement under California
criminal law.” (Opp’n at p. 19:23-24.) Plaintiff cites to People v.
Booth (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
1247, 1255, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “Campbell explains that the reason our
courts have been careful to draw the distinction between ‘aiding’ and
‘abetting’ is not because there is a two-pronged test, but to emphasize that
one cannot be convicted of being an accomplice by conduct alone, but must also
share the principal’s purpose or goal to commit the crime, i.e., there must be
a union between act and intent. For that reason, the term ‘abet,’ which
requires a guilty state of mind, has been recognized as an indispensable
element of accomplice liability.” 
However, the Court notes Plaintiff repeatedly alleges
in the FAC that Defendant “aided and abetted a third party…” (See, e.g.,
FAC, ¶¶ 36, 39, 42.) In addition, in the reply, Defendant asserts that
“[r]egardless of which verb Plaintiff attempts to use to impose liability upon
Defendant—‘aid,’ ‘agree with,’ ‘employ’ or ‘conspire’—each requires knowledge
and intent as it relates to the conspirative goal or ultimate outcome.” (Reply
at pp. 2:20-3:1.) In Kidron v. Movie Acquisition Corp. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th
1571, 1582, cited by
Defendant, the Court of Appeal noted that “actual knowledge of
the planned tort, without more, is insufficient to serve as the basis for a
conspiracy claim. Knowledge of the planned tort must be combined with intent to
aid in its commission.”
Plaintiff also asserts that “[a]ssuming arguendo
that Plaintiff must plead Defendant’s knowledge and intent for aiding and
abetting liability, the FAC does so.” (Opp’n at p. 20:5-6.) Plaintiff points to,
inter alia, paragraphs 44-47 of the FAC,
which allege that “Defendant knew and was aware that Genesys planned to use
this spyware to mine data about consumers, including via its proprietary Intent
Miner, for dissemination to other third parties— all without ever obtaining
their consent…Defendant knew this because Genesys actively advertised to
Defendant and to the public that it does so—including, specifically, that it
leverages consumer data from conversations with its various clients to train
its chatbots, and that it has entered into strategic partnerships with numerous
third parties regarding the sharing of data, as detailed above…Defendant
additionally knew that Genesys disseminated consumer data for purposes of
determining consumer shopping and spending behaviors, and that it provided this
information to third parties, including for targeted advertising
purposes…Genesys’s use of consumer data and its sharing of said data with third
parties was expressly advertised to Defendant as part of the reason why
Defendant would be able to procure Genesys’s services at a considerable
discount, and in less time, than the typical market price for building a
chatbot that did not rely on the use of consumer data contained without
consent.” (FAC, ¶¶ 44-47.) 
However, such allegations only appear to concern the
“knowledge” element. Plaintiff does not appear to point to allegations showing
that Defendant intended to aid in Genesys’ purported wrongful conduct. As noted
by Defendant, although Plaintiff points to allegations of Genesys’ marketing
material, Plaintiff still does not appear to allege “how or why Finish Line
participated, intended, knew, or benefitted from Genesys’ purported scheme
through these services.” (Demurrer at p. 9:1-2.) 
Moreover, as to the “knowledge” element, Defendant
notes that Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant read Genesys’ marketing
material. (Demurrer at p. 8:5-6.) Rather, Plaintiff alleges that “Plaintiff did
not effectively consent to any of Defendant’s actions…Defendant knew and was
aware that Genesys planned to use this spyware to mine data about consumers,
including via its proprietary Intent Miner, for dissemination to other third
parties— all without ever obtaining their consent…Defendant knew this because
Genesys actively advertised to Defendant and to the public that it does
so…” (FAC, ¶¶ 44-45, emphasis added.) As noted by Defendant, these allegations
do not appear to demonstrate how “[Defendant] knew, let alone facilitated, the
purported misconduct…” (Demurrer at p. 8:6-7, emphasis omitted.)[1]

            In light of the foregoing, the
Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action of the FAC,
without leave to amend. As set forth above, the Court sustained Defendant’s
demurrer to the cause of action for violations of the California Invasion of
Privacy Act - Penal Code § 631 in the original
Complaint. (See February 28, 2024 Order.) In
addition, Plaintiff has not proffered any
basis for any amendment to cure the foregoing deficiencies. Accordingly, the Court
finds that it is appropriate to sustain the instant demurrer without leave to
amend.¿ ¿ 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the first cause of action of the FAC, without leave to amend. 
The Court orders
Defendant to file and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal within 30 days of
the date of this order. (¿Donald v. Cafe Royale, Inc. (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 168, 186 [“An
order sustaining a demurrer without leave to amend is not a final judgment; a
judgment of dismissal follows such an order as a matter of course.”]¿.)¿¿
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this
order.   
 
DATED:  July 10, 2024                                  ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


