  Case Number:  23STCV03405    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Dr. Nayyer Ali, M.D., et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV03405




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Dignity Health, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: February 21, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint;
(2) Motions to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Dignity Health dba St.
Mary Medical Center, Carolyn Caldwell, Charles Anderson and Christopher Pook
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Dr. Nayyer Ali, M.D. and
Dr. Mauricio Heilbron, M.D.
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT
POOK’S DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
THE REMAINING DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
DEFENDANTS’ MOTIONS TO STRIKE ARE GRANTED.
PLAINTIFF ALI TO FILE AND SERVE A SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30
DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30
DAYS THEREAFTER.
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On February 16, 2023, Plaintiffs Dr.
Nayyer Ali, M.D. and Dr. Mauricio Heilbron, M.D. sued Defendants Dignity Health
dba St. Mary Medical Center, Carolyn Caldwell, Charles Anderson and Christopher
Pook, asserting causes of action for (1) intentional interference with
prospective economic relations; and (2) retaliation. Plaintiffs allege
Defendants retaliated against Plaintiffs for advocating for the medical staff
and patients. 
 
On June 15, 2023, the Court granted
Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion in part.
 
On October 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
the operative first amended complaint for retaliation and UCL violations.
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants’ request for judicial notice
of Exh. A is DENIED. Defendants’ request for judicial notice of Exh. B is
GRANTED as to the existence of the document, not as to the truth of the matters
asserted in it.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants demur to Plaintiff Ali’s
cause of action for retaliation in violation of Health & Safety Code §
1278.5 on the grounds that Ali did not complain about patient care and Ali was
not subject to an adverse employment action. Defendants demur to the cause of
action for UCL violations on the same grounds.
 
Section 1278.5(b)(1) provides that “[a] health facility shall not
discriminate or retaliate” against Plaintiffs because Plaintiffs have
“[p]resented a grievance, complaint, or report” or “initiated, participated, or
cooperated in an investigation or administrative proceeding relating to the
quality of care, services, or conditions at the facility . . . .” 
 
Ali alleges that (i) Caldwell, Anderson, and the Hospital
terminated Dr. Ali’s teaching contract in retaliation for his patient advocacy;
(ii) all Defendants further retaliated against Dr. Ali when he complained that
Defendants’ retaliation efforts against him were negatively affecting patient
care, including allowing a patient’s body to decompose in their patient bed all
night instead of allowing a physician present at the Hospital to declare the
patient dead; and (iii) after he reported to the Hospital Community Board changes
to improve ICU patient care, Defendants retaliated against him by taking
actions to limit referrals to him. This is sufficient to allege Ali reported
concerns about patient care and experienced adverse employment action as a
result.
Defendants
also assert Ali has failed to allege any wrongdoing by Defendant Pook.
Plaintiffs argue that the allegations that include all “Defendants” are
sufficient to allege liability against Pook. The Court disagrees. Plaintiffs
must allege facts against Pook to maintain causes of action against him.
Defendant
Pook’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. The remaining Defendants’
demurrer is OVERRULED.
B. Motion to
Strike Plaintiff Ali’s Demand for Jury Trial
“Any party, within the time allowed to response
to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part" of that pleading. (CCP 435(b). “The Court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted
in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the Court." (CCP 436.)
Defendants move to strike Ali’s demand for a
jury trial on the ground that Ali is not entitled to a jury trial on the claims
for violations of the UCL and the Health & Safety Code. Defendants rely on Shaw v. Superior Court (2017) 2 Cal.5th 983. The California Supreme
Court in Shaw held that the language of Health & Safety Code § 1278.5 requires adjudication
by the Court rather than a jury. The Court held that this did not violate the
California Constitution because a claim under this section is not the exclusive
means to remedy an alleged retaliatory termination. The Court explained that a
Plaintiff may recover damages from a jury for retaliatory termination under the
common law cause of action for wrongful termination in violation of public
policy; the language of section 1278.5 does not displace this claim. Rather,
section 1278.5 expands on these rights and allows a court to impose both legal
and equitable remedies for retaliation. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs assert that they
are entitled to a jury because they seek primarily the legal remedy of damages.
But Plaintiffs have not brought any common law claims; Plaintiffs have brought
only claims for statutory violations. The California Supreme Court has held
that there is no right to a jury trial under both section 1278.5 and the UCL.
(See Nationwide Biweekly Admin., Inc. v. Superior
Court of Alameda County (2020) 9
Cal.5th 279, 30 [“...it is clear that the Legislature intended that a cause of
action under the UCL... is to be tried by the court rather than by a jury.”])
Defendants’
motion to strike Ali’s demand for a jury trial is GRANTED.
C. Motion to
Strike Plaintiff Heilbron’s Claims and Demand for Jury Trial
Defendants’
move to strike Plaintiff Heilbron’s claims from the FAC on the ground that
Heilbron was not permitted to amend after Defendants appealed the Court’s
anti-SLAPP ruling regarding Heilbron’s claims in the original complaint. The
Court agrees. Defendants sought via anti-SLAPP to strike all Heilbron’s claims
on the ground that they were based on protected activity. Heilbron may not
amend the operative pleading while its allegations are being challenged on
appeal. (See Varian Med. Sys., Inc. v. Delfino (2020) 35 Cal.4th 180.)
Defendants’
motion to strike Heilbron’s claims is GRANTED.


 