  Case Number:  22STCV05381    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78LUIS MANUEL LOPEZ,  Plaintiff,  vs.  OUTFRONT MEDIA, INC., et al.,   Defendants.  Case No.:  22STCV05381 Hearing Date:  May 7, 2024      [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:   MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT FILED BY DEFENDANTS OUTFRONT MEDIA, INC., OUTFRONT MEDIA, LLC, AND RICK GUZMAN The motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as to the Second, Fifth, Sixth, and Tenth causes of action and as to the issue of punitive damages. The motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to the First, Third, Fourth, Eighth, and Ninth causes of action. The parties are reminded that the requested dismissal of Defendants Zubiate and Duronslet as well as the seventh cause of action was not entered. The reasons were provided on 9/14/2022.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice.I. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for violations of the FEHA, negligent hiring, wrongful termination, whistleblower retaliation, and intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED). Plaintiff Luis Manuel Lopez alleges that he was employed by Defendants as a billposter. During his employment, Plaintiff’s supervisor, Rick Guzman, ridiculed and embarrassed Plaintiff for his partial deafness. After Plaintiff’s cousin died from falling from a billboard, Plaintiff complained to Guzman and the shop steward, Leonard Baez, about dangerous work conditions. In March 2019, Plaintiff suffered severe injuries when a semitruck rear-ended him while he was working. Plaintiff was placed on medical leave for about three months, during which the Director of Operations, Anthony Zubiate, contacted Lopez and rushed him to return to work. Despite Plaintiff’s doctor ordering that he perform no lifting, bending, or neck movements, Defendants assigned Plaintiff to clean and sweep the shop floor, which exacerbated his injuries. Defendants ignored Plaintiff’s complaints about this work. Plaintiff was again placed on medical leave when his pain continued. In February 2020, Defendants met with Plaintiff to determine whether Plaintiff could return to work. A Human Resources (HR) representative, Djuna Duronslet, gave Plaintiff a list of available positions and told him to contact her about the positions within 30 days. Duronslet then ignored Plaintiff’s communications. In June 2020, Defendants terminated Plaintiff.II. PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn February 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed his Complaint against Defendants Outfront Media, Inc., Outfront Media, LLC, Rick Guzman, Anthony Zubiate, and Djuna Duronslet. On August 16, 2022, the Court partially sustained Defendants’ demurrer as to the seventh cause of action for negligent hiring. The Court sustained the demurrer as to the causes of action for harassment and IIED as to Zubiate. The Court sustained the demurrer as to IIED as to Duronslet.On February 2, 2024, Defendants Outfront Media, Inc., Outfront Media, LLC, and Rick Guzman (Movants) filed this motion for summary judgment.On April 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.On April 24, 2024, Movants filed a reply.III. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONSPlaintiff objects to Movant’s evidence filed in support of summary judgment.The following objections are OVERRULED: 1-9.Movants object Plaintiff’s evidence filed in opposition to the motion for summary judgment.The following objections are OVERRULED: 1-4, 7, 11, 12, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24.The following objections are SUSTAINED: 5, 20.When there is a clear and unequivocal admission by the plaintiff in a deposition and the plaintiff contradicts that admission in a subsequent declaration, a court must conclude that there is no substantial evidence of a triable issue of fact. (D'Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)Here, Movants allege Plaintiff’s declaration contradicts his earlier deposition testimony. Objections 6, 8, 9 and 13 are sustained to the extent that the declaration contradicts Plaintiff’s earlier deposition.IV. DISCUSSIONA party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)   The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) 1. First Cause of Action – Disability DiscriminationMovants first move for summary judgment as to the cause of action for disability discrimination on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff was not a qualified individual and (2) Movants articulated legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for ending Plaintiff’s employment and Plaintiff has no evidence of pretext. To successfully assert a claim for discrimination, Plaintiff must satisfy the requirements of the three-step McDonnell Douglas test. (See Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354- 55.) Generally, a prima facie case requires showing that (1) plaintiff was a member of a protected class; (2) plaintiff was qualified for the position plaintiff sought or was performing competently in the position plaintiff held; (3) plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available job; and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive. (Id. at 355.) In the context of disability discrimination claims, the Courts of Appeal boil these prima facie elements down from four to three: “that the plaintiff (1) suffered from a disability or was regarded as suffering from a disability, (2) could perform the essential duties of a job with or without reasonable accommodations, and (3) was subjected to an adverse employment action because of the disability or perceived disability.” (Glynn v. Superior Court (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 47, 53 fn.1.)  Here, Plaintiff testified that he was employed as a billposter and his duties consisted of installing media advertisements on billboards, maintaining advertising structures, and other duties. (Lopez Depo., 81:5-83:6.) Plaintiff was required to lift or carry 21 to 60 pounds and climb structures. (Id., 83:20-85:20.) Plaintiff’s restrictions include that he cannot lift over 20 pounds, cannot bed over, and cannot repeatedly bend his neck. (Compl., ¶15d.) Plaintiff’s restrictions directly conflict with the requirements of a billposter, making him unqualified to work as a job poster. Movants also argue that there was a non-discriminatory reason for his termination because Movants attempted to accommodate Plaintiff’s disability by providing temporary light duty work and attempting to reassign him. However, no positions for which Plaintiff qualified were available. If an employer cannot accommodate a disabled employee in his existing position and the employee requests reassignment, the employer is required to make an affirmative effort to determine whether a position is available. (Raine v. City of Burbank (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1223.) Employers are not required to create a new job, move another employee, promote the disabled employee, or violate another employee’s rights. (Id.) The employer’s duty is limited to reassigning the disabled employee if an already funded, vacant position at the same level exists. (Id.) Additionally, employers are not required to convert a temporary light-duty accommodation into a permanent position once an employee’s temporary disability becomes permanent. (Id at p. 1224.)   Here, Plaintiff testifies that Duronslet provided him with a list of 15 available positions. (Lopez Depo., 169:7-24.) Duronslet testified during deposition that the letter Movants sent to Plaintiff about his termination stated that he was to contact Duronslet by April 17, 2020. (Duronslet Depo., 82:2-21.) Although most positions were too far away or involved skills he did not have, Plaintiff was interested in a photographer position because he knew how to take pictures and had taken photographs of billboards as part of his duties as billposter. (Lopez Depo., 178:17-179:3.) Plaintiff was required to do his own research as to all openings in the company. (Movants’ evidence, pdf p.146.) When Plaintiff attempted to contact Duronslet in April of 2020, she did not pick up the phone and did not return his calls. (Lopez Depo., 191:6-198:16.) Plaintiff left Duronslet voicemails stating he was interested in the photographer position. (Id.) Plaintiff knew Duronslet was bad at returning phone calls and stopped attempting to contact her. (Id.) Plaintiff did not contact anyone else at Outfront because he was told to contact Duronslet only. (Id., 184:7-13.) Movants argue that Plaintiff was not qualified to work as a photographer because the job description for that position required professional photography experience. (UMF Nos. 44-46; Duronslet Decl., Exh. 1.) Plaintiff admitted during his deposition that he never had experience in photography. (Lopez Depo., 183:4-25.) Plaintiff did not research the position and did not know the requirements for the photographer position. (Id.) Thus, even if Plaintiff had been able to speak with Duronslet about the photographer position, Plaintiff was not qualified for the position.Movants’ evidence shows Plaintiff was not qualified to work in his original position or a position he sought with or without accommodations, an element of a cause of action for discrimination based on disability. Movants meet their burden of showing no triable issue of material fact remains over whether Plaintiff was qualified for his original position or a position he sought. The burden shifts to Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that he was qualified for the sales assistant position because he had customer service experience. However, as Movants point out, Plaintiff’s declaration testimony that he had some sales and customer service experience contradicts earlier deposition testimony that he did not have sales experience. (Lopez Decl., ¶25; Lopez Depo., 294:12-14.) Thus, the Court must conclude that there is no substantial evidence of a triable issue of fact over whether Plaintiff was qualified for this position.Plaintiff also argues that he was qualified for the photographer position because he had previously taken photos of billboards. Plaintiff argues that the professional photography experience requirement was not reflected in the original job posting. However, the original job posting does require “several of professional photography work experience” (sic). (Plaintiff’s evidence, Exh. 17.) Even if Plaintiff met the requirement that he provide proof of performance photographs for Movants’ advertising structures due to his experience taking such photographs as a billposter, Plaintiff admitted he did not have any experience as a photographer. Plaintiff testifies that he was hoping to discuss with Duronslet whether he could get training for the open positions and to learn about the physical or experiential requirements for the photographer position. (Lopez Decl., ¶25.) Although, as will be discussed below, the evidence shows Duronslet failed to engage in the process of determining whether an accommodation was available for Plaintiff, the evidence nevertheless shows Plaintiff was not qualified for the photographer position.Plaintiff argues that his unawareness of the facts does not show his claim cannot be established. However, even if Plaintiff knew the true facts, that the photographer position required professional photography experience, he still would not have been qualified for the position. Movants were also not required to promote him to a position for which he was not qualified. Therefore, Plaintiff fails to meet his burden of proving a triable issue of material fact remains over whether he was qualified for his original position or a position he sought for reassignment.Finally, Plaintiff offers evidence that he witnessed several employees be allowed to take photos of billboards as an accommodation for their disabilities or injuries. (Lopez Decl., ¶23.) However, Plaintiff does not dispute that he would not have been able to perform his normal duties as a billposter with his work restrictions. Movants were not required to create a new position by converting a temporary light-duty accommodation to a permanent position to accommodate Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that Movants’ reason for terminating Plaintiff was pretextual on the grounds that Movants’ reason shifted. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that his termination letter states he was terminated because there was no other opening which would meet Plaintiff’s requirements. (PUMF 71.) Outfront, Duronslet, and Guzman’s discovery responses, on the other hand, state that Plaintiff never returned to work or responded to Movants about alternate positions. (PUMF 76, 77.) However, as discussed above, even if Movants had received Plaintiff’s communications about reassignment, Plaintiff did not qualify for his original role as a billposter or any of the available positions. Thus, the inconsistent reasons for Plaintiff’s termination do not show Movants’ reason for terminating him were pretextual.Finally, Plaintiff argues that Movants’ refusal to accommodate him is evidence of pretext. Plaintiff argues that he was first assigned yard duties and drilling holes in 3,000 fiberglass bars, causing pain to his injuries. (PUMF 42-49.) When Plaintiff complained of pain, Baez told him to do what he could. (PUMF 51, 53.) Movants denied Plaintiff’s request to take photos of billboards. (PUMF 54-58.) Finally, Movants failed to engage in an interactive process when Plaintiff went on medical leave a second time. (PUMF 68, 70.)Although Movants’ first attempt at providing alternative duties was not a suitable accommodation because it exacerbated Plaintiff’s injuries, whether Movants engaged in an interactive process is a separate issue from whether Plaintiff was a qualified worker. Movants were not required to create a new position for Plaintiff or convert temporary light duties into a permanent position for Plaintiff. Because Plaintiff fails to demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of fact as to his qualifications for any other available position, Movants’ failure to find a suitable accommodation for Plaintiff when he first returned from medical leave and after he went on medical leave does not show that the reason for his termination was pretextual. Summary adjudication is granted as to the cause of action for disability discrimination.2. Second Cause of Action – Harassment Movants move for summary adjudication as to the cause of action for harassment on the grounds that (1) there is no evidence that Guzman treated Plaintiff differently because of his hearing impairment, (2) Guzman’s alleged conduct constitutes personnel management actions, and (3) Guzman’s conduct was not severe or pervasive.Government Code section 12940, subdivision (j)(1) prohibits harassment of an employee “because of race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or military and veteran status.” (Gov. Code § 12940, subd. (j)(1).) To establish a prima facie case of harassment, [a plaintiff] must show that (1) she is a member of a protected class; (2) she was subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3) the harassment was based on her protected status; (4) the harassment unreasonably interfered with her work performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) defendants are liable for the harassment. (Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 876; see also Galvan v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 549, 563.)  To establish a claim for harassment based upon a hostile work environment pursuant to Government Code section 12940(j), a plaintiff must prove “that the conduct complained of was severe enough or sufficiently pervasive to alter the conditions of employment and create a work environment that qualifies as hostile or abusive to employees.” (Miller v. Dep't of Corr., (2005) 36 Cal.4th 446, 462.)  Whether harassment exists based upon a hostile work environment is determined by considering all the circumstances, which may include frequency, severity, and interference with one’s job. (Miller v. Department of Corrections (2005) 36 Cal.4th 446, 462.) “In determining what constitutes ‘sufficiently pervasive’ harassment, the courts have held that acts of harassment cannot be occasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial, rather the plaintiff must show a concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized nature.” (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hosp. (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 610 (1989). The inquiry is whether “the social environment of the workplace [has become] intolerable.” (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2006) 47 Cal.4th 686, 706.) Here, Movants argue that there is no evidence that Guzman treated Plaintiff differently due to his hearing impairment. Guzman knew of Plaintiff’s hearing impairment when he was hired. (Plaintiff Depo., 227:4-19.) Guzman repeatedly raised his voice, yelled, and appeared frustrated that he had to repeat himself to Plaintiff. (Lopez Depo., 229:16-231:3, 233:16-235:2.) Guzman yelled at Plaintiff in front of other employees and became aggressive when Plaintiff could not hear him. (Id., 230:19-25, 270:4-10.) Guzman loudly cursed at him at least once and had yelled at Plaintiff every week because he did not like repeating himself. (Id., 270:17-272:8.) Because Guzman yelled at Plaintiff consistently for asking Guzman to repeat himself, it is reasonable to infer that Guzman yelled at Plaintiff due to his hearing impairment. The Court cannot find under these circumstances that Guzman did not treat Plaintiff differently due to his hearing impairment.Movants also argue that Guzman did not assign Plaintiff to more dangerous billboards due to his hearing impairment because Guzman assigned other employees to work on dangerous billboards. Plaintiff testifies that he believed was assigned to more dangerous billboards because of his hearing impairment. (Lopez Depo., 234:20-235:2.) Although Guzman also assigned others to unsafe billboards at times, Plaintiff noticed after conversing with his coworkers that he was being assigned to more unsafe billboards than others. (Id., 235:3-6, 248:4-25.) Although other employees stated there were certain billboards they did not do, Plaintiff would be assigned to those unsafe billboards. (Id.)Although Movants argue there is no evidence that Plaintiff was being assigned to unsafe billboards, Movants offer no evidence to refute Plaintiff’s testimony that he was being assigned to more unsafe billboards than other employees. Because Guzman had previously been aggressive and frustrated with Plaintiff’s hearing impairment, it is reasonable to infer that his differential treatment of Plaintiff was due to his hearing impairment. Again, the Court cannot find under these circumstances that Guzman did not treat Plaintiff differently due to his hearing impairment.Movants also argue that Guzman could not have treated Plaintiff differently due to his hearing impairment because Guzman also had a hearing impairment. However, this argument fails because Guzman having a hearing impairment does not mean that he did not harass Plaintiff for his hearing impairment.Movants next argue Guzman’s conduct constituted personnel management actions because conversing about job assignments and duties do not constitute conduct outside of his job performance. “Harassment…consists of actions outside the scope of job duties which are not of a type necessary to business and personnel management. This significant distinction underlies the differential treatment of harassment and discrimination in the FEHA.” (Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 64-65 (bold emphasis added). Movants’ argument fails because it would not be reasonable to infer that yelling and cursing at employees and deliberately assigning an employee to dangerous job sites to which other employees were not normally assigned fall within the scope of a manager’s personnel management decisions.Finally, Movants argue that the alleged harassment was not severe or pervasive. However, as discussed above, Guzman interacted aggressively with Plaintiff about every week. Given the frequency and severity of Plaintiff’s interactions with Guzman, the Court cannot find that the alleged harassment was not severe or pervasive.Movants fail to meet their burden of proving no triable issue of material fact exists over whether Plaintiff harassed due to his disability, whether the harassment fell outside normal personnel management decisions, or whether the harassment was severe or pervasive. Summary adjudication is denied on this ground. 3. Third Cause of Action – FEHA RetaliationMovants move for summary adjudication as to the cause of action for FEHA retaliation on the grounds that there is no causal connection between his taking leave or requesting a  reasonable accommodation and his termination.  Movants accommodated Plaintiff for over 15 months and terminated Plaintiff after they could not identify any further reasonable accommodation.To establish a prima facie case of retaliation under FEHA, Government Code section 12940(h), Plaintiff must prove that “(1) [s]he engaged in a protected activity; (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action; and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.)¿ ¿Once a plaintiff establishes a prima facie case of retaliation, the burden shifts to the employer to show a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action. (Akers v. County of San Diego (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1453.)Here, as discussed above, summary adjudication was granted as to the first cause of action for discrimination on the grounds that Plaintiff was not qualified for his original position or any other available position. Therefore, no triable issue of material fact remains over whether Movants had a nonretaliatory reason for terminating Plaintiff. Summary adjudication is granted for this cause of action for the same reasons as the cause of action for discrimination.4. Fourth Cause of Action – Failure to AccommodateMovants move for summary adjudication as to the cause of action for failure to accommodate on the grounds that Plaintiff cannot establish that he was a qualified worker and because Movants reasonably accommodated Plaintiff. “The essential elements of a failure to accommodate claim are: 1) the plaintiff has a disability covered by the FEHA; 2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or she can perform the essential functions of the position); and 3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s disability. (Jensen v. Wells Fargo Bank (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 256.)  “[T]he employer cannot prevail on summary judgment on a claim of failure to reasonably accommodate unless it establishes through undisputed facts that ‘1) reasonable accommodation was offered and refused, 2) there simply was no vacant position within the employer’s organization for which the disabled employee was qualified and which disabled employee was capable of performing with or without accommodation, or (3) the employer did everything in its power to find a reasonable accommodation, but the informal interactive process broke down because the employee failed to engage in discussions in good faith.’ [Citation.]” (King v. United Parcel Service, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 442.)  Here, as discussed above, Movants met their burden of proving no triable issue of material fact remains over whether Plaintiff was qualified to work in his original position or any available position Movants offered. Plaintiff failed to prove a triable issue of material remained over whether he was a qualified worker. Summary adjudication is granted as to this cause of action for the same reasons as the cause of action for disability discrimination.5. Fifth Cause of Action – Failure to Engage in the Interactive ProcessMovants move for summary adjudication as to the cause of action for failure to engage in the interactive process on the grounds that (1) there was no reasonable accommodation available and (2) Movants did engage in an interactive process.Government Code section 12940(n) provides that it is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer . . . to fail to engage in a timely, good faith, interactive process with the employee or applicant to determine effective reasonable accommodations, if any, in response to a request for reasonable accommodation by an employee or applicant with a known physical or mental disability or known medical condition.” (Govt. Code, section 12940(n).) “FEHA requires an informal process with the employee to attempt to identify reasonable accommodations ….” (Nealy v.City of Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 379.) “The point of the interactive process is to find reasonable accommodation for a disabled employee, or an employee regarded as disabled by the employer, in order to avoid the employee’s termination.” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 243.) “While a claim of failure to accommodate is independent of a cause of action for failure to engage in an interactive dialogue, each necessarily implicates the other.” (Id. at p. 242.)Here, whether a reasonable accommodation was available is a separate issue from whether Movants participated in an interactive process. A cause of action for failure to engage in an interactive process is independent from a cause of action for discrimination. As discussed above, after Plaintiff discussed potential reassignment with Duronslet and Movants, Duronslet failed to respond to Plaintiff’s communications. Additionally, Plaintiff was instructed to only contact Duronslet and no other person. Because Duronslet was the only person Plaintiff was permitted to speak to about reassignment as an accommodation and Duronslet failed to respond, the evidence shows a dispute of material fact remains over whether Movants participated in an interactive process. Movants fail to meet their burden on summary adjudication.Summary adjudication is denied as to this cause of action.6. Sixth Cause of Action – Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, or RetaliationMovants move for summary adjudication as to the cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation on the grounds that the summary judgment must be granted as to the causes of action for discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. Additionally, Plaintiff never reported any incident to Movants. “An actionable claim under section 12940, subdivision (k) is dependent on a claim of actual discrimination: ‘Employers should not be held liable to employees for failure to take necessary steps to prevent such conduct, except where the actions took place and were not prevented.’” (Scotch v. Art Inst. of California (2019) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1021.) Relief may be denied where an employee fails to report a supervisor’s conduct to any of his superiors or use the employer’s complaint procedures. (State Dept. of Health Services v. Superior Court (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1026, 1037.) Alternatively, a plaintiff may have an actionable claim if an employer’s procedures were not calculated to encourage victims to come forward. (Id. at p.1038.) Here, summary adjudication was denied as to the cause of action for harassment. Therefore, Plaintiff may still have a claim for failure to prevent harassment. Plaintiff does not dispute that he could have taken any complaint to human resources or to a supervisor. (Lopez Depo., 100:13-20, PUMF 70.) Plaintiff never reported incidents of harassment to anyone at Outfront. (Lopez Depo., 231:22-24.) Because Plaintiff did not report any incidents of harassment to Movants, Movants meet their burden of proving no triable issue of material fact remains over whether Movants failed to prevent Plaintiff’s alleged harassment. The burden shifts to Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that he did complain to Guzman and Baez about the alleged discrimination or harassment. Plaintiff specifically complained to Baez, the Shop Steward who worked directly under Guzman, that he was being told by Guzman to work on unsafe billboards. (Lopez Depo., 241:15-247:3.) Plaintiff reported to Baez and Guzman. (Lopez Depo., 67:11-12.) Neither party provides evidence of how Movants responded to Plaintiff’s report. Because Plaintiff testified that he did complain about Guzman’s differential treatment assigning him to unsafe billboards, Plaintiff meets his burden of proving a triable issue of material fact remains over whether Movants could have prevented the alleged harassment.Summary adjudication is denied as to this cause of action.7. Eighth Cause of Action – Wrongful TerminationMovants move for summary adjudication as to the cause of action for wrongful termination on the grounds that it is derivative of the causes of action for discrimination, retaliation, and harassment.To state a claim for wrongful termination in violation of public policy, a plaintiff must be able to show that (1) the plaintiff was employed by the defendant, (2) the defendant discharged the plaintiff, (3) the violation of public policy was a substantial motivating reason for the plaintiff’s discharge, and (4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm. (Haney v. Aramark Uniform Services, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 623, 641; CACI 2430.) There are four requirements that a policy must meet in order to support a wrongful discharge claim: (1) the policy is supported by either constitutional or statutory provisions; (2) the policy is “public” in that it “inures to the benefit of the public” and not merely the interests of the individual; (3) the policy was articulated at the time of the discharge; and (4) the policy is “fundamental” and “substantial.” (Franklin v. Monadnock Co. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 252, 258.)Here, as discussed above, summary adjudication was granted as to the cause of action for discrimination because Movants met their burden of proving Plaintiff was terminated because he was not a qualified worker. Therefore, Movants meet their burden of proving no violation of public policy was a substantial motivating reason for Plaintiff’s discharge. Summary adjudication is granted here for the same reasons as the cause of action for discrimination.8. Ninth Cause of Action – Whistleblower RetaliationMovants move for summary adjudication as to the cause of action for whistleblower retaliation on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff’s reports of unsafe working conditions and suggestions about training are not protected activity and (2) there is no causal nexus between any protected activity and Plaintiff’s termination.Section 1102.5 states that “[a]n employer or any person acting on behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate against an employee for disclosing information. . . to a person with authority over the employee or another employee who has the authority to investigate, discover, or correct the violation. . . if the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a violation of state or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state or federal rule or regulation, regardless of whether disclosing the information is part of the employee’s job duties.” (Lab. Code, section 1102.5, subd. (b).) “An employee engages in activity protected by the statute when the employee discloses ‘reasonably based suspicions’ of illegal activity.” (Ross v. County of Riverside (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 580, 592 (Ross).) “To have a reasonably based suspicion of illegal activity, the employee must be able to point to some legal foundation for his suspicion—some statute, rule or regulation which may have been violated by the conduct he disclosed.” (Id.) The employee is not required to make an express statement that an employer was violating or not complying with a specific state or federal law. (Id at p. 593.) Rather, the employee need only disclose information and reasonably believe the information the information discloses unlawful activity. (Id.) Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint does not allege Movants violated a particular state or federal statute or regulation. Additionally, although Plaintiff testifies he made complaints about safety and inadequate training, Plaintiff did not testify that he suspected any violation of a particular statute. (Lopez Depo., 255:8-260:11.) Rather, Plaintiff made his complaints based on his observation that new hires were not receiving a full nine months of training and based on his belief that there should be a change procedure such as carrying ladders up boards. (Id.) Because Plaintiff’s complaints were not based on any reasonable cause he had to believe Movants were violating state or federal statutes, Movants meet their burden of proving no triable issue remains over whether Plaintiff had reasonable suspicion of illegal activity.The burden shifts to Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that Zubiate dismissed OSHA’s opinion that Movants committed code violations. Plaintiff cites Zubiate’s deposition testimony where Zubiate stated he believed OSHA’s opinion was merely an opinion and the Movants’ training procedures were thorough. (Zubiate Depo., 49:16-60:2.) However, Plaintiff fails to provide evidence that he made his complaints and recommendations because he knew of the OSHA opinion or because he reasonably suspected Movants violated any particular state or federal statute. Although Plaintiff argues in his opposition that he made complaints arising from Title 8 of the California Code of Regulations, there is no evidence that Plaintiff’s complaints were based on his reasonable belief that Movants had violated any particular section of this title. Plaintiff thus fails to meet his burden of proving a triable issue of material fact over whether he had a reasonable suspicion of illegal activity.Summary adjudication is granted as to this cause of action. 9. Tenth Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress Movants move for summary adjudication as to the cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff’s termination is a normal risk inherent to the employment relationship and the sole remedy for emotional distress is under the Workers’ Compensation Act, (2) there is no evidence Movants engaged in conduct so outrageous in character and so extreme in degree as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency, and (3) Plaintiff cannot recover under an IIED claim for garden variety emotional distress.The elements for a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) an actual and proximate causal link between the tortious conduct and the emotional distress.¿ (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)¿ “A defendant’s conduct is outrageous when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Jackson v. Mayweather (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 234, 257 (internal citations and quotations omitted).) “Mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities do not constitute extreme and outrageous conduct.” (Okorie v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 574, 597 (internal citations and quotations omitted).) Rather, the requirements for satisfying the element of extreme and outrageous conduct are rigorous and difficult to satisfy. (Okorie, supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at 597.) “On the spectrum of offensive conduct, outrageous conduct is that which is the most extremely offensive.” (Id. (quoting Yurick v. Superior Court (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1116, 1129).) “Depending on the idiosyncrasies of the plaintiff, offensive conduct which falls along the remainder of the spectrum may be irritating, insulting or even distressing but it is not actionable and must simply be endured without resort to legal redress.” (Ibid.)  Severe emotional distress is emotional distress of a substantial or enduring quality that no reasonable person in civilized society should be expected to endure. (Wong v. Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1376.) Although the courts must determine whether on the evidence severe emotional distress can be found, it is for the jury to determine whether, on the evidence, it has in fact existed. (Id.) Here, Movants’ first argument is moot because summary adjudication is granted as to the cause of action for wrongful termination. The second argument fails because, as discussed above, the evidence shows Guzman yelled and cursed at Plaintiff nearly every week and there is a dispute of material fact over whether Guzman assigned Plaintiff to more dangerous tasks than other employees. Given the severity and frequency of this conduct, the Court cannot find that Guzman’s conduct was not so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. Finally, Movants’ allege that Plaintiff’s emotional distress is not sufficiently severe because insomnia, stress, and anxiety are not severe. However, given the extent of Guzman’s alleged harassing conduct, the Court cannot find as a matter of law that there is no possibility Plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress. Movants fail to meet their burden of proving not triable issues of material fact remain over whether Guzman’s alleged harassing conduct was severe or whether Plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress.Summary adjudication is denied as to this cause of action.10.  Punitive DamagesFinally, Movants move for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages on the grounds that there is no evidence that the decision to terminate Plaintiff was motivated by an illegal purpose and there is no evidence that Guzman, Zubiate, and Duronslet are officers, directors, or managing agents of Outfront. In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) These statutory elements include allegations that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code, section 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice is defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725 [examining Civ. Code, section 3294, subd. (c)(1)].) “A conscious disregard of the safety of others may constitute malice within the meaning of section 3294 of the Civil Code. In order to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-896.) “As amended to include [despicable], the statute plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.) Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) “[T]he imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is based upon its own fault. It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the fault of others.” (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.) “Corporations are legal entities which do not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or deceive. An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees. But the law does not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation. Instead, the punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate leaders: the ‘officer[s], director[s], or managing agent[s].’” (Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [citation omitted].) As to ratification, “[a] corporation cannot confirm and accept that which it does not actually know about.’” (Ibid. [citing College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 726 [for ratification sufficient to justify punitive damages against corporation, there must be proof that officers, directors, or managing agents had actual knowledge of the malicious conduct and its outrageous character]].) Here, Movants allege that there is no evidence that the decision to terminate Plaintiff was motivated by any illegal purpose. However, it is not material whether the conduct alleged was illegal. The evidence shows that Guzman engaged in harassing conduct, including yelling at and cursing at Plaintiff, and there is a factual dispute over whether Guzman deliberately assigned Plaintiff to more dangerous assignments on account of his disability. The Court cannot find on these facts that Guzman did not disregard Plaintiff’s safety or that his conduct was not despicable. Movants allege that there is no evidence that Guzman, Zubiate, and Duronslet were officers, directors, or managing agents.Managing agents are employees who exercise substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy. (Cruz v. HomeBase (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167.) Managing agents include only those corporate employees who exercise substantial independent authority and judgment. (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 567.) Whether an employee is a managing agent is a question of fact for decision on case-by-case basis. (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 567.) Here, Zubiate is a Director of Operations. The parties do not discuss whether Zubiate ratified Guzman’s alleged harassing conduct. Aside from evidence that Guzman did not have authority to hire and fire employees, Movants provide no evidence that Guzman was not a managing agent. Additionally, Plaintiff’s deposition testimony shows Guzman assigned work to employees and made decisions regarding Plaintiff’s accommodation requests. (Lopez Depo., 274:15-275:14, 234:2-235.) Even if Movants did meet their burden, Plaintiff further provides evidence that Guzman supervised 15 billposters. (Guzman Depo., 61:5-8.) It is reasonable to infer from Guzman’s substantial role assigning work, supervising billposters, and determining accommodations that Guzman had substantial authority or judgment. Given these facts, the Court cannot find that Guzman is not a managing agent. Summary adjudication is denied as to the issue of punitive damages.DATED:  May 7, 2024 ______________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court