 Case Number:  23STCV12620    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  CJF BEVERLY HILLS, LLC,Plaintiff; vs. RUIYA FENG, et al. Defendants.  Case No.:  23STCV12620 Hearing Date:  June 7, 2024   [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT RUIYA FENG’S RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES; MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT RUIYA FENG’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTIONPlaintiff’s motions to compel discovery are DENIED.Plaintiff’s motion compel Defendant Ruiya Feng’s further responses to requests for production is DENIED.Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions are GRANTED as modified below. Sanctions are payable within 30 days after the date of this order.Moving party to give notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for conversion, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, trespass, and negligence. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Ruiya Feng agreed to manage and watch a property in Los Angeles for Plaintiff and it’s principal, Jianfang Cao. In January 2021, Plaintiff instructed Feng to list the property for sale. Feng allowed Defendant Richard Power to access the property without Plaintiff’s permission. Power obtained Plaintiff’s bank records and blank checks. Power made physical and electronic checks to himself without Plaintiff’s permission and withdrew money from Plaintiff’s bank accounts. Plaintiff ordered Feng to take the property off the market and demanded that she return the keys. Feng delayed returning the keys until July 2021. PROCEDURAL HISTORY On June 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Complaint against Defendants Ruiya Feng and Richard Power.On February 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed these motions to compel Defendant Feng’s responses to Form Interrogatories (“FROGs”) and Special Interrogatories (“SROGs”), and to compel her further responses to Requests for Production (“RPDs”).On May 10 and 31, 2024, Feng filed an opposition.LEGAL STANDARDCompelling Responses to InterrogatoriesWithin 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them on the propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for response. (Code Civ. Proc. section 2030.260, subd. (a).)\If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc section 2030.290, subd. (b).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that needs be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)Compelling Response to Demand for Production of Documents  Where there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, the Court may order a responding party to serve a further response to a request for production when the Court finds that any of the following apply: 1. A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; 2. A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or3. An objection in the response is without merit or too general. Unless notice of the motion to compel a further response is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2031.310(c), 2030.300(c).) ObjectionsA party waives its objections to a discovery request when it does not serve a timely response to the request. (Code Civ. Proc., section 030.290(a)) Even if objections do not need to be verified, objections will be waived if the responding party “fails to file any response within the statutory time period.” Food 4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 651, 658.VerificationUnverified discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all and are subject to a motion to compel responses (rather than a motion to compel further responses).  (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-36.) However, objections to interrogatories and demands for production are not required to be verified because “objections are legal conclusions interposed by counsel, not factual assertions by a party.” (Blue Ridge Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 339, 345.)SanctionsSanctions may be imposed for misuse of discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a). ) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.010, subd. (d).) Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 provides that a court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery even if no opposition was filed. DISCUSSIONPlaintiff moves to compel Defendant Feng’s responses to its first set of FROGs and SROGs, and to compel Feng’s further responses to RPDs, set one. Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that he propounded written discovery requests on Defendant on October 4, 2023. (Green Decl., ¶2.) Responses were due on November 6, 2023. (Id., ¶5.) Feng attempted to retain an attorney in November 2023 who represented Feng would serve responses by the end of November 2023. (Id., ¶6.) After receiving no responses by December 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed the prospective attorney asking about the outstanding responses. (Id., ¶7.) Feng communicated she did not have an attorney and that she would serve responses by the next Monday. (Id., ¶8.) After receiving no responses, Plaintiff’s counsel communicated to Feng that it would be filing these motions to compel. (Id., ¶9.) On December 21, 2023, Feng served late, unverified, and unsigned responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions (RFAs) and RPDs. (Id., ¶10.) Feng failed to serve any response to FROGs and SROGs. (Id.)In her opposition, Feng represents that Plaintiff granted an extension to March 29, 2024. (Opp., p.2.) Feng served further discovery responses on March 27, 2024. (Id.) Feng’s exhibits show Plaintiff served verified responses to FROGs, SROGs, RFAs, and RPDs on February 2, 2024, the day after Plaintiff filed these motions to compel. (Opp., Exh. A.) The responses were served by an attorney, James Alexakis, who has not appeared in this matter. On March 10, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email to Feng and Alexakis stating the responses are late and that Feng’s objections are waived. (Opp., Exh. B.) Plaintiff’s counsel further requested supplemental responses to the SROGs and RPDs. (Id.) On March 27, 2024, Feng served supplemental responses to RPDs and SROGs. (Opp., Exh. D.) In May 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent further meet and confer emails to Feng and Alexakis stating Feng’s responses were not code compliant because they contained objections, and she has not produced responsive documents. (Opp., Exh. E.)Because Feng’s original responses to RFAs and RPDs were unverified, they are tantamount to no response at all. Additionally, because the responses were untimely, Feng’s objections are waived. Although styled as a motion to compel further responses to RPDs, Plaintiff’s motion is a motion to compel initial responses because Feng had not served verified responses at the time this motion was filed. Feng thereafter filed verified responses, though late and with objections which should have been waived. Because Feng served late responses before the hearing on this matter, the motions to compel her initial responses to FROGs, SROGs, and RPDs are denied.Plaintiff nevertheless contends in emails to Feng and Alexakis that Feng’s responses are deficient because they contain objections which have been waived. Additionally, Plaintiff failed to produce documents responsive to the RPDs, representing that she did not have responsive documents. If Plaintiff believed the responses were incomplete, Plaintiff was required to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference as specified in the Court’s Courtroom Information sheet available at https://www.lacourt.org/courtroominformation/LAM/78. However, motions to compel further must be brought within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2031.310(c), 2030.300(c).) Here, Feng’s supplemental responses to RPDs and SROGs were served in March 2024, after these motions were filed. Plaintiff did not schedule an IDC or file a motion to compel further as to the March 2024 supplemental responses. There is no evidence that the parties agreed to extend Plaintiff’s deadline to file a motion to compel further. Therefore, the deadline for Plaintiff to file a motion to compel further as to the March 2024 supplemental responses has passed.Plaintiff also seeks sanctions under Code Civ. Proc., sections 2023,010 and 2023.030. Because Feng’s responses were not timely served and contained objections which should have been waived, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is excessive. Because the motions were substantially similar, the Court awards a reduced amount of $1,740 total for both motions for four hours of attorney time at a rate of $450 per hour.DATED:  June 7, 2024___________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court