  Case Number:  21STCV07940    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




alejandra garcia

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
city of los angeles

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV07940




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


May
   6, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to strike paragraphs 119,
  122, and 142 of fourth amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant City of Los Angeles          
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs Alejandra Garcia, Chance Brown,
Stephen Thompson, Erick Herrera, Diana Salazar, Christopher Pearl, Brandon
Gaviria, Amanda Flores, Osvaldo Perez, Mark Escalante, Katherine Gerbasi,
Danyelle Leah Sims, Kevin Jesus Ruiz, Elver Hernandez, Paris Washington, Aaron
Walker Matis, Lacramiora Muntean, Kent Villa, Jasmin Rincon, Elizabeth Tooley,
Alicia Reyna, Samantha De Leon, Morgan Fangue, Leslye Alaniz, Katherine Gray,
Katelynn Rhoads, and Grace Evelyn Bowland
Motion to Strike Paragraphs 119, 122, and 142 of Fourth Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply[1]
papers filed in connection with this motion. 
 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant City
of Los Angeles’s request for judicial notice. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c); Gong v. City of Rosemead (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 363, 368, n. 1.) 
DISCUSSION
Defendant City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) moves the court for an
order striking paragraphs 119, 122, and 142 of the Fourth Amended Complaint
filed by plaintiffs Alejandra Garcia, Chance Brown, Stephen Thompson, Erick
Herrera, Diana Salazar, Christopher Pearl, Brandon Gaviria, Amanda Flores,
Osvaldo Perez, Mark Escalante, Katherine Gerbasi, Danyelle Leah Sims, Kevin
Jesus Ruiz, Elver Hernandez, Paris Washington, Aaron Walker Matis, Lacramiora
Muntean, Kent Villa, Jasmin Rincon, Elizabeth Tooley, Alicia Reyna, Samantha De
Leon, Morgan Fangue, Leslye Alaniz, Katherine Gray, Katelynn Rhoads, and Grace
Evelyn Bowland (“Plaintiffs”) on October 6, 2023. 
The court denies Defendant’s motion to strike paragraphs 119, 122, and
142 of Plaintiffs’ Fourth Amended Complaint because those allegations conform
with the laws of this state.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
Defendant has filed with the court the Claims for Damages submitted by
plaintiffs Katherine Gray (“Gray”), Katherine Gerbasi (“Gerbasi”), and Alicia
Reyna (“Reyna”), of which the court has taken judicial notice.  (RJN, Exs. 1-3.)  Those plaintiffs have alleged, in paragraphs
119, 122, and 142, that Defendant’s officers and/or sheriff deputies (1)
intentionally recorded and took photographs of Plaintiffs pleading for bathroom
access for the purpose of distributing those videos and photographs to other
officers and with the intent to cause fear and humiliation (4AC ¶¶ 119 [as
to plaintiff Gerbasi], 122 [as to plaintiff Gray]), and (2) took photographs of
plaintiff Reyna and other Plaintiffs in a manner which appeared as though they
were taking photographs “as personal trophies of the experience” and did so
with the intent to cause fear and humiliation (4AC ¶ 142 [plaintiff
Reyna].)  Defendant contends that these
facts were not alleged in plaintiffs Gray, Gerbasi, and Reyna’s government
claims and therefore should be stricken for those plaintiffs’ failure to comply
with the Government Claims Act.  The
court disagrees. 
“Although a government claim need not contain the detail and
specificity required of a pleading in a civil action, it nevertheless must ‘
“fairly describe what [the] entity is alleged to have done.” ’  [Citation.] 
When a civil action is filed following the rejection of a government
claim, it is acceptable for the complaint to elaborate or add further details
to a government claim, but the complaint may not completely ‘shift [the]
allegations’ and premise liability on facts that fundamentally differ from those
specified in the government claim. 
[Citations.]  In other words, the
factual basis for recovery in the complaint must be ‘fairly reflected’ in the
government claim.”  (Hernandez v. City
of Stockton (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1222, 1231.)
The court finds that Gray, Gerbasi, and Reyna’s government claims
“fairly describe what [Defendant] is alleged to have done” and permissibly
“elaborate or add further details” regarding Defendant’s conduct in the Fourth
Amended Complaint.  (Hernandez, supra,
90 Cal.App.5th at p. 1231 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)  In each government claim, those
plaintiffs (1) describe Defendant’s wrongful conduct to include, inter alia,
its officers’ “systematic efforts of torture and ridicule throughout the
detention” of Plaintiffs, including through the “acts of harassment” by its
officers, and (2) assert that they suffered emotional injuries, including
“humiliation[.]”  (RJN Ex. 1, Gray Claim
for Damages, Attachment A, pp. 2-3; RJN Ex. 2, Gerbasi Claim for Damages,
Attachment A, pp. 2-3; RJN Ex. 3, Reyna Claim for Damages, Attachment A, pp.
2-3.)  The court finds that the
government claims fairly set forth the factual bases for plaintiffs Gray,
Gerbasi, and Reyna’s claims against Defendant because (1) the government claims
describe Defendant’s wrongful conduct to include the systematic ridicule,
torture, and harassment of Plaintiffs, and (2) the Fourth Amended Complaint
elaborates and adds further details concerning the alleged ridicule, torture,
and harassment of Plaintiffs by alleging that Defendant’s officers or sheriff
deputies, with the intent to cause humiliation, photographed and recorded
Plaintiffs pleading for bathroom access for their own enjoyment and/or to
distribute those videos and photographs among other officers or deputies (4AC
¶¶ 119, 122, 142).  (Hernandez, supra,
90 Cal.App.5th at p. 1231.) 
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to show
that plaintiffs Gray, Gerbasi, and Reyna did not comply with the Government
Claims Act in alleging the facts set forth in paragraphs 119, 122, and 142 and
therefore has not shown that those allegations do not conform with the laws of
this state.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).) 
ORDER
            The court denies defendant City of
Los Angeles’s motion to strike paragraphs 119, 122, and 142 of fourth amended
complaint.
            The court orders defendant City of
Los Angeles to file an answer to the Fourth Amended Complaint within 10 days of
the date of this order. 
            The court orders plaintiffs
Katherine Gray, Katherine Gerbasi, and Alicia Reyna to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  May 6, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


