 Case Number:  23STCV03563    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




angie gonzalez

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
worldwide flight services,
   inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV03563




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


May
   6, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and
  stay proceedings
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Worldwide Flight
Services, Inc.   
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Angie Gonzalez
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Worldwide Flight Services, Inc.’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (h).) 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Worldwide Flight Services, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the
court for an order (1) compelling plaintiff Angie Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”) to
submit the claims alleged in her Complaint to binding arbitration, and (2)
staying this action pending completion of arbitration. 
 
 
1.     Existence
of Agreement to Arbitrate
A
written provision in any contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce
to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract
shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist
at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.¿ (9 U.S.C. § 2.)¿ The
Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §¿1 et seq.) (“FAA”) requires courts to
direct parties to proceed to arbitration on issues covered by an arbitration
agreement upon a finding that the making of the arbitration agreement is not in
issue.¿ (9 U.S.C. § 4; Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostic Sys. (9th Cir.
2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130.)¿ “The court’s role under the [FAA] is therefore
limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists and,
if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.”¿ (Chiron
Corp., supra, 207 F.3d at p. 1130.)¿ The FAA reflects “both a
‘liberal federal policy favoring arbitration,’ [citation], and the ‘fundamental
principle that arbitration is a matter of contract,’ [citation].”¿ (AT&T
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)¿¿¿ 
“‘
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the petition
bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s enforcement.” ’”¿
(Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292, 302.)¿ To determine
the existence of an agreement, the court uses “a three-step burden-shifting
process.”¿ (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755.)¿
“The arbitration proponent must first recite verbatim, or provide a copy of,
the alleged agreement.¿ [Citations.]¿ A movant can bear this initial burden ‘by
attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement purportedly bearing the opposing
party’s signature.’”¿ (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].)¿ “If the
movant bears its initial burden, the burden shifts to the party opposing
arbitration to identify a factual dispute as to the agreement’s existence . . .
.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ If the opposing party meets its burden to “submit
sufficient evidence to create a factual dispute” as to the existence of the
agreement, the burden shifts back to the arbitration proponent, who retains the
ultimate burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence.¿ (Ibid.;
Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158,
165-166.)¿ 
First,
the court finds that Defendant has met its burden to show that the arbitration
agreement that is the subject of this motion is governed by the substantive
provisions of the FAA.  (Evenskaas v. California Transit, Inc. (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 285, 292 [“The party asserting the FAA applies to an agreement
has ‘the burden to demonstrate FAA coverage by declarations and other
evidence’”] [internal citation omitted].)¿ Defendant has submitted (1) a copy
of the parties’ arbitration agreement, which states that arbitration is subject
to the FAA, and (2) evidence establishing that Defendant engages in activities
that substantially affect interstate commerce since (i) it offers aircraft
ground support services such as cargo handling, global cargo logistics, cargo
facilities management, aircraft capacity management, and cargo documentation
and handling across a network “spanning over 158 stations in more than 18
countries across five continents[,]” (ii) it employs individuals throughout the
United States and internationally, and (iii) Plaintiff’s employment with
Defendant required her to “coordinat[e] and organiz[e] outbound and inbound
mail across various flights as appropriate[.]” 
(Stubbs Decl., Ex. 1, Arbitration Agreement, p. 2; Stubbs Decl.,
¶¶ 2, 6; Evenskaas, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 293)  Plaintiff does not dispute that the FAA
governs this motion.  (Opp., p. 2:26
[“Plaintiff concedes that the [FAA] controls this motion”].) 
Second,
the court finds that Defendant has met its burden of producing prima facie
evidence of an arbitration agreement between it and Plaintiff. 
Defendant
has submitted a copy of the “Agreement to Submit all Disputes to Binding
Arbitration” (the “Arbitration Agreement”) which purports to bear Plaintiff’s
electronic signature.  (Stubbs Decl., Ex.
1, Arbitration Agreement, p. 4.)  The
Arbitration Agreement states, in relevant part, that (1) it applies to any
claims made by Plaintiff, as the employee, that Defendant “did not comply with
its own policies, that [Defendant] did not comply with governing federal or
state law, and to any other claim arising from or related to [Plaintiff’s]
employment that is not subject to an applicable Collective Bargaining
Agreement and the grievance procedure provided therein[,]” and (2) Plaintiff
and Defendant agree that any claims not resolved pursuant to Defendant’s
grievance and hearing process “shall be exclusively resolved through binding
arbitration . . . .”  (Stubbs Decl., Ex.
1, Arbitration Agreement, pp. 1 [emphasis in original], 2.) 
Thus, the
court finds that Defendant has met its initial burden to produce evidence of an
arbitration agreement between it and Plaintiff. 
Third, the
court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to identify a
factual dispute as to the existence of the Arbitration Agreement because Plaintiff
did not present argument, in her opposition memorandum, contending that her
signature is not authentic or identifying a factual dispute about the
Arbitration Agreement’s existence. 
Instead, Plaintiff has argued only that the Arbitration Agreement is
unconscionable.  Thus, the court finds
that Plaintiff has not met her burden to identify a factual dispute as to the
existence of an agreement to arbitrate between her and Defendant. [1]
The court therefore finds
that Defendant has shown the existence of an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
2.     Unconscionability
Plaintiff contends that the Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable
and therefore unenforceable. 
“‘[A]greements
to arbitrate [may] be invalidated by “generally applicable contract defenses,
such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.” ’”¿ (Beco, supra,
86 Cal.App.5th at p. 302.)¿ “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon
the party asserting it.”¿ (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126
(Kho).)¿ “Unconscionability entails an absence of meaningful choice on
the part of one of the parties together with contract terms which are
unreasonably favorable to the other party.”¿ (Iyere, supra, 87
Cal.App.5th at p. 759 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ It “‘has both a
“procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’
or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or
‘one-sided’ results.”¿ (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114 [citations omitted].)¿ “As a
matter of general contract law, California courts require both procedural and
substantive unconscionability to invalidate a contract.”¿ (Torrecillas v.
Fitness International, LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485, 492 (Torrecillas).)¿
Courts “apply a sliding scale, meaning if one of these elements is present to
only a lesser degree, then more evidence of the other element is required to
establish overall unconscionability.¿ In other words, if there is little of
one, there must be a lot of the other.”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿¿ 
i.                
Procedural Unconscionability
“Procedural
unconscionability pertains to the making of the agreement . . . .”¿ (Ajamian
v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)¿ It “‘“focuses on two
factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’¿ [Citations.]¿ ‘Oppression’ arises from
an inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ [Citations.]¿ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to
which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix
printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.”’”¿ (Zullo
v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484 [citations
omitted].)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
1.     Oppression
As
set forth above, “[o]ppression occurs where a contract involves
lack of negotiation and meaningful choice . . . .”¿ (Kho, supra,
8 Cal.5th at p. 126 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)¿ “Oppression
generally ‘takes the form of a contract of adhesion, “‘which, imposed and
drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the
subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject
it.’”’”¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 (Carmona).)¿ “‘The circumstances relevant
to establishing oppression include, but are not limited to (1) the amount of
time the party is given to consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and
type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the
length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity of the challenged
provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the
party’s review of the proposed contract as aided by an attorney.’”¿ (Kho,
supra, 8 Cal.5th at pp. 126-127.)¿¿ 
The court
finds that Plaintiff has shown that the Arbitration Agreement is a contract of
adhesion.  Specifically, although
Plaintiff states that she does not “specifically recall seeing or signing an
arbitration agreement[,]” Plaintiff also states that she received an
overwhelming number of emails during the onboarding process (i.e., including
the Arbitration Agreement), was not told that there was an agreement to
arbitrate, and did not have an opportunity to negotiate any terms of the preprinted
Arbitration Agreement.  (Gonzalez Decl.,
¶ 6.)  Moreover, the Arbitration
Agreement is a “form contract” drafted by a party with superior bargaining
power.  (Torrecillas, supra,
52 Cal.App.5th at p. 493.)  
Thus,
the court finds that Plaintiff has established a low level of procedural
unconscionability due to the adhesive nature of the Agreement.  (Fisher
v. MoneyGram Intern., Inc. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 1084, 1095 [“An adhesive
contract does . . . establish at least some degree of procedural
unconscionability”].)  
2.     Surprise
As
discussed above, “[s]urprise is when a prolix printed form conceals the
arbitration provision.”¿ (Torrecillas, supra, 52 Cal.App.5th at p. 493; Fisher,
supra, 66 Cal.App.5th at p. 1095 [“Surprise involves the extent to which
‘the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix
printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms’”].)¿ 
The court
finds that Plaintiff has not shown that surprise exists here.  The court acknowledges that the Arbitration
Agreement is three pages long.  However,
the terms of the arbitration agreement are not hidden therein.  For example, the title of the Arbitration
Agreement is, in bold typeface, “AGREEMENT TO SUBMIT ALL DISPUTES TO BINDING
ARBITRATION[.]”  (Stubbs Decl., Ex. 1,
Arbitration Agreement, p. 1.)  The second
page sets forth the arbitration proceedings in detail, and on the third page,
there is a disclaimer, in bold typeface and all capital letters, that states
that the employee has read and understands the Arbitration Agreement.  (Stubbs Decl., Ex. 1, Arbitration Agreement,
pp. 2-3.) 
Thus,
the court finds that Plaintiff has established a low level of procedural
unconscionability based on the adhesive nature of the Arbitration Agreement.  Plaintiff must therefore show a high level of
substantive unconscionability.  (Torrecillas, supra, 52 Cal.App.5th at p. 492.)
ii.              
Substantive Unconscionability 
“‘Substantive
unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an agreement’s actual terms and
to assessments of whether they are overly harsh or one-sided.¿ [Citations.]¿ A
contract term is not substantively unconscionable when it merely gives one side
a greater benefit; rather, the term must be “so one-sided as to ‘shock the
conscience.’”’”¿ (Carmona, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 85.)¿
“‘“[T]he paramount consideration in assessing [substantive] unconscionability
is mutuality.”’”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿¿ 
Plaintiff
contends that the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because
(1) it limits the statute of limitations significantly, (2) it does not provide
for adequate discovery, (3) it authorizes the arbitrator to award reasonable
attorney’s fees to a prevailing defendant, and (4) it lacks judicial review. 
First, the
court finds that the Arbitration Agreement appears to significantly limit the
statute of limitations on claims brought against Defendant to seven days and
therefore is substantively unconscionable. 
Under the
terms of the Arbitration Agreement, before commencing arbitration, an employee
must first follow Defendant’s Grievance and Hearing Process, which consists of
the following five steps: (1) an employee is required “to submit a written
grievance to [his or her] immediate supervisor within 7 days of the action
grieved[,]” which will be investigated by the immediate supervisor, who will
return a written decision on the grievance within one week of receipt; (2) if
(i) the immediate supervisor was involved in the subject action, (ii) the
immediate supervisor has not returned a written decision on the grievance in
one week, or (iii) the employee is not satisfied with the decision, the
grievance process moves to the third step; (3) the employee must request and schedule
an appeal hearing, directed to Defendant’s Chief Operating Officer; (4) if the
employee is unsatisfied with the decision by the Chief Operating Officer and
the employee is represented by a union, an appeal may be taken to the System
Board of Adjustment as provided in the collective bargaining agreement; and (5)
if the employee is represented by a union but the dispute cannot be resolved
through the System Board of Adjustment, or if the employee is not represented
by a union, then the employee and Defendant agree as the final step to
exclusively resolve any unresolved claims through binding arbitration.  (Stubbs Decl., Ex. 1, Arbitration Agreement,
pp. 1-2.)  Pursuant to the arbitration
provision, “[t]he arbitrator shall be bound by and apply any and all relevant
agreements between the parties including, without limitation, this Agreement,
which includes the Grievance and Hearing Process contained herein[.]”  (Id., at p. 2.)  Thus, the arbitration provision requires that
“the arbitrator shall enter an award for [Defendant] promptly on any Claims
where it has been shown that [the employee] ha[s] not complied with such
Grievance and Hearing Process.”  (Ibid.)

Plaintiff
contends that, when read together, the Arbitration Agreement limits Plaintiff
to seven days to bring her employment claims against Defendant, or the
arbitrator will be compelled to rule in Defendant’s favor.  The court agrees with this interpretation. 
            As set forth above, the
Arbitration Agreement states that “the arbitrator shall enter an award for [Defendant]”
if the arbitrator finds that the employee has “not complied with such Grievance
and Hearing Process.”  (Stubbs Decl., Ex.
2, Arbitration Agreement, p. 2.)  The
first step of Defendant’s Grievance and Hearing Process states that an employee
is “required to submit a written grievance to [the employee’s] immediate
supervisor within 7 days of the action grieved.”  (Id., at p. 1 [emphasis added].)  Thus, pursuant to the language of the
Arbitration Agreement, if an arbitrator finds that Plaintiff did not comply
with Defendant’s Grievance and Hearing Process – including by failing to comply
with the seven-day time-period to submit a grievance – the arbitrator will be
required to find in favor of Defendant. 
(Id., at p. 2.)  
The court
finds that this limitation on Plaintiff’s ability to bring claims against
Defendant—including claims brought pursuant to the Fair Employment and Housing
Act (“FEHA”)—effectively shortens the statute of limitations on Plaintiff’s
claims to seven days and therefore is substantively unconscionable.  (Ellis v. US Security Associates (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1225 [shortened limitations period did not “provide
‘sufficient time for the effective pursuit of the judicial remedy’” and
violated public policy in Government Code section 12920].) 
 The court notes that Defendant argues, in
reply, that “Plaintiff’s characterization of this seven-day period as a statute
of limitations is an overstatement” because the grievance procedure is intended
to ensure that Defendant can investigate and address claims expeditiously.  (Reply, p. 5:8-11.)  However, Defendant does not appear to dispute
that, if Plaintiff fails to comply with the Grievance and Hearing Process,
including the time limits set forth therein, the arbitrator is required to
enter an award in Defendant’s favor. 
(Stubbs Decl., Ex. 1, Arbitration Agreement, p. 2.)  The court finds that, in effect, the
Arbitration Agreement sets forth a seven-day statute of limitations on the
claims that Plaintiff may bring against Defendant. 
Second, the
court finds that the Arbitration Agreement’s provision on discovery is not
substantively unconscionable.  
“In
striking the appropriate balance between the desired simplicity of limited
discovery and an employee’s statutory rights, courts assess the amount of
default discovery permitted under the arbitration agreement, the standard for
obtaining additional discovery, and whether the plaintiffs have demonstrated
that the discovery limitations will prevent them from adequately arbitrating
their statutory claims.”  (Davis v.
Kozak (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 897, 910-911.)
Here, the
Arbitration Agreement states that, “if not unreasonable, [discovery] shall be
limited to one party deposition, one non-party deposition, three requests for
document production, and five interrogatories per side.”  (Stubbs Decl., Ex. 1, Arbitration Agreement,
p. 3.)  Thus, the “default discovery
permitted under the [A]rbitration [A]greement” is low, but only if it is not
deemed to be unreasonable.  (Ibid.;
Davis, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 511.)  Moreover, the Arbitration Agreement also
states that “[d]iscovery afforded by the arbitrator shall be reasonable and
commensurate with the Claim(s)[.]” 
(Stubbs Decl., Ex. 1, Arbitration Agreement, p. 3.)  Thus, “the standard for obtaining additional
discovery” beyond the default amount permitted is not unduly burdensome or
onerous.  (Davis, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th at p. 511.)  Further,
Plaintiff has not presented evidence or argument establishing that this
provision will prevent her from adequately arbitrating her FEHA claims.  (Ibid.) 
Thus, the
court finds that the Arbitration Agreement does not deny Plaintiff the ability
to conduct adequate discovery. 
Third, the
court finds that the provision permitting Defendant to obtain attorney’s fees
is substantively unconscionable.
            The Arbitration Agreement provides
that reasonable fees incurred by Defendant may be awarded if Defendant prevails
in the arbitration upon a finding by the arbitrator that the employee’s claim
“was filed for purposes of harassment or is patently frivolous, and if
appropriate following the arbitrator’s consideration of the economic condition
of the employee who did not prevail[.]” 
(Stubbs Decl., Ex. 3.)  However, a
prevailing defendant on a claim brought under FEHA “shall not be awarded fees
and costs unless the court finds the action was frivolous, unreasonable, or
groundless when brought, or the plaintiff continued to litigate after it
clearly became so.”  (Gov. Code,
§ 12965, subd. (c)(6).)  
            The court finds that this provision
is substantively unconscionable because it would allow Defendant to recover
attorney’s fees from Plaintiff that would not otherwise be recoverable in court
since (1) the Arbitration Agreement permits an award of attorney’s fees in
favor of Defendant upon a finding that the employee’s claim “was filed for
purposes of harassment[,]” but (2) a prevailing defendant on a FEHA claim in
court cannot recover attorney’s fees from a plaintiff on the ground that the
action was brought for purposes of harassment.[2]  (Mills v. Facility Solutions Group, Inc. (2022)
84 Cal.App.5th 1035, 1055 [arbitration agreement was substantively
unconscionable when it allowed for the recovery of attorney’s fees and costs
that would not have been recoverable in court]; Stubbs Decl., Ex. 1,
Arbitration Agreement, p. 3; Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (c)(6).) 
            Fourth, the court finds that the
Arbitration Agreement is not unconscionable because it does not expressly
provide for the provision of a written agreement or judicial review. 
            The court acknowledges that the
Arbitration Agreement, although requiring the arbitrator to “issue a reasoned
decision within 30 days from the close of the arbitration hearing[,]” does not
expressly require the issuance of a written decision.  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th
at p. 107 [“in order for such judicial review to be successfully accomplished,
an arbitrator in a FEHA case must issue a written arbitration decision that
will reveal, however briefly, the essential findings and conclusions on which
the award is based”].)  However, the
Arbitration Agreement does not preclude the issuance of a written award, and
therefore “the [Arbitration Agreement] must be interpreted to provide for such
findings.”  (Ibid.) 
            Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff
has shown that the Arbitration Agreement has a high level of substantive
unconscionability based on the provisions that (1) effectively limit the statute of limitations on claims
brought against Defendant to seven days, and (2) allow Defendant
to recover attorney’s fees from Plaintiff that Defendant would not otherwise recover
in court.
            The court further finds that the
court should not exercise its discretion to sever these provisions pursuant to
the Arbitration Agreement’s severance clause. 
(Stubbs Decl., Ex. 1, Arbitration Agreement, p. 3 [“If any term(s) in
this Agreement is found to be void or voidable, the remainder of the Agreement
is severable and will remain in force”].) 
“If
the court as a matter of law finds the contract or any clause of the contract
to have been unconscionable at the time it was made the court may refuse to
enforce the contract, or it may enforce the remainder of the contract without
the unconscionable clause, or it may so limit the application of any
unconscionable clause as to avoid any unconscionable result.”  (Civ. Code,
§¿1670.5, subd. (a).)  “The trial court has discretion under [section
1670.5] to refuse to enforce an entire agreement if the agreement is permeated
by unconscionability.”  (Gostev v. Skillz Platform, Inc. (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 1035, 1062 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)  “The
overarching inquiry is whether the interests of justice . . . would be
furthered by severance.”  (Beco, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at p.
313 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
            The court finds that the Arbitration
Agreement here is permeated by unconscionability and that severance would not
further the interests of justice.  As set
forth above, there are two provisions that are overly harsh and unfair, and
therefore are substantively unconscionable. 
(Carmona, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 85.)  “‘Such multiple defects indicate a
systematic effort to impose arbitration on an employee not simply as an
alternative to litigation, but as an inferior forum that works to the
employer’s advantage.’”  (Beco, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at p.
313; Navas v. Fresh Venture Foods, LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 626, 637
[“Given the number of challenged provisions, the court could reasonably find
severance was not an acceptable option”].)
            Thus, the court finds that severance
would not serve the interests of justice and therefore exercises its discretion
(1) to decline to sever the unconscionable provisions and (2) to refuse to
enforce the Arbitration Agreement against Plaintiff.  (Civ. Code, § 1670.50, subd. (a).) 
            The court therefore denies
Defendant’s motion. 
ORDER
            The court denies defendant Worldwide
Flight Services, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration and stay proceedings.
            The court orders plaintiff Angie
Gonzalez to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  May 6, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


