 Case Number:  23STCV21128    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS, SET
ONE, ADMITTED; MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET
ONE, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, SET ONE;
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS; MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL AND ALL TRIAL-RELATED DATES
 
Hearing Date: 12/11/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV21128 ALEX OCAMPO vs TAK YEUNG LAM, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Tak Yeung Lam and Kam
Wai Lam
Responding Party: None
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR
ADMISSIONS, SET ONE, ADMITTED; MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION,
SET ONE; REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED. 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL AND RELATED DATES IS GRANTED.
 
Background
On August 20, 2024, Defendant
Tak Yeung Lam (“Defendant”) propounded
Request for Admissions, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Productions, Set One on Plaintiff
ALEX OCAMPO (“Plaintiff”).[1]
Responses were due September 23, 2024.
 
To date, Plaintiff has not provided the
requested discovery responses. Thus, Defendant moves the Court to deem the
contents of his Request for Admissions, Set One, admitted and to compel Plaintiff
to produce initial responses to his Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production, Set One.
Legal Standard
1. 
Requests for Production and Interrogatories
¿¿¿¿¿ 
If a party fails to timely respond
to a request for production or interrogatories, the party to whom the request
is directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230, and waives any objection, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)¿¿The party propounding the
discovery requests may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) Unlike a motion to compel further discovery responses, a
motion to compel initial discovery responses does not have any meet and confer
requirements.
¿¿¿¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may
impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes
failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)¿¿¿A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable
monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare
Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)
 
2.  Request for Admissions
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the
genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact,
opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission
may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).
¿¿ 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements.
 
Analysis
 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff
did not serve timely initial discovery responses. No opposition was filed, nor
were any documents presented that indicated discovery responses had been served
prior to the hearing. Consequently, the present motions are GRANTED. Plaintiff
is ORDERED to submit verified responses to Defendant Tak Yeung Lam’s
Requests for Production, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set
One, without objections within 20 days from notice of this order. Additionally,
the contents of Defendant Tak Yeung Lam’s Requests for Admissions,
Set One, are deemed admitted.
 
Plaintiff’s non-responsiveness prompted Defendant to file the present
motion and incur attorney’s fees. Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of
$500.00 per motion, representing a $200 hourly rate. Considering the simplicity
of the issues and the absence of an opposition, the Court exercises its
discretion and sets the sanction amount to $1,200 for all four motions.
Consequently, the Court sanctions Plaintiff in the amount of $1,200. Plaintiff
and his counsel are ORDERED, jointly and severally, to pay sanctions of $1,200
to counsel for Defendant within 20 days from notice of this order.
Turning to the motion to continue trial, the complaint was filed on
September 1, 2023, and alleges negligence based on a motor vehicle accident.
Defendant’s answer was filed August 16, 2024. Defendant Kam Wai Lam’s answer
was filed October 18, 2024. Trial is currently set for February 28, 2025, and
there have been no prior continuances. 
Defendants seek a continued trial date of August 22, 2025. Defendants
assert their excused inability to conduct discovery in this case and require
more time to reach a settlement. In light of  Plaintiff’s apparent lack of cooperation in
conducting discovery, Defendants’ relatively recent appearance in this case,
and the lack of prior continuances, the Court finds good cause to continue
trial and all related dates. 
The Court continues the
Trial to August 22, 2025, at 8:30 a.m,
and the Final Status
Conference to August 8, 2025, at 10:00 a.m.  All case-related deadlines will follow the new
trial date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.


