  Case Number:  23STCV31843    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  61 VALERIE SILVA, AN INDIVIDUAL vs NORWALK MEADOWS NURSING CENTER, LP, A CALIFORNIA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, et al.TENTATIVE  Defendants Norwalk Meadows Nursing Center, LP and Platinum Compliance, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.Moving party to provide notice.DISCUSSIONOn petition of a party to an arbitration agreement to arbitrate a controversy, a court must order the petitioner and respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines the arbitration agreement exists, unless (1) the petitioner has waived its right to arbitrate; (2) grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement; or (3) “[a] party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)“[T]he party moving to compel arbitration bears the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. The role of the trial court is to sit as a trier of fact, weighing any affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, together with oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a determination on the issue of arbitrability.” (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 758.)Defendants Norwalk Meadows Nursing Center, LP and Platinum Compliance, LLC (Defendants) move to compel the arbitration of Plaintiff Valerie Silva’s (Plaintiff) claims based on an arbitration agreement executed on January 24, 2019, as part of her hiring and onboarding process with Defendants. (Nordstrom Decl. ¶ 6.) The agreement applies to “any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to Employee’s employment with the Center [Norwalk Meadows Nursing Center] and/or the termination thereof.” (Nordstrom Decl. Exh. A.)Plaintiff in opposition argues that the agreement is unenforceable under 9 U.S.C. § 402, which prevents the enforcement of arbitration agreements in actions based on sexual harassment. (Opposition at pp. 5–6.) Plaintiff also argues that the agreement is unconscionable. (Opposition at pp. 6–12.)Plaintiff’s argument that 9 U.S.C. § 402 prevents the enforcement of this arbitration agreement is unpersuasive, because Plaintiff’s claim and dispute arose prior to the effective date of the statute. That section prevents the enforcement of arbitration agreements for a “sexual harassment dispute,” and further states that “no predispute arbitration agreement . . . shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the . . . sexual harassment dispute.” (9 U.S.C. § 402, subd. (a).) A legislative note passed alongside the statute states that it applies “with respect to any dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or after the date of enactment of this Act,” i.e. March 3, 2022. (Pub.L. No. 117-90, § 3, reprinted in notes foll. 9 U.S.C. § 401; See Kader v. Southern California Medical Center, Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214, 224.)Here’s Plaintiff’s claims accrued at the latest in November 2020, the final date of contact between Plaintiff and Defendants. (Complaint ¶ 45.) The legislative note’s use of the disjunctive “or” between claim or dispute may indicate that the act can apply to claims that accrue prior to its enactment if a “dispute” on those claims arises at a later date, as indicated in the case of Kader v. Southern California Medical Center, Inc. (See Kader, supra, 99 Cal.app.5th at p. 224.) However, the dispute in this case arose prior to effective date as well, as indicated in Plaintiff’s allegations that she complained of harassment in January 2020, and that Defendants concluded their investigation with the finding of no wrongful conduct in November 2020. (Complaint ¶¶ 14–15, 34–36.) Under Kader, “the date that a dispute has arisen for purposes of the Act is a fact-specific inquiry in each case,” and a dispute “arises when one party asserts a right, claim, or demand, and the other side expresses disagreement or takes an adversarial posture.” (Kader, supra, 99 Cal.App.5th at p. 688.) That adversarial posture arose prior to Plaintiff’s alleged termination, and prior to the effective date of the statute.Plaintiff also contends that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable. “Unconscionability requires a showing of both procedural unconscionability and substantive unconscionability.” (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.) “The oppression that creates procedural unconscionability arises from an inequality of bargaining power that results in no real negotiation and an *1348 absence of meaningful choice.” (Grand Prospect Partners, L.P. v. Ross Dress for Less, Inc. (2015) 232 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1347–1348.) “Substantive unconscionability is not susceptible of precise definition. It appears the various descriptions—unduly oppressive, overly harsh, so one-sided as to shock the conscience, and unreasonably favorable to the more powerful party—all reflect the same standard. Substantive unconscionability is not concerned with a simple old-fashioned bad bargain.” (Id. at p. 1349, citations omitted.)Arbitration contracts presented to employees on a take-it-or-leave-it basis are at least minimally procedurally unconscionable. (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113.) Plaintiff testifies that although she does not recall signing the agreement, she was made to sign a number of agreements during her onboarding process, and told that she needed to sign all of them. (Silva Decl. ¶¶ 3–4.)However, Plaintiff identifies no substantively unconscionable aspect of the agreement. Plaintiff contends that it contains conflicting terms, but the conflict identified is between the evidence presented by Defendants — that the agreement was not mandatory (Nordstrom Decl. ¶ 4) — and Plaintiff’s testimony that she was told to sign all onboarding documents. (Opposition at p. 11.) The arbitration agreement indeed states that arbitration is mandatory — once the parties have agreed to it. This is no basis to find substantive unconscionability.Plaintiff also claims that the agreement does not state how to commence arbitration, identify the arbitration provider, or the applicable rules of arbitration. (Opposition at pp. 11–12.) The agreement does state, however, that arbitration is to be conducted under the California Arbitration Act, Code of Civil Procedure § 1282, et seq., which provides a method for selection of an arbitrator when the agreement does not specify. (Nordstrom Decl. Exh. A; Code Civ. Proc. § 1282.6.) Plaintiff’s authority for the proposition that such arbitration agreements are unconscionable comes from the case OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 132, in which the employer asserted arbitration as a barrier to an employee’s pursuit of administrative remedies through the Labor Commissioner’s Berman process. The court concluded that the litigation-like nature of the arbitration proceedings compared unfavorably with the “speedy, informal, and affordable method” of dispute resolution afforded in the Berman process, and which the arbitration agreement purported to waive. (Id. at p. 132–133.) But here, proceedings before the Labor Commissioner are specifically excluded from the arbitration agreement. (Nordstrom Decl. Exh. A [the agreement applies to “any dispute . . . with the exception of claims filed with . . . the State Labor Commissioner or an equivalent state official”].) Plaintiff thus identifies no substantively unconscionable aspect of the agreement.The motion is therefore GRANTED.