 Case Number:  23NWCV00762    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  C CASTILLO et al. v.
AVMGH SIX-THUNDERBIRD VILLA LIMITED et al.
CASE NO.: 23NWCV00762 

HEARING: 10/30/2024
 
#3
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant AVMGH, LLC’s Motion to Quash and Strike Doe
Amendment Re: Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is DENIED.
 
Moving party to give NOTICE.
 
Background
 
This personal injury action was filed on March 9, 2023, by
Plaintiffs Melba Castillo, individually, and as successor-in-interest to
Douglas Castillo; Jeanette Selena Ortega Peralta, a minor, by and through her
guardian ad litem; Yasmin Catalina Ortega Peralta; Maria Del Carmen Castillo;
Osmar Quintero; Maria Garcia; and Sostenes Delcid (collectively Plaintiffs).
Plaintiffs allege that: “[o]n or about September 12, 2022, defendants Michael
Gingrich, a plumbing contractor and Michael Gingrich dba Coz Plumbing… hired
Douglas Castillo and coworkers, plaintiffs Sostenes Delcid, Osmar Quinteros,
and Mario Garcia to perform construction work at 10001 West Frontage Road,
South Gate, CA 90280, which was at the request of defendants AVMGH
Six-Thunderbird Villa Limited…. [¶] [P]rior to September 12, 2022, Defendants
AVMGH Six-Thunderbird Villa Limited… knowingly hired an unlicensed contractor,
defendants Michael Gingrich and Michael Gingrich dba Coz Plumbing….” (FAC ¶¶
13-14.) 
 
Plaintiffs allege that AVMGH Six-Thunderbird Villa Limited
knew or should have known that they hired a contractor who did not carry
worker’s compensation insurance. “On or about September 14, 2022, the work site
fatality occurred. Just prior to the work site fatality, decedent Douglas
Castillo and plaintiff Osmar Quinteros were in the trench. Plaintiffs Mario
Garcia and Sostenes Delcid were at ground level (above Castillo and Quinteros).
Because of the depth of the trench, when dirt became loose or the dirt could
not be hurled up over their shoulders and out of the trench, Douglas Castillo
and Osmar Quinteros would remove the dirt by putting it in buckets, and with
ropes, would hoist the dirt out that way…. [¶] Due to the way the dirt was
being piled upon one side of the trench on top, the weight of that dirt caused
one of the walls to cave in, which brought on an onslaught of dirt, and then a
water pipe burst. This caused an immediate mudslide. This trapped Douglas
Castillo and Osmar Quinteros. They became engulfed in rapidly rising mud.
Sostenes Delcid and Mario Garcia jumped in to rescue them. Quinteros was
rescued…. Douglas Castillo was buried alive and killed in the mudslide.” (FAC
¶¶17-18.) 
 
Plaintiffs assert the following causes of action: (1)
Negligence; (2)-(4) Premises Liability; (5) Negligence Per Se; and (7)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress by Plaintiffs Osmar Quinteros,
Mario Garcia, and Sostenes Delcid; and (6) Wrongful Death by Plaintiffs Melba
Castillo, Jeanette Selena Ortega Peralta, and Maria Del Carmen Castillo. 
 
On November 8, 2023, the Court sustained AVMGH
Six-Thunderbird Villa Limited’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ entire FAC without
leave to amend. The Court then entered a judgment of dismissal in favor of AVMGH
Six-Thunderbird Villa Limited Partnership on February 6, 2024. On February 8,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal from the Court’s judgment.
 
On February 13, 2024, Plaintiffs amended the FAC to replace
Doe 1 with Defendant AVMGH, LLC and Doe 2 with Defendant AVMGH, LTD. On April
22, 2024, Plaintiffs served AVMGH, LLC with substitute service in Downey.
 
On May 9, 2024, AVMGH, LLC (Defendant) filed the present
motion to quash and strike Plaintiffs’ amendment to the FAC.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time
to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow,
may serve and file a notice of motion . . . [t]o quash service of summons on
the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)¿¿ 
 
Furthermore, upon a party’s motion or the court’s own
motion, the court may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also
“[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear
on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).) 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant argues the Court should quash the service of
summons and strike Plaintiffs’ amendment to the FAC on the grounds that
Plaintiffs’ Doe amendment was made without the Court’s leave in violation of
Code of Civil Procedure section 427, subdivision (a). But this provision has
not been in effect since 1971. Instead, it appears Defendant meant to rely on Code
of Civil Procedure section 472 which states “[a] party may amend its pleading
once without leave of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or
motion to strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but
before the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is
filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the
demurrer or motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 472, subd. (a).)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue their Doe amendment was
proper pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 474, which states “[w]hen
the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he must state that fact
in the complaint . . . and such defendant may be designated in any pleading or
proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or
proceeding must be amended accordingly.”
 
Of these two code sections, the Court finds Code of Civil
Procedure section 474 to be applicable. In amending the FAC, Plaintiffs did not
submit a new amended pleading. They instead used Form LACIV-105 to submit an
amendment for a fictious name. They also complied with the requirements of Code
of Civil Procedure section 474 by alleging “DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, are
unknown to Plaintiffs, who therefore sue said Doe defendants, and each of them,
by such fictitious names.” (FAC, ¶ 9.)
 
In the motion, Defendant claims the requirements for
obtaining leave to amend apply to Doe amendments. But the authorities Defendant
cite in support of this claim are inapposite. In Barrows v. American Motors
Corp. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 1, the Second District Court of Appeal
addressed whether a plaintiff could amend their complaint to include Doe
allegations that they had inadvertently admitted. (Id. at p. 6-7.) Here,
Plaintiffs did not amend the FAC to include Doe allegations as those
allegations were already included as noted above. (See FAC, ¶ 9.) In Shapell
Industries, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1101, the Second
District Court of Appeal addressed whether a plaintiff could amend a complaint
to include an additional plaintiff without the court’s leave after a demurrer
to the complaint was sustained. (Id., at p. 1105-1106.) This case has no
application here. Lastly, in Taliaferro v. Davis (1963) 220 Cal.App.2d
793, the First District Court of Appeal addressed whether a plaintiff could amend
a complaint to include an additional defendant without the court’s leave after
a demurrer to complaint was sustained. (Id., at p. 794.) Like the
previous case, this case has no applicability here as the plaintiff was seeking
to introduce a new party to the action as opposed to substituting the name of a
Doe defendant.  
 
Defendant cites no authority that requires a party to seek
leave of the court to file a Doe amendment. And while a defendant may use an “evidence-based
motion” to challenge a Doe amendment on the grounds of unreasonably delay,
Defendant does not do so here. (A.N. v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1058, 1067.)
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is DENIED.