 Case Number:  24NWCV01943    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  C MCGEE V. KAISER
PERMANENTE
CASE NO.: 24NWCV01943 
HEARING: 10/30/2024
 
#4
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
     I.       
Defendant Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
Inc.’s demurrer to the complaint is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend.
    II.       
Defendant Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
Inc.’s motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED with 30 days leave to
amend.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Defendant Kaiser Foundation Health Plain, Inc. (erroneously
sued as Kaiser Permanente) (“Defendant”) demurs to the entire complaint and
moves to strike the request for punitive damages.
 
Background
 
On June 25, 2024, Plaintiff Renza McGee (“Plaintiff”) filed
a form complaint alleging “personal injury, property damage, wrongful death” against
Kaiser Foundation Health Plain, Inc. (erroneously sued as Kaiser Permanente) (“Defendant”).
The complaint alleges causes of action for general negligence and other,
specified as “DR SAROYAN STATED DURING POST-OP APPOINTMENT THAT HE WAS NEVER
COMFORTABLE WITH DOING THE SURGERY. CUT INCISION CLOSE TO MY NECK AREA. NOT IN
CENTER OF BACK, LARGE LUMP LEFT.” (Complaint ¶ 10.) Plaintiff
suffered wage loss, hospital and medical expenses, general damage, loss of
earning capacity, and non-economic damages. (Complaint ¶ 11.) 
 
Defendant demurs to the entire complaint on
the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action, does not name a health care provider as a defendant, and is time-barred.
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. appears on behalf of Defendant because
Kaiser Permanente is a trademark of Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. Defendant
also contends Plaintiff failed to include a cause of action attachment as
required by Section 10 of the form complaint. To date, no opposition has been
filed.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant requests the Court take judicial notice that
Kaiser Permanente is a trademark registered by Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
Inc. (Demurrer, p. 4.) Defendant provides the trademark status. (Demurrer, Exh.
B.) 
 
The Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice.
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Defendant has complied with the meet and confer requirement.
Defendant and Plaintiff exchanged emails between the dates of July 18, 2024,
and August 30, 2024, regarding the basis of the demurrer and the untimeliness.
(Avagyan Decl., ¶ 6.) 
 
Demurrer
 
Defendant demurs to the entire complaint on the grounds that
it does not plead facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, Defendant
cannot be found liable because it is not a health care provider, and the
complaint is time-barred. 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) In assessing a demurrer, the court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether
the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a
cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda, supra, at p. 747.) A complaint
will be upheld against a demurrer if it pleads facts sufficient to place the
defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare
a defense. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-50.) 
 
“Generally it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the
defect can be cured by amendment.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.) A “[p]laintiff must show in what manner he can amend his complaint
and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.” (Ibid.)

 
Plaintiff has not pled facts sufficient to constitute a
negligence cause of action. “The elements of a cause of action for medical
malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other
members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the
duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the
injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Chakalis
v. Elevator Solutions, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Saroyan stated he
was not comfortable performing the surgery. (Complaint ¶ 10.) Plaintiff also states she suffered damages including emotional
distress, severe injury, and pain and suffering. (Complaint ¶ 11.) The Court does not find facts alleging a duty owed by Defendant or
describing Dr. Saroyan’s connection with Defendant. Thus, the Court does not
find Plaintiff states a cause of action for negligence against Defendant. 
 
Defendant argues that Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
cannot be held liable as a health care provider. Here, Plaintiff brought its
complaint against Kaiser Permanente. Plaintiff initially wrote Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc. and crossed it out. (Complaint ¶ 11.) Defendant, Kaiser Permanente, is a trademark registered by Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc. and is not by itself a legal entity. A
court has held that a health care plan, and specifically Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc., cannot be held liable for negligence as a health care
provider. (Gopal v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2016) 248 Cal.
App.4th 425.) Because Plaintiff only named Kaiser Permanente as a defendant,
this line of argument is not at issue. However, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has not named a Defendant that can be held liable as a health care provider for
a cause of action for negligence.
 
Lastly, Defendant demurs to the complaint on the grounds
that the claims are barred by the statute of limitations. Plaintiff filed the
complaint on June 25, 2024. Plaintiff states the injury occurred on December
30, 2021. Defendant argues that Plaintiff filed this complaint over one year
after discovering the injury. 
 
The statute of limitations for a personal injury claim against
a health care provider is “three years after the date of injury or one year
after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence
should have discovered, the injury, whichever occurs first.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
340.5.) “The statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff suspects
or should suspect that her injury was caused by wrongdoing, that someone has
done something wrong to her.” (Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Co. (1988) 44
Cal.3d 1103, 1114.)
 
Here, the claim is not time barred because it was filed within
three years of the date of injury. Defendant argues the statute of limitations
began to run no later than January 30, 2023, when Plaintiff documented the
injury with photographs. However, there are no facts alleged in the complaint to
indicate Plaintiff suspected wrongdoing at the time the photographs were taken.  As such, it is not apparent from the face of
the complaint that the lawsuit is time barred. 

 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend.   
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant moves to strike the claim for punitive damages on
the grounds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts amounting to oppression,
fraud, or malice. 
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or objections to
pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer
for damages, etc.). (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435-437.) A party may file a motion to
strike in whole or in part within the time allowed to respond to a pleading,
however, if a party serves and files a motion to strike without demurring to
the complaint, the time to answer is extended. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435 subd.
(b)(1), 435 subd. (c).)
A motion to strike lies only where the pleading has
irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleadings or by way of judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437.)
 
Punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of
malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Oppression”
means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in
conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions,
are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression,
fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
 
Here, Plaintiff included an “Exemplary Damages Attachment”
with the Complaint claiming Defendant was guilty of oppression. Plaintiff
includes letters from Kaiser’s legal department “not taking accountability” and
“pretending to be concerned.” (Complaint, Ex-2.) These letters
include Defendant’s finding, reached after investigating Plaintiff’s complaint,
that there was no negligence. (Complaint, Exh. D.) These letters, without
supporting facts, do not demonstrate oppression as required by Civil Code section
3294, subd. (a). 
 
The motion to strike is GRANTED with 30 days leave to
amend.  
 