 Case Number:  23NWCV01362    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  C Fierro v. Kalaveras Inc. et al. 
CASE NO.: 23NWCV01362
HEARING: 10/30/2024
 
#10
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Plaintiff Bessie Fierro’s Motion for Leave to File the
Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED.  
 
Moving party(s) to give notice. 
 
On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff Bessie Fierro (“Plaintiff”) filed
this wrongful death and survival action, individually and as successor in
interest to Valerie Mejia (“Decedent”), against Defendants Kalaveras Inc., Jose
Brito, Daniel Brito, Angel Bahena, Iasias Ocampo Brito (collectively
“Defendants”), and Does 1 to 50. 
 
On August 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint (FAC). The FAC alleges Defendant Kalaveras Inc., Decedent’s employer,
and other Defendants negligently served an excessive number of alcoholic beverages
to Decedent. That night, Decedent allegedly drove home intoxicated and crashed
into a signpost, killing her. The FAC asserts one cause of action for wrongful
death and survival action based in negligence. 
 
On July 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion for Leave to File
the Second Amended Complaint) (“Motion”). The Court continued the hearing on
the Motion from its original hearing date of July 31, 2024, because Plaintiff
failed to file proof of service. Plaintiff filed proof of service on July 30,
2024, one day before the hearing, indicating the Motion was served on July 5,
2024. 
 
On October 21, 2024, Defendants filed an untimely
opposition. 
 
On October 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an untimely reply. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(a)(1), “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any
time before or after commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “[T]he
court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of
the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare
case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County
of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 (internal citations
omitted).)
 
 
Procedural Requirements
 
Defendants argue the Motion fails to comport with the
requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324. Plaintiff argues
Defendants do not assert specifically how or why the Motion fails to comply.
 
A motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a
copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments. (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) The motion must also state what allegations are
proposed to be deleted or added, by page, paragraph, and line number. (Ibid.)
Finally, a separate supporting declaration specifying the effect of the
amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and the reason the request for
amendment was not made earlier must also accompany the motion. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.134(b).) 
 
The Court finds all requirements of CRC Rule 3.1324 are met.
A proposed copy of the Second Amended Complaint is attached to the Motion with
proposed amendments in bold. (Neubauer Decl., ¶ 5, Exh.3.) The proposed
amendments are as follows:
(1)  Add
new fact allegations and causes of actions in light of evidence procured during
discovered which supports Defendant KALAVERAS INC's conscious disregard for the
safety of patrons who came to their restaurant; 
(2)  Adding
additional fact allegations in paragraphs 8-14, 20-47, 58-62;
(3)  Adding
the word "defendant" to paragraphs 14-17;
(4)  Adding
a cause of action for Survival Action; and
(5)  Adding
a request for punitive damages to the Prayer.
(Neubauer Decl., ¶ 5)
 
The amendments are necessary and proper because they bolster
and clarify allegations in the operative complaint. (Neubauer Decl., ¶ 7.) The
new cause of action for Survival Action arises from the same general set of
facts in the operative complaint. (Ibid.) The facts were discovered
through Plaintiff’s initial written discovery in late January and early
February of 2024. (Neubauer Decl., ¶ 8, 9.) The request to amend was not made
earlier because Plaintiff only recently discovered these facts. (Neubauer Decl.,
¶ 9.) Plaintiff attempted to meet and confer regarding a stipulation, but when
it became apparent a stipulation could not be reached, Plaintiff timely prepared
this motion. (Ibid.) July 31, 2024 (the original hearing date) was the
first available date when Plaintiff discovered the facts (Ibid.) The
Court thus finds all CRC Rule 3.1324 are met.
 
Prejudice to Defendants
 
Plaintiff argues there is no prejudice to Defendants because
the amendments merely conform allegations in the operative complaint to information
learned in discovery. In opposition, Defendants argue Plaintiff’s amendment to
seek punitive damages and attorney’s fees is prejudicial because it
substantially increases the value of the case. Defendants further argue Plaintiff’s
request for leave to amend is unjustly delayed. Plaintiffs argue in reply that
the timing of this amendment will not prejudice Defendants because no trial
date has been set. 
 
“If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of
the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse
permission to amend….” (Morgan v. Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527,
530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999)
68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) 
 
The Court determines that Plaintiff has adequately shown the
amendment can be granted without undue prejudice to Defendants.  A trial date has not been set yet. Even if
the proposed amendment was delayed, delay alone is not grounds for denial
absent prejudice. (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558,
564-565.) The proposed Second Amended Complaint separates one cause of action for
wrongful death into two separate causes of action. (See Glaser v. Meyers (1982)
137 Cal.App.3d 770, 777 (“[A]n amendment which gives rise to a separate cause
of action is permitted if recovery is being sought “‘on the same general set of
facts,’“ and if the amendment is not prejudicial to the party against whom it
is offered.” (internal citations omitted).) As to the punitive damages
amendment, the FAC already contained allegations of Defendants’ malice and
conscious disregard of Decedent’s rights and safety, making a request for
punitive damages foreseeable. (FAC, ¶ 45.) 
 
Merits of the Proposed Second Amended Complaint
 
Defendants argue the proposed SAC fails to state a cause of
action for wrongful death because Plaintiff’s death was caused by her own
intoxicated driving. Defendants argue that under these circumstances, there is
no liability for the entity that furnished alcohol, citing Business and Professions
Code, section 25602, subdivision (b). Further, Defendants argue punitive
damages are unwarranted. Because Plaintiff’s theories of liability fail, the
Motion should be denied. In response, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’ attack
on the merits of the SAC is misplaced and cannot be the grounds for denying a
motion for leave to amend.
 
“[E]ven if the proposed legal theory is a novel one, ‘the
preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the parties to
test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or
other appropriate proceedings.’” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.) In determining whether to grant a leave to
amend, the court may only deny for failure to state a cause of action where “the
insufficiency of the proposed amendment is established by controlling precedent
and where the insufficiency could not be cured by further appropriate
amendment. (California Casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985)
173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280–281.) Here, there is no clear indication that the
causes of action are legally barred. The Court will thus permit the amendments and
allow the parties determine their validity via demurrer or other proceeding.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File the Second Amended
Complaint is GRANTED.  