  Case Number:  21SMCV01921    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  I Plaintiff Swamp Capital, LLC (“plaintiff”) filed this breach of
contract action against defendants Bash Green LLC, Michael Eisner, Eisner LLP,
and Justyn Volesko.  Currently before the
court are two motions to compel further responses by plaintiff.  One is aimed at defendant Eisner LLP to
compel a further response to Form Interrogatories, Set One (“FI-1”).  The second motion is aimed at defendant
Michael Eisner to compel a further response to Form Interrogatories, Set Two
(“FI-2”).  Defendant Eisner opposes both
motions.
Plaintiff moves to compel a
further response to FI-1 Nos. 3.7 and 4.1, and FI-2 Nos. 2.11, 4.1, and
4.2.  The motion is GRANTED as to FI-1
No. 3.7.  Eisner LLP must answer all the
subparts of the FI.  In opposition,
Eisner claims the motion will be moot because a response will be served prior
to the hearing.  That is insufficient to
render the motion moot; a response must be in plaintiff’s hand and the court’s
for the court to determine that the motion is moot.  FI-1 No. 4.1 requests certain insurance coverage
information.  Eisner LLP served only
objections, but in opposition claims that copies of the declaration page were
produced on April 15.  It offers to
provide an amended response if plaintiff wants as much.  The court believes that the production of the
declaration page is only a start; but plaintiff is entitled to the information
in the form interrogatory.  If Eisner
wants to answer by providing documents (such as the whole of the policy, or at
least all potentially pertinent parts), the Code sets forth how to do so, but
the declarations page alone will not be sufficient.  The motion is GRANTED as to this FI.
That leaves FI-2. As a
preliminary note, the court agrees that a party cannot propound the same
discovery again to get around the 45-day deadline. But here, the definition of
“incident” is different. That is enough of a difference to make the discovery different.  The court notes that the rule against
propounding the same discovery twice is not designed to bar a second request
where the discovery has been changed to meet a prior objection.  (For example, if an interrogatory is objected
to as vague as to time and it is re-propounded with specific time limits, that
is permissible.)
The motion is GRANTED as to
FI-2 No. 2.11, which asks Eisner if he was acting as the agent or employee of
any person during the incident, and to state the person’s contact information
and to describe his duties.  Eisner
provided an objection-only response, and also asserted attorney-client
privilege and attorney-work product. 
Eisner must answer the FI to the extent possible.  It was his burden to justify the invocation
of ACP/AWP, but he fails to do so.  The
court also reminds him that while client communications are protected under the
privilege (see Evid. Code, §§ 952-954), that would not extend to a general
description of an attorney’s duties as a client’s agent.  The court doubts the attorney work product
doctrine covers a general description of duties either.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030, subd.
(a).)  With that said, the court will not
deem these two privileges (though AWP is not a privilege; technically it is a
doctrine and it is found in the Code of Civil Procedure, not the Evidence Code)
waived.  Eisner may assert them as needed
but should take a careful look at the FI to see if it implicates either of
these.  A further response is required,
including to subdivision (b).  The court
recognizes that the description of duties will likely be at a rather general
level due to the privilege.
The court’s reasoning on
FI-2 No. 4.1 is the same as on the Eisner LLP motion. A further response is
required.
FI-2 No. 4.2 asks Eisner if
he is self-insured under any statute for damages arising from the incident and
for him to list the statute if so. 
Eisner provided an objection-only response.  In opposition, he states that he “previously
answered this interrogatory ‘not applicable’ in response to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories, Set One.  Those
responses were provided to Plaintiff in July of 2022.  There was no meet and confer regarding this
issue.  If Plaintiff would like Mr.
Eisner to change his response to ‘No.’ Amended responses will be
provided.”  (Eisner FI-2 Sep. Stmt., p.
7:10-13.)  Eisner raises no issue with
the 45-day jurisdictional deadline, so his objection based on his initial
responses lack merit.  The court deals
with the meet and confer issue below. 
Further, Eisner concedes that a clear response can be provided.  The court therefore GRANTS the motion as to
FI-2 No. 4.2.  If the answer is “no,”
Eisner must say so.  “Not applicable” is
ambiguous and deliberately so.
That leaves the issue of
sanctions. Plaintiff requests $2,001 on the FI-1 motion and $2,243.50 on the
FI-2 motion. The requests are DENIED for the failure to meet and confer in good
faith.  Plaintiff sent a single letter
that demanded a further response. 
(Kalantari Decl., Exh. 3.) 
Demanding a further response by a date certain is not meeting and
conferring, which requires a dialogue between the parties on the sufficiency of
their responses.  Apparently, there were
further phone calls, but it seems none of them were about the propriety of the
served responses.  The court can only
make that inference because the declaration is notably silent on any
substantive discussions regarding the FI responses and what defendants’ counsel
did promise on specific FI.  Recall that
sanctions must be both reasonable and necessary.   The failure to meet and confer suggests that
the fees were not necessary.
Further, the opposition
conceded quite a few of the and offered simple revisions that would satisfy
defendants’ responsibilities under the Code. 
In fact, the court’s ruling adopts many of defendants’ proposed revisions.  That leads the court to believe there was no
substantive meet and confer effort.  The
court assumes that had plaintiff made a good faith effort to meet and confer,
the same concessions would have been offered. 
The motions were ultimately unnecessary and sanctions are DENIED.
For the parties’ future
aid, the court attaches its guidelines on discovery responses and meet and
confer.
DISCOVERY RELATED GUIDELINES FOR DEPARTMENT I
The guidelines below are not “rules” and they are not
universally applicable in all cases. 
Rather, they are guidelines as to the court’s general views.  Each case, of course, will be decided on its
own facts and circumstances, and some of the guidelines below may not apply to
particular circumstances.  That said, the
court does take these views seriously.
Discovery Responses
The Court provides the following guidance concerning its
general views on some common issues regarding responses to written
objections.  The Court has noticed that
many attorneys view objections and the manner of making them in a way different
than does the Court.  To avoid these
common pitfalls, the Court offers the following in addition to the provisions
of the Litigation Guidelines appended to the Los Angeles County Superior Court
Local Rules.
First, “General Objections” are not permitted.  The Code of Civil Procedure does not provide
for them, and therefore they are disregarded by the Court.  Any response that “incorporates” the “General
Objections” is improper by definition.  
Second, the Court often views boilerplate objections
as being in bad faith.  A bad faith
response is no response at all in the Court’s view.  Therefore, making boilerplate objections does
not preserve those objections nor does it constitute a good faith response to
written discovery.  A bad faith response
is viewed by the Court for what it is: bad faith.  The objections will be stricken and deemed
waived.  In the context of a Request for
Admission, such objections may lead to a finding that the request is deemed
admitted, although that will depend on the facts of the particular case and the
specific discovery at hand.
Objections should be tailored to each specific request.  If a request truly is overbroad, then an
objection to that effect is proper.  But
such an objection is best accompanied by some reasonable limitation by the
responding party that will narrow the request appropriately and (as narrowed)
provide a substantive response rather than a mere statement that the request is
overbroad.  The same is true as to an
objection that a request is unduly burdensome. 
The Court also notes that the party asserting that a request is unduly
burdensome has the obligation at some point to provide an evidentiary basis for
the objection, including evidence as to what the burden of compliance would
be.  (West Pico Furniture Co. v.
Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407.) 
Often such an objection will include a statement by the responding party
as to a narrower request that would not be unduly burdensome and provide
substantive responses as so limited. 
Objections that a request is “vague and ambiguous” must set forth the
vague and ambiguous term as well as the responding party’s reasonable
interpretation of that term as well as a statement that, so interpreted, the
response will provide the discovery requested. 
If there is no reasonable interpretation possible (which is a rare
situation), then the responding party must so state.  Objections as to privilege must set forth the
basis explaining why the information sought is in fact privileged.  Where a privilege is asserted in the context
of a document request, a privilege log must accompany the answer or be provided
within a short and reasonable time after the answer.  Where the objection is made in the context of
an interrogatory, it must be clear from the objection the scope of the
information being withheld.  If there is
no log, there should be no privilege objection to a document request (meaning
that a prophylactic privilege objection is the equivalent of no objection; it
preserves nothing).  There are some rare
exceptions, such as where the entire point of the discovery is to get allegedly
privileged information or where compliance would require a log that is in
essence an index of counsel’s file.  In
that situation, the log is unnecessary, but the assertion should be made that
the request is in that rare context.
Third, if an objection is made to the discovery but a
response is being given, it must be clear whether information or documents are
in fact being withheld on the basis of the objections.  If the objections are clear and done in the
manner set forth above, with statements in the objection as to a narrowing that
will make the request proper, this is usually a simple task.  The objections themselves state the limit and
the response will be full and complete as limited.  But where the objections are not so clear,
the response must clearly state whether any information or document is being
withheld on the basis of the objection and, if so, the extent of the
withholding.  Accordingly, in those
situations, phrases like “Notwithstanding and subject to the foregoing
objections, responding party states as follows” are improper.  Those sorts of phrases make the verification
useless, as the verifier can always fall back on the ”objections” as the reason
why a document was not produced or information was not disclosed.  On the other hand, where the line of
demarcation is clear, the verification will still serve its purpose.
Fourth, for document requests, the substantive
response must conform to the Code.  There
are relatively tight rules as to what the response must say, and the response
must say it.  For example, where a
responding party is not producing documents because they are not in the party’s
possession, custody, or control, the responding party must verify that a
diligent search has been made and must further provide the information set
forth in the Code of Civil Procedure in such cases.  In the case of interrogatories, the responses
must also conform to the Code of Civil Procedure and must be made after
diligent inquiry.  It is not proper to
refuse to respond because the responding party has no personal knowledge.  If the knowledge is hearsay, it must still be
disclosed, although it can be qualified to make it clear that it is not based
on the verifier’s personal knowledge.
Fifth, the Court frowns on responses that do not
conform to the foregoing rules being served with the view that the responses
will moot themselves out in the meet and confer process.  That is not how the process works.  A good faith response is required before the
meet and confer process begins.  The meet
and confer process will (hopefully) bridge the gaps between the parties’
respective positions.  Further, where a
response to a request for documents is made and documents are to be produced
subject to certain objections (with the documents withheld properly
delineated), the documents should be turned over irrespective of the meet and
confer.  The documents are to be produced
with alacrity to the extent that there is no objection to them.
What this means is that the response to a discovery request
is not a trivial undertaking.  Nabbing
the response from the form file is a generally bad idea and can lead to all
objections being waived.  The point is
that the boilerplate often renders the remainder of the response useless.  The only exception is where it is clear that
the substantive response is not in any way limited by the objections.  In that case, the objections do no harm,
although they also do no good.
Meet and Confer
The Code of Civil
Procedure requires that before a motion to compel further responses or a motion
for a protective order is filed, the parties engage in a good faith attempt to
resolve their differences.  They are to
“meet and confer” for that purpose.  Only
if that effort fails can a motion be brought. 

Sadly, many
litigants view the meet and confer process as just another procedural hoop
through which they must jump in order to bring the motion, similar to the need
to include an actual demurrer with the demurrer papers.  The Code requires it, so they do it, but no
one’s heart is really in it.  That is not
sufficient.
Given that, the
Court believes it appropriate to set forth how the Court views the meet and
confer requirement.  Failure to abide by
the guidelines below may well justify denial of the motion or a continuance of
it to allow the process to take place. 
If one party but not the other refuses to participate as set forth, more
likely than not the party refusing to participate will find itself on the
losing end of the motion.  The following
quotation fairly sums up the Court’s own view.
“[W]e feel compelled
to observe that resort to the courts easily could have been avoided here
had both parties actually taken to heart Justice Stone's
admonitions in Townsend that ‘the statute requires that there
be a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution.’ (Townsend,
supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 1438.) Perhaps after 11 years it is
necessary to remind trial counsel and the bar once again that ‘[a]rgument is not the
same as informal negotiation’ (id at p. 1437); that attempting
informal resolution means more than the mere attempt by the discovery proponent
‘to persuade the objector of the error of his ways’ (id. at p.
1435); and that ‘a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution
entails something more than bickering with [opposing] counsel....  Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt
to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate.’ (Id. at
p. 1439.)” (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th
1277, 1294, emphasis in original, parallel citations omitted.) 
In practical terms, it means as
follows.  It is entirely appropriate to
begin the process with a letter or other correspondence.  The letter should not include a demand in the
form of an ultimatum, but it can certainly include the relief that is being
sought with an invitation to meet and confer. 
It is also entirely appropriate for the other party to respond with a
letter or other correspondence to set forth its position on the issues.  Such an initial exchange can often be helpful
to narrow the dispute.  Whether further
exchanges make sense will depend on each case and each dispute.
However, at some point, before impasse is
reached the process must include an actual “meet.”  The letters might well suffice to “confer,”
but an exchange of correspondence is not a meeting.  In the COVID-19 era, the “meeting” can be
virtual or telephonic, but a meeting there must be.  The meeting must be attended by a person from
each side with the authority to agree to the other side’s position without
getting further permission from anyone, including the client.  If only the client can give the needed authority,
then the client must be available instantaneously at all times during the
meeting.  This does not mean that one
side or the other must concede, but it does mean that the people meeting have
the ability in real and practical terms to strike a deal then and there.
The parties should approach the meet and
confer process as a problem-solving exercise. 
The purpose of the meet and confer is not to convince the other side of
the bankruptcy of its position; rather the purpose is to reach an agreement by
which the party seeking discovery is able to obtain the information that it
reasonably needs and the party providing discovery is not put to an undue
burden or forced to provide unnecessary information that might infringe on a
privacy interest or disclose a competitive trade secret or the like.
At the conclusion of the meet and confer,
the parties should have an agreed statement as to the outcome.  If the outcome is a total impasse, then they
should agree on that.  If they have
resolved some or all of their differences, then they should state—in
writing—what that agreement is so that there will be no confusion later.  Often, an agreement will be without prejudice
to a further request by the propounding party for more information after that
party receives the responses.
If a motion is still required, the
declaration in support should describe with some detail the meet and confer
process.  While the Court is not
interested in the back and forth, the Court is interested in when the meeting
took place, who was there, and how long it lasted.
All communications—in writing or oral—must
be civil, polite, and professional. 
Name-calling and accusations are devices that undermine the process;
they do not further it.  A party engaging
in such activity generally is not acting in a good faith effort to reach an
agreement.