  Case Number:  BC628589    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  09 Jennifer Robi v Merck & Co. et al, BC628589
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS ON MERCK DEFENDANTS’ MOTIONS IN
LIMINE NOS. 1 THROUGH 14
 
MERCK DEFENDANTS’ MOTIONS IN LIMINE 1 THROUGH 14
 
The Court hereby rules on Merck Defendants’ Motions in
Limine 1 through 14 as follows:
 
1)      Merck’s
motion in limine No. 1 seeks to Exclude Evidence, Testimony and/or Argument re
Damages-Only Evidence or Arguments during the Liability Portion (Phase 1) of
Any Trial.  
 
The parties have partially stipulated to the
relief sought as follows: Plaintiff has agreed not to reference dollar amounts
of Plaintiff’s damages during Phase 1 of the trial, including by introducing
the case-specific damages testimony of Janice Roughan, Gina Phillips, Cheryl Di
Pane, Enrique Vegas, and Robert J. Johnson. Nor will Plaintiff  reference dollar amounts of punitive damages until
Phase 3 of trial.  (11/27/24 Joint Status
Report re Motions in Limine, p. Merck – p.2.)
 
Apart from the parties partial stipulation,
the Court ordered the parties to identify in the Joint Status Report re Motions
in limine the specific evidence that each motion in limine seeks to
exclude.  In the 11/27/24 Joint Status
Report re Motions in Limine, Merck states that the subject of Merck’s motion in
limine No. 1 is “evidence supporting and references exclusively related to
Plaintiff’s claims for (1) general or noneconomic damages, including “past and
future pain, suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life,
disfigurement, physical impairment, grief, anxiety, humiliation and emotional
distress,” and (2) economic damages, including “special damages for loss of
income and medical related expenses,” past or present.  The Court also should prohibit dramatizations
of the extent to which the lives of Plaintiff and/or her family members
allegedly have been damaged as a result of Gardasil (e.g., her purportedly
diminished quality of life).”  However,
this general description provides little clarification as to the specific
evidence that is at issue.  
 
This motion in limine is plagued by the
same defects noted by the Court of Appeal in Kelly v. New West Federal
Savings (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 659:
 
“On the other hand, many of the motions filed by Amtech were not properly
the subject of motions in limine, were not adequately presented, or sought
rulings which would merely be declaratory of existing law or would not provide
any meaningful guidance for the parties or witnesses. For example, motion No.
19 sought to “... exclude any testimony of the plaintiffs which is
speculative.” No factual support or argument was presented to suggest the
nature and type of speculative testimony which Amtech expected to be elicited
from plaintiffs. Motions No. 8, 20 and 21 sought to exclude evidence of prior
incidents unless an appropriate foundation was established to show the
relevance of such evidence or that the prior incidents were similar in nature
to the incident involved in the suit. Again, no factual support was presented
in connection with the motions, meaning the court would have to rule in a
vacuum. Motion No. 7, previously referred to, sought to limit the opinions of
plaintiffs experts to those “rendered at deposition and in written reports.”
Again, there was no supporting evidence to suggest what opinions had been
rendered at the depositions, leaving the court and the parties to guess what
opinions during trial may be included within the scope of the ruling. Motion
No. 6 sought an order precluding plaintiffs from calling any witnesses “not
previously identified in plaintiffs' discovery responses.” Absent a meaningful
and expressed belief that this may occur, this was a meaningless motion unless
and until plaintiffs attempted to call such witnesses.”
 
(Kelly v. New West Federal Savings (1996) 49
Cal.App.4th 659, 670–671.)  For the same
reasons stated in Kelly v. New West Federal Savings, the motion in
limine here is not specific enough for the Court to make a meaningful
order.  The motion fails to identify what
specific evidence the moving party seeks to exclude.  As such, the motion in limine also fails to
comply with Local Rule 3.57.  (CA R LOS
ANGELES SUPER CT Rule 3.57(a)(1) [“Motions made for the purpose of precluding
the mention or display of inadmissible and prejudicial matter in the presence
of the jury must be accompanied by a declaration that includes the following:
(1) Specific identification of the matter alleged to be inadmissible and
prejudicial.”].)  Instead of identifying
the specific evidence that the motion seeks to exclude, this motion in limine
amounts to little more than a restatement that the trial shall proceed in three
phases, with the first phase dedicated exclusively to liability.  Merck has failed to identify what evidence it
considers to support and reference exclusively Plaintiff’s claims for
damages.  Merck has also failed to point
to examples from Plaintiff’s deposition testimony that constitute
“dramatizations” of Plaintiff’s damages. 
The Court declines to rule on this motion in limine in a vacuum.  Merck’s motion in limine No. 1 is DENIED.  The moving party may at trial assert an
objection to the introduction of specific evidence if and when this issue
arises.  The Court will rule on such
objections when they arise and in doing so, will weigh the potential for
prejudice against Plaintiff’s burden to prove during phase 1 that she suffered harm
and that Gardasil caused that harm.
 
2)      Merck’s
motion in limine No. 2 seeks to Exclude Evidence, Testimony and/or Argument re
Merck’s Financial Status during the first phase (liability) and second phase
(general damages) of trial.  Merck also
seeks to exclude from all three phases of trial any evidence or argument about
pricing, revenue, and profits from sales of Gardasil in other states and
foreign countries. 
Plaintiff opposes this motion in limine but offers that
“Plaintiff will not reference the amount of punitive damages in Phases 1 or 2
of the trial, nor will Plaintiff elaborate on Merck’s financial condition.”  (11/27/24 Joint Status Report re Motions in
Limine, p. Merck – 5.)
As to the third phase (punitive damages) of trial, Merck’s financial status and the profitability of Gardasil
are highly relevant to: (1) Merck’s motive to disregard the health or
safety of others, (2) the amount necessary to punish Merck and discourage
future wrongful conduct “[i]n view of [Merck’s] financial condition,” and (3)
Merck’s “ability to pay.”  (CACI Jury
Instruction 3949.)  Further, the jury
instruction on punitive damages will inform the jury that they “may not
increase the punitive award above an amount that is otherwise appropriate
merely because a cross-defendant has substantial financial resources.”  (Ibid.)  Merck fails to identify any reason why
evidence or argument about pricing, revenue, and profits from sales of Gardasil
in other states and foreign countries would not be relevant during the third
phase.  Nor does Merck cite any authority
that supports its request for the Court to differentiate the pricing, revenue,
and profits from sales of Gardasil in other states and foreign countries during
the third phase.  Finally, the examples
of allegedly improper arguments that Merck cites do not constitute a proper and
necessary motion in limine because this aspect of Merck’s Motion in limine No.
2 does not seek to exclude specific, identifiable evidence.  Neither the parties nor the Court can
anticipate in advance every potential argument that may properly or improperly
arise during the trial.  The Court
declines to chill effective advocacy by prematurely and improvidently granting
a motion in limine that fails to establish that every potential use of a line
of argument is improper.  The Court has
weighed the probative value of such evidence during the third phase of trial against
the danger of undue prejudice and risk of necessitating undue consumption of
time.  The Court has determined that the
probative value of such evidence during the third phase of trial is not
substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will necessitate
undue consumption of time or create substantial danger of undue prejudice,
confusing the issues, or misleading the jury. 
(EV. CODE § 352.)  Merck’s motion
in limine No. 2 is DENIED INSOFAR AS IT SEEKS TO EXCLUDE EVIDENCE OR
ARGUMENTS DURING THE THIRD PHASE OF TRIAL. 
Notwithstanding the denial of this motion in limine, the moving party
may renew the objection to the introduction of this evidence at trial, and the
Court will rule on the evidentiary objection anew in the context of the other
evidence that is presented at trial.
 
With regard to the first phase (liability) and second phase
(general damages) of trial, Plaintiff’s offer of proof is “[e]vidence showing
that Merck had the means to conduct adequate research and testing on Gardasil,
yet it chose not to do so; evidence of Gardasil’s sales and profitability as it
relates to Merck’s reprehensibility.”  (11/27/24
Joint Status Report re Motions in Limine, p. Merck – 5.)  However, the reprehensibility of Merck’s
conduct relates solely to punitive damages, which will be addressed in phase 3
of the trial.  Plaintiff fails to
identify any relevance of Merck’s financial status to any element of any claim,
any defense, or any other issue for the first or second phase of trial.  The Court has weighed the probative value of
evidence presented during phase 1 and 2 of Merck’s financial status against the
danger of undue prejudice and risk of necessitating undue consumption of
time.  The Court has determined that for
purposes of phase 1 and phase 2, the probative value of evidence of Merck’s
financial status is substantially outweighed by the probability that its
admission will necessitate undue consumption of time and create substantial
danger of undue prejudice, confusing the issues, and misleading the jury.  (EV. CODE § 352.)  Accordingly, Merck’s motion in limine No. 2
is GRANTED INSOFAR AS IT SEEKS TO EXCLUDE EVIDENCE OF MERCK’S FINANCIAL
STATUS DURING THE FIRST AND SECOND PHASES OF TRIAL.
 
However, the profitability of Gardasil is a different
matter.  The profitability of Gardasil is
relevant to motive and intent, which are elements of Plaintiff’s fraud
claim.  The Court has weighed the
probative value of evidence of the profitability of Gardasil presented during
phase 1 and 2 against the danger of undue prejudice and risk of necessitating
undue consumption of time.  The Court has
determined that the probative value of evidence of the profitability of
Gardasil presented during phase 1 and 2 is not substantially outweighed by the
probability that its admission will necessitate undue consumption of time or
create substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusing the issues, or
misleading the jury.  (EV. CODE §
352.)  Accordingly, Merck’s motion in
limine No. 2 is DENIED INSOFAR AS IT SEEKS TO EXCLUDE EVIDENCE OF THE
PROFITABILITY OF GARDISIL DURING THE FIRST AND SECOND PHASES OF TRIAL.  Notwithstanding the denial of this aspect
of Merck’s motion in limine No. 2, the moving party may renew the objection to
the introduction of this evidence at trial, and the Court will rule on the
evidentiary objection anew in the context of the other evidence that is
presented at trial.
 
3)      Merck’s
motion in limine No. 3 SEEKS to Exclude Evidence, Testimony and/or Argument re
Vioxx, an anti-inflammatory medication that Merck voluntarily withdrew from the
market in September 2004 and that Plaintiff has never taken Vioxx.  
Plaintiff’s offer of proof is that
the timing of the withdrawal of Vioxx influenced the development, marketing,
rollout, approval, and other aspects of Gardasil.  For example, Plaintiff points to statements
from Merck executives and other industry sources on the role of Vioxx in
Merck’s strategic thinking about Gardasil and Merck’s motivation to more
aggressively market Gardasil than it otherwise would have, including a quote
from a former Merck CEO: “I tell the (Merck) organization if you want Vioxx off
the front page, if you want it out of the news, we have to put Gardasil on the
front page. . . .”  (11/27/24 Joint
Status Report re Motions in Limine, p. Merck – 7.)
The proffered evidence is
probative of Merck’s intent and motive, which are hotly contested with regard
to Plaintiff’s fraud claim.  The Court
has weighed the probative value of such evidence against the danger of undue
prejudice and risk of necessitating undue consumption of time.  The Court has determined that the probative
value of such evidence is not substantially outweighed by the probability that
its admission will necessitate undue consumption of time or create substantial
danger of undue prejudice, confusing the issues, or misleading the jury.  (EV. CODE § 352.)  Accordingly, Merck’s motion in limine No. 3
is DENIED.  Notwithstanding the
denial of this motion in limine, the moving party may renew the objection to
the introduction of this evidence at trial, and the Court will rule on the evidentiary
objection anew in the context of the other evidence that is presented at trial.
 
4) Merck’s motion in limine No. 4 seeks to Exclude Evidence,
Testimony and/or Argument re Any Claim that Jennifer Robi Experienced any
Allegedly Gardasil-Related Injury Other than Demyelination Neuropathy or
Aggravation of Pre-Existing Fibromyalgia.
The record before the Court – including the documents that
the parties have presented in connection with Merck’s Motion for Summary
Judgment – indicates that Plaintiff pleaded her POTS symptoms in her VICP
Petition.  Plaintiff’s failure to
specifically allege a diagnosis of POTS in her VICP Petition is not surprising in
light of the delay in that diagnosis being made until after the close of
Plaintiff’s VICP proceedings.  The Court
finds that Plaintiff adequately pleaded her “injuries, illnesses, pains, disabilities,
or symptoms,” including her POTS symptoms, such that Plaintiff has not waived
or forfeited her ability to introduce her subsequent diagnosis of POTS.  
The Court has weighed the probative value of such evidence
against the danger of undue prejudice and risk of necessitating undue
consumption of time.  The Court has
determined that the probative value of such evidence is not substantially
outweighed by the probability that its admission will necessitate undue
consumption of time or create substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusing
the issues, or misleading the jury.  (EV.
CODE § 352.)  Notwithstanding the denial
of this motion in limine, the moving party may renew the objection to the
introduction of this evidence at trial, and the Court will rule on the
evidentiary objection anew in the context of the other evidence that is
presented at trial.
Merck’s motion in limine No. 4 is DENIED.
 
5) Merck’s motion in limine No. 5 to Exclude Evidence,
Testimony and/or Argument re Injuries and Side Effects Plaintiff Does Not
Allege or Attribute to Gardasil, as well as foreign regulatory actions or
events related to such unalleged injuries.
 
Merck contends that infertility, miscarriage, birth defects,
macrophagic myofasciitis (“MMF”), or death, as well as injuries allegedly
associated with other vaccines, like the MMR vaccine and autism, are “injuries
Plaintiff does not allege in this case.” 
(11/27/24 Joint Status Report re Motions in Limine, p. Merck – 13.)  Plaintiff on the other hand contends that at
least infertility is an injury that she has suffered “in light of her
diagnosis of polycystic ovary syndrome following Gardasil.”  (Id. at p. Merck – 14.)  It is unclear whether Plaintiff is asserting
that Gardasil has caused her infertility.  
In any event, Plaintiff has demonstrated the relevance of the
risk of death, infertility and miscarriage (i.e., the full risk and benefit
profile of Gardasil) is relevant under the learned intermediary doctrine to
establish whether an objectively prudent patient would have agreed to the
injection upon being warned of all the risks associated with injection. (Himes
v. Somatics, LLC (2024) 16 Cal. 5th 209, 233.)  Further, Merck has failed to identify any
reason why the experts in this action – both for Plaintiff and Defendants – may
not properly consider foreign events and regulatory actions in forming their
opinions on the safety of Gardasil and what disclosures were or were not
necessary.
 
The Court has weighed the probative value of such evidence
against the danger of undue prejudice and risk of necessitating undue
consumption of time.  The Court has
determined that the probative value of such evidence is not substantially
outweighed by the probability that its admission will necessitate undue
consumption of time or create substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusing
the issues, or misleading the jury.  (EV.
CODE § 352.)  Merck’s motion in limine
No. 5  is DENIED.  Notwithstanding the denial of this motion in
limine, the moving party may renew the objection to the introduction of this
evidence at trial, and the Court will rule on the evidentiary objection anew in
the context of the other evidence that is presented at trial.
 
6) Merck’s motion in limine No. 6 seeks to Exclude Evidence,
Testimony and/or Argument re Exclude Evidence and Argument Regarding Injuries
Lacking a Supporting Expert Causation.
            Merck argues
that Plaintiff identified in discovery 100 unique conditions and symptoms that
she attributes to Gardasil, but Plaintiff’s only specific causation expert, Dr.
Miglis, only opined that Gardasil caused six of Plaintiff’s conditions: POTS,
fibromyalgia, functional neurologic disorder, eosinophilic esophagitis,
gastroparesis, and brain fog.  (11/27/24
Joint Status Report re Motions in Limine, p. Merck – 15.)  
            As a
preliminary matter, Merck’s motion in limine No. 6  fails to identify the 94 other symptoms that
it seeks to exclude.  In any event, whether
the 94 other symptoms are part of a constellation of symptoms that Plaintiff
experienced and were important to her treating doctors’ and experts’ assessment
as a part of her POTS diagnosis is a matter for the jury.  The record before the Court is insufficiently
clear to make it appropriate for the Court to substitute its own judgment as to
the clinical significance of these 94 other symptoms or the relation between
these 94 other symptoms and Plaintiff’s POTS. 
These are areas that will be fruitful for the parties to probe in
cross-examination of the experts.  
The Court has weighed the probative
value of such evidence against the danger of undue prejudice and risk of
necessitating undue consumption of time. 
The Court has determined that the probative value of such evidence is
not substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will
necessitate undue consumption of time or create substantial danger of undue
prejudice, confusing the issues, or misleading the jury.  (EV. CODE § 352.)  Merck’s motion in limine No. 6 is DENIED.  Notwithstanding the denial of this motion in
limine, the moving party may renew the objection to the introduction of this
evidence at trial, and the Court will rule on the evidentiary objection anew in
the context of the other evidence that is presented at trial.
 
7) Merck’s motion in limine No. 7 seeks to Exclude “Improper
Argument.”  
 
The Court ordered the parties to
identify in the Joint Status Report re Motions in limine the specific evidence
that each motion in limine seeks to exclude. 
In the 11/27/24 Joint Status Report re Motions in Limine, Merck states
that the subject of Merck’s motion in limine No. 7 is: “(1) arguments during
opening statements, (2) references that invoke Plaintiff’s counsel’s role as a
pastor or that otherwise appeal to religion, (3) arguments that violate the
“Golden Rule”, (4) arguments that attempt to burden shift, (5) arguments that
attack defendants or defendants’ counsel for defending this case, or (6)
references or comments about Merck’s out-of-state status, motions practice, or
litigation resources.” (11/27/24 Joint Status Report re Motions in Limine, p.
Merck – 17.)
 
            Topics 1,
3, 4, and 5 above are not subjects of a proper and necessary motion in limine because
they do not seek to exclude specific, identifiable evidence.  Instead, these portions of Merck’s motion in
limine No. 7 seek to preclude certain arguments.  The Court cannot anticipate in advance every
conceivable argument that may arise at trial or delineate the proper contours
of every argument, and the Court declines to chill effective advocacy by
prematurely and improvidently granting a motion in limine.  Hence, Merck’s motion in limine No. 7 is DENIED
AT THIS JUNCTURE INSOFAR AS IT SEEKS TO CUT OFF CERTAIN LINES OF ARGUMENTS.  The parties may of course make appropriate
objections to improper arguments at trial, and the Court will rule on such
objections with the benefit of context.  
            As to topic
2, Plaintiff has failed to identify any relevance as to Plaintiff’s Counsel’s
role as a pastor.  Plaintiff’s response
about Plaintiff’s own religion is inapposite as that is not the subject of
Merck’s motion in limine No. 7.  As to
topic 6, Plaintiff has failed to identify any relevance as to the location of
Merck’s corporate headquarters.  The
Court has weighed the probative value of evidence of Plaintiff’s Counsel’s role
as a pastor and the location of Merck’s corporate headquarters against the danger
of undue prejudice and risk of necessitating undue consumption of time.  The Court has determined that the probative
value of evidence of Plaintiff’s Counsel’s role as a pastor and the location of
Merck’s corporate headquarters is substantially outweighed by the probability
that its admission will necessitate undue consumption of time and create
substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusing the issues, and misleading the
jury.  (EV. CODE § 352.)  Accordingly, Merck’s motion in limine No. 7 is
GRANTED INSOFAR AS IT SEEKS TO EXCLUDE EVIDENCE OF PLAINTIFF’S COUNSEL’S
ROLE AS A PASTOR AND THE LOCATION OF MERCK’S CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS.
 
8) Merck’s motion in limine No. 8 seeks to Exclude Evidence,
Testimony and/or Argument re Advertising, Marketing, or Promotional Materials.
            The
evidence that Merck seeks to exclude is directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims
of fraud and negligent misrepresentation. 

Merck’s reference to the Learned
Intermediary Doctrine is inapposite.  The
Vaccine Act provides that no “vaccine manufacturer shall be liable in a civil
action for damages arising from a vaccine-related injury or death . . . solely
due to the manufacturer's failure to provide direct warnings to the injured
party (or the injured party's legal representative) of the potential dangers
resulting from the administration of the vaccine manufactured by the
manufacturer.” (42 U.S.C. § 300aa-22 [italics added].)  Similarly, under California’s Learned
Intermediary Doctrine, “[t]he patient cannot sue the manufacturer for failing
to warn him or her directly: As long as the manufacturer has adequately warned
the patient's physician of the non-negligible risks of its prescription drug or
medical device, the manufacturer has fulfilled its duty to warn.”  (Himes v. Somatics, LLC (2024) 16 Cal.5th
209, 221.)  
Contrary to Defendant’s assertion,
the Learned Intermediary Doctrine sets forth substantive requirements before a
vaccine manufacturer may be held liable for a failure to warn; it is not an
evidentiary rule that precludes admission of evidence of advertising,
marketing, or promotional materials.  Nor
does the Learned Intermediary Doctrine render such evidence irrelevant as long
as Plaintiff’s theory of recovery does not rely solely on Merck’s failure to
provide direct warnings.
What Plaintiff or her physicians
may have seen in Merck’s advertising, marketing, or promotional materials is probative
of Plaintiff’s reliance on Merck’s disclosures or nondisclosures and also of
causation.  
The Court has weighed the probative
value of such evidence against the danger of undue prejudice and risk of
necessitating undue consumption of time. 
The Court has determined that the probative value of such evidence is
not substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will
necessitate undue consumption of time or create substantial danger of undue
prejudice, confusing the issues, or misleading the jury.  (EV. CODE § 352.)  Accordingly, Merck’s motion in limine No. 8
is DENIED.  Notwithstanding the
denial of this motion in limine, the moving party may renew the objection to
the introduction of this evidence at trial, and the Court will rule on the evidentiary
objection anew in the context of the other evidence that is presented at trial.
 
9) Merck’s motion in limine No. 9 to Exclude Evidence,
Testimony and/or Argument re a Book Co-Authored by Plaintiff’s Counsel “HPV
Vaccine on Trial” is MOOT in light of the parties’ resolution of this
motion in limine by way of stipulation. (11/27/24 Joint Status Report regarding
Motions in Limine, p.3; Joint In Limine Evidentiary Stipulations.)
 
10) Merck’s motion in limine No. 10 to Exclude Evidence,
Testimony and/or Argument re Plaintiff’s Conflict of Interest Claims is DENIED.  The evidence at issue is probative of witnesses’
bias at the time of the events described and credibility at trial.  
 
The Court has weighed the probative
value of such evidence against the danger of undue prejudice and risk of
necessitating undue consumption of time. 
The Court has determined that the probative value of such evidence is
not substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will
necessitate undue consumption of time or create substantial danger of undue
prejudice, confusing the issues, or misleading the jury.  (EV. CODE § 352.)  Notwithstanding the denial of this motion in
limine, the moving party may renew the objection to the introduction of this
evidence at trial, and the Court will rule on the evidentiary objection anew in
the context of the other evidence that is presented at trial.
 
11) Merck’s motion in limine No. 11 to Exclude Evidence,
Testimony and/or Argument re Other Litigation, Claims, Plaintiffs or
Compensation involving Vaccines, Whether Gardasil or Others is DENIED.  Merck’s knowledge of harm to others from the
same product or other products containing the same ingredients is probative of
its knowledge and intent – elements of Plaintiff’s fraud, negligent
misrepresentation, and inadequate warnings claims.
The Court has weighed the probative
value of such evidence against the danger of undue prejudice and risk of
necessitating undue consumption of time. 
The Court has determined that the probative value of such evidence is
not substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will
necessitate undue consumption of time or create substantial danger of undue
prejudice, confusing the issues, or misleading the jury.  (EV. CODE § 352.)  Notwithstanding the denial of this motion in
limine, the moving party may renew the objection to the introduction of this
evidence at trial, and the Court will rule on the evidentiary objection anew in
the context of the other evidence that is presented at trial.
 
12) Merck’s motion in limine No. 12 to Exclude Individual
Adverse Event Reports, Case and Case Series Post-Dating Plaintiff’s Last
Gardasil Dose or Unrelated to Her Injuries is DENIED TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY
EXPERTS RELIED ON SUCH EVIDENCE IN FORMING THEIR OPINIONS AS TO CAUSATION.  If any expert relied on individual adverse event
reports, case or case series – even those that post-date Plaintiff’s last
Gardasil dose – such evidence is relevant to the expert’s opinion of
causation.  
The Court has weighed the probative
value of such evidence against the danger of undue prejudice and risk of
necessitating undue consumption of time. 
The Court has determined that the probative value of such evidence is
not substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will
necessitate undue consumption of time or create substantial danger of undue
prejudice, confusing the issues, or misleading the jury.  (EV. CODE § 352.)  Notwithstanding the denial of this motion in
limine, the moving party may renew the objection to the introduction of this
evidence at trial, and the Court will rule on the evidentiary objection anew in
the context of the other evidence that is presented at trial.
Pursuant to Local Rule 3.57(d), the
Court DEFERS RULING on Motion in Limine No. 12 to the extent that Plaintiff
may seek to introduce evidence of Individual Adverse Event Reports, Case and
Case Series Post-Dating Plaintiff’s Last Gardasil Dose for any other
purpose.  Plaintiff is ordered not to
mention or display the matter that is the subject of this motion in the
presence of the jury without first raising this issue, providing an offer of
proof, explaining its relevance and purpose, and asking the Court for a ruling
on this motion in limine.  
 
13) Merck’s motion in limine No. 13 to Exclude Evidence,
Testimony and/or Argument re Vague, Hypothetical Label Changes is DENIED.  
As a preliminary matter, Merck has failed to identify the
specific evidence that its motion in limine No. 13 seeks to exclude.  For example, Merck does not cite any examples
of “vague” or “hypothetical” label changes. 
At least some evidence that would fall in the broad scope of this motion
in limine would be probative of whether Plaintiff’s physicians would have acted
differently (such as by passing along additional warnings to Plaintiff) or
whether Plaintiff would have declined the Gardasil vaccine if provided with
these additional warnings.  
 
The Court has weighed the probative value of such evidence
against the danger of undue prejudice and risk of necessitating undue
consumption of time.  The Court has
determined that the probative value of such evidence is not substantially
outweighed by the probability that its admission will necessitate undue
consumption of time or create substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusing
the issues, or misleading the jury.  (EV.
CODE § 352.)  Notwithstanding the denial
of this motion in limine, the moving party may renew the objection to the
introduction of this evidence at trial, and the Court will rule on the
evidentiary objection anew in the context of the other evidence that is
presented at trial.
14) Merck’s motion in limine No. 14 to Exclude Evidence,
Testimony and/or Argument Attacking the Design of Gardasil is DENIED.
Whether Merck provided adequate
warnings as to the ingredients of the Gardasil vaccine is at the core of
Plaintiff’s fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and failure to warn claims.  The Court has weighed the probative value of
such evidence against the danger of undue prejudice and risk of necessitating
undue consumption of time.  The Court has
determined that the probative value of such evidence is not substantially outweighed
by the probability that its admission will necessitate undue consumption of
time or create substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusing the issues, or
misleading the jury.  (EV. CODE § 352.)  Notwithstanding the denial of this motion in
limine, the moving party may renew the objection to the introduction of this
evidence at trial, and the Court will rule on the evidentiary objection anew in
the context of the other evidence that is presented at trial.
For all motions in limine that have been denied, the moving
party may renew the objection to the introduction of the evidence at trial, and
the Court will rule on the evidentiary objection anew in the context of the
other evidence that is presented at trial.
 
For all motions in limine that have been granted, the moving
party must proceed with caution because if the moving party opens the door,
then the Court may well reconsider its ruling and allow the evidence to be
admitted after all.