  Case Number:  23VECV05445    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  107 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 



KELVIN GARCIA,
 
                        Plaintiff,
 
 
 
            vs.
 
 
 
VALERIO RCFE INC., et al,
 
                        Defendants.
 
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO: 23VECV05445
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED
 
Dept. 107
9:00 a.m.
September 23,
  2024



 
I.               
BACKGROUND
On December
7, 2023, Plaintiffs Kelvin Garcia and Mark Pascua filed a complaint against
Defendants Valerio RCFE Inc., Kittridge RCFE LLC, and Francis Martir, alleging
causes of action for (1) willful misclassification; (2) failure to pay minimum
wages; (3) failure to pay wages; (4) failure to pay overtime; (5) failure to authorize
or permit meal breaks; (6) failure to authorize or permit rest breaks; (7)
failure to furnish complete and accurate wage statements; (8) failure to
indemnify for losses and expenditures; (9) failure to provide timely copies of
personnel file and payroll records; (10) waiting time penalties; (11)
constructive discharge in violation of public policy;  (12) whistleblower retaliation; and (13)
discrimination.
On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion to
deem requests for admissions admitted. On September 10, 2024, Defendants filed
an opposition. On September 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply.
II.            
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            “If
a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the following rules apply: (b) The requesting party may move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted…. The Court, on motion, may
relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the
following conditions are satisfied: (1) The party has subsequently served a
response that is in substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220,
and 2033.230. (2) the party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result
of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect…. (c) The court shall make this
order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response
to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section
2033.220. (Code Civ. Proc. Section
2033.280.) 
 
Sanctions
 
Sanctions are mandatory in connection
with a motion to deem matters specified in a request for admissions as
true.  (Code Civ. Proc. Section 2033.280(c).) 
               
III.          
DISCUSSION
 
On
June 27, 2024, Plaintiffs served Defendants by email at William@bailey.law,
with Request for Admissions, Set One. (Simonian Decl., ¶ 3; Exhs. 1-3.) Responses were due by July 30,
2024. (Id., ¶ 4.) No
responses were provided, and Plaintiffs sent a meet and confer letter on August
2, 2024. (Id., ¶ 5; Exh.
4.)
In opposition, Defendants argue that without
obtaining consent from Defendants, Plaintiffs attempted service of the
discovery by email. Defendants argue that absent consent, service by email of
the discovery requests was improper. Defendants also argue that service of this
motion by email was improper for the same reason. On August 2, 2024, Defendants
served Plaintiffs with an E-Service Notice of Compliance with CCP § 1010.6,
indicating they accept service at the following email addresses: spornbida@bailey.law;
and service@bailey.law.
 In reply,
Plaintiff provides that on August 2, 2024, Defendants’ counsel indicated that
he “errored and did not notice that [Plaintiffs] sent discovery requests” and
that he would get the discovery responses by August 16, 2024. (Simonian Reply Decl.,
¶ 3; Exh. 1.)  No responses were provided as of the date of
the reply. (Simonian
Decl. Reply, ¶ 7.) 
Electronic service is a permitted method of serving
discovery requests. (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2016.050, 1013(g), 1011(c), and
1010.6.) Code Civ. Proc., section 1010.6(b)(2) provides that “a person
represented by counsel, who has appeared in an action or proceeding, shall
accept electronic service of a notice or document that may be served by mail,
express mail, overnight delivery, or facsimile transmission.” 
 
Here, Defendants are represented by counsel and have
appeared. They shall accept electronic service. 
 
The court
notes that Code Civ. Proc., section 1010.6(b)(3) provides that “before first serving a represented person electronically, the person
effecting service shall confirm the appropriate electronic service
address for the counsel being served.” However, by what means that confirmation
should take place is not stated. In any event, it appears that Plaintiff had
previously communicated by email with defense counsel at his email address, William@bailey.law.
(See Simonian Reply
Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 1.) As such, this may be construed as confirmation. 
Defendants cite to California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 2.251(b) which is
entitled Electronic service by express consent, and states:
 (1) A party or other person indicates that the
party or other person agrees to accept electronic service by:
(A)  Serving a notice on all parties and other
persons that the party or other person accepts electronic service and
filing the notice with the court. The notice must include the electronic
service address at which the party or other person agrees to accept service; or
(B)  Manifesting affirmative consent through
electronic means with the court or the court's electronic filing service
provider, and concurrently providing the party's electronic service address
with that consent for the purpose of receiving electronic service. A party or
other person may manifest affirmative consent by serving notice of consent to
all parties and other persons and either:
(i)  Agreeing to the terms of service with an electronic filing
service provider, which clearly states that agreement constitutes consent to
receive electronic service; or
(ii)  Filing Consent to Electronic Service and Notice of Electronic
Service Address (form EFS-005-CV).
 
However, CRC Rule 2.251(b) is only one
condition of electronic service. CRC Rule 2.251(c), entitled
Electronic service required by local rule or court order, provides:
“a party that is required to file documents
electronically must also accept service of documents electronically…” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.251(c)(3).) Los Angeles Superior Court (“LASC”), Local Rules, rule
3.4(a) requires that all documents in the instant action be filed
electronically. As such, because Defendants are required to file documents
electronically under the local court rule, they must also accept discovery
electronically.  Thus, electronic service
of the discovery on defense counsel was proper.
 
Lastly,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff failed to properly serve the motion for the
same reason. Again, the court finds electronic service was proper. Even if it
was not, any service issue as to the motion was waived by the opposition which
addresses the merits, and because Defendants failed to assert any prejudice.
 
            In sum, as the discovery request for
admissions was properly served, and Defendants failed to timely respond, the
motion to deem requests for admissions is granted. The truth of the matters in
Plaintiffs’ request for admissions, set one, served on Defendants is deemed
admitted. 
 
Sanctions in
connection with this motion are mandatory. Thus, Plaintiffs’ request for
sanctions is granted, however, the amount sought is not reasonable for this straightforward
motion. As such, the court imposes sanctions in the amount of $718.91 ($650 per
hour, for one hour, plus $68.91 filing fee), against Defendants and counsel of
record William R. Bailey, jointly and severally, to be paid within 30 days of
this order.
 
IV.          
CONCLUSION 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’
motion to have matters in requests for admissions deemed admitted is
GRANTED. The truth of the matters in Plaintiffs’ request for admissions,
set one, served on Defendants is deemed admitted. 
            Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions is
GRANTED. Defendants and counsel of record William R. Bailey are ordered to pay
Plaintiffs’ counsel monetary sanctions in the amount of $718.91, jointly and
severally, within 30 days of this order.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.
 
                                               
_________________________
                              Judge Eric Harmon, Department 107, Van Nuys
September
23, 2024                   Los Angeles County Superior Court
 
 