 Case Number:  24STCV09563    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   July
18, 2024                                      
 
CASE NAME:           Jacqueline
Granizo v. Build For You Remodeling Corp, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV09563

 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Build For You Remodeling Corp and Igor Rahlin
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Jacqueline Granizo
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth,
Tenth, Fourteenth, Eighteenth, and Nineteenth Causes of Action in the Complaint
for failure to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
Defendants.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the Complaint is OVERRULED as to the Nineteenth Cause of Action and
SUSTAINED as to the remaining causes of action with 20 days leave to amend.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff Jacqueline Granizo (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendants Build For You Remodeling Corp, Igor
Rahlin, and Jamie Doe (Defendants) with nineteen (19) causes of action for: (1)
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (2)Whistleblower
Retaliation; (3) FEHA Violation – Disparate Impact/Treatment; (4) FEHA
Harassment; (5) FEHA Discrimination; (6) FEHA Violation – Retaliation; (7) FEHA
Violation – Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation; (8) FEHA Violation –
Failure to Engage in Interactive Process; (9) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; (10) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (11) Failure
to Pay Earned Wages; (12) Failure to Pay Overtime Wages; (13) Failure to Pay
Rest Break Compensation; (14) Failure to Furnish Compliant Wage Statements;
(15) Waiting Time Penalties; (16) Failure to Produce Employment File; (17) Failure
to Produce Wage Records; (18) Breach of Contract; and (19) Unfair Competition.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff worked for Defendants
from around March 19, 2023 to April 17, 2023 as a Telemarketer. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants unlawfully discriminated against her based on her age
and other labor law violations. Plaintiff further alleges she was wrongfully terminated
after she complained about not receiving a bonus and for reporting a workplace
injury. 
 
On May 28, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Demurrer to
the Complaint. On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On July 10,
2024, Plaintiff filed a second opposition. Defendants filed a reply on July 11,
2024.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Meet and Confer¿ 
¿¿ 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a)(2) & (3). There is no meet and confer declaration. Therefore, the court cannot determine
whether sufficient meet and confer occurred. Still,
failure to meet and confer is not a sufficient ground to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).)¿ 
¿ 
Demurrer¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.[1]¿(Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only
issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿ 
¿ 
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) Courts also consider exhibits attached to
the complaint and incorporated by reference. (See Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Frantz).)¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
First Cause of
Action – Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to plead specific
facts about the public policy Defendants allegedly violated when terminating
her. Plaintiff argues she identified the public policy outlined in Cal. Govt.
Code §§ 12900 et seq. that requires Defendants to provide a workplace free of
harassment, discrimination, and retaliation. Plaintiff also argues she
sufficiently alleged facts showing wrongful termination.
 
“The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in violation
of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer
terminated the plaintiff's employment, (3) the termination was substantially
motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the
plaintiff harm.” (Yau v. Allen (2014)
229 Cal.App.4th 144, 154.)  A four-part test is utilized to determine
whether a particular policy can support a common law wrongful termination
claim.  The “policy” in question must meet the following requirements: (1)
the policy is supported by either constitutional or statutory provisions; (2)
the policy is “public” in that it “inures to the benefit of the public” and not
merely the interests of the individual; (3) the policy was articulated at the
time of the discharge; and (4) the policy is “fundamental” and
“substantial.”  (Franklin v.
Monadnock Co. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 252, 258.) 
 
Upon reviewing the Complaint, the court agrees that
Plaintiff failed to sufficiently allege wrongful discharge in violation of
public policy. While the court is not persuaded by Defendants’ argument that
the public policy is unclear (as Plaintiff repeatedly refers to FEHA and the
California Labor Code), Plaintiff did fail to allege facts that her termination
was substantially motivated by the violation of public policy.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer to
the First Cause of Action.
 
Second Cause of
Action – Whistleblower Retaliation (Cal. Lab. Code §§ 1102.5 & 98.6)
 
Defendants contend that this cause of action is not
supported by the Complaint. Plaintiff argues that she plead she engaged in a
protected activity of reporting a workplace injury and unpaid bonuses to her
manager and was subsequently terminated.
 
Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (b) provides: “[a]n
employer, or any person acting on behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate
against an employee for disclosing information, or because the employer
believes that the employee disclosed or may disclose information, to a
government or law enforcement agency, to a person with authority over the
employee or another employee who has the authority to investigate, discover, or
correct the violation or noncompliance, or for providing information to, or testifying
before, any public body conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry, if
the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of state or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with
a local, state, or federal rule or regulation, regardless of whether disclosing
the information is part of the employee's job duties.”  (Lab. Code, §
1102.5, subd. (b).) 
 
Labor Code section 98.6, subdivision (a) provides: “[a]
person shall not discharge an employee or in any manner discriminate, retaliate,
or take any adverse action against any employee . . . because the employee . .
. engaged in any conduct delineated in this chapter . . . or because the
employee . . . has filed a bona fide complaint or claim or instituted or caused
to be instituted any proceeding under or relating to their rights that are
under the jurisdiction of the Labor Commissioner, made a written or oral
complaint that they are owed unpaid wages, or because the employee has
initiated any action or notice pursuant to Section 2699, or has testified or is
about to testify in a proceeding pursuant to that section, or because of the
exercise by the employee or applicant for employment on behalf of themselves or
others of any rights afforded them.”  (Lab. Code, §
98.6, subd. (a).) 
 
Upon reviewing the Complaint, the court agrees that
Plaintiff failed to sufficiently allege a claim for whistleblower retaliation.
Notably, Plaintiff did not allege a protected activity. Plaintiff alleges she
reported a workplace injury to her manager and complained to her manager that
she had not received a bonus – not violations of the law. (Compl. ¶¶ 20, 21, 23.)

 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to
the Second Cause of Action.
 
Third Cause of
Action – FEHA Violation – Disparate Impact/Treatment (Cal. Govt. Code §§ 12900,
et seq., 12940(c))
 
Defendants contend that the Complaint fails to allege facts
that Defendants discriminated against Plaintiff due to her age, health, or
disability. Specifically, Defendants contend that identifying Plaintiff’s age
is insufficient to support this claim. Defendants provide no authority
supporting this argument. Plaintiff argues that she alleged facts that she was
harassed and discriminated against based on her age, gender, and health. 
 
Under “disparate treatment theory” of employment
discrimination, an individual is discriminated against when employer treats
some people less favorably than others because of their race, color, religion,
sex or national origin. (Heard v.
Lockheed Missiles & Space Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1735, 1748.) “Whatever
the employer's decisionmaking process, a disparate treatment claim
cannot succeed unless the employee's protected trait actually played a role in
that process and had a determinative influence on the outcome.” (Hazen Paper Co. v. Biggins (1993) 507
U.S. 604, 610.) 
 
A claim for age discrimination requires plaintiff to show she
was: (1) a member of a protected class (over 40 years old); (2) plaintiff was
qualified or competent for the position sought or performed; (3) plaintiff
suffered an adverse employment action; and (4) some other circumstance
suggesting discriminatory motive. (Guz v.
Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355; Sandell v. Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297,
321.)  
 
Upon
reviewing the Complaint, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged a claim for
Disparate Impact/Treatment. Notably, Plaintiff did not allege she was qualified
or competent for the position performed.
 
Accordingly,
the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to the Third Cause of Action.
 
Fourth Cause of
Action - FEHA Harassment (Cal. Govt. Code §§ 12900, et seq.)
 
Defendants contend that stating Plaintiff’s age and alleging
she fell in a bathroom is insufficient to support a claim for harassment.
Defendants provide no authority supporting this argument. Plaintiff argues that
she sufficiently plead harassment because she was moved to a different
manager’s department after returning from hospitalization, was scrutinized more
than others, did not receive her bonuses, and Defendants interpreted her
workplace injury as self-inflicted.
 
To establish a claim for discrimination in violation of
FEHA, the plaintiff must generally prove that (1) he or she was a member of a
protected class; (2) that he or she was qualified for the position he or she
sought or was performing competently in the position he or she held; (3) that
he or she suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion,
or denial of an available job; and (4)¿some other circumstance
suggesting¿discriminatory motive. (See¿Guz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at 355.)¿ 
 
For the same reasons as the Third Cause of Action, the
court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action.
 
Fifth Cause of
Action – FEHA Discrimination (Cal. Govt. Code § 12900, et seq.)
 
Defendants raise the same argument, without authority,
proffered for the Fourth Cause of Action. Plaintiff argues that she
sufficiently plead discrimination based on her age and disability.
 
In order to sufficiently allege a prima facie case for gender
discrimination under FEHA, a plaintiff must generally establish the following
elements: (1) plaintiff was a member of a protected class; (2) plaintiff was
qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing competently in
the position he or she held at the time of the adverse action; (3) plaintiff
suffered an adverse employment action (e.g., termination, demotion, denial of
an available job); and (4) the adverse action occurred under circumstances
suggesting a discriminatory motive (e.g., persons outside the protected class
were hired or not demoted).  (Guz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at 355; see
Nadaf-Rahrov v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 992; see also Sandell, supra, 188 Cal.4th at p. 321.)  To establish a prima
facie case for discrimination under FEHA, the prima facie burden is light, and
the evidence necessary to sustain the burden is minimal.  (Id. at p. 310.) 
 
In order to plead a prima facie case for disability
discrimination under FEHA, a plaintiff must plead the following elements: (1)
plaintiff suffered from a disability, or was regarded as suffering from a
disability; (2) plaintiff could perform the essential duties of the job with or
without reasonable accommodation, and (3) plaintiff was subjected to an adverse
employment action because of the disability or perceived disability.  (Wills v. Superior Court (2011) 195
Cal.App.4th 143, 159-160.) 
 
For the same reasons as the Third Cause of Action and the
First Cause of Action, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer to the Fifth
Cause of Action.
 
Sixth Cause of
Action – FEHA Violation – Retaliation (Cal. Govt. Code § 12940(h), 12940 et
seq.)
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to allege facts
that she engaged in a protected activity, that her employer subjected her to an
adverse employment action, and a causal link existed between the protected
activity and the adverse employment action. Plaintiff argues she sufficiently
alleged retaliation because she was told to take more time off work, moved to a
different manager, not given her bonus, and terminated after complaining about
a workplace injury and not receiving her bonus.
 
“[I]n order to establish a prima facie case of retaliation
under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected
activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment
action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the
employer’s action.”  (Yanowitz v.
L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.)  A plaintiff will
have engaged in a “protected activity” if he or she (a) made a charge,
testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in proceedings or hearings
under FEHA, or (b) opposed acts which are unlawful under FEHA.  (Gov.
Code, § 12940, subd. (h) [“It is an unlawful employment practice . . .: ¶(h)
For any employer . . . to discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against
any person because the person had opposed any practices forbidden under this
part or because the person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any
proceeding under this part.”].)   
 
For the same reasons as the Third Cause of Action and the
First Cause of Action, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer to the Sixth
Cause of Action.
 
Seventh Cause of
Action – FEHA Violation – Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation (Cal.
Govt. Code § 12940(m), § 12940 et seq.)
 
Defendants raise the same argument, without authority,
proffered for the Fourth Cause of Action. Plaintiff argues she sufficiently
alleged this claim because she suffered a workplace injury, requested
reasonable accommodation, and did not receive one.
 
To allege a cause of action for failure to provide a
reasonable accommodation, a plaintiff must plead the following elements: (1)
plaintiff has a disability, (2) plaintiff is qualified to perform the essential
functions of the position, and (3) the employer failed to reasonable
accommodate the plaintiff’s disability.”  (Swanson v. Morongo Unified School Dist. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954,
969.) 
 
Upon reviewing the Complaint, Plaintiff has not sufficiently
alleged a claim for failure to engage in the interactive process. Notably,
Plaintiff did not allege that her lung condition impacted her work other than
needing to be hospitalized for one week. (Compl. ¶ 19.) Plaintiff then alleges
that she was moved to a different manager upon her return. (Compl. ¶ 20.)
Contrary to Plaintiff’s argument, there are no allegations in the Complaint
that she requested accommodations due to her lung condition.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer to
the Seventh Cause of Action.[2]
 
Eighth Cause of
Action – FEHA Violation – Failure to Engage in Interactive Process (Cal. Govt.
Code § 12940(m), § 12940 et seq.)
 
Defendants essentially raise the same argument, without
authority, proffered for the Fourth Cause of Action. Plaintiff argues that she
sufficiently alleged her lung infection impacted her work and Defendants failed
to make reasonable accommodations so she could carry out essential job
requirements.
 
In order to allege a cause of action for failure to engage in
interactive process, a plaintiff must allege the following facts: (1) plaintiff
was an employee of defendant, (2) plaintiff had a disability known by
defendant, (3) plaintiff requested that defendant make a reasonable
accommodation for his or her disability so that he or she may be able to
perform the essential job requirements, (5) plaintiff was willing to
participate in an interactive process to determine whether a reasonable
accommodation could be made so that he or she would be able to perform the
essential job requirements, and (6) defendant failed to participate in a timely
food-faith interactive process with plaintiff to determine whether a reasonable
accommodation could be made.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (n); CACI No.
2546 [Disability Discrimination—Reasonable Accommodation—Failure to Engage in
Interactive Process].) “Two principles underlie a cause of action for failure
to provide a reasonable accommodation.  First, the employee must request
an accommodation.  Second, the parties must engage in an interactive
process regarding the requested accommodation and, if the process fails,
responsibility for the failure rests with the party who failed to participate
in good faith.”  (Gelfo v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 34, 54.) 
 
For the same reasons as the Seventh Cause of Action, the court
SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer to the Eighth Cause of Action.
 
Ninth Cause of
Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to sufficiently
allege facts supporting outrageous conduct. Plaintiff did not provide argument
in opposition.
 
The elements of an intentional
infliction of emotional distress (IIED) cause of action are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress.¿ (See¿Moncada¿v. West Coast
Quartz Corp.¿(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 780.)¿ To satisfy the element of
extreme and outrageous conduct,¿defendant’s conduct “‘must be so extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’”¿ (Ibid.) (internal citations
omitted.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
While there is no bright-line as
to what constitutes outrageous conduct and thus this involves a case-by-case
analysis, courts can determine whether conduct was sufficiently outrageous at
the demurrer stage. (Cochran v. Cochran¿(1998)
65 Cal.App.4th 488, 494.)¿¿Recovery for emotional distress caused by injury to
property is permitted in IIED claims. (Ragland
v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 203-04.) (internal
citations omitted.)¿ 
 
Upon reviewing the Complaint, Plaintiff has not sufficiently
alleged intentional infliction of emotional distress. She alleges she was moved
to a different manager, not paid bonus, and terminated. (Compl. ¶¶ 20, 21, 22.)
This is hardly extreme and outrageous conduct contemplated by intentional
infliction of emotional distress. The court interprets Plaintiff’s lack of
argument as impliedly conceding this point.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to
the Ninth Cause of Action.
 
Tenth Cause of
Action – Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to sufficiently
allege facts supporting this claim. Plaintiff did not provide argument in
opposition.
 
A claim for negligent infliction of emotional distress (NIED)
requires: (1) a legal duty to use due care (direct victim or bystander), (2)
breach of such legal duty, (3) damage or injury (serious emotional distress),
and (4) cause of the resulting damage or injury. (Huggins v. Longs Drug Stores California, Inc. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 124,
129.)  
 
Upon reviewing the Complaint, Plaintiff has not sufficiently
alleged a claim for negligent infliction of emotional distress. In fact, Plaintiff
was not a direct victim or a bystander of Defendants’ negligent conduct –
Plaintiff alleges intentional conduct. The court interprets Plaintiff’s lack of
argument as impliedly conceding this point.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer to
the Tenth Cause of Action.
 
Fourteenth Cause of
Action – Failure to Furnish Compliant Wage Statements (Cal. Lab. Code §§ 226
and 226.3)
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to identify facts
supporting this claim. Plaintiff argues that she alleged Defendants did not
provide all the information required by law on her wage statements.
 
Labor Code § 226 requires employers to furnish an accurate
itemized statement in writing showing: “(1) gross wages earned, (2) total hours
worked by the employee . . ., (3) the number of piece-rate units earned and any
applicable piece rate if the employee is paid on a piece-rate basis; (4) all
deductions . . ., (5) net wages earned, (6) the inclusive dates of the period
for which the employee is paid, (7) the name of the employee and only the last
four digits of their social security number  or an employee identification number other
than a social security number, (8) the name and address of the legal entity
that is the employer . . ., and (9) all applicable hourly rates in effect
during the pay period and the corresponding numbers of hours worked at each
hourly rate by the employee . . . .” (Lab. Code § 226(a).) 
 
Labor Code § 226.3 provides for civil penalties for
violation of Labor Code § 226(a). (Lab. Code § 226.3.)
 
Upon reviewing the Complaint, the court agrees that
Plaintiff failed to sufficiently allege facts supporting this claim. Notably,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to provide her with compliant wage
statements that lacked “one or more of the required items of information.”
(Compl. ¶ 32, 134.) These are legal contentions, not facts.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer to
the Fourteenth Cause of Action.
 
Eighteenth Cause of
Action – Breach of Contract
 
Defendant contends Plaintiff failed to identify a contract.
Plaintiff argues that her non-discretionary bonus was the contract Defendants
breached.
 
The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are
(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times
Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) “A written contract may be pleaded
by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract
attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal
effect.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc.
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) To plead a contract by its legal effect, a
plaintiff must “allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more
difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of the instrument,
comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal conclusions.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
Upon reviewing the Complaint, Plaintiff has insufficiently
alleged breach of contract. Notably, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged a
contract exists. She alleges that “she did not receive all her bonuses for
closing deals while working for Defendants despite Defendants agreeing to do
so.” (Compl. ¶ 30.) She did not allege the terms of the alleged contract or the
date of alleged breach.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer to
the Eighteenth Cause of Action.
 
Nineteenth Cause of
Action – Unfair Competition (Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq.)
 
Defendant provides no argument for this claim. Plaintiff did
not address it either. The court declines to do so, too. (See Mesecher v. County of San Diego (1992) 9
Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686 [noting that the court is not “obligated to seek out
theories [a party] might have advanced, or to articulate . . . that which . . .
[a party] has left unspoken.”]) 
 
To the extent there was one, the court OVERRULES the
demurrer to the Nineteenth Cause of Action.
 
Leave to Amend 
 
Leave to amend should be liberally granted if there is a
reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the defect.¿ (County of Santa Clara v. Superior Court
(2022) 14 Cal.5th 1034, 1041.)¿ The Plaintiff has the burden of demonstrating
that leave to amend should be granted, and that the defects can be cured by
amendment. (“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and
how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
349). 
 
Here,
Plaintiff requested leave to amend and there is a reasonable possibility that
an amendment could cure the defects discussed above.
 
Accordingly,
the court GRANTS Plaintiff 20 days leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the Complaint is OVERRULED as to the Nineteenth Cause of Action and
SUSTAINED as to the remaining causes of action with 20 days leave to amend.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              July 18, 2024                          __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


