  Case Number:  24STCV05772    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
18, 2024                                           TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Howard Scott Jordan II, et al. v. Irina Ioana Ciochiu, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV05772
 





















 
MOTION
FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION 



 
MOVING
PARTY:              Plaintiffs Howard Scott Jordan II
and FlightHelp LLC 
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Defendants Irina Ioana Ciochiu, Wynn
Capital Management SRL, and International Flight Help Management
 
 
I.         INTRODUCTION
 
            This action
arises from a dispute between former business partners.  Plaintiff Howard Scott Jordan II (Jordan) has
extensive knowledge in intellectual property, coding, and marketing.  In November 2022, Defendant Irina Ioana
Ciochiu (Irina) engaged Jordan to work with her and Wynn Capital Management SRL
(Wynn).  Wynn is engaged in the business
of making claims on airport consumers’ behalf in connection with flight delays
and other issues stemming from airline travel. 
Wynn, a Romanian company, is owned by Ion Theodor Ciochiu (Ion).
 
Based on Irina’s representations that she owns Wynn’s
equity, Jordan and Irina entered into a partnership.  Jordan and Irina agreed that, in exchange for
Jordan’s contribution to coding and marketing, he would receive a 49% interest
in Wynn’s revenues and profits.  As a
means to carry out the partnership Jordan and Irina created FlightHelp LLC
(FlightHelp).  The partnership proved
fruitful.  However, Irina embarked on a
scheme to sever Jordan from the partnership, which included but was not limited
to refusing to pay any of Jordan’s development invoices, salary, or
distributions from Wynn’s operations. 
Further, Irina locked Jordan out of any and all Wynn/FlightHelp-related
accounts and depleted FlightHelp’s bank accounts without Jordan’s authorization
or consent.
 
On March 7, 2024, plaintiffs Howard Scott Jordan II and FlightHelp
LLC (collectively, Plaintiffs) commenced this action against defendants Irina
Ioana Ciochiu (Irina), Ion Theodor Ciochiu (Ion), Wynn Capital Management SRL (Wynn),
and Does 1-20 alleging causes of action for (1) fraud, (2) breach of fiduciary
duty, (3) conversion, (4) breach of partnership agreement, (5) unfair
competition, (6) violations of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et seq. (7)
partnership dissolution (Corp. Code § 16801), (8) violations of Penal Code §
496, (9) accounting, and (10) breach of contract.  Plaintiffs later filed amendments to the
complaint naming International Flight Help Management, Inc. (IFHM) as Doe 1 and
Flight Help Management, LLC (FHM) as Doe 2. 
The operative pleading, the First Amended Complaint, was filed on
September 16, 2024.
 
On April 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an Ex Parte Application
for Temporary Restraining Order and Order to Show Cause Why a Preliminary
Injunction Should Not Issue.  
 
On April 25, 2024, Department 86 denied Plaintiffs’ ex parte
application.
 
            On May 13,
2024, Irina filed a demurrer to the Complaint. 
The hearing was scheduled for August 15, 2024.
 
On July 11, 2024, during the pendency of Irina’s demurrer, Plaintiffs
filed this Motion for Preliminary Injunction against defendant Irina and her
agents and employees, including defendants Ion, Wynn, IFHM, and FHM. 
 
On August 16, 2024, after taking the matter under
submission, the court sustained Irina’s entire demurrer based partly on
Plaintiffs’ inability to sufficiently identify the partnership and the
existence of a merger clause in the partnership agreement which superseded any
prior agreements and understandings, whether written or oral.  Leave to amend was granted. 
 
On September 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (FAC) which adds causes of action for breach of operating
agreement, breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, specific
performance, violations of civil code section 3344, misappropriation of name,
image, or likeness, and quantum meruit.          
 
Irina’s demurrer to the FAC is currently pending.
 
The Instant Motion
 
Plaintiffs filed this Motion for Preliminary Injunction
against defendant Irina and her agents and employees, including defendants Ion,
Wynn, IFHM, and FHM on July 11, 2024. 
 
On September 5, 2024, Irina Wynn, and IFHM filed an
opposition.
 
On September 11, 2024, Plaintiffs replied.
 
II.        DISCUSSION
 
The motion for preliminary injunction is denied for several
reasons. 
 
First, the motion is procedurally deficient.  “A party requesting a preliminary injunction
may give notice of the request to the opposing or responding party either by
serving a noticed motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 or
by obtaining and serving an order to show cause (OSC). An OSC must be used
when a temporary restraining order (TRO) is sought, or if the party against
whom the preliminary injunction is sought has not appeared in the action. If
the responding party has not appeared, the OSC must be served in the same manner
as a summons and complaint.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1150(a), emphasis added.)
 
            Here,
defendants Ion and FHM have not appeared in this action.  Plaintiffs were thus required to serve an OSC
in the same manner as a summons and complaint as to these defendants.  Plaintiffs did not do so.   
 
            Second, Plaintiffs
do not establish a likelihood of prevailing at trial based upon the
presentation.  The trial court considers
two factors in determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction: (1) the
likelihood the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and
(2) the interim harm the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied as compared to the harm the defendant is likely to suffer if the court
grants a preliminary injunction. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a);¿Husain v.
McDonald’s Corp.¿(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 860, 866-67.)  In addition to
the two requirements for obtaining injunctive relief identified above, the
trial court also considers “(3) the necessity to preserve the status quo; [and]
(4) the degree of adverse effect on the public interest or interests of third
parties the granting of the injunction will cause.”¿ (Vo v. City of Garden
Grove (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 425, 435.)¿ “The more likely it is that
plaintiffs will ultimately prevail, the less severe must be the harm that they
allege will occur if the injunction does not issue .... [I]t is the mix of
these factors that guides the trial court in its exercise of discretion.”¿ (King
v. Meese (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1217, 1227 (King).)¿ Thus, a preliminary
injunction may not issue without some showing of potential entitlement to such
relief.¿ (Doe v. Wilson (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 296, 304.) The decision to
grant a preliminary injunction generally lies within the sound discretion of
the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal absent an abuse of
discretion.  (Thornton v. Carlson¿(1992)
4 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1255.)¿ 
 
Here, however, Plaintiffs have not made it past the demurrer
stage.  A preliminary injunction requires
“a complaint which states a sufficient cause of action for injunctive relief of
the character embraced in the preliminary injunction.”  (Handyspot Co. of Northern Cal. v. Buegeleisen (1954) 128 Cal.App.2d 191, 194.) 
The court previously sustained defendant Irina’s Demurrer to the Complaint
because Plaintiffs’ presentation of the “partnership” and FlightHelp was
confusing and the merger clause in the partnership agreement appeared to
supersede any previous agreements or understandings between Jordan and Irina.  The operative pleading is the FAC.  The FAC includes additional causes of
action.  Irina has filed another
demurrer, which is currently pending.  It
remains to be seen whether Plaintiffs have cured the confusion over the
“partnership” and FlightHelp or sufficiently addressed the impact of the merger
clause.  While Plaintiff’s motion was
filed prior to the ruling on the demurrer, Plaintiff failed to discuss how the
current FAC cures the prior defects.  Plaintiffs
have not demonstrated a likelihood of prevailing at trial, let alone submitted
any argument or analysis on the new causes of action in the FAC.  
 
Jordan’s 353 page declaration complicates rather than clarifies
Plaintiffs’ presentation.  Jordan points
to a host of agreements and entities: the partnership; the Partnership; the
operating agreement (which is both enforceable and unenforceable); the
enterprise; Wynn Capital Management SRL; FlightHelp LLC; Flighthelp.eu; Flighthelp.work;
Flighthelp LLC Wise; Flight Help Management; Flight Help Management LLC; International
Flight Help; flighthelp.work; flighthelp.AL; International Flight Help Management.  These interlocking entities and agreements suggest
a shell game structure consistent with Jordan’s allegation that  Irina used these shifting entities to foster a
Ponzi scheme and commit fraud.  According
to Jordan, the entities lacked accounting, capitalization, and defined
structure.  While Jordan points to Irina’s
misconduct and development of an alleged fraudulent shell game, Jordan’s role
throughout is far from clear.  From the
presentation and at this juncture, the schemes, entities, roles, and
responsibilities are too vague to support Plaintiffs’ likelihood of prevailing.
 The sense that Jordan may have a
legitimate claim is a far cry from meeting Plaintiffs’ burden to obtain a
preliminary injunction.  
 
            Moreover, Plaintiffs’
requested relief is far from asking for the court to maintain the status
quo.  The requested relief would terminate
Defendants’ operations.  It is
well-settled that a mandatory preliminary injunction which alters the status
quo pending trial is rarely granted and is subject to a stricter review on
appeal.  (Paramount Pictures Corp. v.
Davis¿(1964) 228 Cal.App.2d 827, 839.)¿ A mandatory injunction is
appropriate where the alleged wrong “constitutes an overbearing assumption by
one person of superiority and domination over the rights and property of
others.” (Fretz¿v. Burke¿(1967) 247 Cal.App.2d 741, 746.)  Here, the
relief requested is both overly broad, vague and, in several parts –
mandatory.  For example, asking the court
to order Defendants to refrain from refusing to hold in trust or to refrain
from refusing to distribute to Plaintiffs 49% of $15,000,000 is to request
mandatory injunctive relief.  Plaintiffs
have not made the showing necessary to obtain a mandatory injunction.  The relief requested is also directed at
several persons and entities that are not currently involved in the litigation.
  
 
III.       CONCLUSION
 
            The Motion
for Preliminary Injunction is DENIED without prejudice.
 
The clerk of the court to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   October 18,
2024                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            