  Case Number:  19STCV05221    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  14 Ex Parte Meredith v TisseraCase Background
This case arises from a dispute over the sale and
attempted importation of 16 Japanese sports cars (more precisely, 16 Nissan
Skyline GT-Rs). Plaintiff alleges that Defendants told him they were experts in
vehicle importation and could deliver these specific vehicles to him with a
minimum of fuss. Plaintiff further alleges that he paid nearly $4 million for
the vehicles, only to discover that Defendants did not own them, could not own
them, and had no way to deliver them as promised. Defendants in turn allege
that they delivered at least one car, and Plaintiff refused to pay for it.
On February 15, 2019, Plaintiff Edwin Hammond Meredith
(“Meredith” or “Plaintiff”) filed his Complaint for (1) Fraud; (2) Violation of
the Consumer Legal Remedies Act; (3) Violation of Civil Code §§ 1790 et
seq; (4) Fraud – Violation of Penal Code § 470(d); (5) Breach of Contract;
(6) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (7) Negligence Per
Se; and (8) Negligence against Defendants Franz Gerald Tissera (“Franz”);
Phase9MotorSports, Inc. (“Phase 9”); and DOES 1-20. On March 13, 2019, Defendants
Franz and Phase 9 filed their Answer.
On May 13, 2019 Plaintiff filed two “Amendments to
Complaint,” substituting Defendants Angela J. Chisholm (“Chisholm”) and
Frederick Tissera (“Frederick”) in lieu of DOES 1-2, respectively. On October
31, 2019, this court sustained the demurrer of Defendants Chisholm and
Frederick, with leave to amend.
On November 21, 2019 Plaintiff filed his First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Fraud; (2) Violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies
Act; (3) Violation of Civil Code §§ 1790 et seq; (4) Negligence Per Se;
(5) Negligence; (6)-(21) Breach of Contract; and (22) Conversion against
Defendants Franz, Chisholm, Frederick, Phase 9, and DOES 1-20. The 1st
cause of action is asserted against Defendants Franz, Chisholm, and Frederick
only; the 2nd, 3rd, and 6th-21st
causes of action are asserted against Phase 9 only. On May 5, 2021, Defendants
Franz, Chisholm, Frederick, and Phase 9 filed their joint First Amended Answer.
On November 18, 2019, Defendants Franz and Phase 9
Filed their Third Amended Cross-Complaint (“TAXC”) for (1) Breach of Contract;
(2) Breach of the Implied Covenant; and (3) Quantum Meruit against
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Meredith and ROES 1-20. On February 18, 2020,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Meredith filed his Answer.
On April 26, 2024, the first phase of jury trial concluded.
The jury found in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendants.
The second phase of trial, a non-jury trial on alter
ego liability, will proceed on September 17, 2024. 
On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental brief
in support of his ex parte application for entry of judgment.
Instant Pleading
Plaintiff moves ex parte for entry of judgment after
the first phase of trial.
Discussion
Plaintiff requests that the Court enter judgment based
on the results of phase one of trial. Plaintiff alleges there is another
proceeding pending in the Orange County Superior Court against the same
Defendants involving similar fraudulent sales. Plaintiff argues that if
judgment is not entered now, his judgment will lose priority.
The Court is concerned that entering judgment now will
violate the one final judgment rule.
Generally, only one final judgment may be entered in an
action unless an exception applies. (Leader v. Cords (2010) 182
Cal.App.4th 1588, 1594.) A judgment is the final determination of the rights of
the parties in an action or proceeding. (Code Civ. Proc., section 577.) A
judgment is final when it leaves nothing to be decided between one or more
parties and their adversaries, or that can be amended to encompass all
controverted issues. (Morehart v. County of Santa Barbara (1994) 7
Cal.4th 725, 741.)
Here, phase two of trial concerns whether the
individual Defendants are liable under an alter ego theory of liability.
Because this second phase of trial will determine whether the individual
Defendants are liable for additional damages as alter egos of Phase 9 Motor
Sports, a determination of the individual defendants’ rights remains in this
action. Any judgment entered now before the second phase of trial concludes
would not be final. Therefore, the proposed judgment would violate the one
final judgment rule.
Additionally, this is a bifurcated proceeding and the
Court may not prepare a proposed judgment unless an interlocutory or separate
judgment may properly be entered. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1591; Morehart
at pp.737-738.) 
Some interlocutory judgments may be appealable and are
excepted from the one final judgment rule and Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1591.
(Code Civ. Proc., section 904.1(8)-(14).) However, those exceptions do not
apply here. Thus, the Court lacks the authority to issue an interlocutory
judgment.
To enter a judgment now, an exception to the one final
judgment rule must apply and there must be grounds to enter a separate
judgment. 
There are two exceptions to the one final judgment
rule, when an interim judgment is a collateral final judgment, and when a
judgment is final as to a party. 
A collateral final order must be (1) a final
determination, (2) of a collateral matter, and (3) direct the payment of money
or performance of an act. (Sanchez v. Westlake Services, LLC (2022) 73
Cal.App.5th 1100, 1107.) This exception applies only where a trial court’s
ruling on a collateral issue is substantially the same as a final judgment in
an independent proceeding in that it leaves the court no further action to take
on a matter which is severable from the general subject of litigation. (San
Joaquin County Dept. of Child Support Services v. Winn (2008) 163
Cal.App.4th 296, 300.)
Here, the proposed order would not be a final
determination on a collateral matter because the issue of the individual
Defendants’ liability would remain after judgment is entered. Defendants’
liability is not severable from this litigation.
As for the second exception, the one final judgment
rule is not violated where an action involves multiple parties and a judgment
is entered which leaves no issue to be determined as to one party. (Nguyen
v. Calhoun (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 428, 437.)
“Ordinarily, a corporation is regarded as a legal
entity separate and distinct from its stockholders, officers and directors.
Under the alter ego doctrine, however, where a corporation is used by an
individual or individuals, or by another corporation, to perpetrate fraud,
circumvent a statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose,
a court may disregard the corporate entity and treat the corporation's acts as
if they were done by the persons actually controlling the corporation.” (Communist
Party v. 522 Valencia, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 980, 993.)¿¿ 
“Amending a judgment to add an alter ego does not add a
new defendant but instead inserts the correct name of the real defendant.” (Misik
v. D'Arco (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1065, 1072.) “A court may amend its
judgment to properly designate the real defendants at any time…, including
after judgment.” (Id. at p.1075.) 
Here, the first phase of trial resolved all issues with
respect to Defendant Phase 9 Motor Sports. The second phase of trial on alter
ego issues would not affect the outcome of trial against Phase 9 Motor Sports.
Any amendment to a judgment against Phase 9 Motor Sports after the second phase
of trial would at most correct the name of Phase 9 Motor Sports to include the
individual defendants. However, there are no issues remaining to be determined
as to Phase 9 Motor Sports. Therefore, a judgment against Phase 9 Motor Sports would
not violate the one final judgment rule.
Supplemental Brief
In his supplemental brief, Plaintiff argues that the proposed
judgment does not violate the one final judgment rule because adding an alter
ego merely inserts the name of the real defendant and does not create a new
obligation. Plaintiff cites Greenspan v. LADT, LLC, 191 Cal.App.4th 486,
508 (Cal. Ct. App. 2010) (sic), Misik, and other cases which
support the general rule that amending a judgment to add an alter ego does not
add a new defendant but instead inserts the correct name of the real defendant.
The cases also support the rule that adding a judgment debtor as an alter ego
is permissible even after judgment. However, none of these cases state that a
judgment may be entered while alter ego liability issues are pending without
violating the one final judgment rule. 
The issue is not whether the proposed judgment may be
amended, but whether the individual defendants’ rights remain at issue. Plaintiff
essentially alleges the individual defendants are liable for damages incurred Phase
9 Motor Sports’ because they are alter egos. This is a controverted issue
concerning the individual defendants’ rights because the individual defendants
are either liable for Phase 9 Sports’ damages or they are not. It does not
matter whether the judgment may be amended to include the individual defendants.
Therefore, a judgment against the individual defendants would violate the one
final judgment rule. 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s application is GRANTED in part. The Court
will enter judgment as to Defendant Phase 9 Motor Sports only. Plaintiff is to
submit a new proposed judgment.