Here is the summary in YAML format:

```yaml
Case Number: 23STCV21854
Plaintiff's Name: Terell Ephron
Defendant's Name: Rakim Mayers, Joseph Tacopina, Tacopina Seigel & DeOreo
People-Names: Terell Ephron, Rakim Mayers, Joseph Tacopina
Company-Names: Tacopina Seigel & DeOreo
Places: Hollywood, Los Angeles, Los Angeles Superior Court
Dates: November 6, 2021, August 10, 2022, December 23, 2022, July 12, 2024, January 13, 2025
Events: Assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence/negligence per se, defamation, civil action, criminal case
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Defendant Mayers intends to stay the instant Defamation Action until the resolution of the pending criminal case.
Facts: Plaintiff Terell Ephron alleges Rakim Mayers fired multiple shots at him on November 6, 2021, in the Hollywood area. Defendant Mayers has been charged with assault and battery in a pending criminal case. Plaintiff Ephron filed a civil action against Mayers in 2022 for alleged injuries. Defendant Mayers has also been accused of defamation by Plaintiff Ephron.
Disputes: The disputes in this case involve the alleged assault and battery by Defendant Mayers, and the subsequent defamation by Defendant Mayers' attorney, Joseph Tacopina.
Acts: Defendant Mayers moved to stay the instant Defamation Action pending resolution of the pending criminal case. Plaintiff Ephron opposed the stay.
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Civil Procedure Code, California Penal Code
Case Citations: People v. Bell, Landis v. North American Co., OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho, Frieberg v. City of Mission Viejo, Avant! Corp. v. Superior Ct., J-M Mfg. Co. v. Phillips & Cohen LLP
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles: Judge Randolph M. Hammock, Plaintiff Terell Ephron, Defendant Rakim Mayers, Defendant Joseph Tacopina, Tacopina Seigel & DeOreo
Significant Statements: "A court ordinarily has inherent power, in its discretion, to stay proceedings when such a stay will accommodate the ends of justice." "The power to stay proceedings is incidental to the power inherent in every court to control the disposition of the causes on its docket with economy of time and effort for itself, for counsel, and for litigants." "The court, in its sound discretion, must assess and balance the nature and substantiality of the injustices claimed on either side."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has granted Defendant Rakim Mayers' motion to stay the instant Defamation Action pending the resolution of the pending criminal case against him. The judge finds that the evidence in the criminal case is relevant to the Defamation Action and that Defendant Mayers' risk of self-incrimination would be increased if the Defamation Action were to proceed. The judge also finds that the stay would promote judicial economy and effectuate the ends of justice. The judge has set a status review/OSC re: lifting of stay for January 13, 2025, and ordered Defendant Mayers to give notice.