  Case Number:  23STCV21854    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  49 Terell Ephron v. Joseph Tacopina, et al.DEFENDANT RAKIM MAYERS’ MOTION TO STAY CIVIL ACTION PENDING CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS MOVING PARTY: Defendant Rakim MayersRESPONDING PARTY:  Plaintiff Terell EphronSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Terell Ephron alleges Rakim Mayers (also known as A$AP Rocky) fired multiple shots at Plaintiff from a semiautomatic firearm on November 6, 2021, in the Hollywood area. That incident is the subject of a pending criminal case in LASC case no. BA508142. On August 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed a civil action against Mayers in the Los Angeles Superior Court for (1) assault, (2) battery, (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (4) negligence/negligence per se (the “Personal Injury Action”.)Mayers retained Defendant Joseph Tacopina and Defendant law firm Tacopina Seigel & DeOreo to represent him in the Personal Injury Action. In response to Plaintiff’s allegations, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Tacopina, acting in his capacity as an attorney at Defendant Tacopina Law and on behalf of and at the direction of Defendant Mayers, defamed Plaintiff in statements made to TMZ, Rolling Stone, and other media outlets. Plaintiff now brings this action (the “Defamation Action”) for (1) defamation against Tacopina and Tacopina Seigel & DeOrero and (2) defamation against Mayers.Defendant Mayers now moves to stay the instant Defamation Action until resolution of the pending criminal case against him. Plaintiff opposes the stay. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Motion to Stay Civil Action Pending Criminal Proceedings is GRANTED. The instant action is stayed pending resolution of the criminal proceeding, so long as that matter is concluded at the trial level within a reasonable period of time.A Status Review/OSC re: Lifting of Stay is set for January 13, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.Defendant Mayers is ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Motion to Stay ProceedingsI. Legal Standard“’[A] court ordinarily has inherent power, in its discretion, to stay proceedings when such a stay will accommodate the ends of justice.’ (People v. Bell (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 323, 329.) As the Court in Landis v. North American Co. (1936) 299 U.S. 248, 254, explained, ‘the power to stay proceedings is incidental to the power inherent in every court to control the disposition of the causes on its docket with economy of time and effort for itself, for counsel, and for litigants.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 141; see also Frieberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1489 [“Trial courts generally have the inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.”].)II. AnalysisDefendant Rakim Mayers moves to stay the instant Defamation Action pending resolution of a criminal case against him arising from the “exact same alleged incident.” (Mtn. 3: 9.) That incident is the one which Defendant Mayers allegedly “brandished, aimed, and fired multiple shots from a semiautomatic firearm at Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 1.) Thereafter, Plaintiff Ephron filed the Personal Injury action against Mayers for alleged injuries. Now, in the instant Defamation Action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Mayers, through his attorney, Defendant Joseph Tacopina, made defamatory statements about Plaintiff to the press. (FAC ¶ 2.) These include Defendant Tacopina’s alleged statements that Plaintiff’s Personal Injury action against Mayers was a “shakedown” or “get-rich-quick-scheme,” among other things. (Id.)The companion Personal Injury Action, currently in Department 69 with the Hon. Judge William F. Fahey, has been stayed pending resolution of the criminal case. (See Case no. 22STCV25874, 12/23/2022 Stipulation & Order.)In deciding whether to stay civil proceedings pending a parallel criminal case, courts must generally consider “(1) the interest of the plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or any particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on defendants; (3) the convenience of the court in the management of its cases, and the efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending civil and criminal litigation.” (Avant! Corp. v. Superior Ct. (2000) 79 Cal. App. 4th 876, 882, citing Keating v. Off. of Thrift Supervision (9th Cir. 1995) 45 F.3d 322, 324-325.) “The court, in its sound discretion, must assess and balance the nature and substantiality of the injustices claimed on either side.” (Id.)Defendant argues a stay is necessary because the relevant evidence underlying the Defamation Action—that pertaining to the alleged assault and battery—is the same as that involved in the criminal case. Thus, were the Defamation Action to proceed, Defendant Mayers “would be forced into the untenable position of having to choose between waiving his Fifth Amendment privilege in this civil proceeding or having an adverse interest drawn against him.” (Mtn. 5: 8-10.) Defendant also argues because the criminal proceedings are “well underway,” the length of the stay is not significant.Plaintiff opposes the stay. Plaintiff argues that the alleged statements giving rise to the Defamation Action occurred “well after the commencement of criminal proceedings against” Defendant Mayers, and continued even after the filing of the Defamation Action. (Opp. 2: 17-18 [emphasis omitted].) Plaintiff argues he would be prejudiced by the stay because doing so would allow the defamatory statements to continue. Additionally, Plaintiff contends Defendant has failed to identify with any particularity why the Fifth Amendment Privilege might be invoked. Finally, in the event of a stay, Plaintiff requests that it be limited to Defendant Mayers, and that the case proceed as between Plaintiff and Defendants Tacopina and Tacopina Law. Here, a complete stay of the Defamation Action is warranted based on the totality of the circumstances. In some sense, the risk of self-incrimination in the Defamation action is less than in the Personal Injury action. Whereas the Personal Injury action is itself based on the very alleged assault and battery that is the subject of the criminal action, the Defamation action is based on later statements made by Mayers’ attorney in response to the Personal Injury action. Be that as it may, defamation requires a publication that is “false.” (J-M Mfg. Co. v. Phillips & Cohen LLP (2016) 247 Cal. App. 4th 87, 97.) Thus, the disposition of the underlying criminal case would appear to be, at the very least, relevant to the question of whether the alleged statements by Defendant Tacopina in this case were defamatory. Therefore, there is an overlap in the evidence between this case the criminal case. At the core of the criminal case, Personal Injury Action, and Defamation Action is the alleged incident occurring on November 6, 2021. This common set of facts, as it pertains to the civil cases, is likely to invoke Defendant Mayers’ risk of self-incrimination. This factor supports a stay. The court is aware that Plaintiff alleges a portion of the alleged defamation occurred after the filing of this lawsuit and has the potential to continue. Plaintiff undoubtedly has a strong interest in the expeditious resolution of this case. However, when weighing that interest against the prejudice to Defendant and his risk of self-incrimination, the balance favors Defendant and a resulting stay. Finally, a stay will support judicial economy, as it will avoid law and motion practice as to the privilege that is likely to occur absent the stay.  With these considerations in mind, a stay of the Defamation Action will reduce the risk of self-incrimination, promote judicial economy, and ultimately effectuate the ends of justice. The court declines Plaintiff’s alternative request to limit the stay to only Defendant Mayers. The alleged defamatory statements by Defendant Tacopina allegedly occurred “on behalf of and at the direction of Mr. Mayers.” (FAC ¶¶ 42, 51.) Indeed, all alleged defamation by Defendant Mayers was allegedly “made through” Defendant Tacopina. (Id. ¶ 51.) Therefore, the issues and evidence are essentially the same for each Defendant. Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Stay Civil Action Pending Criminal Proceedings is GRANTED. Defendant Mayers is ordered to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   July 12, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court 