  Case Number:  22AHCV00459    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



CATHERINE AMORES CASTILLO, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
NISSAN
   NORTH AMERICA, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00459
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION OF PRIOR COURT ORDER
   GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

September
   21, 2023



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
On July 13, 2022, plaintiff
Catherine Amores Castillo (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants
Nissan North America, Inc. (“Defendant”) and Wish Automotive III, Inc. dba
Nissan of Alhambra (“Nissan of Alhambra”).  Plaintiff asserts causes of action against Defendant
for violation of the Song-Beverly Act and fraudulent inducement relating to an
allegedly defective emergency braking system for a 2020 Nissan Pathfinder
purchased on March 24, 2021 (the “Vehicle”).  Plaintiff asserts a cause of action for negligent
repair against Nissan of Alhambra relating to the Vehicle.  Nissan of Alhambra has not yet appeared in
this action.  
On March 6, 2023, this
Court issued an order compelling the parties to arbitrate this matter (the “March
6 Order”).  In reaching its conclusion,
the Court relied on Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486 (Felisilda).  
On June 6, 2023, Plaintiff
filed this motion for reconsideration of the March 6 Order.  Plaintiff’s motion is based on Ford Motor
Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324 (Ochoa), issued on April
4, 2023, which declined to follow Felisilda.  Plaintiff argues she is not limited to the
statutory time limitations of Civil Procedure section 1008 because her motion
is based on a change in law and the Court can reconsider its rulings on its own
motion.  
Defendant contends that the
motion is untimely because it was made more than 10 days after the Court
ordered this matter to arbitration. Defendant also argues that once the Court
ordered the matter to arbitration, it lost jurisdiction.  Defendant additionally argues that Ochoa
is not a material or controlling change in law because it merely disagreed with
Felisilda, which it contends is the better-reasoned decision.   
On July 28, 2023, due to
technical difficulties which prevented defense counsel from appearing at the
hearing, the Court continued the hearing on this motion to August 9, 2023.  On August 9, 2023, the Court continued the
hearing again to allow the parties to submit supplemental briefs. 
Defendant filed a
supplemental opposition on August 16, 2023, and Plaintiff submitted a reply
brief on August 23, 2023.  
II.           
DISCUSSION 
A.          
This court has jurisdiction to rule on this motion.  
Defendant argues that the
Court lacks jurisdiction to rule on this motion because: (1) the motion was
filed more than 10 days after the Court ordered the matter to arbitration, and
(2) the action has been submitted to arbitration and the court retains “merely
vestigial jurisdiction” limited to confirming, correcting, or vacating an
arbitration award.  (Opp., pp. 3-4.) 
A statutory motion for
reconsideration requires that the motion be made 10 days from the date the
order at issue is served.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1008.) However, the Court has discretion to reconsider an order on its
own motion pursuant to subdivision (c) of section 1008 as well as its
“constitutionally derived authority.”  (Le
Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1096.)  Therefore, section 1008 limits the parties'
ability to file repetitive motions to reconsider but does not limit the court's
ability to reconsider its prior interim orders to correct its own errors.  (Id. at p. 1109.)
Furthermore, contrary to
Defendant’s argument, the Court does not lose jurisdiction when it orders a
matter to arbitration.  While true that a
case remains “in the twilight zone of abatement” once the matter is referred to
arbitration and a stay is issued, the stay does not effect the ouster of the
judicial power vested in the trial court.  (Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc.
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 238 (Pinela).)  Instead, a trial court has inherent power to
revisit the foundational question of whether the parties are bound by a
particular arbitration agreement.  (Pinela
at p. 238; Phillips v. Sprint PCS (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 758, 768 [“Even
without a change of law, a trial court may exercise its inherent jurisdiction
to reconsider an interim ruling.”].)  
Defendant’s case authority
is distinguishable.  In Byerly v. Sale
(1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1312, 1314 (Byerly), the court found that a trial
court no longer had any reason to entertain the defendant’s motion to dismiss
for exceeding the five-year limitation under Civil Procedure section 583.340
(c) since the action was stayed pending completion of arbitration, and it was
impossible for the plaintiffs to bring the action to trial.  Under those circumstances, and barring a
stipulation not to arbitrate, “the judicial system’s future involvement should
have been limited merely to confirming, correcting, or vacating any arbitration
award.”  (Id. at p. 1315.)  Byerly did not consider whether the
court’s referral of a matter to arbitration impaired its inherent right to
reconsider its own order.  
Therefore, based on the
Court’s inherent authority, the Court reconsiders its order compelling this
matter to arbitration.
B.          
There is new law that warrants revocation of the Court’s prior
order.
“If a court at any time
determines that there has been a change of law that warrants it to reconsider a
prior order it entered, it may do so on its own motion and enter a different
order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.
(c).)  As “change of law” is not defined
in Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (c), the court has “very
broad power” to determine if a change of law warrants an exercise of its
discretion.  (Farmers Ins. Exchange v.
Superior Court (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 96, 106 (Farmers Ins.).)  In doing so, courts “may consider a number of
factors in determining whether to exercise its discretion, including the
importance of the change of law, the timing of the motion, and the
circumstances of the case.”  (Id.,
at p. 107.)
At the time Defendant made
its motion to compel arbitration, Defendant relied on Felisilda and
argued that under the theory of equitable estoppel and as a third-party
beneficiary, the arbitration agreement in a retail sales contract between
Plaintiff and the nonparty dealer allowed Defendant to force Plaintiff to
arbitrate his claims.  (Felisilda,
supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 495.)  On April 4, 2023, however, Division Eight of
the Second District Court of Appeal expressly disagreed with Felisilda
and held in Ochoa that equitable estoppel did not apply because the
sales contract was not the source of the manufacturer warranties at issue in
the case.  (Ochoa, supra,
89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1335.)  Ochoa
recognized the distinction between the parties with the power to elect
arbitration (“You” and “Us”) as opposed to the scope or subject matter of
arbitrable issues (disputes with third parties including non-signatories) and
stated that the sales contract “could not be construed to bind the purchaser to
arbitrate with the universe of unnamed third parties.”  (Id. at p. at 1339 [“Who may enforce an
arbitration agreement is a separate matter from the types of disputes the
agreement covers.”].)
Additionally, on June 26,
2023, another division of the Second District Court of Appeal, Division Seven,
rejected Felisilda in Montemayor v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 92
Cal.App.5th 958.  The appellate court
affirmed the trial court’s order denying the defendant car manufacturer’s
motion to compel arbitration of the plaintiffs’ express manufacturer’s warranty
claims.  The trial court judge granted
the motion to compel arbitration only as to the implied warranty cause of
action, severed the cause of action, and ordered the arbitration stayed pending
resolution of the court action.  (Montemayor,
supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at p. 88, n. 5.) 
As in Felisilda, the car manufacturer argued that it was entitled
to compel arbitration under the theory of equitable estoppel or as a
third-party beneficiary because the plaintiffs’ claims “concern the condition
of the vehicle” and the arbitration agreement referenced nonsignatory third
parties.  (Montemayor, supra,
92 Cal.App.5th at p. 92.)  The Montemayor
court cited Ochoa to differentiate between the subject matter of
arbitrable claims and the parties entitled to elect arbitration.  (Id. at p. 93.)  The Montemayor court also rejected the
manufacturer’s argument that the plaintiff’s claims were closely intertwined
with the sales contract because without the sales contract, no warranty would
have issued.  (Ibid.)  Instead, the Montemayor court stated
that this argument “conflates the concept of ‘but-for’ causation with a
determination whether the [plaintiffs]’ claims are founded on obligations
imposed on [the manufacturer] under the sales contract.” (Ibid.)
Additionally, in
Plaintiff’s supplemental reply brief, Plaintiff cites to another ruling issued
by the Third Appellate District on August 16, 2023, in Kielar v. Superior
Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, which joined the Second Appellate
District’s rejection of Felisilda and issued a preemptory writ of
mandate compelling the trial court to vacate its order to arbitrate.  The Kielar court found that the trial
court incorrectly held that equitable estoppel allowed the car manufacturer to
compel arbitration based on the buyer’s sales contract with the
dealership.  
Here, reconsideration is
warranted based on these three recent appellate decisions.  Also, although Defendant claims that “arbitration
proceedings (though in an early stage) have commenced,” no evidence or
description of those proceedings has been provided.  (Opp., . 5.)  Plaintiff’s counsel admits that on March 14,
2023, they sent a letter to defense counsel demanding that Defendant submit the
matter for arbitration immediately, but Defense counsel only declares that on
May 8, 2022, two months after the Court’s initial order granting its motion to
compel arbitration, Defendant paid $621 to initiate a demand for arbitration to
the American Arbitration Association, (Do Decl., ¶ 4.)  This correspondence is insufficient to
establish Plaintiff’s intent to proceed in an arbitral forum and only shows an
intent to resolve any dispute without delay. 
(Supp. Reply, p. 3.)    
Considering the lack of
evidence concerning the progress of any arbitration proceedings, the recent
significant changes to existing case law, and no showing of significant prejudice,
the Court exercises its discretion to reconsider its March 6 Order.
C.          
Defendant may not compel arbitration under the theory of equitable
estoppel or as a third-party beneficiary. 
The Court considers the
analyses in Ochoa, Montemayor, and Kielar more persuasive
than Felisilda because they address the issues presented in the
underlying motion to compel arbitration more succinctly and within the same
context.  As in these three cases,
Defendant’s motion relied on a sales contract provision that identifies the
scope of arbitrable matters including claims arising from any resulting
relationship with third parties.  (Memo.
filed 11/2/22, 12:11-16:11.)  And, like
in these three cases, the sales contract also specifically disclaims any
warranty on the part of the dealer while acknowledging no effect on any
warranties covering the vehicle that the vehicle manufacturer may provide,
instead, the substantive terms of the sale contracts relate to sale and
financing.  (Do Decl. filed 11/2/2022,
Ex. A, p. 4.)  Therefore, equitable
estoppel does not apply.  
In addition, Defendant has
not established that it can enforce the contract as a third-party beneficiary.  A contract made expressly for the benefit of
a third person, “may be enforced by him at any time before the parties thereto
rescind it.”  (Civ. Code, § 1559).  Persons who are “only incidentally or remotely
benefited by it" are excluded.  (Lake
Almanor Associates L.P. v. Huffman-Broadway Group, Inc. (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 1194, 1199.)  In considering
whether a person is an intended third-party beneficiary of a contract, the
court must consider: (1) whether they would in fact benefit from the contract,
(2) whether a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a
benefit to them, and (3) whether permitting a third party to bring its own
breach of contract action against a contracting party is consistent with the
objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations of the contracting
parties.  (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC
(2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.)  
The mere mention of third
parties in the provision governing scope does not establish that the sales
contract’s motivating purpose or intent was to benefit Defendant.  (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at
pp. 1338-1339.)  Instead, the “motivating
purpose” of the contract was to finance the vehicle with the dealer; it was not
made expressly for the benefit of a third person.  (Do Decl, Ex. A, p. 1 [“By signing this
contract, you choose to buy the vehicle on credit under the agreements on the
front and back of this contract.”])  Therefore,
Defendant has not established that it can invoke the arbitration provision as a
third-party beneficiary.  

CONCLUSION 

Based on the foregoing,
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is GRANTED.  The Court vacates its order issued on March 6,
2023, granting Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and issues an order
DENYING Defendant’s motion instead.  The
Court also schedules a trial setting conference for _______ at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse.   



 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 21st
 day of September, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 