 Case Number:  22AHCV01287    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



CATHERINE GARCIA, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
KEE
   ZHANG,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV01287
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT PHYSICAL AND MENTAL EXAMINATION
   OF PLAINTIFF
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   21, 2023



 
          On December
12, 2022, plaintiff Catherine Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
defendant Kee Zhang (“Defendant”) arising from a motor vehicle collision that
occurred on February 25, 2022.  On August
25, 2023, Defendant filed this motion seeking leave of court to conduct a
second physical examination and a mental examination.  On September 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  On September 14, 2023,
Defendant filed a reply brief. 
          Physical
Examination by Dr. Paul Kaloostian
In any case in which a plaintiff is
seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff where: (1) the examination does not include any
diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive; and (2)
the examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of
the examinee.  (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2032.220, subd. (a).)  “Nowhere does the
Legislature specifically limit the number of available examinations, either
mental or physical.  The authoritative
discovery commentators agree that multiple defense examinations are permitted
on the necessary showing of good cause.” 
(Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249,
1255.)  A showing of good cause requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 840.)  “The requirement of a
court order following a showing of good cause is doubtless designed to protect
an examinee’s privacy interest by preventing an examination from becoming an
annoying fishing expedition.”  (Ibid.)
Defendant argues that an examination by
Dr. Kaloostian is necessary because on June 20, 2023, Plaintiff testified at
her deposition that she has undergone an epidural injection in her lower back
and has been recommended for low back surgery. 
Although Plaintiff underwent a previous medical examination with a hand
surgeon, Dr. Nicholas Rose, Defendant argues that another examination with Dr.
Kaloostian is necessary because Dr. Rose only assessed Plaintiff’s claims
regarding her right wrist and hand, whereas Dr. Kaloostian is a neurosurgeon
and would examine Plaintiff’s lower back. 

In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Dr. Rose already examined her lower back even though his medical report,
attached as Exhibit B to her opposition brief, does not show any examination of
her lower back occurred. Plaintiff argues that she disclosed in her discovery
responses that she sustained lower back pain from the motor vehicle collision;
however, she did not disclose until her deposition that she was a candidate for
low back surgery, which is more severe than a report of lower back pain.  (Motion, Exs. A-B.) Thus, the fact that Dr.
Rose could have examined her back (and has examined the lower backs of other
patients in other cases) is irrelevant.  Furthermore,
Dr. Kaloostian’s curriculum vitae shows that he is a neurosurgeon with a specialty
in spine surgery. (Motion, Ex. F.) In contrast, Dr. Rose is an orthopedic
surgeon but specializes in hand surgery. 
Nevertheless, Plaintiff raises an issue
which Defendant fails to address: the scope of Dr. Kaloostian’s examination
appears to exceed his specialty because it includes a “mental status exam.”  
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for
leave to conduct a second physical examination by Dr. Kaloostian is GRANTED in accordance
with the demand for defense medical examination attached as Exhibit G to
Defendant’s motion; the Court only strikes the reference to a “mental status
exam” in the section of the demand which describes the scope of examination. 
Mental Examination with Dr. Anne C.
Welty
          Defendant
also requests that Plaintiff submit to a mental examination with Dr. Welty
because Plaintiff claims psychological damages. 
This part of the motion is DENIED because in opposition, Plaintiff
states that she will waive her claims for psychological distress beyond the
customary pain and suffering.  Therefore,
a mental status examination is not warranted because Defendant has not shown
“exceptional circumstances” requiring a mental examination.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320.)  
          Sanctions
          Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 21st
day of September 2023
 




  


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.