 Case Number:  21STCV28720    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
August 4, 2021, Plaintiff Oliver Pozo (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Stater Bros. Markets (“Stater”), John Doe, and Does 1-10 for
assault, battery, negligence, negligent hiring, training and supervision,
intentional infliction of emotional distress, and negligent infliction of
emotional distress. 
On
January 4, 2022, Stater filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendant Maplebear Inc. dba Instacart (“Instacart”) and Roes 1-10 for
breach of contract, breach of covenant of implied good faith and fair dealing,
equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. 
On
August 12, 2022, the Court sustained Instacart’s demurrer to Stater’s
cross-complaint with leave to amend. 
On
September 9, 2022, Stater filed a first amended cross-complaint. On October 24,
2022, Instacart filed an answer. 
On
March 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. 
On
August 3, 2023, the Court granted the motion of Stater and Instacart to continue
the trial from September 8, 2023 to April 9, 2024. 
The Court did not continue or reopen discovery. 
On
September 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to reopen discovery or extend the discovery
cut-off date or, in the alternative, to compel the deposition of Stater and its
witnesses, and for sanctions.  The motion
was set for hearing on December 28, 2023. 
The Court continued the hearing to January 22, 2024.  On December 14, 2023, Stater filed an
opposition and request for sanctions.  On
December 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amended reply. 
On
November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel the deposition of Stater’s
person most knowledgeable and for sanctions, to be heard on January 22, 2024.
On January 8, 2024, Stater filed an opposition and request for sanctions. On
January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
On
November 22, 2023, the Court dismissed Stater’s cross-complaint without
prejudice at Stater’s request. 
On
December 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel the deposition of Stater’s
employee Yesenia Aragon ("Aragon") and for sanctions, to be heard on January 22, 2024. On
January 8, 2024, Stater filed an opposition. On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 9, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
          Plaintiff requests that the Court (1) reopen discovery, (2)
compel the deposition of Stater’s person most knowledgeable, and (3) compel the
deposition of Stater’s employee Yesenia Aragon. 
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions. 
          Stater requests that the Court deny the motions and impose sanctions on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to continue or reopen discovery 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any
party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings
on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or
before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a
continuance or postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen
discovery proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On motion of any party, the court may grant leave
to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery
heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new
trial date has been set. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(b) In exercising its discretion to grant or deny
this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the
leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party
seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons
that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier. 
“(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or
hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the
date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice
to any other party. 
“(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any
date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen
discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.) 
B.   Motion to compel deposition of employee and person
most knowledgeable 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
* * *
“(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. 
“(2) On motion of any other party who, in person or by
attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in
the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
in favor of that party and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subds. (a), (b), (g).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s motion to reopen discovery 
          Plaintiff asks the Court to re-open discovery to permit him
to complete the discovery he needs to oppose Stater's pending summary judgment
motion.  Stater argues that the motion
lacks merit because Plaintiff has not been diligent. 
The
Court has considered the factors listed in Code of Civil Procedure section
2024.050 and grants the motion to reopen discovery.  The Court denies both parties’ requests for
sanctions. 
Discovery is reopened. 
Discovery and related deadlines will be based on the April 9, 2024 trial
date. 
B.   Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition of Stater’s person
most knowledgeable 
  On
April 21, 2023, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Stater’s person most knowledgeable
for May 3, 2023.  The notice listed 13
subjects on which Plaintiff would examine the person most knowledgeable. 
Stater
objected, asserting that Plaintiff unilaterally set the deposition.  Stater also objected to the subjects of
examination listed in the deposition notice. 
Stater agreed to produce its person most knowledgeable on a mutually
agreeable date to testify about any non-privileged information in response to
questions 1, 2, 4, 5, and 8.  Based on its
objections, Stater refused to produce anyone to testify in response to
questions 3, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13. 
Counsel
conferred by email about another date for the deposition.  On May 9, 2023, Plaintiff served an amended notice
scheduling the deposition for June 6, 2023. 
On
May 26, 2023, Stater served objections to the subjects of examination listed in
the amended deposition notice.  Stater asserted
that, based on its objections, it would not produce anyone to testify in
response to questions 3, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 in the amended deposition
notice.  Stater agreed to produce the
person most qualified to testify about the remaining questions as follows: 
Question
1: “Subject to the foregoing and without waiving any objections, Defendant
responds as follows: To the extent that this request seeks information
regarding Plaintiff’s incident on the date of the incident, Defendant will
produce the person(s) most qualified on this matter.” 
Question
2: “Subject to the foregoing and without waiving any objections, Defendant
responds as follows: Upon clarification of the term ‘security measures’ and to
the extent that this request seeks information regarding ‘security measures’ on
the date of the incident, Defendant will produce the person(s) most qualified
on this matter.” 
Question
4: “Subject to the foregoing and without waiving any objections, Defendant
responds as follows: Defendant will produce the person(s) most qualified on
this matter to testify as to any non-privileged information.” 
Question
5: “Subject to the foregoing and without waiving any objections, Defendant
responds as follows: Defendant will produce the person(s) most qualified on
this matter to testify as to any non-privileged information.”  Question
8: “Subject to the foregoing and without waiving any objections, Defendant
responds: Plaintiff was injured by a glass jar thrown by a disruptive customer
inside the store. Plaintiff has not alleged that he was injured outside.
Furthermore, this request is broad as to all homeless people. This incident
involved a violent and disruptive customer. As such, to the extent that this
request seeks information regarding homeless persons being violent inside the
store as opposed to stealing or other circumstances, Defendant will produce the
person(s) most qualified to testify as to any non-privileged information.” 
The
morning of June 6, 2023 (the date of the scheduled deposition), Stater’s
counsel sent an email to Plaintiff’s counsel asking for the Zoom link for the
deposition. 
Plaintiff’s
counsel responded: “That is incorrect Ms. Parmar. You objected and said that
you have no person to produce for the deposition because of the categories. So,
the deposition today has been off Calendar since then and that is the reason
for my meet and confer letter to you. Now that you have provided dates in July,
we will send you amended notice accordingly.”  Plaintiff’s
counsel sent Stater’s counsel (1) a second amended deposition notice for a
deposition on July 18, 2023 and (2) a meet and confer letter dated June 6, 2023. 
Stater’s
counsel responded: “I believe you are mistaken. My objections to the noticed
deposition for PMK were to certain categories and not to the overall noticed
deposition as can be seen in the highlighted portions of my Objection to the
Amended Notice of PMK attached. As such, we agreed to produce a PMK for
categories 1,2,4,5, and 8 today and made arrangements/cleared conflicts with
our client to have someone appear as noticed. You did not inform our office
that this deposition was cancelled prior to today (the date of the deposition).
Therefore, we will not be producing a PMK on the categories we agreed to
produce today at a later date because of your misunderstanding. We will respond
to your meet and confer on the other categories shortly.”   Stater’s
counsel added that the dates in July were for another deposition, not for the
person most qualified. 
On
June 15, 2023, Stater served objections to Plaintiff’s second amended
deposition notice. 
In
his reply, Plaintiff asserts: 
“On June 5, 2023, plaintiff’s counsel requested a date
for the continuation of the deposition of PMK. [Exhibit 18]. On the same day,
Plaintiff counsel sent a meet and confer letter (ie, exhibit 8) to defendant’s
counsel regarding the objections to the June 6, 2023, deposition. [Exhibit 19]
On the same date, Defense counsel for [Stater] sent an email containing two
dates for the deposition. [Exhibit 20] On the same date, Cross-defendant’s
counsel sent an email to confirm that the deposition of Defendant [Stater’s]
PMK is not going forward on June 6, 2023. [Exhibit 21].”  (Reply p. 2.) 
          Plaintiff has not provided copies of Exhibits 18, 19, and 20,
which Plaintiff cites to support these assertions.      
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a), authorizes the Court to compel
the deposition of a person most knowledgeable “[i]f, after service of a
deposition notice, [the person most knowledgeable], without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice . . .
.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
Here,
Stater’s person most knowledgeable would have appeared at the scheduled June 6,
2023 deposition if Plaintiff’s counsel had not cancelled it on the day of the
deposition.  The person most
knowledgeable had traveled to the office of Stater’s counsel and expected to proceed
with the deposition.  (Parmar Dec. ¶ 3.) Therefore,
Plaintiff has not shown that, with respect to the June 6, 2023 deposition, Stater’s
person most qualified “fail[ed] to appear for examination, or to proceed with
it . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
With
respect to the July 18, 2023 deposition, Plaintiff has
not shown that Stater failed to serve “valid objection[s] under [Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.410] . . . .”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 

The
Court denies the motion.  The Court denies both parties' requests for sanctions.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1) [authorizing sanctions when Court grants motion to compel].) 
C.   Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition of Stater’s
employee Yesenia Aragon 
On June
14, 2023, Plaintiff served a deposition notice scheduling Aragon’s deposition
for June 27, 2023.   
On
June 15, 2023, Stater objected, asserting the deposition location was more than
75 miles from Stater’s place of business, Plaintiff unilaterally scheduled the
deposition, and Aragon and Stater’s counsel were not available on June 27, 2023. 
On
July 7 and 13, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel asked Stater for alternative dates for
Aragon’s deposition.  Plaintiff contends
that his counsel did not receive a response. 
(Tunc Dec. ¶ 6.)  However, Stater
has provided copies of emails showing that on July 11, 2023, its counsel
responded to Plaintiff’s counsel’s request for dates by proposing two dates for
Aragon’s deposition.  (Parmar Dec. ¶ 4
& exh. B.)  Plaintiff’s counsel was
not available on those dates.  (Parmar Dec. ¶ 4.)  
Plaintiff
asserts that he served three notices for Aragon’s deposition.  (Memorandum of Points and Authorities p. 3,
citing exhs. 1-11.)  Yet Plaintiff has submitted
only one deposition notice, served June 14, 2023, setting Aragon’s deposition
on June 27, 2023.  (Exh. 1 to Tunk
Dec.)  Plaintiff’s papers include four
supporting exhibits, not eleven.  Plaintiff’s
memorandum of points and authorities contains several other factual errors. 
On
July 20, 2023, Stater’s counsel informed Plaintiff’s counsel that Aragon had no
personal knowledge of the facts involved in the case and Stater would not
provide any further dates for her deposition and would object to any additional
deposition notices. (Parmar
Dec. ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff does not address this explicit
refusal to participate in scheduling Aragon’s deposition.  Counsel for Plaintiff and Stater did not
participate in any further meet and confer efforts. (Parmar Dec. ¶ 6.) 
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s motion.  Plaintiff
served one deposition notice for Aragon’s deposition and Stater objected.  Plaintiff has not shown that Stater failed to
serve “valid objection[s] under [Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410] . .
. .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)  The parties briefly met and
conferred and Stater provided alternate dates. 
After Stater’s counsel informed Plaintiff’s counsel on July 20, 2023 that
Stater would not cooperate in scheduling Aragon’s deposition, Plaintiff made no
further efforts to meet and confer or to
schedule Aragon’s deposition. 
The
Court denies both parties’ request for sanctions.  
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Oliver Pozo’s motion to
reopen discovery.  Discovery is reopened.  Discovery and related deadlines will be based
on the April 9, 2024 trial date. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Oliver Pozo’s motion to compel
the deposition of Defendant Stater Bros. Markets' person most knowledgeable. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Oliver Pozo’s motion to compel the deposition of
Defendant Stater Bros. Markets' employee Yesenia Aragon. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Oliver Pozo’s requests for sanctions. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Stater Bros.
Markets’ requests for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.