 Case Number:  20STCV13665    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV13665




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Medical Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Transportation Authority




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Dieudonne Ngnie 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On April 8, 2020, Plaintiff Dieudonne
Ngnie (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Defendant”) for damages resulting from
an alleged motor vehicle accident.
 
            Defendant
now moves to compel Plaintiff’s appearance at a physical examination. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions. Alternatively, Defendant seeks issue and
evidentiary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes. No reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.250 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to respond to a demand, or
refuses to submit to the physical examination, the defendant may move for an
order compelling a response to the demand and compelling compliance with the
request for an exam. The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.
 
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.250 (b).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Nyasha A. Buchongo, Defendant’s counsel, states the
following: “On March 29, 2024, Defense Counsel sent a letter to Plaintiff
Counsel to meet and confer regarding Plaintiff’s availability for the
independent medical examination; to which, Defense Counsel received no
response.” (Buchongo Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff alleges physical injuries due to the motor vehicle accident,
including neck and back injuries and difficulty standing and sitting for
extended periods of time. (Buchongo Decl. ¶¶ 3–4.) 
 
Defendant first served notice of the medical examination on December
13, 2023, set for January 23, 2024, with Dr. Russell W. Nelson, a board-certified
orthopedic surgeon. On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel informed Defendant
that Plaintiff could not attend. (Buchongo Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff did not
appear. As a result, Defendant seeks to compel Plaintiff’s examination on July
25, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. at Dr. Nelson’s office. Plaintiff has not undergone any
previous independent medical examination.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that he will appear at the
examination on July 25, 2024. Plaintiff did not appear because he was out of
the country until late March 2024. Plaintiff’s counsel states that he then lost
contact with Plaintiff. (Ghobrial Decl. ¶ 5.) On July 1, 2024, counsel
re-established contact and learned that Plaintiff currently resides in Togo,
due to personal family reasons, but intends to appear at the examination on
July 25, 2024. (Id. ¶ 7.) 
 
Defendant has not filed a reply. 
 
Therefore, based on the information above, because Plaintiff failed to
appear at the first noticed examination, the motion to compel is granted. Because
the motion is granted, the Court will not address the request for issue and
evidentiary sanctions.
 
Defendants seek $3,000 in monetary sanctions, representing an hourly
rate of $250, and the $750 late cancellation fee. Because Plaintiff failed to
inform Defendant within ten days that he could not attend the examination to
avoid a late cancellation fee, and it appears Plaintiff did not respond to
Defendant’s efforts to meet and confer in late-March, the Court finds sanctions
are warranted, but the amount requested is excessive. Therefore, the Court
awards $1,125 in monetary sanctions (1.5 hours of attorney time plus the late
cancellation fee).  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s medical examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff Dieudonne Ngnie
shall appear on July 25, 2024 at Dr. Russell W. Nelson’s office
for a medical examination. 
 
The Court further grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $1.125 against Plaintiff and his counsel of record,
jointly and severally. Said monetary sanction shall be paid to counsel for
Defendant within 30 days. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 