 Case Number:  23STCV01948    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


July
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV01948




MOTIONS


Motion
  to Appoint a Successor in Interest




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiff
  Chinenye Prince Ugorji  




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendants
  Housing Partnership Network, Inc. and 6218 Compton LLC  



 
MOTION
 
On January 30, 2023, Plaintiff Chinenye Prince Ugorji (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Vanessa Boyle, 6218 Compton LLC, and Does
1 to 50 for injuries related to a dog bite.  
 
Plaintiff passed away on October 13, 2023.
 
Plaintiff now moves for an order pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 377.31, appointing Dorothy Ugorji, Plaintiff’s sister, as successor in
interest to the deceased Plaintiff. Defendants Housing Partnership Network, Inc. and 6218
Compton LLC (“Defendants”) oppose. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 377.31 provides that the decedent’s personal representative or, if
none, the decedent’s successor in interest may continue a decedent’s pending
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30; see Adams v. Superior Court (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 71, 78-79.) A successor in interest is the beneficiary of the
decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of
action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject of the cause
of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Section 377.33 provides that the court
in which an action is continued may make any order concerning parties that is
appropriate to ensure proper administration of justice, including the
appointment of the decedent’s successor in interest as a special administrator
or guardian ad litem.  
 
Section 377.32 provides that a
person who seeks to commence such an action as the decedent’s successor in
interest must file an affidavit or declaration providing certain information,
including the decedent’s name, date and place of decedent’s death, and
statements regarding whether the estate has been administered and that the
affiant or declarant is the successor in interest on decedent’s claim. (Id.,
§ 377.32(a).) A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate must also be
attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Id., § 377.32(c).)
 
            Plaintiff passed away on October 13, 2023. (Dorothy Ugorji Decl. ¶ 3.) Dorothy
Ugorji declares that Plaintiff was not married and was survived by only one
son, Miracle Chukwunyere Ugorji, who resides in Zambia. (Id. ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff also provides a declaration by Miracle Chukwunyere Ugorji, declaring
under penalty of perjury that he authorizes his aunt, Dorothy Ugorji, to be
substituted as successor in interest. (Miracle Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
Defendants argue in opposition that the request is time barred because
this motion was brought over six months after Plaintiff’s death. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 366.1.) However, the statutes that Defendants cite pertain to scenarios
where the Plaintiff dies before filing the action. Here, Defendants do not
dispute that the dog bite in this case took place on February 15, 2021 and
Plaintiff filed his action on January 30, 2023, while he was still alive. Therefore,
the six-month statute of limitations does not apply. 
 
Additionally, Defendants argue that Dorothy Ugorji cannot be appointed
successor in interest because she is not a surviving spouse or surviving child.
Dorothy Ugorji does not sufficiently respond to this argument. 
 
Moreover, as Defendants observe, no certified copy of Plaintiff’s
death certificate has been attached to the declarations in the motion, nor
specific facts in either declaration. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32.) Therefore,
the motion to appoint a successor in interest is denied.  
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion to appoint successor in
interest without prejudice.  
 
Moving Party shall give notice of the Court’s orders, and file a proof
of service of such.
 
 