 Case Number:  23STCV00750    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV00750




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Plaintiff Tiffany Cruz’s Responses to Special Interrogatories 
(2)
  Compel Plaintiff Tiffany Cruz’s Responses to Form Interrogatories
(3)
  Compel Plaintiff Ryan Cruz’s Responses to Requests for Production, Set One 
(4)
  Compel Plaintiff Ryan Cruz’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Jesus Alejandro Navarette   




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Tiffany Cruz and Ryan Cruz



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Jesus Alejandro
Navarette (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff Tiffany Cruz to serve verified
responses, without objections, to Special Interrogatories, Set One and Form
Interrogatories, Set One. Defendant also moves to compel Plaintiff Ryan Cruz to
serve verified responses, without objections, to Requests for Production, Set
One and Special Interrogatories, Set One. Defendant seeks monetary sanctions
for all motions. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Requests
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, on March 7, 2024, Defendant served Special and Form
Interrogatories, Set One, on Plaintiff Tiffany Cruz and Requests for
Production, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One on Plaintiff Ryan Cruz.
(English Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Defendant never granted extensions and Plaintiffs
failed to serve timely responses. (Id. ¶ 15.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs Tiffany Cruz and Ryan Cruz contend that they
served verified responses on June 12, 2024. Defendant does not dispute this is
reply, but still seeks monetary sanctions. 
 
Defendant
requests $1,250 in monetary sanctions for each motion, against Plaintiffs and their
counsel of record, representing an hourly rate of $250. (English Decl. ¶ 16.)
The Court finds sanctions are warranted because Plaintiffs failed to timely respond
or provide specific facts showing that they acted with substantial
justification or that imposing sanctions would be unjust. However, the amount
requested is excessive given the type of motion and the fact counsel can appear
at the hearing remotely. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in
the total amount of $1,120 against Tiffany Cruz and counsel; and $1,120 against
Ryan Cruz and counsel (2 hours of attorney time for each motion plus the filing
fees). 

 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff Tiffany Cruz and her counsel of record, jointly and
severally, in the reduced amount of $1,120. The Court further
GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Ryan Cruz and
his counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced
amount of $1,120.
 Said monetary sanctions are to be paid
to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 