 Case Number:  23STCV11541    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV11541




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Defendant’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Tamera Pinelo 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Jorge Carlos Castro



 
 
BACKGROUND       
 
Plaintiff Tamera Pinelo (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendant Jorge
Carlos Castro’s (“Defendant”) deposition. Plaintiff also seeks monetary
sanctions. Defendant opposes. No reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Sayeh M. Dayen, Plaintiff’s counsel, shows an
effort to coordinate Defendant’s deposition with Defendant’s counsel since
November 2023. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff asked for available dates for
Defendant’s deposition but received no response. (Dayen Decl. ¶ 3–4.) On
December 15, 2023, Plaintiff served a deposition notice set for January 8,
2024. (Id. ¶ 4, Exh. C.) Defendant objected on December 29, 2023 because
the date was unilaterally set. (Id., Exh. D.) On February 23, 2024,
Plaintiff served a second deposition notice set for March 4, 2024. (Id.
¶ 4, Exh. E.) On February 26, 2024, Defendant objected to the second
deposition notice and informed Plaintiff he was available for various dates in
March via teleconference. Plaintiff then asked for the basis for the
teleconference deposition but received no response. (Id. ¶ 7, Exh. G.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant contends that the motion is moot since he has
agreed to appear for an in-person deposition on August 13, 2024. (Renaud Decl.
¶ 15, Exh. K.) Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. No reply has been
filed.
 
Based on the information above, because Defendant served timely
objections, and has now agreed to appear at a noticed deposition, the motion to
compel is denied. The Court declines to award monetary sanctions to Defendant
since he has not shown a statutory basis under section 2025.450. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant’s deposition is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 