 Case Number:  23STCV02627    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV02627




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Ehud Levy, 1621 Westerly
  Terrace, LLC, and Alexander Henry Levin  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants Ehud Levy, 1621 Westerly
Terrace, LLC, and Alexander Henry Levin (“Defendants”) now move to compel
compliance with a deposition subpoena for medical records served on non-party Paramount
Family Health Center. Defendants also seek sanctions. No opposition has been
filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal
service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a
resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies;
to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the
subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿A motion to
compel compliance with a deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days after
completion of the deposition record. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.480, subd., (b); Board
of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 CA5th
1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            The Declaration of Christopher Babadjanian, Defendants’ counsel, states the following: “On March 28,
2024, I sent a meet and confer letter to the COR for Paramount Family Health
Center requesting compliance with the subpoena within 14 business days. I
advised that failure to comply with the subpoena by this deadline would force
my office to seek court intervention.” (Babadjanian Decl. ¶ 11, Exh. F.) “As of
the date of this declaration’s signing, I have not received a response to my
February 15, 2024, meet and confer letter.” (Id. ¶ 12.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On March 7, 2024, Defendants personally
served a deposition subpoena on Paramount Family Health Center. (Babadjanian
Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. E.) The date of production was March 25, 2024. (Id.) To
date, no response has been provided and no opposition has been filed.
Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to compel.
 
Defendants seek $1,240.51 in monetary
sanctions, representing a $160.17 hourly rate, $125 to personally serve the
motion, and the $60 filing fee. This also includes $500 in sanctions under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1992. While the Court finds that sanctions are
warranted, the amount requested in excessive given the lack of opposition and
type of motion at issue. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of
$345.17 (1 hour of attorney time, $91.50 to personally serve this motion, and
the $60 filing fee). 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants the motion for order compelling compliance
with the deposition subpoena. The Custodian of Records for Paramount
Family Health Center is ordered to
produce the documents identified in the deposition subpoena at its place of
business by August 5, 2024. 
 
The Court further grants Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $345.17 against Paramount Family Health Center.
Said monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel for Defendants within 30 days.

 
            Defendants shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.