  Case Number:  22CHCV01122    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    5/3/24     Case    Name: Dianaluz Haro v. Ezone Insurance Services, Inc.; Hoda Tabassi,    Vahdat Aghdasy; Hamed Aghdasy; and Does 1-50     Case    # 22CHCV01122      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    MAY 3, 2024    DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 22CHCV01122    Motion  filed: 2/20/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Ezone Insurance Services,  Inc. (“Ezone”), Hoda Tabassi (“Tabassi”), Vahdat Aghdasy (“Vahdat”), and Hamed  Aghdasy (“Hamed”) (collectively, “Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Dianaluz Haro (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court granting Defendants’ demurrer to the Complaint and  striking portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The demurrer  is SUSTAINED IN PART. The motion to strike is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   On November 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed her Complaint against Defendants  and Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of  action: (1) Unfair Business Practice; (2) Negligent Misrepresentation; (3)  Professional Negligence; and (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty.    On February 20, 2024, Defendants  filed the instant Demurrer (the “Demurrer”) with a Motion to Strike (the  “Motion”).   On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff  filed her Opposition to the Demurrer. Subsequently, Defendants replied on April  26, 2024.    ANALYSIS   “It is black letter law that a demurrer  tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint” (Lewis v.  Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A general demurrer is  proper, and typically used, where the plaintiff fails to allege “facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e); Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 1004.)   “The sufficiency of a cause of action is  evaluated by presuming all of the material factual allegations in the complaint  are true.” (Aubry v. TriCity Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal 4th 962, 966 –  967 (Aubry).) In ruling on a demurrer, a court may consider facts that  are properly subject to judicial notice.” (Arroyo v. Plosay, 225 Cal.  App. 4th 279.) In ruling on a demurrer, the allegations of the complaint must  be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.  (Glennen v. Allergan, Inc. (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1, 6.) Nevertheless,  while "[a] demurrer admits all facts properly pleaded, [it does] not  [admit] contentions, deductions or conclusions of law or fact." (George  v. Automobile Club of Southern California (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1112,  1120, 135.) Additionally, “[a] complaint otherwise good on its face is subject  to demurrer when facts judicially noticed render it defective.” (Evans v.  City of Berkeley (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1, 6.)   “It is error for a trial court to  sustain a demurrer when the plaintiff has stated a cause of action under any  possible legal theory. (Barquis v. Merchants Collection Assn. (1972) 7  Cal.3d 94, 103.) And it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without  leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any  defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment. (Blank v.  Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)” Aubry, supra, 2 Cal. 4th  at 967.)   A.     Meet and  Confer   A  party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with  the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of  determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the  objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a).)  A failure to meet and confer does not constitute grounds to sustain or overrule  a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections 430.41 (a)(4).)   On February 8, 2024,  Defendants’ counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel, detailing the issues raised in  the instant Demurrer and Motion. (Flagg Decl., ¶ 3.) Although there were email  exchanges between the parties from February 8 to February 16, 2024, the  proposed telephonic meet and confer did not occur. (Ibid.)   Therefore, the Court  concludes that the requirement for an in-person or telephonic meet and confer  has not been satisfied.   B.      First Cause  of Action – Unfair Business Practice (Business & Prof. Code §§ 17200 Et  Seq. and 17500 Et Seq.)   California Business and Professions Code sections 17200 et  seq are commonly referred to as California’s Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”),  which prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark v. Superior Court (2010) 50  Cal.4th 605, 610.) “An unlawful business practice or act is an act or practice,  committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by  law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.)   A private party has standing to bring a UCL claim if he or  she has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property as a result of  Defendant’s unfair competition. (See Law Offices of Mathew Higbee v.  Expungement Assistance Services (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 544, 555-56.) “[A]n  identifiable trifle [of injury] is enough for standing . . . .” (Id. at  561.)    The remedies for  UCL claims brought by private individuals are limited to injunctive relief and  restitution. (See, e.g., Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb and Lack  (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1133 (Prakashpalan).)    1)       UCL Claims against Ezone   Here, Defendants argue that the first cause of action fails to allege  any recoverable relief, noting, “The Complaint does not seek injunctive relief ...  [and] also doesn’t seek restitution against any Defendant[.]” (Dem., at p.  6.)  In her response, Plaintiff contends  that the Complaint alleges loss of “property damage, storage expenses, and  legal expense.” (Opp’n., at p. 3, Compl., ¶ 60.) The Complaint also prays for  “premiums expended.” (Compl., Prayer for Relief, ¶ “G.”)   In their Reply, Defendants maintain that the alleged loss of “property  damage, storage expenses, and legal expense” are inconsistent with UCL claims,  as they do not constitute restitution but unrecoverable damages. (Reply, at p.  2.)    Notably,  Defendants do not challenge the standing of Plaintiff in bringing the UCL  claim. Instead, they argue that the UCL action cannot be maintained when the  Complaint does not seek injunctive relief and/or restitution.    First, the  Court assumes, without deciding, that the remedies sought in the Complaint are  inconsistent with the UCL claim, and it examines whether this constitutes a  valid basis to sustain the Demurrer regarding the first cause of action.   In Frost v.  Witter (1901) 132.Cal.421 (Frost), the Supreme Court of California  stated that “[t]he ‘cause of action’ is therefore to be distinguished also from  the ‘remedy,’ which is simply the means by which the obligation or the  corresponding action is effectuated; and also from the ‘relief’ sought.” (Frost,  at p. 426, citation omitted.)    Moreover, as  stated in Zhang v. Superior Court (2013) 57 Cal.4th 364 (Zhang), “a  demurrer tests the sufficiency of the factual allegations of the complaint  rather than the relief suggested in the prayer of the complaint. [Citation]” (Zhang,  fn.10, see also Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, fn  9 [the prayer of a complaint is not subject to demurrer.])   In accordance  with the rules outlined in Frost and Zhang, the Court determines  that the issue concerning the relief pleaded in the Complaint is not within the  purview of a demurrer.    Therefore, the  Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action on this basis.   Second, the  Court finds that the Complaint sufficiently alleges recovery of restitution for  “premiums expended.”    “Under the law  of restitution, ‘[a]n individual is required to make restitution if he or she  is unjustly enriched at the expense of another. [Citations.] A person is  enriched if the person receives a benefit at another's expense. [Citation.]’  [Citation.] However, ‘[t]he fact that one person benefits another is not, by  itself, sufficient to require restitution. The person receiving the benefit is  required to make restitution only if the circumstances are such that, as  between the two individuals, it is unjust for the  person to retain it. [Citation.]’” (McBride v. Boughton (2014) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 389 (McBride).)    At the demurrer stage, the Court must construe the allegations  of the complaint liberally and presume all of the material factual allegations  in the complaint to be true. Applying this standard, the Court finds that the  Complaint, when read as a whole, indicates that Defendant Ezone, an insurance  broker, received a premium, or a portion thereof, paid by Plaintiff.   Defendants contend that those premiums were paid to the insurance  companies, not to Ezone, and thus would constitute damages, not restitution.”  (Dem., at p. 6.) However, the Court does not consider this contradiction, as it  is not “on the face” of the Complaint.    Therefore,  the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the first cause of action against the  business entity Defendant, Ezone, on this alternative basis.   2)      UCL Claims against Individual Defendants   In addition to contesting the inconsistent relief sought by  the Complaint, Defendants put forth a separate argument asserting that demurrer  is appropriate as to individual Defendants as none of them are alleged to have  engaged in any unfair business practice or act.   (Dem. at p. 6.)   In  response, Plaintiff argues that the Complaint alleges each of the Defendants  violated Insurance Code sections 790.012 and 790.03. (Opp’n., at p. 4.)  Additionally, Plaintiff asserts that the Complaint has alleged  misrepresentations and deceptive practices that established and support a UCL  cause of action. (Id., at p. 5.)   Insurance  Code section 790.02 sets forth, “No person shall engage ...  an unfair method of competition or an unfair  or deceptive act or practice in the business of insurance.”   Insurance  Code section 790.03 provides, “The following are hereby  defined as unfair methods of competition and unfair and deceptive acts or  practices in the business of insurance[:] (a) Making ... statement  misrepresenting the terms of any policy issued or to be issued ... or making  any false or misleading statement as to the dividends or share of surplus  previously paid on similar policies, or making any misleading representation or  any misrepresentation as to the financial condition of any insurer, or as to  the legal reserve system upon which any life insurer operates, or using any  name or title of any policy or class of policies misrepresenting the true  nature thereof, or making any misrepresentation to any policyholder insured in  any company for the purpose of inducing or tending to induce the policyholder  to lapse, forfeit, or surrender his or her insurance.” (Compl.,  ¶ 59, [“in violation of Insurance code §§ 790.02 and 790.03, subdivision (a)”])   The Court acknowledges the established pleading standards, as  outlined in Prakashpalan, which sets forth that  “[t]o state a cause of action based on an unlawful business act or  practice under the UCL, a plaintiff must allege facts sufficient to show a  violation of some underlying law.” (Prakashpalan, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 1133.)   Given  that the alleged violations of multiple Insurance Code sections are all  predicated on misrepresentation, the Complaint must allege sufficient facts to  show that a statement was made by the individual Defendants. As  discussed further in the analysis of the second cause of action, the only  specific statements alleged in the Complaint were attributed to a person other  than the named individual Defendants. Consequently, the Complaint fails to  sufficiently allege violations of the underlying law.   Accordingly,  the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND the Demurrer as to the first cause of  action against all individual Defendants only.    C.     Second Cause  of Action – Negligent Misrepresentation   A  Negligent Misrepresentation cause of action requires the following elements:  (1) assertion of an untrue fact; (2) honestly made in the belief it is true but  without a reasonable ground for such belief; (3) defendant’s intent to induce  plaintiff’s reliance upon the representation; (4) plaintiff’s justifiable  reliance upon the representation; and (5) resulting damages. (Melican  v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 182; County of  Kern v. Sparks  (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 11, 20; Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 173-74; Continental Airlines, Inc. v.  McDonnell Douglas Corp. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 388, 402;  Apollo Capital Fund LLC v. Roth Capital  Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243; Charnay v. Cobert  (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 185, fn. 14 [requiring pleading particularity with  facts that show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the  representations were tendered]; Cadlo v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (2004) 125  Cal.App.4th 513, 519 [requiring pleading specificity]; B.L.M. v. Sabo &  Deitsch (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 823, 834-836 [relevant intent is to induce  reliance, not to deceive]; Byrum v. Brand (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 926, 940  [rejecting a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation based on  unintentional omission or concealment]; see CACI 1903.)   Defendants argue that the  Complaint makes no factual allegations with respect to the individual  Defendants, thus justifying the sustainment of the Demurrer as to those  individual Defendants. (Dem., at p. 6.)   In response, Plaintiff asserts  that the Complaint alleges each of Defendants engaged in conduct giving rise to  the injuries and damages, citing multiple paragraphs in the Complaint. (Opp’n.,  at p. 6.)     However, in their Reply,  Defendants contend that “[s]imply lumping together the ‘Defendants’ into the  cause of action, when the alleged statements were made by an email account only  linked to Ezone by and through its employees [sic], Celeste Melchor, is  not a link to the individual defendants.” (Reply, at p. 3.)   Established law dictates  that statements amounting to assertions of untrue fact must be pleaded with  specificity. (See Charnay v. Cobert, supra, 145  Cal.App.4th at p. 185.)    Here, Plaintiff points to  paragraphs 25-28, and 30-34 of the Complaint for the statements. (Opp’n., at p.  6.) However, the Court finds that these statements were all made via email, with  the only person identified as making these statements being “Celeste Melchor.”  (See generally Compl., ¶¶ 25-28, 30-34.) No individual Defendants’ names were  explicitly linked to any specific statements.   Consequently, the Court determines  that the Complaint does not meet the specificity requirement necessary for  pleading a cause of action for misrepresentation. Failing to meet the  particularity requirement, which necessitates facts that show how, when, where,  to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered, the Complaint  does not provide the individual Defendants with sufficient details of the  charge to enable them to prepare a defense.      Accordingly, the Court  SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND the Demurrer as to the second cause of action  against individual Defendants only.   D.     Third Cause  of Action – Professional Negligence   The tort of Professional Negligence  requires "the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and  diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and  exercise." (Budd v. Nixen (1971) 6 Cal.3d 195, 200.) The existence  of a duty is a question of law for the court." (Kentucky Fried Chicken  of California v. Superior Court (1997) 14 Cal.4th 814, 819.) In the absence of a statutory provision establishing  a duty, one should only be created when "clearly supported by public  policy." (Cabral v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2011) 51 Cal.4th 764, 771.)               Defendants  demur the third cause of action as to all individual Defendants, arguing that  Plaintiff’s allegation of individual Defendants being agents of the insurer  does not support the imposition of a duty owed by the individual Defendant  absent some relationship or interaction. (Dem., at p. 7.)   By presenting  this argument while not demurring against Defendant Ezone, Defendants appear to  acknowledge that Defendant Ezone, as an insurance broker, indeed owes a duty  toward the insured Plaintiff. Consequently, the Court finds that the individual  Defendants also owe a duty as agents of Ezone, as alleged in the Complaint.    The Court  rejects Defendants’ argument that there is no “relationship or interaction”  between these individual Defendants and Plaintiff.    The  Complaint alleges that all Defendants renewed her policy on multiple  occasions (Compl., ¶¶ 37-38), conducted themselves as insurance experts  (Id., ¶ 71), and were obligated to advise Plaintiff as  to the differences in the policy types, the reductions in coverages between  policies as well as notify her about any potential lack of coverage that might  exist. (Id., ¶ 72.) (Underlines  added.) Therefore, the Court determines that the Complaint has sufficiently  alleged a duty owed by the individual Defendants.   Consequently,  the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the third cause of action.   E.      Fourth Cause  of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty   “A fiduciary relationship has been defined as “any relation existing  between parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is ... duty bound  to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party. Such a  relation ordinarily arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the  integrity of another, and in such a relation the party in whom the confidence  is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the confidence, can  take no advantage from his acts relating to the interest of the other party  without the latter's knowledge or consent.” (In  re Marriage of Varner (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 128, 141.)   In their Reply, Defendants state that “the demurrer to the fourth cause  of action is withdrawn, as to Ezone only[.] ... Regardless, the demurrer should  be sustained as to the individual Defendants,” arguing that “if any fiduciary  duty of care is owed, which is questionable, it can only be owed by Ezone, as  the broker.” (Reply, at p. 5.) However, the Court finds it unclear from  Defendants’ argument what the basis for severing the duty owed by the employer broker  and its agents is, given that the duty of care must be tendered by individuals.     If Defendants’ position is based on the argument that the individual  Defendants did not contract or otherwise interact with Plaintiff (Reply, at p.  5), the Court has previously analyzed and rejected this argument. By examining  the allegations on the face of the Complaint alone and presuming them to be  true, without considering Defendants’ dispute as to any interaction, the Court  concludes that the Complaint sufficiently alleged interactions between the  individual Defendants and Plaintiff. Thus, Defendants’ argument is  unpersuasive.   Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the fourth cause of  action.   F.      Motion to  Strike   The court may, upon a motion, or at any  time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,  false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,  subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn  or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order  of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are  that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been  drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds  for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of  judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   In  their Motion to Strike, Defendants seek to strike the following portions of the  Complaint:   Page 18, Paragraph 62, in its entirety:  "In committing the alleged acts, the Defendants, EZONE, TABASSI, VAHDAT,  HAMED and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, and each of them, acted with  oppression, fraud, and malice. All the alleged acts were performed or ratified  by Defendants' managerial employees and agents, who acted with knowledge that  Defendants' conduct would cause Plaintiff harm. Plaintiff is therefore entitled  to punitive damages."   Page 22-23, Paragraph 81, in its  entirety: "As to the conduct alleged herein to have been engaged in by the  representatives of the Defendants, EZONE,TABASSI, VAHDAT, HAMED, and DOES 1  through 50, inclusive, and each of them, the officers, directors, and managing  agents authorized and ratified each and every act on which Plaintiffs'  allegations of punitive damages herein are based. On that basis, pursuant to  Civil Code §3294, the Plaintiff is entitled to an award of exemplary and  punitive damages in an amount adequate to make an example of and to punish and  deter the Defendants, EZONE, TABASSI, VAHDAT HAMED, and Does 1 through 50,  inclusive, and each of them, from their conduct."   Page 23, Paragraph E of the prayer, in  its entirety: "For punitive and exemplary damages."   To state a claim for  punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege  specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith  v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for  punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid  of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion to strike may  lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the  defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point  of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63 (Turman).)     “Malice” is defined in  section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause  injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a  willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  “Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting  a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s  rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that  are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v.  Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th  847, 891.)     To prove that a defendant  acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,”  it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes  v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must  allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and  reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly  disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90).  Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude  that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or  contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.  4th 704, 725.)    To prove that a defendant acted  with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is  not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes  v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.)               Here, regarding the first and second causes of action,  the law is clear that punitive damages are not recoverable for UCL claims or  negligence misrepresentation. (See Ghazarian v. Magellan Health, Inc. (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 171, 195 [“A UCL claim cannot  serve as the basis for punitive damages.”]; Tri-Delta Engineering, Inc.   v. Insurance Co. of North America (1978) 80 Cal.App.3d 752, 759 [“Punitive damages are not recoverable for negligent misrepresentation.”])                Consequently, paragraph 62, which  falls under the UCL claim and seeks punitive damages, is stricken as such  damages are unrecoverable.                Here, Defendants argue that the  allegation in the Complaint only characterizes Defendants’ conduct in a  conclusory manner and are therefore subject to motion to strike, citing Brousseau  v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872. In response, Plaintiff contends  that “extensive allegations regarding the intentional and reckless  misrepresentations of the Defendants” are alleged in paragraphs 53-54, and 59.  However, as previously analyzed, these paragraphs, also  under the first cause of action for UCL claims, should be stricken as punitive  damages are not recoverable for UCL claims. Furthermore, the Court finds these  paragraphs to consist of conclusory statements and to be severely deficient, below  the pleading standards to support a finding that the  defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (See Turman, supra,  191 Cal. App. 4th at p. 63.)               Based on the above, paragraphs 62  and 81 of the Complaint, and paragraph E of the prayer, concerning punitive  damages should be stricken.                Therefore, the Court GRANTS the  Motion to Strike. Plaintiff is GRANTED LEAVE TO AMEND concerning the  allegations of punitive damages in the third and fourth causes of action.                 CONCLUSION   Defendants’  Demurrer is SUSTAINED IN PART.   The  Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND the Demurrer as to the first cause of action  against individual Defendants only, and the second cause of action.   The  Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the first cause of action against Ezone only,  and the third and fourth causes of action.   Defendants’  Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.    Plaintiff  is ordered to file and serve the First Amended Complaint within 20 days.   Moving  party is ordered to give notice.