 Case Number:  23CHCV00285    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    5/3/24     Case    Name: Alan Martinez v. Child And Family Guidance Center; Northpoint    School; and Does 1 through 50     Case    # 23CHCV00285      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    MAY 3, 2024    MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DEFAULT  AS TO NORTHPOINT SCHOOL  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 23CHCV00285    Motion  filed: 4/4/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Child and Family Guidance  Center (“CFGC” or “Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Alan Martinez (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court to set aside the default entered by the Clerk on March  13, 2024, against Northpoint School (“Northpoint”).    TENTATIVE  RULING: The Motion  to Set Aside is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   This case arises from alleged injuries sustained by  Plaintiff, caused by another student while attending Defendants’ school.   On February 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against  Defendants CFGC, Northpoint School, and Does 1 to 50, alleging six causes of  actions: (1) Negligence, (2) Negligent Retention/Hiring of Employees, (3)  Battery, (4) Assault, (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (6)  Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. Subsequently, on April 10, 2023,  Defendant CFGC filed its Answer, claiming it is the sole Defendant, erroneously  sued as both CFGC and Northpoint.    On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff submitted the Request for Entry  of Default against Northpoint (the “Default”), which was entered by the Clerk  on the same day.   On April 4, 2024, CFGC filed the instant Motion to Set Aside  the Default entered by the Clerk on March 13, 2024 (the “Motion”).   On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Opposition to the  Motion. Subsequently, CFGC replied on April 29, 2024.   ANALYSIS   The first portion of Code of Civil  Procedure section 473 subdivision (b) vests the trial court with the discretion  to vacate a judgment on a party’s or attorney’s excusable neglect. (Todd v.  Thrifty Corp. (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 986, 991.) It states in pertinent part,  “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her  legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding  taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or  excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy  of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the  application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,  in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or  proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)   Furthermore, Code  of Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(8) sets forth, in pertinent  part, “Every court shall have the power to do all of the following: ... (8) To amend  and control its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and  justice[.]”   A.     Motion to Set Aside              Defendant moves the Court to set aside the Default against  Northpoint requested by Plaintiff and entered by the Clerk on March 13, 2024,  maintaining that Northpoint is an unregistered fictitious business name of  CFGC, thus it is not a separate legal entity that may be subject to a default.    To support its position, CFGC provides its operations  coordinator, Nora Labowitz’s declaration, attesting, “Northpoint School is not,  and has never been, a legal entity separate from the Child and Family Guidance  Center.” (Labowitz Decl., ¶ 4.)    Furthermore, CFGC presents an authenticated copy of the  School Accountability Report Card published by it, pursuant to Education Code  section 35256, subdivision (c), for the 2021-2022 School Year. (Labowitz Decl.,  Ex. “4.”) The School Accountability Report Card displays that “Northpoint  School is a division of the Child and Family Guidance Center.” (Id., at  p. 3.)   The Court notes that established  precedents are instructive on the issue at bar. “The designation of ‘DBA’ or ‘doing  business as’ simply indicates [defendant corporation] operates under a  fictitious business name. [Citations.] Use of a fictitious business name does  not create a separate legal entity.” (Pinkerton's, Inc. v. Superior  Court (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1348 (Pinkerton).) “[W]hile  a corporation may be sued by its fictitious business name, once its true name  is discovered, all further proceedings should be in the corporate name.” (Id. at p. 1349.) Separate appearances  are not required, and an action cannot be maintained against the fictitious  business name if the legal entity is entitled to dismissal. (Ibid.)   Based on the above records and in alignment with the ruling  in Pinkerton, the Court determines that CFGC has established that  Northpoint, as an unregistered fictitious business name of CFGC, is not a  separate legal entity.   The Court further considers Plaintiff’s contention that  there is a discrepancy in the description of CFGC on its website and the  records of the California Department of Education. Plaintiff notes that on  CFGC’s website states it is a “501(c)(3) non-profit mental health care  organization,” whereas the California Department of Education lists Northpoint  School as a “K-12 private school.” (Opp’n., at p. 4.) However, the Court finds  that this discrepancy does not contradict CFGC’s position, especially given  that the School Accountability Report Card explicitly uses the fictitious  business name, Northpoint School, for reporting purposes in compliance with the  Education Code, consistent with the filing at the Department of Education.   Accordingly, the Court concludes that Defendant has not  overcome the evidentiary showing established by CFGC that Northpoint is its  fictitious business name, not a separate legal entity.   Therefore, the Court finds a valid basis exists, under  either the discretionary relief authority of Code of Civil Procedure section  437 or its inherent power as outlined under Code of Civil Procedure section  128, to set aside the Default entered against Northpoint on March 13, 2024.              CONCLUSION   The  Court SETS ASIDE and VACATES the Default entered against Northpoint School on  March 13, 2024.    The  Court GRANTS Defendant Child and Family Guidance Center’s request to file an  amended Answer expressly made on behalf of “Child and Family Guidance Center  dba Northpoint School.”   Defendant  Child and Family Guidance Center is ordered to file and serve the amended  Answer within 10 days.   Moving  party is ordered to give notice. 