 Case Number:  23STCV11727    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 8, 2024              TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Arturo Montoya-Bautista et al. v.
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV11727            
 
MOTION
TO WITHDRAW NOTICE OF APPEARANCE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Caesarstone Ltd.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Arturo
Montoya-Bautista and Magdalena Balderas-Molina
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/24/23: Complaint filed.
·        
12/28/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Lowe’s Home
Centers, LLC
·        
12/29/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Jacobe
Enterprises, Inc.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort action alleging that Plaintiff Montoya-Bautista
developed silicosis and consequential injuries by breathing in dust from
Defendants’ stone products generated by his work as a fabricator and polisher
of stone countertops.
 
Defendant Caesarstone Ltd moves to
withdraw its notice of appearance filed by its counsel Lydecker LLP. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Caesarstone, Ltd.’s
Motion to Withdraw General Appearance is GRANTED.
 
Caesarstone Ltd.’s Notice of
General Appearance filed January 16, 2024 is hereby stricken. Caesarstone Ltd.
shall be considered a Specially Appearing Defendant pending resolution of its
Motion to Quash Service of Summons.
 
The Motion to Quash Service of
Summons filed by Caesarstone Ltd. shall remain on calendar as scheduled.
Briefing on that motion shall be completed pursuant to code. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant Caesarstone Ltd moves to
withdraw its notice of appearance filed by its counsel Lydecker LLP. 
 
Plaintiff’s Filings
 
            As a
preliminary matter, each of Plaintiffs’ filings in this matter is identified as
Memorandum of Points and Authorities without reference to the specific motion
or the Defendant to which the motion is directed.  Plaintiffs’ repeated failure to label their
motions correctly has wasted extensive judicial resources because of the sheer
volume of filings in the instant docket. Counsel for the various Defendants in
this action have had no difficulty in properly labeling their filings in this
case, and most parties in other proceedings before this Court are similarly
untroubled by this requirement. Plaintiffs’ counsel is admonished for this
failure and is expressly ordered to properly label each filing going forward,
so the Court can identify the opposition that responds to each motion filed by
one of the many defendants in this action. 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant brings this motion under
the discretionary relief provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b).
This section states: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.
 
(Code Civ. Proc.
§ 473(b).) 
 
            Defendant argues that it should be
permitted to withdraw its general appearance filed on January 16, 2024, as a
proceeding taken against it because its counsel filed that appearance under the
mistaken belief that it had authorization to do so when no such authority had
been granted. Moving Defendant’s counsel declares it had previously been
retained to represent Caesarstone USA, a separate and distinct legal entity
from Caesarstone Ltd, but had not been retained to represent Caesarstone
Ltd., the moving Defendant. (Declaration of Christine Brice ISO Mot. ¶ 5.) Lydecker
was not aware of Plaintiffs’ intent to include Caesarstone, Ltd. as a named
Defendant prior to the amendment of the pleading to include this Defendant as a
Doe.  (Id.)  Defendant’s counsel declares that prior to
Lydecker’s retention, Tara Pehush, outside counsel for Caesarstone Ltd., was
granted an extension of time on behalf of Caesarstone Ltd. to retain adequate
counsel to evaluate service of process and determine an appropriate response by
Caesarstone Ltd. to the Amended Complaint. (Id.) Defendant’s counsel states
that, on January 16, 2024, in an attempt to show good faith and preserve a
conditional extension granted by Plaintiff’s counsel, its office inadvertently
filed a Notice of Appearance on behalf of Caesarstone Ltd. due to the mistaken
belief that prior authority had been granted to make such an appearance. (Brice
Decl. ¶8, Exh. D.) Defendant’s counsel discovered this error on January 17,
2024, when Caesarstone Ltd. advised Lydecker of its objection to jurisdiction
and provided limited authority to enter a special appearance for the sole
purpose of moving to quash service of summons for lack of personal
jurisdiction. (Brice Decl. ¶ 9.) Defendant’s counsel states that after it
ascertained Defendant’s original intent to file a Motion to Quash, rather than
making a general appearance and submitting to the jurisdiction of the Court,
and Lydecker filed the instant motion for relief as soon as was reasonably
practicable thereafter.  (Brice Decl.
¶12.) 
 
            Plaintiffs, in opposition, first
argue that section 473(b) does not apply to a Notice of Appearance. To the
contrary, there is an extensive body of caselaw broadly construing the term
“proceeding” within the meaning of this statute to include “any step taken by a party in the progress
of a civil action.” (Zellerino v.
Brown (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d
1097, 1105 [quoting Stonesifer v. Kilburn (1892) 94 Cal. 33, 43]; see
also Burns v. Superior
Court (1903) 140 Cal. 1,
5-6; Gipe v. Superior Court (1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 617, 626; Marblehead
L. Co. v. Superior Court (1923) 60 Cal.App. 644, 655-56.) 
 
            Plaintiffs also argue that the
motion is improper because it is not accompanied by a copy of the proposed
Motion to Quash Service of Summons on Caesarstone Ltd. Section 473(b) requires
that any application for relief “shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer
or other pleading proposed to be filed therein.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).) Plaintiffs
argue that the motion should be denied because the proposed Motion to Quash was
separately filed on February 6, 2024, rather than attached as an exhibit to
this motion filed two days later. This contention is unpersuasive. Nothing in
the statutory language requires that the proposed pleading—which, as Plaintiffs
concede, includes a motion to quash (Goddard v. Pollock (1974) 37
Cal.App.3d 137, 141)—be attached as an exhibit, merely that it accompany
the motion. The Motion to Quash has been presented to the Court and to the
parties and identified as the proposed pleading by the instant motion. That is
all that the statute requires. 
 
            The Court is persuaded by
Defendant’s arguments. There is a well-trod body of authority that “other
proceeding” should be construed broadly with respect to motions brought under
section 473(b). (Zellerino, supra, 235 Cal.App.3d at 1105.) Further, binding
precedent also holds that the Court should permit a party to withdraw a general
appearance made by counsel on that party’s behalf when the evidence
demonstrates that the attorney did not have actual authority to do so. (Wilson
v. Barry (1951) 102 Cal.App.2d 778, 780.) Defendant has also presented a
Motion to Quash Service of Summons which is currently set to be heard on June
7, 2024. Defendant has thus substantially complied with the requirements of
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b).  
CONCLUSION:
 
Accordingly, Defendant
Caesarstone, Ltd.’s Motion to Withdraw General Appearance is GRANTED.
 
Caesarstone Ltd.’s Notice of
General Appearance filed January 16, 2024 is hereby stricken. Caesarstone Ltd.
shall be considered a Specially Appearing Defendant pending resolution of its
Motion to Quash Service of Summons.
 
The Motion to Quash Service of
Summons filed by Caesarstone Ltd. shall remain on calendar as scheduled.
Briefing on that motion shall be completed pursuant to code. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 8, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 