 Case Number:  24SMCV00823    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  REZA SAFAIE,   Plaintiff, v.  LAW OFFICES OF RAFI MOGHADAM APC, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  24SMCV00823     Hearing Date:  November 19, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   DEFENDANTs’ motion to    strike portions of first amended    complaint    BACKGROUND This case arises from an attorney fee dispute.  Plaintiff Reza Safaie entered into an agreement with Defendants Law Offices of Rafi Moghadam APC and Rafi Moghadam to serve as a third-party payor of attorneys’ fees for Defendants’ client, Fair Ocean Management LLC.  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶9.)   Defendants submitted invoices which Plaintiff refused to pay as Plaintiff claims the services and expenses were “unconscionable and unreasonable.”  (Id. ¶10.)  Plaintiff told Defendants he no longer desired to serve as the third-party payor for Defendants’ client.  (Id. ¶11.)   Defendants advised Plaintiff that he did not have the legal right to terminate or cancel the third-party payor agreement, nor did he have the right to contest or dispute any of the billing.  (Id. ¶¶ 12-13.)  Defendants also told Plaintiff that once the case was over Defendants would seek attorneys’ fees, and once the Court awarded Defendants’ fees, Defendants would be willing to negotiate Plaintiff’s liability associated with the third-party payor agreement.  (Id. ¶17.)   Plaintiff contends this advice converted Defendants’ relationship with him into one of attorney and client.  (Id. ¶23.)  Plaintiff also claims Defendants’ “advice” was both malpractice and fraud.  (Id. ¶¶ 37, 46, 52-54.)   Based on these allegations, Plaintiff alleges six claims for (1) legal malpractice, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, (3) constructive fraud, (4) intentional fraud, (5) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and (6) negligence.   This hearing is on Defendant’s motion to strike portions of the FAC.  Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for attorneys’ fees because there is no legal basis for the award of such fees.  The Court previously granted a motion to strike the prayer for attorneys’ fees in the original complaint (July 9, 2024 Minute Order), but the first amended complaint again prays for attorneys’ fees.  When this was brought to Plaintiff’s attention he refused to amend his complaint to remove the offending prayer.  Instead, he filed a notice of errata.    LEGAL STANDARD The court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) A motion to strike can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof, even single words or phrases.  (Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 40.)  A motion to strike can be used as a “scalpel” – to cut out any “irrelevant, false or improper matters” inserted therein.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)  This includes allegations not essential to the claim or defense, allegations “neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense”, or a demand for judgment “requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §431.10(b).) Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5 requires that before the filing of a motion to strike, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. §435.5(a)(3).)  Defendants submit the Declaration of Ramin Rabieian which attests defense counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel, but the parties could not reach agreement.  This satisfies the meet and confer requirements of § 435.5.  DISCUSSION The Court has already ruled that Plaintiff cannot seek attorneys’ fees because Plaintiff has not specified a statutory or contractual basis for the fee request.  Plaintiff amended his complaint but continues to ask for attorneys’ fees.  Accordingly, the Court strikes the prayer for attorneys’ fees.   Plaintiff argues they are not seeking attorneys’ fees for the underlying action but rather fees and costs they incurred as a result of Defendant’s malpractice and breach of fiduciary duties.  But those are properly sought as compensatory damages and not as a separate relief for attorneys’ fees.  To the extent Plaintiff is seeking attorneys’ fees for the underlying action, it is duplicative of the prayer for compensatory damages.    CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to strike without leave to amend.     IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED:  November 19, 2024   ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 