  Case Number:  21STCV02371    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  39 Brink
Biologics, Inc. v. Sanofi, S.A., et al.
Case
No. 21STCV02371
Motion
for Protective Order
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Brink
Biologics, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Sanofi, S.A.
(“Sanofi”), Sanofi-Aventis U.S., LLC (“SAUS”), and Sanofi-Aventis Recherche
& Developpement, S.A. (“SARD”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  Plaintiff’s counsel took certain depositions,
and certain issues arose.  On August 25,
2023, Defendants filed a motion for a protective order.  The Court ruled on certain issues, but continued
the motion with respect to whether the depositions of Dr. Francisco Adrian, Ms.
Anlai Wang, and Mr. David Dube should be terminated.  Now, the motion is denied.    
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            Defendants
move for a protective order under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410, et
seq.  Per section 2025.420, the Court has
authority to make any order that justice requires to protect any deponent from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or
expense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420(b).)    
 
DISCUSSION  
 
            Defendants
seek to close the depositions of Dr. Adrian, Ms. Wang, and Mr. Dube.  The Court rules as follows:
 
            1.         Dr. Francisco Adrian and Ms. Anlai Wang

 
            Previously,
Plaintiff’s counsel raised concerns whether all of Ms. Anlai Wang’s notebooks
have been produced.  The Court denied the
motion without prejudice, and Plaintiff’s counsel has a hearing date for a
motion to compel on December 14, 2023.  It
is unclear whether this issue will form the basis of a new motion.  
 
The Court
cannot rule on this motion with respect to Ms. Wang and her supervisor, Dr.
Adrian, until this discovery issue is resolved. 
If all of Ms. Wang’s notebooks were not produced, Plaintiff’s counsel
will be entitled to depose Ms. Wang and Dr. Adrian on the additional documents
and any related issues.  If all of Ms.
Wang’s notebooks were produced, there is no basis to depose Dr. Adrian and Ms.
Wang again.  The Court must resolve any
discovery issues before ruling on this motion. 
Moreover, this motion does not advance the litigation, as there is no
functional difference between granting the motion without prejudice to Plaintiff
seeking to reopen the depositions if additional documents surface versus
denying the motion without prejudice to Defendant seeking to close the depositions
if no additional documents surface.  The
Court assumes the parties can resolve this issue amongst themselves.  Therefore, the motion is denied with respect to
closing the depositions of Dr. Adrian and Ms. Wang without prejudice. 
 
2.         David Dube
 
            On
August 1, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel served a fourth amended notice of
deposition confirming that David Dube will testify as the person most qualified
on a series of topics, including SARD Topic #37 (and the corresponding Sanofi
and SAUS topics).  (See Declaration of
Jack Valinoti, dated September 8, 2023, Exh. #3.)  Topic Number 37 asked Defendants to provide a
witness to testify about “[t]he identities of each batch of isatuximab subjected
to ADCC testing relating to NK-92 cell lines.” 
(See Declaration of Jack Valinoti, dated September 8, 2023, Exh. #3, p.
5.)  Plaintiff’s counsel argues that Dube
was unprepared to testify about “the identities of each batch of isatuximab
subjected to ADCC testing relating to NK-92 cell lines.”  (Plaintiff’s Opposition, p. 8:22-23.)  
 
On August 10,
2023, Defendants served an objection but also stated: “Subject to and without
waiving the foregoing objections, NK-92 cells were never part of a release test
for any product, and Sanofi will produce Mr. Dube to testify to ADCC release tests
performed on commercial or PPQ batches of isatuximab drug substance or drug
product.”  (Declaration of Matthew K.
Blackburn, Exh. L, p. 5.)  This appears
to have been acceptable to Plaintiff, as Plaintiff’s counsel argues: “Defendants’
responses to Brink’s deposition notice promised that Mr. Dube would be prepared
‘to testify as to ADCC release tests performed on commercial or PPQ batches of
isatuximab drug substance or drug product,’ but he was not.”  (Plaintiff’s Opposition, p. 8:24-26.)  Therefore, the Court reviews Dube’s
deposition transcript to determine whether he was prepared to testify with
respect to: “ADCC release tests performed on commercial or PPQ batches of
isatuximab drug substance or product.”  
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel points to Dube’s deposition testimony as evidence that he failed to do
so:
 
Q:        Okay.  Moving on to Topic 31, “The identities of
each batch of isatuximab subjected to ADCC testing relating to NK-92 cell
lines.” . . . . 
 
A:        The
identities of each -- ADCC testing relating to NK.  So what I can say clearly, we pulled all the
commercial releases from the time of approval, and I reviewed the certificates
of analysis, the testing protocols, the revision of the testing protocols and
the specifications.  
 
Q:        And did you
do that both for SARD and Sanofi SA and SAUS?
 
            . . . 
 
A:        Yeah.  So I spent -- first of all, I did it for all
commercial batches.  And as far as the
R&D batches, I did go through the analysis certificate, but I didn’t go
through them in the same level of detail. 
 
. . .
 
Q:        My question
was, are there other certificates of analyses that used NK-92 as part of the
testing that weren’t included here today?
 
A.        I’m not
aware of other certificates of analysis. 
It’s not the type of thing I would know specifically for R&D.  
 
(Declaration of Jack Valinoti,
Exh. #7, pp. 22:22:14-24:4, 73:21-74:2.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel focuses on Dube’s use of the term “R&D” during
this deposition:
 
            Q:        So do you know of any batches that did
not meet acceptance criteria?
 
            A:        Okay. 
So I don’t know of any commercial batches themselves, never used
NK-92.  Prior to commercial batches,
research batches or any other research activity, I’m not aware of any that
failed ADCC specifically.
 
            Q:        Now, when you say you’re not aware, did
you ask your colleagues, did you research it, did you find out for sure there
was none, or you just -- you don’t know about it?
 
            A:        I think it’s safe to say that I don’t
know it.  I didn’t ask every colleague to
go over all the research background.  But
I do know for the commercial, that’s where I spent my time reviewing. 
 
            Q:        But the topic isn’t limited to
commercial -- 
 
            A.        Okay.
 
            Q:        -- right?  It’s also -- it would also include what you
might call research, even drug products, drug substances, further along.  It’s wider than that.
 
            A:        Okay.
 
            Q:        So you didn’t ask anybody about whether
or not any of the research using NK-92 cells -- 
            
            A:        I did not ask about research.
 
            Q:        -- failed -- 
 
            A:        -- failing for NK-92.
 
(Id., Exh. #7, pp.
159:4-160:12.)  However, Dube was
designated to testify about “ADCC release tests performed on commercial or PPQ
batches of isatuximab drug substance or product.”  Dube was not designated to testify about ADCC
release tests performed on “research batches.” 
As discussed, this is a critical distinction under the license.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated October 4,
2023, pp. 3-4.)  The license prohibits “the
use of the Cell Lines or Modified Cell Lines for batch or quality control
release assays for one or more Antibody Products,” i.e., ADCC release tests on “Commercial
Products.”  (See Complaint, Exh. A, p. 7,
¶ 2(b).)  A “commercial product” is defined
by the license as “a product that has been granted marketing and regulatory
approval . . . .”  (Id., Exh. A, p.
2.)  However, the license permits “[b]atch
or quality control release assays for one or more Antibody Products” in
connection with “research, development, manufacture, use or other disposal of Antibody
Products . . . .”  (Id., Exh. A, p.
5.)  The license also permits use of the
cells for “[o]ther research and development purposes pertaining to Antibody
Products.”  (Id., Exh. A, p. 6.)  Simply, the license only prohibits the use of
NK-92 cells to test commercial batches, which are those that have been granted regulatory
approval.  The license permits use of
NK-92 cells to test all other batches, including “research batches.”  Therefore, it matters not that Dube was
unprepared to testify about “research batches.” 
He was not designated on that topic, and use of the NK-92 cells for research
purposes was not a violation of the license. 
  
 
            Dube
did not clearly testify about ADCC release testing on PPQ batches of isatuximab,
and it is unclear whether his testimony about “commercial batches” included “PPQ
batches.”  The Court thinks not because they
were two separate issues in the designation. 
It is similarly unclear whether Plaintiff’s counsel asked questions about
“PPQ batches.”  Defendants’ counsel argues
that “ADCC release testing was not performed on PPQ batches of
isatuximab.”  (Defendants’ Reply, p.
7:20-21.)  Dube did not testify to this
issue expressly.  Defendants’ counsel
argues that Dr. Crepin’s testimony supports this argument, but the Court cannot
draw the same conclusion based upon the limited portions of the deposition
cited by Defendants’ counsel.  (See Declaration
of Isabella Neal, Exh. I, pp. 98:22-99:5, 125:8-20.)  Regardless, it was Dube’s responsibility as
the PMQ to testify that ADCC release testing was not performed on PPQ batches
of isatuximab.
 
Similarly, the
Court denies the motion with respect to the issue of where ADCC testimony was
performed.  The PMQ topic was: “The
locations where you or someone on your behalf performed ADCC testing relating
to NK-92 cell lines on isatuximab.” 
(Declaration of Jack Valinoti, Exh. #3, p. 5:23-25.)  Contrary to Plaintiff’s counsel’s argument,
there is nothing improper with the witness relying on a summary chart researched
and prepared by counsel.  However, the
witness still must be able to testify that its contents are accurate, i.e., the
chart reflects all locations where NK-92 cells were used and no locations were
omitted from the chart.  Dube failed to
do so: “I don’t know where all the cells were used, so I don’t know where this
came from.  So what I’m stating is that I
would have to check.”  (Id., Exh. #7, p.
199:4-7.)  He further testified as
follows:
 
Q:        Okay. 
So you can’t actually confirm that this information is correct?
 
A:        I cannot personally confirm.
 
(Id., Exh. #7, p. 199:9-11.)  It is unclear whether the problem was that
Dube was designated to testify concerning commercial uses; there was no ADCC
testing relating to non-commercial uses; and the questions were asked broadly
to encompass both, which he could not answer. 
The parties will have a further opportunity to resolve that issue.  
 
Based upon the
foregoing, Defendants’ motion is denied. 
Defendants must supply a PMQ to testify about the following topics:
 
1.         “ADCC release tests performed on PPQ
batches of isatuximab drug substance or product.”  If Defendants did not perform any such tests,
as represented by Defendants’ counsel, the deposition should take one hour or
less.  
 
2.         “The locations where you or someone on
your behalf performed ADCC testing relating to NK-92 cell lines on isatuximab.”  Defendants’ counsel may research and prepare
a summary chart to assist the witness’s testimony, but the witness has to have
personal knowledge sufficient to testify to its contents.  
 
The Court
orders that this deposition shall be conducted remotely unless doing so would
violate any foreign law or the parties stipulate to conduct this deposition
in-person.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Defendants’ motion for a protective
order is denied without prejudice. 
 
            2.         The Court orders Defendants to provide
a PMQ on the following topics: (1) “ADCC release tests performed on PPQ batches
of isatuximab drug substance or product;” and (2) “The locations where you or
someone on your behalf performed ADCC testing relating to NK-92 cell lines on
isatuximab.”  
 
            3.         The Court orders the parties to
meet-and-confer concerning the scheduling of this deposition.  
 
            4.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

    
 
 
 