  Case Number:  21GDCV01055    Hearing Date:   November 17, 2023    Dept:  E Case No: 21GDCV01055  Hearing Date: 11/17/2023 – 10:00am  Trial Date: 11/27/23   Case Names:     First Amended  Complaint (FAC): MARK GERAGOS, an  individual; PAULETTE GERAGOS, an individual, v. ROBERT FRIEDLAND, an  individual; CAREEN A. FRIEDLAND, an individual; and DOES 1-10, inclusive    First Amended Cross-Complaint  (FACC): ROBERT FRIEDLAND, an individual,  and CAREEN A. FRIEDLAND, an individual, v. MARK GERAGOS, an individual;  PAULETTE GERAGOS, an individual, ALL PERSONS UNKNOWN, CLAIMING ANY LEGAL OR  EQUITABLE RIGHT, TITLE, ESTATE, LIEN OR INTERST IN THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN  THE CROSS-COMPLAINT ADVERSE TO CROSS-COMPLAINANTS’ TITLE, OR ANY CLOUD UPON  CROSS-COMPLAINAINTS’ TITLE THERETO, AND ROES 1-20 inclusive    [TENTATIVE RULING ON SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE, ANTI-SLAPP]  RELIEF REQUESTED  Cross-Defendants, Mark Geragos and Paulette Geragos,  move the Court for an order striking the following causes of action from  Cross-Complainants’ First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC” or “Cross-Complaint”)  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, Section 425.16 (the “anti-SLAPP”  statute):     1. Second Cause of Action  entitled, “Nuisance”; and   2. Third Cause of Action  entitled, “Trespass.”    In addition, as expressly  permitted by the California Supreme Court in Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal. 5th 376, 376, Cross-Defendants  separately will, and hereby do, move the Court for an order striking the  following specific allegations from the FACC pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure, Section 425.16 (the “anti-SLAPP” statute):    • ¶12: Pg. 4, Ln. 1-9: “On  or about the years 2020 and 2021, the Geragoses substantially interfered with  the private use and enjoyment by the Friedlands of the Friedland  Property.”     • ¶ 19: Pg. 5, Ln. 7-9:  “In acting as alleged herein, Cross-defendants have acted with conscious or  reckless disregard for the rights of the Friedlands, and with oppression and  malice, entitling the Friedlands to an award of exemplary damages.”     • ¶ 23: Pg. 5, Ln. 26 – Pg. 6,  Ln. 2: “In the First Amended Complaint at paragraph 12, Plaintiffs allege  that “with respect to the Disputed Area” Geragos invested in landscape and  improving the creek bed located between the properties. Plaintiff and their two  dogs enjoy the creek on a daily basis.” The Friedlands allege that the  “Disputed Area” is within the boundaries of the Friedland property, and its use  as described is a trespass on the Friedland property.”    • ¶ 24: Pg. 6, Ln. 3-12:  “In responses to Interrogatories verified on February 4, 2022, the response to  Interrogatory 11 states that:   “Plaintiffs spent approximately  $500 on the plants and flowers Mrs. Geragos gardens in the Disputed Area each  year. Responding Party spent approximately in excess of $100,000 to acquire and  install the permanent landscaping and design of the Commonwealth Property,  which includes portions of the Disputed Area. The wireless perimeter fence cost  approximately thousands of dollars to install and requires regular maintenance  to ensure it is operating correctly.”   The Friedlands allege that the  “Disputed Area” is within the boundaries of the Friedland property and its use  as described is a trespass on the Friedland property.”    • ¶ 24 (erroneously numbered):  Pg. 6, Ln. 13-22: “On May 9, 2023, the Friedlands entered into a purchase  and sale of the Friedland residence under the California Residential Purchase  Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions form for their purchase and sale which  contains a 45-day term for removal of the lis pendens. The proposed purchase  price was $6.2 million. That term was to expire on June 19, 2023. An extension  was secured from the prospective Buyer so that the Court could hear the Motion  to Expunge set on July 6, 2023 so they could consider the ruling.   The Court ruled as follows:   Plaintiffs did not establish the  probable validity of either of the real property claims in their FAC. and found  that the Lis Pendens did not pass the test of “preponderance of the evidence as  to probable validity.”    ¶ 25: Pg. 6, Ln. 23-25: “The prospective Buyers’ broker was supplied a copy of  the ruling. There was no Court order to prevent the Geragoses from continuing  to trespass from July 6, 2023 to the date of trial.”    ¶ 26: Pg. 6, Ln. 26 – Pg. 7,  Ln. 9: “On July 11, 2023, Mark Geragos  sent an email to counsel for the Friedlands stating that:    As for the “buyer”, as I am sure  you know given the Judge’s opinion the expungement does nothing to insulate her  (or him) from being added to the lawsuit.    This email is a privileged  communication and the Geragos statement that the Court ruling would “not  insulate” the prospective Buyer “from being added to the lawsuit as a party” is  a privileged communication for which no damages could result. However, the  communication needed to be disclosed to the prospective Buyer prior to the  close of escrow as a potential cloud on title as the communication could  reasonably be understood to mean that if the prospective Buyer were to purchase  the Friedland residence, that the Geragoses would continue to trespass and  would seek to prevent the prospective Buyer from erecting a fence at the  property line to provide security to the prospective Buyer and their family  against the Geragoses’ trespass onto the property.”    ¶ 27: Pg. 7, Ln. 10: “On July 11, 2023, the prospective Buyer cancelled the  escrow.”  ¶ 28: Pg. 7, Ln. 11-18: “On July 26, 2023, the Friedlands entered into a purchase  and sale of the Friedland residence under the California Residential Purchase  Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions form for their purchase and sale to a  second prospective Buyer. The proposed purchase price was $6,450,000. On August  1, 2023, the prospective Buyer was provided a counter-offer at the same price.  The prospective Buyer requested and on or about August 3, 2023, the prospective  Buyer was provided with Exhibit C, the survey performed at the direction of  Geragos which showed the “Disputed Area” over which Plaintiff has trespassed.  The prospective Buyer did not respond and the counter-offer expired. The two  offers are evidence of the value of the trespass.”    ¶ 29: Pg. 7, Ln. 19-21: “In acting as alleged herein, Cross-defendants have acted  with conscious or reckless disregard for the rights of the Friedlands, and with  oppression and malice, entitling the Friedlands to an award of exemplary  damages.”    Prayer For Relief, ¶ 3, Pg. 8,  Ln. 6: “That Cross-complainants recover  exemplary damages.”    Prayer For Relief, ¶ 5, Pg. 8,  Ln. 9: “That Cross-complainants recover  exemplary damages.”    This Motion will be  made on the grounds these causes of action seek to interfere with  Cross-Defendants’ actions in furtherance of their right to petition for redress  and right to free speech under the United States and California Constitutions,  and that such rights will be chilled if said cause of action is not stricken.  The Cross-Complaint seeks relief for conduct that is statutorily and absolutely  protected pursuant to the litigation privilege    PROCEDURAL  Moving Party:  Cross-Defendants, Mark Geragos and Paulette Geragos  Responding Party:  Cross-Complainants, Robert Friedland and Careen Friedland  Moving Papers: Motion to Strike  Opposition Papers: Opposition  Reply Papers: Reply  Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok  16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok  Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok    BACKGROUND  On 10/18/2021, Plaintiffs, Mark Geragos and Paulette  Geragos (“Geragoses”), filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) for Quiet Title  and Prescriptive Easement against Defendants Robert Friedland and Careen A.  Friedland.  In the General Allegations of  Plaintiffs’ FAC, Plaintiffs allege:    9. Plaintiffs are the owners of  the residential property located at 4134 Commonwealth Avenue, La Cañada  Flintridge, CA 91011 (the "Commonwealth Property"). A true and  correct copy of the legal description of the Commonwealth Property is attached  hereto as Exhibit A.     10. Plaintiffs are informed and  believe that Defendants own the residential property located at 887 Flintridge  Ave, La Cañada Flintridge, CA 91011 (the "Flintridge Property"). A  true and correct copy of the legal description of the Flintridge Property is  attached hereto as Exhibit B.     11. The Commonwealth Property and  Flintridge Property are adjacent to one another. The properties shall  collectively be referred to hereinafter as the "Properties." The  Properties are located entirely within Los Angeles County.     12. In 2001, Plaintiffs purchased  the Commonwealth Property and have been using the property as their primary  residence. Since that time, Plaintiffs have regularly invested in landscaping  and improving the creek bed located between the Properties without any  financial contribution from Defendants whatsoever. Exclusively as a result of  these improvements, the creek bed has been well-maintained for over twenty  years. Plaintiffs and their two dogs enjoy the creek on a daily basis.     13. Within the last 5 years, as  extended by California Judicial Council Emergency Rule 9, Plaintiffs and  Defendants have disagreed about the location of the boundary lines between the  Properties, especially with respect to the creek bed.     14. In or around August 2020,  Defendants hired a property surveyor to identify the boundary between the  Commonwealth Property and the Flintridge Property. In doing so, the property  surveyor entered onto the Commonwealth Property without Plaintiffs' consent.  Defendants also staked the alleged boundary of the Flintridge Property at  locations that Plaintiffs dispute. The boundary line identified by Defendants'  property surveyor improperly encroaches onto Plaintiffs' land. Defendants  further tore down the pre-existing chain-link fence between the Properties  without providing advance notice to the Plaintiffs, which Plaintiffs allege was  on their property. On information and belief, Defendants were also cited by  code enforcement for their illegal and unpermitted attempts at erecting a  fence. On several occasions, Defendants' representatives also threw large rocks  at Plaintiffs' two family dogs.    15. Since August 2020, Plaintiffs  have requested on several occasions that Defendants and their agents cease  entering onto Commonwealth Property without Plaintiffs' consent, staking the  disputed boundary of the Properties, and tearing down the existing chain-link  between the Properties. Defendants have failed or refused to comply with  Plaintiffs' requests or to engage in efforts to an amicable solution.     16. In October 2021, Plaintiffs  hired a surveyor to prepare a survey of the Commonwealth Property. Plaintiffs  informed Defendants that the surveyor would survey the Commonwealth Property  prior to the commencement of the survey. Plaintiffs received no objections or  responses from Defendants.    (Pl. FAC ¶¶9-16.)    On 09/18/2023,  Defendants/Cross-Complainants, Robert Friedland and Careen A. Friedland  (“Friedlands”), filed a Verified First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) for Quiet  Title, Nuisance, and Trespass.    In relevant part of the FACC with  respect to the second cause of action for nuisance, Cross-Complainants allege:    11. Cross-Complainants  incorporate herein the allegations of paragraphs 1 to 5 and 7 to 10 above.    12. On or about the years 2020  and 2021, the Geragoses substantially interfered with the private use and  enjoyment by the Friedlands of the Friedland Property. The Friedlands permitted  their adult daughter to occupy the Friedland Property as her residence. The  Geragoses interfered with the Friedlands' daughter's peaceful occupancy by  causing and allowing the Geragoses' dogs to enter upon the Friedland Property  without permission and there run, bark and defecate, and approach, frighten and  harass the Friedlands' daughter and her pets. Cross-defendant Paulette Geragos  came without permission onto the Friedland Property and there disturbed the  peace, accosted and yelled at the Friedlands' daughter. Paulette Geragos also  accosted and yelled at the Friedlands' daughter while she was walking her dog  in a nearby street.     13. Paulette Geragos loudly  accused the Friedlands' daughter of trespassing onto the Geragos Property and  assaulting the Geragoses' dogs. The actual facts are that the Geragoses’ dogs  and Paulette Geragos while they were present on the Friedland Property vexed,  annoyed and harassed the Friedlands' daughter and her pets. To mark the  boundary and to prevent such vexatious intrusions, the Friedlands arranged for  a licensed land surveyor to survey the boundary so that it would be clearly  marked and for a fence to be installed on the Friedland Property to provide  privacy.     14. Cross-defendants interfered  with the fence installers as they were being guided by the surveyor's work,  accosting and yelling at them, and preventing them from completing their work.  After the work crew left the scene, the survey marks were removed from the  ground at the Friedland Property without the Friedlands' permission.  Cross-complainants are informed and believe, and therefore allege, based on the  behavior of the Cross-defendants described above, that the survey marks were  removed by Cross-defendants.     15. The Friedlands' plans for  their daughter and her pets to reside at the family-owned home where she had  spent part of her childhood were thwarted by Cross-defendants’ actions  described above. She no longer felt comfortable and safe living there, so she  left.     16. In so acting,  Cross-complainants created a condition or permitted a condition to exist that  was indecent or offensive to the senses, and was an obstruction to the free use  of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.  The condition substantially interfered with Cross-complainants' use or  enjoyment of their land.     17. An ordinary person would  reasonably be annoyed or disturbed by Cross-defendants’ conduct.     18. The Friedlands did not  consent to Cross-defendants' conduct, which was a substantial factor in causing  harm to the Friedlands. The harm was serious and there was no public benefit to  Cross-defendants' conduct.     19. In acting as alleged herein,  Cross-defendants have acted with conscious or reckless disregard for the rights  of the Friedlands, and with oppression and malice, entitling the Friedlands to  an award of exemplary damages.    (FACC ¶¶ 11-19.)    In relevant part of the FACC with  respect to the third cause of action for trespass, the Friedlands allege:    20. Cross-complainants  incorporate herein the allegations of paragraphs 1 to 5, 7 to 10 and 12 to 19  above.     21. On or about October 2015 the  Friedlands hired a surveyor to confirm the boundary lines of the properties.  The surveyor placed survey marks at points along the boundary lines. The survey  was also conducted because a fence had been constructed that encroached on the  Friedland’s property. The fence was removed by the Friedlands. On February 22,  2016 and again on April 1, 2016 a letter was sent to Mark Geragos alleging that  Geragos had removed the survey stakes placed by Friedlands.     22. In or about 2021, Friedland  again hired a surveyor to confirm the boundary lines of the properties and  marks were placed on the boundary lines. Fence posts were also installed at the  boundary lines. Cross-defendants intentionally and/or recklessly entered onto  the Friedland property without permission, harassed the Friedlands' daughter,  and removed marks as boundary stakes and removed the fence posts that had been  installed by the Friedlands' land surveyor and a worker and in doing so,  trespassed on the Friedland property.     23. In the First Amended  Complaint at paragraph 12, Plaintiffs allege that “with respect to the Disputed  Area” Geragos invested in landscape and improving the creek bed located between  the properties. Plaintiff and their two dogs enjoy the creek on a daily basis.”  The Friedlands allege that the “Disputed Area” is within the boundaries of the  Friedland property, and its use as described is a trespass on the Friedland  property.     24. In responses to  Interrogatories verified on February 4, 2022, the response to Interrogatory 11  states that:   “Plaintiffs spent  approximately $500 on the plants and flowers Mrs. Geragos gardens in the  Disputed Area each year. Responding Party spent approximately in excess of  $100,000 to acquire and install the permanent landscaping and design of the  Commonwealth Property, which includes portions of the Disputed Area. The  wireless perimeter fence cost approximately thousands of dollars to install and  requires regular maintenance to ensure it is operating correctly.”     The Friedlands allege that the  “Disputed Area” is within the boundaries of the Friedland property and its use  as described is a trespass on the Friedland property.     24. On May 9, 2023, the  Friedlands entered into a purchase and sale of the Friedland residence under  the California Residential Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions  form for their purchase and sale which contains a 45-day term for removal of the  lis pendens. The proposed purchase price was $6.2 million. That term was to  expire on June 19, 2023. An extension was secured from the prospective Buyer so  that the Court could hear the Motion to Expunge set on July 6, 2023 so they  could consider the ruling. The Court ruled as follows:     “Plaintiffs did not establish the  probable validity of either of the real property claims in their FAC and found  that the Lis Pendens did not pass the test of “preponderance of the evidence as  to probable validity.”     25. The prospective Buyers’  broker was supplied a copy of the ruling. There was no Court order to prevent  the Geragoses from continuing to trespass from July 6, 2023 to the date of  trial.     26. On July 11, 2023, Mark  Geragos sent an email to counsel for the Friedlands stating that:     As for the  “buyer”, as I am sure you know given the Judge’s opinion the expungement does  nothing to insulate her (or him) from being added to the lawsuit.    This email is a privileged  communication and the Geragos statement that the Court ruling would “not  insulate” the prospective Buyer “from being added to the lawsuit as a party” is  a privileged communication for which no damages could result. However, the  communication needed to be disclosed to the prospective Buyer prior to the  close of escrow as a potential cloud on title as the communication could  reasonably be understood to mean that if the prospective Buyer were to purchase  the Friedland residence, that the Geragoses would continue to trespass and  would seek to prevent the prospective Buyer from erecting a fence at the  property line to provide security to the prospective Buyer and their family  against the Geragoses’ trespass onto the property.    27. On July 11, 2023, the  prospective Buyer cancelled the escrow.     28. On July 26, 2023, the  Friedlands entered into a purchase and sale of the Friedland residence under  the California Residential Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions  form for their purchase and sale to a second prospective Buyer. The proposed  purchase price was $6,450,000. On August 1, 2023, the prospective Buyer was  provided a counter-offer at the same price. The prospective Buyer requested and  on or about August 3, 2023, the prospective Buyer was provided with Exhibit C,  the survey performed at the direction of Geragos which showed the “Disputed  Area” over which Plaintiff has trespassed. The prospective Buyer did not  respond and the counter-offer expired. The two offers are evidence of the value  of the trespass.     29. In acting as alleged herein,  Cross-defendants have acted with conscious or reckless disregard for the rights  of the Friedlands, and with oppression and malice, entitling the Friedlands to  an award of exemplary damages.    (FACC ¶¶ 20-29.)      LEGAL STANDARD – SPECIAL  MOTION TO STRIKE    “A SLAPP suit – a strategic  lawsuit against public participation – seeks to chill or punish a party's  exercise of constitutional rights to free speech and to petition the government  for redress of grievances. [Citation.] The Legislature enacted¿Code of Civil  Procedure section 425.16—known as the anti-SLAPP statute—to provide a  procedural remedy to dispose of lawsuits that are brought to chill the valid  exercise of constitutional rights. [Citation.]” (Neville v. Chudacoff (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1261 citing Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048,  1055-1056.)    “A cause of action against a  person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right  of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the  California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a  special motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has  established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the  claim.” (CCP §425.16(b)(1).)  “As used in this section, “act in  furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the United  States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue” includes:  (1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,  executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized  by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an  issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial  body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or  oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum  in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in  furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the  constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an  issue of public interest.” (CCP §425.16(e).)    “Subdivision (e)  elaborates the four types of acts within the ambit of a SLAPP…” (Hecimovich v. Encinal School Parent Teacher  Organization (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 450, 463.) “Both the third and fourth  categories of conduct that fall within section 425.16 are subject to the  limitation that the conduct must be in connection with an issue of public  interest. The Legislature intended this requirement to have a limiting effect  on the types of conduct that come within the third and fourth categories of the  statute.” (Kieu Hoang v. Phong Minh Tran (2021)  60 Cal.App.5th 513, 524.) “Thus, statements, writings and pleadings in  connection with civil litigation are covered by the anti-SLAPP statute, and  that statute does not require any showing that the litigated matter concerns a  matter of public interest. [Citations.]” (Neville  v. Chudacoff (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1261.)    Consideration of a section 425.16  motion to strike involves a two-step process. “First, the court decides whether  the defendant has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action  is one arising from protected activity. The moving defendant’s burden is to  demonstrate that the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken  ‘in furtherance of the [defendant]’s right of petition or free speech under the  Unites States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue,’ as  defined in the statutes. (§425.16 subd. (b)(1). If the court finds such a  showing has been made, it then determines whether the plaintiff has  demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Equilon Enterprises, LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th  53, 67.)    “In making its determination, the  court shall consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits  stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (CCP  §425.16(b)(2).)  Although the defendant bears the initial burden, a cause of  action does not “arise from” protected activity simply because it is filed  after protected activity took place. (City  of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 76-77.) Nor does the fact  “[t]hat a cause of action arguably may have been triggered by protected  activity” necessarily entail that it arises from such activity. (Id. at 78.) The trial court must instead  focus on the substance of plaintiff’s lawsuit in analyzing the first prong of a  special motion to strike. (Scott v.  Metabolife Internat, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 404, 413-414.) “The  defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have  been an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.” (Peregrine Funding, Inc. v. Sheppard Mullin  Richter & Hampton LLP (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 658, 670.) “[I]t is the  principal thrust or gravamen of the plaintiff’s cause of action that determines  whether the anti-SLAPP statute applies (citation), and when the allegations referring  to an arguably protected activity are only incidental to a cause of action  based essentially on non-protected activity, collateral allusions to protected activity  should not subject the cause of action to the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Martinez v. Metabolife Internat, Inc., (2003)  113 Cal.App.4th 181, 188.)    “In deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is met,  a court considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits  stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (§425.16 (b); City of Cotati, supra at 79.)    TENTATIVE RULING     As a preliminary matter, the briefs on this motion—on  both sides—are not exactly models of clarity.     The Geragoses argue that the FACC implicates the anti-SLAPP  statue because it arises out of the Geragoses’ constitutionally protected  activities – filing pleadings with a court and communications in anticipation  of court proceedings.    The Friedlands argue that the  gravamen of the  contested causes of action is that Geragos’ filed a complaint for quiet title  and a statutorily mandated lis pendens.     The Geragoses argue:    There can be no dispute the first prong of the anti-SLAPP  statute is met. The allegations on the face of the FACC confirm claims are  being advanced against Cross-Defendants due to their participation in the  litigation process. More specifically, Cross-Complainants seek not only to  quiet title to the “Disputed Area” (a superfluous claim given that is exactly  what Cross-Defendants seek in their Complaint), but also trespass and nuisance  given the Disputed Area. Furthermore, Cross-Complainants’ discovery responses,  an email communication relating to this litigation, and the allegations in the  underlying lawsuit filed by Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants make clear the second  and third causes of action all arise out of protected activity. (FACC, ¶¶  23-26).     The express allegations in the FACC alone would suffice in  meeting the first prong. However, there is much more.  Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ verified discovery responses confirm, without  equivocation, that the only “harm” (i.e., damages) suffered was due to the filing  of the lis pendens. (Babaian Decl., ¶¶ 4-5; Ex. A). Their retained expert  witness has opined, and intends to offer such opinion in this case, stating the  value of the property was adversely affected due to the filing of the lawsuit  and lis pendens by Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants, nothing more. (Babaian Decl.,  ¶¶ 9-10; Ex. B).    (Movants’ Mot. p. 17.)    While neither the anti-SLAPP statutory framework nor the  case law interpreting that framework are models of legislative precision, it  appears that, under the case law, there is some support for the Geragoses’  argument that the first prong has been met. (See Manhattan Loft, LLC v. Mercury Liquors, Inc. (2009) 173.  Cal.App.4th 1040, 1050 [finding that landlord’s filing of slander of title  cause of action in response to tenants’ filing of lis pendens fell “squarely within” the anti-SLAPP’s protection].)   However, other cases hold that a cause of action does not  “arise from” protected activity simply because it is filed after protected  activity took place. (City of Cotati v.  Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 76-77.)    Nor does the fact “[t]hat a cause of action arguably may  have been triggered by protected activity” necessarily entail that it arises  from such activity. (Id. at 78.)    The trial court should, other cases make clear, instead  focus on the substance of plaintiff’s lawsuit in analyzing the first prong of a  special motion to strike. (Scott v.  Metabolife Internat, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 404, 413-414.)    “The defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause of  action must itself have been an act in furtherance of the right of petition or  free speech.” (Peregrine Funding, Inc. v.  Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 658, 670.)     “[I]t is the principal thrust or gravamen of the  plaintiff’s cause of action that determines whether the anti-SLAPP statute  applies (citation), and when the allegations referring to an arguably protected  activity are only incidental to a cause of action based essentially on non-protected activity, collateral allusions to protected activity  should not subject the cause of action to the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Martinez v. Metabolife Internat, Inc., (2003)  113 Cal.App.4th 181, 188.)    Here, the Geragoses’ acts underlying the Friedlands’  allegations are those pertaining to nuisance and trespass, not acts in  furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.    Although the FACC mentions the FAC, the lis pendens, and interrogatories, these  appear to be incidental to the causes of action.    As further explained in City  of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 77:    To construe “arising from” in¿section 425.16, subdivision  (b)(1)¿as meaning “in response to,” as Owners have urged, would in effect  render all cross-actions potential SLAPP's. We presume the Legislature did not  intend such an absurd result. (See generally¿People v. Mendoza¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 896, 912, fn. 7¿[98 Cal.Rptr.2d  431, 4 P.3d 265].)¿Absurdity aside, to suggest that all cross-actions arise  from the causes of action in response to which they are pled would contravene  the statutory scheme governing cross-complaints.    (City of Cotati v.  Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 77.)    Adding more confusion to the Court’s ability to analyze the  outcome of this motion is the “evidence” the Geragoses provide to support their  argument that the second and third causes of action arise from protected  activity.    As a preliminary matter, the Court notes as follows, “In  deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is met, a court considers ‘the  pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which  the liability or defense is based.” (§425.16 (b); City of Cotati, supra at 79.)    The Geragoses argue as follows:    Defendants/Cross-Complainants do not hide their intentions.  In written discovery, Cross-Complainants were asked to state all facts that  support their claim in Paragraph 12 that “the Geragoses substantially  interfered with the private use and enjoyment by the Friedlands of the  Friedland Property.” The response leaves no room for interpretation:    Special Interrogatory No. 25  State all facts that support YOUR contention the “the  Geragoses substantially interfered with the private use and enjoyment by the  Friedlands of the Friedland Property,” as alleged in Paragraph 12 of the  cross-complaint.    Response to No. 25  On or about November 24, 2021 Plaintiffs recorded a lis pendens.  (Declaration of Pierro H. Babaian [“Babaian Decl.”], ¶ 2;  Exhibit [“Ex.”] A).    Similarly, they concede only documents in support of this  claim was “The recorded lis pendens.” (Babaian Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. A). Notably, the  only “harm” (an essential element for both the second and third causes of  action) Defendants/Cross-Complainants claim to have suffered in support of  their cross-complaint results from the filing of the lis pendens:    Special Interrogatory No. 43  State all facts that support YOUR contention YOU suffered  “harm” as a result of Cross-Defendants’ conduct, as alleged in the  cross-complaint.  Response to No. 43  The recordation on or about November 24, 2021 of the lis pendens interferes with the  Plaintiffs’ ability to market and sell the 887 Flintridge Ave La Canada  Flintridge property  (Babaian Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. A)    Moreover, they admit only document available to support the  claimed “harm” is the “The lis pendens”. (Babaian Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A).    Even when Defendants/Cross-Complainants were asked to state  all facts in support of their claim “Cross-defendants have acted with conscious  or reckless disregard,” they admit it was because “Geragos, with the apparent  assistance of counsel[] recorded the lis pendens.” (Babaian Decl., ¶ 6; Ex. A).  They give the same response when asked for all facts that support their  contention Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants acted with “malice” or “oppression”.  (Babaian Decl., ¶¶ 7- 8; Ex. A).    Defendants/Cross-Complainants further contend several  prospective buyers did not purchase the Flintridge Property as a result of  Cross-Defendants’ conduct. (FACC, ¶¶ 24-28). They insist the lawsuit and  recordation of the lis pendens caused these damages. In addition to the written  discovery responses discussed above, Defendants/Cross-Complainants retained an  “expert” witness to attest the value of the Flintridge Property has been  adversely affected. (Babaian Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. B). That retained expert testified  that she had been hired to opine on the reduced value of the Flintridge  Property as a result of the instant lawsuit and lis pendens. (Babaian Decl., ¶  10; Ex. B). She testified the value of the property has been impacted “solely”  because of the filing of the instant lawsuit:    Q. You understand you’re here supposedly as an expert to  testify that there’s been an impact on the value? You understand that?  A. Because of your lawsuit, yes.  Q. Correct.  Okay. Solely because of the lawsuit; right?  A.    Solely because of the lawsuit.   Q. Got it.    (Babaian Decl., ¶ 10; Ex. B).    In other words, Cross-Complainants have hired an expert to  support their claim the value of the Flintridge Property has been adversely  affected by the quiet title claim and issues relating to the alleged “trespass”  and “nuisance.” The retained expert concedes, however, that the only basis for  her opinion is that the Plaintiffs filed a lawsuit.     This is a textbook example of the purpose of the anti-SLAPP  statute. There is not just a suggestion that Defendants/Cross-Complainants have  filed the FACC to “punish” Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants for engaging in the  constitutionally protected act of filing a lawsuit, they audaciously admit it.  They are steadfast in their position. They advance the allegations in the FACC,  have admitted to doing so in verified discovery responses, and have presented  an “expert” witness to assert such claims. The California legislature has  spoken loudly and unequivocally on the issue – such claims are not permitted.      (Movants Mot. p. 11-13.)    As to the other arguments asserted by the Geragoses, the  Court has its doubts about Cross-Defendants’ arguments.    As stated in City of  Cotati:    Owners also have complained that City filed its lawsuit  tactically, so that they would be “forced ... to bear the expense and burden of  simultaneously litigating two different legal actions in two different  jurisdictions.”¿But City's subjective intent, as discussed, is not relevant  under the anti-SLAPP statute. As a corollary, a claim filed in response to, or  in retaliation for, threatened or actual litigation is not subject to the  anti-SLAPP statute simply because it may be viewed as an oppressive litigation  tactic.     (City of Cotati v.  Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78.)       The Court notes that the arguments that the Geragoses make  on regarding the litigation privilege and Civil Code §47(b) are, frankly,  unclear.   The Court also notes that despite the Geragoses requesting  to strike 12 portions of the Friedlands’ FACC, in addition to the second and  third causes of action, Cross-Defendants provide no argument as to the legal  basis as to why those portions should be stricken.     The Court further notes that the Friedlands’ Opposition is similarly  unclear.    Notably, the Opposition brief doesn’t even attempt to  establish a probability of prevailing on the second and third causes of action.    Finally,  in reply, the Geragoses reassert that the entire basis for the Cross-Complaint  implicate the anti-SLAPP statute and the opposition failed to address this  evidence.    The  Reply argues that the Cross-Complaint and the evidence in the moving papers  establish that the only reason for the lawsuit was because of the recorded lis pendens. (Reply 3: 9-28.)    Moreover,  the Geragoses’ claim that there is another basis for advancing these  allegations or that the allegations are ancillary fail as the gravamen of the  FACC is based on the filing of a lawsuit and the lis pendens. (Id. at 5: 14-17;  7: 6-11.) Lastly, Cross-Defendants argue that the Cross-Complainants have  failed to present any evidence in their opposition.    The  Court finds that the first anti-SLAPP prong has not been satisfied here.    “A claim arises  from protected activity when that activity underlies or forms the basis for the  claim.” (Park v. Board of Trustees of  California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1062.)  Additionally, “the  mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity took place does not  mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP  statute.” (Id. at 162.) As the Supreme Court continued, “in ruling on an  anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged claim  and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently form  the basis for liability.” (Id.)    Again, to accept  the Geragoses’ argument here would appear to open the door, as noted in Cotati, to the argument that any  cross-complaint is subject to anti-SLAPP.   That wouldn’t, in the Court’s view, make much sense.   This matter involves a property dispute. The issues raised in both the  FAC and FACC concern property lines and whether the other party trespassed or  interfered with the use of private property. Cross-Defendants have failed to  establish that action of filing a cross-complaint based on the lis pendens  is subject to the anti-SLAPP statute; the action does not arise out of acts in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.   For the reasons set out above, the Geragoses’ motion to  strike the second and third causes of action pursuant to the anti-SLAPP statute  is DENIED. Their motion to strike the enumerated portions of the FACC mentioned  in Cross-Defendants’ notice is also DENIED.         Case Name: MARK GERAGOS, et al. v. ROBERT FRIEDLAND,
et al.Hearing Date: 11/17/2023 – 10:00am
Case No: 21GDCV01055
Trial Date: 11/27/23

TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES RELIEF REQUESTED
Cross-Defendants MARK GERAGOS and
PAULETTE GERAGOS (“Defendant”) will, and hereby do, move the Court for an order
compelling Cross-Complainants ROBERT FRIEDLAND and CAREEN A. FRIEDLAND (the
“Friedlands”) to produce documents in compliance with their discovery
obligations, in response to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Four,
within 10 days of the hearing on this Motion, and for monetary sanctions of
$3,570. This motion is made pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure §§ 2031.300, 2031.310 and 2031.320 on the grounds that the
responding party has failed, without justification, to adequately produce
documents. Notice is additionally given that
Defendants will request that the Court award monetary sanctions against the
Friedlands and/or their counsel, and in favor of Cross-Defendants, in the sum
of $3,570 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.010, et seq., Code of
Civil Procedure § 2031.320, in order to offset the cost of bringing this motion.ProceduralMoving Party: Cross-Defendants, Mark
Geragos and Paulette Geragos
Responding Party: Cross-Complainants, Robert Friedland and Careen A. FriedlandProof of Service Timely Filed (CRC
Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): OkMoving Papers: Notice/Motion;
Separate StatementOpposition Papers: OppositionReply Papers: Reply LEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL FURTHER – REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTIONUnder CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action..., if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.”  The Section
specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery
“may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of
any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature,
custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.” CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that:“(1)   A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2)   A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3)  
An objection in the response is without merit or too general.”   Under
CCP § 2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”   “In
the more specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the
party who asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for
the request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of
attorney work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)

ANALYSIS45-Day Requirement
Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to
the demand. (CCP §2031.310(c).) Here, the motion appears timely as Movants say the
parties agreed to continuances on the deadline to file this motion. Meet and Confer
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (CCP §2031.310(b)(2).)Here, Movants allege they met and conferred.DISCUSSION
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION NO. 40:

Produce all DOCUMENTS evidencing an offer to purchase the FLINTRIDGE PROPERTY.RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 40:

Attached as Exhibit 40 are the documents responding to this requestTENTATIVE RULING 
Movants’
arguments are well taken. The Cross-Complainants’ response appeared that it was
stating it would comply with the request, but the response was not code
compliant with 2031.220. Therefore, Movants’ motion under 2031.310(a)(1)
appears proper. Further, Movants brought this motion under 2031.230, which
Cross-Complainants appear to have not complied with. Some of Opposition’s
arguments are not comprehensible, but more importantly, Cross-Complainant did
not assert objections in its initial response; therefore, the Court finds those
objections asserted in Opposition to this motion waived. Movants’ motion to compel compliance and compel
further responses to RPD 40, Set Four, is GRANTED. Cross-Complainants are to
provide a further, code compliant, verified response without objection within 5
days. Cross-Complainants are to provide Movants with an unredacted Exhibit 40
in 5 days.There is obviously an issue with the trial date
currently set for 11/27/23.  The Court
will discuss the trial date with the parties at the hearing.Sanctions
Except
as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §2031.310(h).)“The court may award
sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to
compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1348(a).) Movants’ counsel requests sanctions in the amount of $3,750.Movants’ counsel explains its sanctions request as
follows:8. I am a partner with The Safarian Firm. My customary
hourly billing rate to private clients is $350 to $550, depending on the
complexity of the matter. The ordinary billing rate is reasonable given: (a) I
have been licensed by the California State Bar since June 2015; (b) I have
worked in civil litigation defense since the day he became licensed to practice
law; (c) I have been the lead trial attorney on several matters and has also
second chaired numerous cases; (d) I have lectured on law-related matters; (e)
I handle my own case load managing cases from inception up to and through
trial, (f) I supervise a group of younger attorneys, and (g) I have previously
been approved in a Los Angeles Superior Court for an hourly rate of up to $450.
9. I am requesting the $60 filing fee for this motion
and an hourly rate of $450 (the midpoint of my billing rate to private
clients). I have expended, and expect to expend, more than the following in
connection with the filing of this Motion: a. 0.2 Hours: Preparation of Notice of Motion and
Motion to Compel the Subject Discovery. b. 1.4 Hours: Preparation of the Memorandum of Points
and Authorities in Support of Motion to Compel. c. 0.6 Hours: Preparation of declaration of attorney
and attached exhibits. d. 0.6 Hours: Preparation of Separate Statement. e. 2.5 Hours (anticipated): Preparation, filing, and
appearance of an ex parte application to advance the hearing on this matter. f. 0.5 Hours (anticipated): Review and analysis of any
opposing papers by Plaintiff. g. 1.0 Hours (anticipated). Preparation of a reply
brief to an anticipated opposition. h. 1.0 Hours (anticipated): To appear for hearing and
attend oral argument on the subject motion.Opposition does not address the issue of sanctions.The Court will address the issue of sanctions at the
hearing.







































































































        