 Case Number:  23GDCV01139    Hearing Date:   November 17, 2023    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 11/17/2023 – 8:30am Case No: 23GDCV01139 Trial Date: UNSET Case Name: Vardan Baghdasaryan v. Juan Jose Beltran, et al.Complaint: VARDAN BAGHDASARYAN v. JUAN JOSE BELTRAN; HOVSEP HOVSEPYAN; and DOES 1-10 inclusiveCross-Complaint: JUAN JOSE BELTRAN v. HOVSEP HOVSEPYAN and ROES 1-25, inclusive[TENTATIVE RULING ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT]RELIEF REQUESTED Defendant, Hovsep Hovsepyan, will move for an order granting leave to file a cross-complaint against Defendant Juan Jose Beltran for indemnity.BACKGROUND On 06/02/2023, Plaintiff, Vardan Baghdasaryan, filed a Complaint against Defendants Juan Jose Beltran and Hovsep Hovsepyan. The allegations in the Complaint arise from a motor vehicle accident that occurred on 10/12/2022 on I-134.On 07/26/2023, Defendant, Juan Jose Beltran, filed a Cross-Complaint against Defendant, Hovsep Hovsepyan, alleging causes of action for: (1) Comparative Indemnity and Apportionment of Fault; (2) Total Equitable Indemnity; (3) Contribution; and (4) Declaratory Relief.Movant, Hovsep Hovsepyan, now seeks an order granting leave to file a cross-complaint against Defendant Juan Jose Beltran for indemnity.PROCEDURAL ANALYSISMoving Party: Defendant, Hovsep Hovsepyan Responding Party: No Opposition by any partyMoving Papers: Notice/Motion; Proposed Order Opposition Papers: No Opposition Reply Papers: No Reply PapersProof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)):Ok Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): No – Movant/Defendant, Hovsepyan, seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Defendant, Juan Jose Beltran. Beltran’s counsel on eCourt is listed as Lily Nhan, and Movant’s proof of service to the instant motion and the proof ofservice does not indicate that Beltran’s counsel was served this motion. It appears that the only party that Movant may have served is Plaintiff, Baghdasaryan’s, counsel. Although Movant does not appear to be filing this Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff, it is uncertain if Plaintiff’s counsel was even served this motion. On the proof of service (POS), this motion was allegedly served via electronic mail. On eCourt, Plaintiff’s counsel’s email address is listed as armans@foothilllawcenter.com. Although that email address is listed on the POS under the section “BY ELECTRONIC MAIL”, the POS does not actually state that that email address was served the instant motion. In fact, the section in which Plaintiff’s counsel’s email address is listed appears to be the wrong section to list who was served the instant motion. There is an attached Service List to the POS to indicate who was served this motion, and despite the POS alleging service by electronic mail, the Service List does not list an electronic mailing address. The Service List only lists a physical mailing address; however, the instant motion was not alleged to have been served by Mail. While the physical mailing address on the POS does appear to be Plaintiff’s counsel’s physical mailing address, as noted previously by this Court, the motion was not alleged to have been served by mail. The motion alleges service by electronic mail; however, the Service List on the POS does not list an electronic mailing address that was served.LEGAL STANDARD LEAVE TO FILE COMPULSORY CROSS-COMPLAINT Code of Civil Procedure section 426.10 et seq. sets forth California’s “compulsory cross-complaint" statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10 et seq. [titled “Compulsory Cross-Complaints"].) Therein, Code of Civil Procedure section 426.30 provides, “if a party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” (Ibid.) Related cause of action means “a cause of action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (CCP §426.10(c).)In the event a party fails to file a compulsory cross-complaint concurrently with his or her answer, CCP §426.50 provides the following available remedies:A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.(CCP §426.50)“A policy of liberal construction of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial court. A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.” (SilverOrganizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)MOVING ARGUMENTS Movant seeks leave to file the instant cross-complaint for the following reasons and asserts the following arguments:1. On 7/26/23, Defendant Beltran filed an answer to the complaint and a cross-complaint against Defendant Hovsepyan. On 8/4/23, Defendant Hovsepyan filed an answer but regrettably did not file a cross-complaint against Defendant Beltran as a result of mistake, excusable neglect and inadvertence. (Trafton Decl. ¶4.)2. After Defendant Hovsepyan was served with the complaint, I instructed my secretary to file an answer and post jury fees in this matter on behalf of Defendant Hovsepyan in early August 2023. I forgot to tell my secretary to also file a cross-complaint against co-defendant Beltran. (Trafton Decl. ¶5.)3. When I reviewed the file in late August 2023 again, I noticed that I forgot to tell my secretary that we needed to file a cross-complaint against Defendant Beltran when we filed the answer on 8/4/23. As a result, the necessary cross-complaint was not filed against Defendant Beltran. Thereafter, I informed our law and motion partner to draft the within motion which was completed within about a week. (Trafton Decl. ¶6.)4. The proposed cross-complaint was not filed out of a simple human error and mistake wherein I simply forgot to tell my secretary to file the necessary cross-complaint. (Trafton Decl. ¶7.)5. Defendant Hovsepyan does not anticipate any prejudice to other parties as the proposed cross-defendant is likewise a party to this lawsuit. Further, this case is only 3 months old. There is a CMC on 1/9/24 and there is no trial date in this matter. The answer was only filed a month ago. Defendant Hovsepyan served initial written discovery to Plaintiff on 8/4/23, and has not yet served responses. There have been no depositions conducted and Defendant Hovsepyan is unaware of any other discovery that has been conducted. The case is definitely in its infancy stages. Thus, there is no prejudice to any parties. (Trafton Decl. ¶8.)6. It is in the interests of justice to permit the filing of the cross-complaint. A denial of Defendant Hovsepyan’s Motion puts them at risk that the action will be barred by the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 426.30. (Trafton Decl. ¶10.)7. Movant also argues that the reasons for not filing this cross-complaint with the answer was a simple human error/mistake due to inadvertent mistake/neglect and that there is no inclination of bad faith. Movant argues how the matters are related and arise out of the same occurrence – the same car accident – and judicial economy is best served by allowing Hovsepyan to assert his cross-complaint.TENTATIVE RULING Generally speaking, the Court agrees with Movant that leave to file a cross-complaintshould be granted here because there appears to be no bad faith on behalf of Movant and because of the liberality in granting leave to file a cross-complaint.However, as mentioned above in the “Proper Address” subsection of the “Procedural Analysis” section of this tentative, the Court has concerns about service of the instant motion/moving papers. It does not appear as if it was served on the party that Movant seeks to file a cross-complaint against.It also appears as if this motion may not have been served on the Plaintiff, a party that Movant does not appear to seek to cross complain against, but a party that Movant allegedly served.The Court plans to tentatively DENY this motion without prejudice, but will hear argument from Movant as to the service issues the Court brought up