 Case Number:  BC550144    Hearing Date:   November 17, 2023    Dept:  E  
Hearing Date: 11/17/2023 – 2:00pm
Case No:  BC550144

Trial Date: 05/13/2024
Case Name: ARMAN YEGIYANTS, an individual, v. HAGOP
BARDAKJIAN, et al
 
[PLAINTIFFS’
MSJ/MSA] 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiffs, Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce, LLC, move the Court for
an order granting:
 
(A) summary
judgment in favor of Plaintiffs and against Defendant Hratchia Bardakjian
(“Hratchia” ); or, in the alternative, 
 
(B) summary
adjudication of Plaintiffs’ First and Third Causes of Action for Quiet Title
against Hratchia. 
 
Plaintiffs base
this Motion on the grounds that the following undisputed facts establish that
there is no genuine material dispute that Hratchia does not have an interest in
either of the properties at issue in this action: 
 
(A) in this
action, Plaintiffs have only two remaining claims against Hratchia— quiet title
claims to each of 703 East Angeleno Avenue, Burbank, California 91501, and 707
E. Angeleno Avenue, Burbank, California 91501 (together, the “Properties”); 
 
(B) on or about
January 20, 2023, Hratchia filed a Motion for Summary Judgment, seeking entry
of judgment in his favor and against Plaintiffs; 
 
(C) in support of
his Motion for Summary Judgment, Hratchia submitted a declaration confirming
that he does not have or claim a “direct” interest in either of the Properties;

 
(D) on April 7,
2023, the Court denied Hratchia’s Motion for Summary Judgment, but ordered the
parties to meet and confer regarding a possible stipulated judgment; 
 
(E) the parties
have been unable to stipulate for entry of such a judgment; and 
 
(F) Hratchia has
since waived his “indirect” interest in the Properties—his economic interest in
Plaintiff 10415 Commerce, LLC.
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Plaintiffs,
Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce, LLC
 
Responding Party: Defendant, Hratchia Bardakjian
 
Moving Papers: Motion; Yegiyants Declaration; Gamzo
Declaration; Request for Judicial Notice; Proposed Order; Separate Statement;
Proof of Service
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply
Papers: Reply 
Proof of
service timely filed (CRC 3.1300(c)): Ok
 
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013(a)): Yes/No – Technically, the
moving papers were not served on Defendant Hratchia’s counsel’s email address
listed on eCourt. However, Defendant’s counsel opposed the instant motion;
therefore, Defendant clearly received this motion.
 
75/80 Days
Under 437c(2), notice of the motion and supporting
papers shall be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days
before the time appointed for hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the
required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by 5 days if the place of
address is within the State of California. If the notice is served by facsimile
transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for
overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by
two court days. (CCP §437c(a)(2).)
Here, Plaintiffs’ motion was timely filed.
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections are sustained. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (a) provides that “a party may move for summary judgment in
an action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” The motion shall be
granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to
any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) In determining if the papers show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall
consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to
which objections have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be
granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
if contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as
to any material fact. (Id.)
 
CCP §437c(f)(1) states:
 
A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there
is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.
 
(CCP §437c(f)(1).)
 
Further, CCP §437c(f)(2) provides:
 
A motion for summary adjudication
may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and
shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. A
party shall not move for summary judgment based on issues asserted in a prior
motion for summary adjudication and denied by the court unless that party
establishes, to the satisfaction of the court, newly discovered facts or
circumstances or a change of law supporting the issues reasserted in the
summary judgment motion.
 
(CCP §437c(f)(2).
 
Further, for purposes of motions for summary judgment and
summary adjudication: 
 
A plaintiff or cross-complainant has
met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action
if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the
party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or
cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The defendant or
cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings
to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.
 
(CCP §437c(p)(1).)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
By
way of background, on 04/07/2023, this Court heard Defendant, Hratchia’s, MSJ
wherein Defendant moved for summary judgment on Plaintiffs’ (Arman Yegiyants
and 10415 Commerce LLC) only two remaining claims (the first and third causes
of action) against Defendant for quiet title to 703 and 707 E. Angeleno Ae.,
Burbank, CA 91501 in the Fourth Amended Complaint.
The premise behind Defendant’s MSJ was that he did not
claim an interest in 703 or 707 East Angeleno, and since quiet title actions
require adverse claims, there is no evidence supporting Plaintiffs’ argument
that Defendant had any interest in the properties or claims an interest in the
properties. Essentially, Defendant wanted the two remaining causes of action
asserted against him by Plaintiffs dismissed because he argued he had no
interest in the properties and thus there was no basis for the two quiet title
claims. 
In relevant part of the April 7, 2023 Minute Order,
the Court noted:
To support its
argument that Defendant claims no interest or has any interest in the
properties, Defendant submitted the declaration of Hratchia Bardakjian. In
relevant part of the Bardakjian Declaration, Bardakjian states: 
 
5. For the reasons
set forth herein, I neither have an interest in either of the real properties
located at 703 and 707 E. Angeleno Ave., Burbank, CA 91501 (“Angeleno
Properties”), nor do I claim an interest in either of the Angeleno Properties. 
 
6. In or about
2011 and 2012, I executed two deeds of trust to my brother Hagop Bardakjian,
and recorded each against 703 and 707 E. Angeleno, respectively (“May 2011 Deed
of Trust” and “May 2012 Deed of Trust”). 
 
7. True and
accurate copies of the May 2011 and May 2012 Deeds of Trust, respectively, are
attached as Exhibits 1 and 2 to the 4AC. 
 
8. On or about
August 3, 2017, judgment was entered in related litigation captioned 10415
Commerce, LLC v. Hratchia Bardakjian, et al. and bearing case number BC46919
(“Judgment”). 
 
9. Pursuant to the
terms of the Judgment, my respective interest in 703 E. Angeleno and 707 E.
Angeleno was to be reconveyed to 10415 Commerce, LLC. 
 
10. I am informed
and believe that the May 2011 and May 2012 Deeds of Trust were assigned to 703
E Angeleno LLC and 707 E Angeleno, LLC, respectively, in or about 2018. 
 
11. I am informed
and believe that the trust deeds were subsequently foreclosed upon in or about
August 2019, resulting in the Trustee’s Deeds upon sale attached to the 4AC as
Exhibits 9 and 10, respectively.
 
12. As a result of
the above, I have no direct interest in either 703 or 707 E. Angeleno. 
 
13. I also do not
claim a direct interest in 703 or 707 East Angeleno, respectively. 
 
14. I say direct
interest, because I do maintain an economic interest in 10415 Commerce, LLC,
the entity, which is not at issue in this case and is undisputed. 
 
15. I did not
transfer my prior interest in the Angeleno Properties prior to the Judgment,
nor do I contend that I transferred my interest. 
 
(Decl. Bardakjian ¶5-15.)
 
(04/07/2023 Min.
Order, p. 5-6.)
 
The Court also noted with respect to
Plaintiffs’ Opposition to Defendant’s MSJ:
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiffs agree that Defendant has no interest in the Properties, but
Plaintiffs argue that there is an abundance of evidence that Defendant claimed
and recently continued to claim an interest in the Properties. Plaintiffs state
that they filed their quiet title actions against Defendant to obtain a
declaratory judgment so stating. Therefore, Plaintiffs argue the MSJ should be
denied because although Hratchia purports to disclaim any interest in the
Properties in his MSJ, his words and actions say otherwise.
 
(04/07/2023 Min.
Order, p. 6.)
 
What the Court
particularly pointed out in the 04/07/2023 Minute Order was as follows:
 
While it is clear
that Hratchia is stating he does not have any interest in either of the
Properties, nor that he claims an interest in the Properties, the Court is not
certain why Hratchia stated, “I say direct interest, because I do maintain an
economic interest in 10415 Commerce, LLC, the entity, which is not at issue in
this case and is undisputed.” (Decl. Bardakjian ¶14.) The Court is confused why
Defendant is stating this if Defendant is admitting this is not at issue, and
the Court is confused as to why this is relevant. 
 
Nonetheless, it
appears Defendant successfully met its burden to show there is no triable issue
of material fact and that Defendant shifted its burden to Plaintiff to show
there is a triable issue of material fact.
 
However, in
Opposition, Plaintiffs successfully met their burden by submitting evidence to
establish that there is a triable issue of material fact: whether Movant claims
title to the properties, adversely to Plaintiffs.
 
(04/07/2023 Min.
Order, p. 7.)
 
In Reply,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant does not have an interest in the properties. Plaintiffs
assert that Defendant’s request to continue the hearing to obtain the
depositions of Mr. David and Mr. Yegiyants will not establish a dispute as to
Defendant’s interest in the properties. Plaintiffs request the Court to deny
Defendant’s request for a continuance and grant summary adjudication on their
first and third causes of action against Defendant. Plaintiffs also contend
that the doctrine of judicial estoppel does not bar the relied Plaintiffs seek
in this instant motion. 
 
 
In the instant
motion, Plaintiffs now seek summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication as to the first and third causes of action in the Fourth Amended Complaint
(FoAC).
 
In the instant
motion, Plaintiffs seek to address that Hratchia has since waived his
“indirect” interest in the Properties – his economic interest in Plaintiff
10415 Commerce LLC, and that since Hratchia previously submitted a declaration
(in Hratchia’s prior MSJ heard on 4/7/2023) confirming that he does not have or
claim a “direct” interest in either of the Properties, judgment should be
granted in Plaintiffs’ favor.
 
To address the
“indirect” interest issue, Plaintiffs submitted the declaration of Plaintiff,
Yegiyants, which stated in relevant part:
 
In another action
by 10415 Commerce, LLC against Hratchia Bardakjian and other defendants in the
Supreme Court of the State of New York, Saratoga County, the Court entered a
judgment against Hratchia, providing that 
 
(A) Hratchia and
other defendants were to cause payment of $1.5 million for the benefit of 10415
Commerce, LLC; and 
 
(B) upon the
making of such payment, Hratchia “affirmatively and forever waives any right,
title, interest and/or claim in and to 10415 Commerce, LLC, including but not
limited to any membership interest, contractual obligation, debt, claim,
interest in a capital account or other claim or interest of any kind that they
may now have, or may ever have.” 
 
(See concurrently
filed Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. 9 [New York Judgment, ¶¶ 12-13.)
 
Hratchia and the
other defendants have since caused payment of the $1.5 million contemplated in
that judgment. I attach as Exhibit “1” to this Declaration a true (but
redacted) copy of the check for that payment, dated March 31, 2023.
 
(Yegiyants Decl.
¶2-3.)
 
Further, as stated in Plaintiffs’ Separate
Statement, “In the declaration in support of the Motion for Summary Judgment,
Hratchia stated that he had no direct interest, adverse or otherwise, in the
Properties” (Pl. SS #5, RfJN, Ex. 8 (Hratchia’s Declaration in Support of
Motion for Summary Judgment).)
 
Further, the Court notes that UMF 1-12 in
Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement tend to lean in favor of granting Plaintiffs’
motion.
 
However, the Court plans to hear argument
from both parties’ as to the issues listed below.
 
Elements of the Quiet Title Causes of
Action
“A
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there
is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once
the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The defendant
or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §437c(p)(1).)
 
Here, an issue with Plaintiffs’ motion is
that Plaintiffs don’t clearly explain how they have proved each element of the
causes of action for quiet title. 
 
CCP §761.020 states as follows:
 
The
complaint shall be verified and shall include all of the following:
(a) A description of the
property that is the subject of the action. In the case of tangible personal property,
the description shall include its usual location. In the case of real property,
the description shall include both its legal description and its street address
or common designation, if any.
(b) The
title of the plaintiff as to which a determination under this chapter is sought
and the basis of the title. If the title is based upon adverse possession, the
complaint shall allege the specific facts constituting the adverse possession.

(c) The adverse claims to the
title of the plaintiff against which a determination is sought.
(d) The date as of which the
determination is sought. If the determination is sought as of a date other than
the date the complaint is filed, the complaint shall include a statement of the
reasons why a determination as of that date is sought.
(e) A prayer for the
determination of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims.
(CCP §761.020(a)-(e).)
The Court would like Plaintiffs to address
how it has proven each element of a quiet title cause of action. If Plaintiffs
can do so, the Court would likely grant Plaintiffs’ motion.
 
Judicial Estoppel
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs’ motion is barred by judicial estoppel.
 
Defendant argues that “In April of this
year, Plaintiffs Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce, LLC (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) successfully opposed Defendant Hratchia Bardakjian’s Motion for
Summary Judgment on the very same issue presented here, convincing this Court
that there were triable issues of fact with respect to whether Mr. Bardakjian
had an ownership interest in the 703 and 707 East Angeleno properties
(collectively, the “Angeleno Properties”). As such, Plaintiffs are judicially
estopped from taking the exact opposition here—to wit that there is no triable
issue of fact with respect to whether Mr. Bardakjian has an ownership interest
in the Angeleno Properties.” (Oppo. p. 1.)
 
The Court does not find this argument
convincing because Defendant seems to incorrectly frame the issue. In
Defendant’s MSJ, Defendant argued it disclaimed an interest and therefore there
were no causes of action for quiet title. In Plaintiffs’ Opposition to
Defendant’s MSJ, Plaintiffs argued how that despite Defendant alleges he is
disclaiming an interest, his actions and his words raise a triable issue of
fact that he in fact is claiming an interest. 
 
Plaintiffs, in opposing Defendant’s MSJ,
argued that granting Defendant’s MSJ would have a different result than if
there was a trial wherein Plaintiffs could get an order declaring their
interest in the subject properties. 
 
Here, in Plaintiffs’ instant MSJ,
Plaintiffs come forward with proof from the New York Judgment pertaining to the
“indirect” interest issue.
 
Continuance
Defendant
argues as follows:
 
Further, in
opposing Mr. Bardakjian’s prior motion for summary judgment, Plaintiffs
submitted the Declaration of Arman Yegiyants, which directly contradicted the
prior testimony of John David in this case. Mr. Yegiyants’ declaration raises
new issues with respect to the ownership of the Angeleno Properties, that
requires additional discovery to sort through. John David testified earlier in
this case that he had no documents pertaining to the Angeleno LLCs, that he
knew nothing about them, and that he was never a “manager” of either of them.
While John David has refused to provide a declaration concerning Mr. Yegiyants’
latest false assertions, his counsel has confirmed that Mr. David would testify
that the assertions in Mr. Yegiyants’ declaration were false. Such testimony
raises innumerable additional factual questions as to the ownership of the
Angeleno Properties. 
 
While counsel for
Mr. David promised to cooperate in presenting his client for deposition, his
trial schedule has apparently prevented him from doing so. Meanwhile, Mr.
Yegiyants has failed to appear twice and present counsel has indicated that he
would oppose any effort to depose Mr. Yegiyants in advance of the hearing on
this motion.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant seeks a continuance of this hearing in order to conduct the
depositions of Messrs. David and Yegiyants on these factual issues—which are
crucial to determining the ownership of the properties in question.
 
(Oppo. p.1-2.)
 
“If it appears
from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may
exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the
motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to
be had, or make any other order as may be just. The application to continue the
motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any
time on or before the date the opposition response to the motion is due.” (CCP §437c(h).)
 
Here, the Court cannot
understand Defendant’s argument as to what facts are essential to justify
opposition that need to be obtained still in discovery because Defendant does a
poor job at explaining why any of its arguments on the depositions of Yegiyants
and John David are legally relevant. The Court has no idea as to what
Defendant’s alleged discovery he seeks will help him establish.
 
Further, the Court
notes that Defendant’s arguments in Opposition are difficult to understand
because Defendant did not file a Separate Statement. Therefore, Plaintiffs’
Separate Statement seemingly appears uncontested, and it is hard to decipher
what issues Defendant thinks are still at issue.
 
“The opposition papers
shall include a separate statement that responds to each of the material facts
contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating if the opposing
party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall
set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts the opposing party
contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be
disputed shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. Failure
to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may constitute a
sufficient ground, in the court’s discretion, for granting the motion.”
(CCP §437c(b)(3) [emphasis added].)
 
One Final Judgment
Plaintiffs
also argued, “Clearly, Hratchia does not dispute that he does not have an
interest in the Properties. Indeed, he stated as much under oath in support of
his Motion for Summary Judgment. (SS # 5.) Plaintiffs therefore are entitled to
judgment as a matter of law on their quiet title causes of actions against
Hratchia, as the Court contemplated when it ordered the parties to meet and
confer regarding a stipulated judgment. Alternatively, to the extent that the
Court declines to enter a final judgment against Hratchia due to the one final
judgment rule (Code Civ. Proc., § 904.1(a)), Plaintiffs respectfully request
that the Court summarily adjudicate the First and Third Causes of Action for
Quiet Title, confirming that Hratchia does not have an interest in the
Properties.” (Pl. MSJ p. 8.)
 
Here, the Court is
not clear as to the thrust of this argument. 
This issue will be taken up at the hearing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 