

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          None filed as of March 08, 2023                    [   ] Late          [X] None 
REPLY:                     None filed as of March 14, 2023                    [   ] Late          [X] None 
 
BACKGROUND
On June 14, 2023, Plaintiff Diversitas Holdings LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed an action for breach of contract, breach of guaranty, money lent, and recovery
of personal property against Defendants Ayyub Patel dba Jewelry Designs by AP
(“Jewelry Designs”) and Ayyub Patel (“Patel”) (collectively “Defendants”).
Defendant Patel, in propria persona, filed his Answer to the
Complaint on July 14, 2023.
On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the Alternative for Summary Adjudication (“Motion”) against the
Defendants.
No opposition has been filed.
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
             Plaintiff prays for the Court to enter summary
judgment pursuant to CCP § 437(c) or in the alternative summary adjudication as
to each of Plaintiff’s causes of action. Plaintiff asserts that there is no material
issue of fact with respect to Defendants’ liability on each of Plaintiff’s causes
of action and that neither Defendant has established any defense to Plaintiff’s
actions for breach of contract, breach of guaranty, money lent,
and recovery of personal property. Thus, Plaintiff asserts that it is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No
opposition has been filed. 
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
has been filed.   
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard
 A party seeking summary judgment has
the burden of producing evidentiary facts sufficient to entitle him/her to
judgment as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c).) The moving party must
make an affirmative showing that he/she is entitled to judgment irrespective of
whether or not the opposing party files an opposition. (Villa v. McFerren
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 742- 743.) Thus, “the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (citing Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850.). When a plaintiff seeks summary judgment, he/she must
produce admissible evidence on each element of each cause of action on which
judgment is sought. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).) The moving party’s
“affidavits must cite evidentiary facts, not legal conclusions, or ‘ultimate’
facts” and the courts must construe the evidence in support of the opposing
party, resolving any doubts in favor of the opposing party. (Hayman v. Block
(1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639; Scalf, 128 Cal.App.4th at 1519; Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
The opposing
party on a motion for summary judgment is under no evidentiary burden to
produce rebuttal evidence until the moving party meets his or her initial
movant’s burden. (Binder v. Aetna Life Insurance Company (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 840.) Once the initial movant’s burden is met, then the burden
shifts to the opposing party to show, with admissible evidence, that there is a
triable issue requiring the weighing procedures of trial. (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p).) The opposing party may not simply rely on his/her allegations to show
a triable issue but must present evidentiary facts that are substantial in
nature and rise beyond mere speculation. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 162.) Summary judgment must be granted “if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
As to any
alternative request for summary adjudication of issues, such alternative relief
must be clearly set forth in the Notice of Motion and the general
burden-shifting rules apply but the issues upon which summary adjudication may
be sought are limited by statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(1).) “A motion
for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a
cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of
duty.” (Id.) 
 
II.        Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff moves for summary judgment
against Defendants as to all four of its causes of action. In the alternative,
Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication, as to each of its causes of action.
            
Plaintiff seeks
a court order granting summary judgment in its favor and against Defendants on the
ground that there is no triable issue of material fact and that Plaintiff is therefore
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
 
As the moving party, Plaintiff
has the burden to show, through admissible evidence, that there is no genuine
dispute of material fact as to each element of its causes of action for breach
of contract, breach of guaranty, money lent, and recovery of personal property.
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff
combines its presented evidence in its Separate Statement for its first and
second causes of action for breach of contract and breach of guaranty. Noting
that the elements for a breach of guaranty claim are similar to a breach of
contract claim, insofar as both require an agreement, and breach, the Court
will review the first and second causes of action together in Part A of the
opinion. 
 
A.    
First and Second Cause of Action – Breach of Contract and Breach of Guaranty
 
“The standard
elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
“A lender is
entitled to judgment on a breach of guaranty claim based upon undisputed
evidence that (1) there is a valid guaranty, (2) the borrower has defaulted,
and (3) the guarantor failed to perform under the guaranty.” (Gray1 CPB, LLC
v. Kolokotronis (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 480, 486.) 
Plaintiff
provides the declaration of its counsel who provides evidence that on or about
June 12, 2019, Defendant Jewelry Designs entered into a written Equipment
Finance Agreement with Plaintiff’s predecessor-in-interest Financial Pacific
Leasing, Inc. (“Plaintiff’s predecessor”) to obtain financing for certain
business equipment (the “Equipment”). (Jennifer Pealor Decl. ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Pursuant
to the Agreement, Plaintiff’s predecessor financed Jewelry Designs’ acquisition
of the Equipment from a third-party vendor in exchange for Jewelry Designs’
agreement to make monthly payments for the Equipment. (Id. ¶ 4; Exh, A.)
Plaintiff’s predecessor paid the vendor for the Equipment on behalf of Jewelry
Designs. (Id.) Plaintiff perfected its security interest in the
Equipment by filing a UCC-1 financing statement with the Secretary of State on
June 18, 2019. (Id. ¶ 5; Exh. B.) Counsel avers that Plaintiff’s
predecessor performed everything it was required to perform under the Agreement
by paying the vendor for the Equipment on Jeweler Design’s behalf. (Id.
¶ 6.) Both the Agreement and Guaranty were assigned to Plaintiff who remains
the holder. (Id. ¶ 7; Exh. C.) Jewelry Designs defaulted on the
Agreement by failing to make its payment due after February 11, 2021. (Id.
¶ 8.) Plaintiff’s counsel additionally states that Defendant
Patel breached the Guaranty by failing to make the payments on the Agreement after
Jewelry Designs failed to make its payment. (Id.) As a result of Jewelry Designs’ default, and Patel’s failure
to make payments after Jewelry Designs defaulted, Plaintiff accelerated the
remaining balance due under the Agreement and made a demand on Defendants for
the immediate payment of the accelerated balance. (Id. ¶ 9.) The balance
due under the Agreement is $19,770.86, plus interest at the contracted rate of 18%
per annum from and after the date of default on February 11, 2021. (Id.
¶ 9; Exh. D.) As a result of Jewelry Designs’ breach of the Agreement, it was
necessary for Plaintiff to retain the Wright Law Group, PLLC to enforce its
rights under the agreement. (Id. ¶ 15.) 
 
Here,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has provided evidence that there was an
agreement between Plaintiff’s predecessor and the Defendants to secure an
interest in Equipment in exchange for monthly payments. Plaintiff’s predecessor
performed under the Agreement by paying for the Equipment from a third-party on
behalf of Jewelry Designs. Jewelry Designs breached the agreement by failing to
make its payments after February 11, 2021. Patel breached his duty under the
Guaranty by failing to pay when Jewelry Designs failed to make its payments. Thus,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has met its burden under CCP § 437c(b)(1) as to both
its first and second causes of action based on the evidence provided in
Plaintiff’s separate statement and accompanying declaration and exhibits. 
 
The
Court notes that Defendants do not provide any opposition indicating that there
are any triable issues of fact. 
 
Accordingly,
because Plaintiff has met its burden in showing that there is no triable issue
as to any material fact in its first and second causes of action, the Court
finds that Plaintiff is entitled to judgment as a matter of law, and that
Defendants have not met their burden under CCP § 437c(b)(1).
 
B.    
Third Cause of Action – Common Count (Money Lent)
 
The required elements of a common
count claim are “(1) the statement of indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the
consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and (3) nonpayment. A cause
of action for money had and received is stated if it is alleged the defendant
is indebted to the plaintiff in a certain sum for money had and received by the
defendant for the use of the plaintiff.” (Farmers
Insurance Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460, citation and
quotation marks omitted.)
 
Plaintiff
provides evidence that Defendants became indebted after Plaintiff’s predecessor
paid the vendor for the Equipment the defendants purchased. (Pealor Decl. ¶
4.) The debt amount was subsequently reduced to $19,770.86 on account of
payments made by Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 9; Exh. D.) Defendants failed to pay
Plaintiff for all amounts due as agreed for purchasing the Equipment. (Id.
¶¶ 9,10; Exh. D.) Plaintiff demanded payment from Defendants, however, Defendants
have paid no part resulting in damages of $19,770.86. (Id. ¶¶ 9-10; Exh.
D.) Interest on the balance of $19,770.86 from and after February 11, 2021,
through February 15, 2024, pursuant to the legal rate of 10% totals $5,945.59. (Id.
¶ 12.) 
 
Here,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has provided evidence of a statement of
indebtedness. Per the parties’ Agreement, Defendants agreed to pay back the
money owed for the Equipment and Defendants failed to make their payments after
February 11, 2021. The Court notes that Defendants do not provide any
opposition indicating that there are any triable issues of fact as to this
cause of action. 
 
Accordingly,
because Plaintiff has met its burden in showing that there is no triable issue
as to any material fact Plaintiff’s third cause of action, the Court finds that
Plaintiff is entitled to judgment as a matter of law, and that Defendants have
not met their burden under CCP § 437c(b)(1). 
 
C.    
Fourth Cause of Action – Possession of Personal Property
 
“Conversion is
the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements of
a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of
the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of
property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee
v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)
 
Plaintiff
provides evidence that the Agreement provides that upon default, Plaintiff may
take possession of the Equipment as collateral. (Pealor Decl. ¶ 14.) Despite Plaintiff’s demand
for surrender of the Equipment, Defendants wrongfully remained in possession of
the equipment. (Id.) As such Plaintiff requests a judgment for
possession of the Equipment. (Id.) Counsel states that, “If
Plaintiff recovers the Equipment, Plaintiff will sell the Equipment in a
commercially reasonable manner and apply the proceeds, less expenses, to the
judgment balance.” (Id.) 
 
Here,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has provided evidence proving that Plaintiff had
a right to possession based on the Agreement which provided Plaintiff the right
to take possession of the Equipment as collateral in the event of default.
Defendant converted ownership by wrongfully retaining possession of the
equipment despite Plaintiff's demand for the Defendants to surrender the Equipment.
As a result, Plaintiff has suffered damages due to the Defendants refusal to
surrender the Equipment. The Court again notes that Defendants do not provide
any opposition indicating that there are any triable issues of fact as to this
cause of action. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff has met its burden in showing that there is no triable issue as to
any material fact as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action. 
 
Thus,
since Plaintiff has carried its burden in showing that there are no triable
issues of fact as to each of its causes of action, Plaintiff is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law. 
 
 
 
 
III.       Conclusion 
                        
Plaintiff Diversitas Holdings, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment against  Defendants is GRANTED.
 
Counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to serve and
electronically submit a proposed form of Judgment within 10-days.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 