 Case Number:  23SMCV05079    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to strike brought by Live Nation (actually,
the two Live Nation defendants, but they are simply referred to collectively as
Live Nation for convenience).  The motion
is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff alleges that he was at a nightclub in London.  Chris Brown was giving a concert in London
and was also at the nightclub.  Plaintiff
alleges that Brown assaulted him and that he was injured.  He sues Brown as well as Live Nation, which
allegedly promoted and organized the concert. 
According to plaintiff, Live Nation knew that Brown was violent and had
criminal tendencies, but rather than protect the public, Live Nation allegedly
attempted to capitalize on that behavior, thereby increasing the risk to the
public and to plaintiff.  Live Nation
moves to strike the punitive damages allegations and plaintiff opposes.
 
The court is inclined to DENY the motion.  The allegations of malice and oppression are
adequately alleged for pleading purposes. 
Specifically, plaintiff alleges that Live Nation was aware of Brown’s
tendencies and that he had assaulted people in the past.  The Tour was called the “Under the Influence”
Tour allegedly to promote substance abuse, which plaintiff states contributed
to Brown’s violent behavior.  The
combination of the tour’s name and the alleged knowledge of prior behavior by
Brown while on tour is enough for pleading, although the court recognizes that
the case is thin.  The court believes
that the matter is better tested on summary judgment than at the pleading
stage.  That said, to defeat summary
judgment, plaintiff will need to explain factually why it is that Live Nation
had some obligation to plaintiff outside the concert venue.
 
The court is also aware that to seek punitive damages
against a non-human entity, the plaintiff must allege that the improper conduct
was done by an officer, director, or managing agent; that it was authorized or
ratified; or that it was done with prior knowledge of a lower-level employee’s
dangerous tendencies.  The problem here
is that plaintiff cannot allege those facts with specificity.  Before discovery, plaintiff does not know who
knew what at Live Nation nor can he. 
Where the information necessary to plead is solely within the
defendant’s knowledge, the need for specifics is relaxed.  That is the case here.
 
Live Nation also claims that plaintiff is splitting his
primary right.  The primary right, Live
Nation argues, is negligence, or (more precisely) the right to be free from
it.  Yet, according to the defense,
plaintiff is pleading five causes of action rather than one that sound in
negligence.  It is true that California
follows the “primary right” doctrine, which suggests that the violation of one
primary right is one cause of action. 
Essentially, there is a primary right of the plaintiff, a primary duty owed
by the defendant, and an alleged breach of that duty.  The violation of a single primary right gives
rise to but a single cause of action.  (Mycogen
Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888.)  Thus, the argument goes, if plaintiff has a
right to be physically safe and free from injury, and defendant has a primary
duty not to be negligent, and the breach of that duty causes plaintiff to be
physically injured, that is one cause of action, no matter how one phrases
it.  According to Live Nation, the primary
right here is negligence (actually, that is the primary duty) and plaintiff is
splitting that right into different causes of action—negligent supervision,
negligent hiring, and negligent retention. 
The court is not so sure (and the court is not enamored of the primary
rights theory at the pleading stage). 
Negligence and vicarious liability are different.  But even if they were the same, the
duplication does no mischief.  Obviously,
plaintiff is not entitled to a double recovery, so if plaintiff prevails on
multiple theories, that will not result in adding the recoveries together if it
is the same injury.  The fact that,
perhaps, this should have been pled as one cause of action with multiple
“counts” (which is the way one might need to do it technically) is not worth
the confusion that “counts” would cause. 
“This is the sort of defect that, if it justifies any judicial
intervention at all, is ordinarily dealt with most economically at trial, or on
a dispositive motion such as summary judgment.” 
(Blackman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 858, 890 [in the context of a demurrer based on redundancy].)