  Case Number:  23TRCV00885    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka            Thursday, June 27, 2024
Department M Calendar No. 17  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Keep
America Safe and Beautiful, Inc. v. TCM Supply Corporation, et al.
23TRCV00885
1.      Keep America Safe and Beautiful, Inc.’s Motion to
Compel Production of Documents by Person Most Knowledgeable of TCM Supply
Corporation and Request for Sanctions    
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Keep
America Safe and Beautiful, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Production of Documents by
Person Most Knowledgeable of TCM Supply Corporation and Request for Sanctions is
granted, in part, and denied, in part. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March 24, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Defendant manufactures, packages,
distributes, markets, and/or sells consumer products that contain lead. Plaintiff
seeks to cause Defendant to warn consumers in California that they are being
exposed to lead pursuant to Proposition 65 - Health and Safety Code § 25249.5.
Plaintiff requests an injunction and civil penalties.  
 
Meet and Confer
             
Plaintiff
set forth a meet and confer declaration adequately complying with CCP 2025.480
and 2016.040.  (Decl., Dan N. Fiorito, ¶¶
3-9.)
 
Motion to Compel Documents at a Deposition  
 
Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480 states:
“(a)
If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent's
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.
(b)
This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the
record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”
 
 
 
Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling Defendant’s person most knowledgeable to produce
documents at his or her deposition. The motion is made on the grounds that the
deponent appeared for the deposition but failed to produce any documents at the
deposition. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Defendant and Defendant’s
counsel of record.
 
Defendant
filed no written opposition to the motion. Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
production of documents pursuant to the deposition notice is granted.
Defendant’s personal most knowledgeable is ordered to produce documents
pursuant to the deposition notice, without objections, within 10 days of this
date. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is denied without prejudice. Plaintiff requests
$4,000.00 in sanctions provided no factual basis for how this amount was
derived. 
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.