 Case Number:  23TRCV02979    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                            Thursday, June 27, 2024 Department M                                                                                                       Calendar
No. 18
 
  
PROCEEDINGS
 
Taylor
Trim & Supply, Inc. v. MW Residential SoCal Corp., et al.
23TRCV02979
1.      MW Residential SoCal Corp.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Proceedings

TENTATIVE RULING
 
MW Residential SoCal Corp.’s (“MW”) Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is granted.
 
Background 
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on September 8, 2023, and
the First Amended Complaint was filed on October 17, 2023. Plaintiff alleges
the following facts. Plaintiff entered into an agreement with Defendant MW whereby
Plaintiff agreed to perform certain work on a construction project commonly
known as the Inglewood Market Gateway (“Project”), located at 213 E. Regent
Street, Inglewood, California 90301. Defendant failed to pay the full amount
due to Plaintiff.  
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
 
            JP Morgan Chase Bank’s request for judicial notice is
granted.
 
            Motion to Compel
Arbitration
 
            “California law
reflects a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick
and inexpensive method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
            “The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by
a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1284.
 
            “The party opposing arbitration has
the burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to
require arbitration of the dispute. 
Nonetheless, this policy does not override ordinary principles of
contract interpretation.  [T]he
contractual terms themselves must be carefully examined before the parties to
the contract can be ordered to arbitration: 
Although [t]he law favors contracts for arbitration of disputes between
parties, there is no policy compelling persons to accept arbitration of
controversies which they have not agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th
1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
            In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of
Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as an agent of a signatory may enforce
an arbitration agreement.”  Id. at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory who is the agent
of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims against his
will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
            Defendant MW moves for an order
compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and for an order for stay pending
completion of arbitration.  The motion is
made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §1281 et seq. on the grounds that
Plaintiff is bound by an agreement to arbitrate the subject matter of the
Complaint. Defendant argues that a valid arbitration agreement exists between
the parties that requires arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims.  
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 states, in
relevant part: “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists[. . .]” “Generally, an
arbitration agreement must be memorialized in writing. A party's acceptance of an
agreement to arbitrate may be express, as where a party signs the agreement. A
signed agreement is not necessary, however, and a party's acceptance may be
implied in fact or be effectuated by delegated consent. An arbitration clause
within a contract may be binding on a party even if the party never actually
read the clause.” Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development
(US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (internal citations omitted).
 
            Defendant submitted competent
evidence to establish the existence of an arbitration agreement. Defendant filed
the purported arbitration agreement as Exhibit A to the declaration of Todd N.
Bressler. The agreement states, in relevant part: “Subcontractor/Vendor agreed
to binding arbitration as the agree form of dispute resolution for any claims
arising under this Agreement. The arbitration shall be administered by the
American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) pursuant to the AAA’s Construction
Industry Arbitration Rules then in effect, unless the parties agree otherwise.
Subcontractor/Vendor agrees that if the Contractor is compelled to Arbitrate
(or engage in another specified non-judicial method of resolution) under the
Prime Contract, the Subcontractor/Vendor may be joined by Contractor in any
such action or proceeding involving the project that is subject of this
Agreement.”  (Ex. A, Section 15A.)  Defendant also establishes Plaintiff’s refusal
to arbitrate.  (Decl., Todd N. Bressler,
¶ 3.)  
 
            Thus, the moving party met its
initial burden to show the existence of a valid arbitration clause between the
parties. Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that the arbitration
clause should not be enforced.  Rice,
supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at 1223. 
 
            Plaintiff filed no formal written
opposition to the motion.  Instead, Plaintiff
elected to file a joinder to the opposition filed by Defendant Arch Insurance
Company (“Arch”).  Arch
argues that it is not a party to the arbitration contract but that it does not
oppose a stay of proceedings as to Arch.  Similarly, Defendant JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
filed a “response” and argued that it is also not a party to the arbitration
agreement and thus no order compelling arbitration could be made as to this
Defendant. 
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(c)
provides an exception to arbitration when:
            “A party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” 
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 further
provides:
            “If the court determines that a
party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court
action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision
(c), the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may
order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or special
proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only certain
issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the
outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”
 
            Thus, a court may refuse to enforce
arbitration if it determines that a party to the arbitration agreement is also
a party to a pending court action with a third party arising out of the same
transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  CCP §1281.2(c).  Here, it is undisputed that non-parties to the
arbitration agreement Arch and JP Morgan Chase Bank are parties to the instant
action.  However, Plaintiff has not
adequately identified that there is a significant potential of conflicting
rulings on common issues of fact and law between the parties to the arbitration
agreement and these third parties.  Thus,
the proper course herein would be to stay the pending court action and proceed
to arbitration as to MW and Plaintiff pursuant to CCP § 1281.2(c).  
 
            Therefore, Plaintiff did not meet its
burden to show that the arbitration agreement should not be enforced.
 
            Thus, Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and to Stay Action is granted. 

 
            An OSC re: Arbitration Status is set
for _________________.
 
            Defendant MW Residential is ordered
to give notice of this ruling.