 Case Number:  21STCV12847    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE 
 
The motion to continue trial is granted. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Although
continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits.  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c).)  The Court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.  (Ibid.)  Good cause includes the unavailability
of an essential lay or expert witness, party, or trial counsel; “the
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice”; the addition of
a new party; a party’s excused inability to obtain evidence; or a significant,
unanticipated change in the case.  (Ibid.) 
 
Furthermore,
the Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial
continuance is warranted: 
 
(1)  The proximity of
the trial date; 
(2)  Whether there was
any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any
party; 
(3)  The length of the
continuance requested; 
(4)  The availability
of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; 
(5)  The prejudice
that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6)  If the case is
entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7)  The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8)  Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; 
(9)  Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
(10)                    
Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and 
(11)                    
Any other fact or circumstance relevant to
the fair determination of the motion or application. 
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.(d)(1)-(11).) 
 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendants move to continue
trial to May 13, 2024, or to a later date acceptable to the Court, arguing good
cause exists as Defendants have filed and served a Motion for Summary Judgment,
but the earliest date the Court has available to hear the Motion for Summary
Judgment is December 13, 2023, which is after the current Trial date of
December 5, 2023.  (Declaration of T. Kelly Cox, ¶¶
7-9.)  Further, counsel for
Defendants Steven
Chavez and Brittney Dominguez is unavailable in March and April 2024 because of
health matters.  (Cox Decl., ¶
11.)  In light of counsel’s health concerns, the parties
have met and conferred and stipulated to a May 13, 2024 Trial.  (Ibid.)
 
The Court finds that there is good cause for continuing the trial
date as the hearing on Defendants’ motion for summary judgement is set after
the current trial date due to the Court’s congested calendar.  Additionally, it does not appear that the
parties would be prejudiced by a continuance, as Defendants state that all
parties have agreed to the new proposed date. 
Thus, the motion is granted.  
 
 
Conclusion 
 
Accordingly, the motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  
 
Trial is continued to a date convenient to the Court on or after May
13, 2024.  The Final Status Conference
and all deadlines are reset based on the new trial date. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
 