  Case Number:  23STCV07167    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, December 08, 2023
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV07167
CASE NAME:                        Jose Diaz Bustamante v. Super Center Concepts, Inc. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Super Center
Concepts, Inc.
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Jose Diaz Bustamante
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
OPPOSITION:                        27 November 2023
REPLY:                                  1
December 2023
 
RECOMMENDATION:        Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is denied without
prejudice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On
April 3, 2023, Jose Diaz Bustamante (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Super Center Concepts, Inc. dba Superior Grocers (“Defendant”), and Does 1 to
20. 
 
The
Complaint alleges six causes of action: (1) Disability Discrimination in
Violation of Gov. Code §§ 12940 et seq; (2) Retaliation in Violation of Gov.
Code §§ 12940 et seq; (3) Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation in
Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(k); (4) Failure to Provide Reasonable
Accommodation in Violation of Gov. Code §§ 12940 et seq.; (5) Failure to Engage
in a Good Faith Interactive Process in Violation of Gov. Code §§ 12940 et seq;
and (6) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy. 
 
On
November 15, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration. Plaintiff
filed opposing papers on November 27, 2023. Defendant filed a reply on December
01, 2023. 
 
motion to
compel arbitration
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute
upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to arbitrate
between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or
controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(CCP § 1281.2; Omar v. Ralphs Grocery
Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) 
¿ 
A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the
burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the
party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of
the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc.
v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.)¿ 
 
“If
a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (CCP, § 1281.4.) 
 
II.        Evidentiary Objections 
 
Plaintiff submits
evidentiary objections to the following: 
 
Objection
No. 1: The entirety of Exhibit B of
Declaration of Ricardo Flores
 
Plaintiff’s
objection is sustained. Although Mr. Flores competently testifies to Defendant
having an arbitration policy, Mr. Flores fails to testify Exhibit B is the same
arbitration policy is the same one that Plaintiff was allegedly given in
December of 2019. 
 
Objection
No. 2: The entirety of Exhibit C of
Declaration of Ricardo Flores
 
Objection No. 2 is overruled.  A complete and unredacted copy of Exhibit C is
provided in Exhibit G to the Declaration of Enrique Montes. 
 
Objection
No. 3: Declaration of Ricardo Flores, ¶ 4.
 
Objection
No. 4 is sustained as Mr. Flores was not present at the Accounting Booth.  The signing of the acknowledgment of the
arbitration policy appears to be a one-time event such that Mr. Flores cannot
testify to the custom and practice at the Accounting Booth at that time. 
 
Objection
No. 4: Declaration of Ricardo Flores, ¶ 5. 
 
Objection
No. 4 is overruled as to the sentence “On that same day, Frida Marlene Amaya
Ortiz was assigned to work in the Accounting Booth as the Accounting Booth
Clerk.” The rest of the objection is sustained as Mr. Flores cannot testify as
to what actions Ms. Ortiz took as he fails to state he was physically present
at the Accounting Booth during the time at issue and personally observed Ms.
Ortiz’s actions and that of Plaintiff. 
 
Objection
No. 5: Declaration of Ricardo Flores, ¶ 3.
 
Objection
No. 5 is overruled. 
Objection
No. 6: Declaration of Ricardo Flores, ¶ 6
& ¶ 2. 
 
Objection
No. 6 is overruled. 
 
III.      Discussion
 
“The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense. In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination. No jury trial is available for a
petition to compel arbitration.” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972 [Citations Omitted].)
 
Defendant
moves to compel arbitration of this action on the basis that on December 22,
2019, Plaintiff signed an acknowledgment that (1) he received a copy of
Defendant’s Mutual Arbitration Policy (the “Agreement”) and (2) agreed to be
bound by its terms. Defendant’s evidence that Plaintiff agreed to arbitration
is not a signed agreement but an alleged signature of acknowledgment on a
register entitled “Payroll Check Pick-Up Register”. (Montes Decl. Ex. G;
Flores Decl. Ex. C.) Neither party disputes the assertion that Plaintiff read
and understood English. (Flores Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
 
Underneath
the title “Payroll Check Pick-Up Register” in bold font, about 8 to 10
point font size, the following is stated: 
 
SPECIAL NOTE:                            As
a condition of employment all disputes must be arbitrated pursuant to the
Arbitration Policy. Your continued employment after receiving a copy of the
Policy and signing below means you agreed to the terms and conditions. A
signature is not [illegible as the
sentence is cut off].
 
(Montes
Decl. Ex. G; Flores Decl. Ex. C.) 
 
The
register goes on to list the name of the employee, their ID, signature, and
pick-up date. (Montes Decl. Ex. G; Flores Decl. Ex. C.) The “SPECIAL NOTE”,
including the cut-off portion, is found on the top of each page in the
register, including the page Plaintiff signed. 
 
Enrique
Montes, who is Defendant’s Vice President of Human Resources, asserts that on
December 22, 2019, when the Plaintiff went to pick up his paycheck, he was
provided with a copy of the Agreement and signed the acknowledgment. (Montes
Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. G.) 
 
Ricardo
Flores was the former store manager of Defendant’s Palmdale location in
December 2019, the same store in which Plaintiff was working in 2019. (Fores
Decl. ¶ 2.) Mr. Flores states that at the Accounting Booth, employees picked up
their paychecks and filled out their paperwork and other personal documents. (Id.
¶ 4.) Mr. Flores asserts that in December 2019, it was the custom and practice
to give employees a copy of Defendant’s Arbitration policy when the employees
picked up their paychecks at the Accounting Booth and to give employees a copy
of the Agreement in either English or Spanish. (Ibid., Ex. B.) Mr.
Flores asserts that the Accounting Booth Clerk would explain to employees what
the Agreement was, ask employees to review it, and instruct employees to let
them or someone at Human Resources know if they had questions or concerns about
the Agreement. (Ibid.) According to Mr. Flores, the Accounting Booth
Clerk would then ask employees to sign a sheet entitled “Payroll Check Pick-up
Register” acknowledging that the employee understood the arbitration policy and
that the employee’s continued employment after receiving a copy of the Agreement
constituted their agreement to the terms and conditions of the Agreement. (Ibid.)
The Accounting Booth Clerk at the time was Frida Marlene Amaya Ortiz who
initialed the acknowledgment next to Plaintiff’s signature. (Id. at p.
5.) 
 
Neither
Mr. Montes nor Mr. Flores assert that they were present at the Accounting Booth
when Plaintiff allegedly received a copy of the Agreement and signed the “Payroll
Check Pick-Up Register” acknowledging the Policy. The declaration of the
Accounting Booth Clerk, Frida Marlene Amaya Ortiz, is not provided to show that
copies of the Agreement were printed out to give to all employees, that all
employees who signed the register did in fact receive a copy of the Agreement,
that the Agreement was explained to them, and that signing the register
constituted not only an acknowledgment of receiving a copy the Agreement but
also agreement to be bound by its terms. 
 
Plaintiff’s
declaration asserts that Defendants never asked Plaintiff to sign an
arbitration agreement and that he never saw the arbitration policy while
employed by Defendant. (Diaz Bustamante Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant does not dispute
this but asserts that Plaintiff’s signature on the “Payroll Check Pick-up
Register” is sufficient to bind Plaintiff to the Agreement. Plaintiff states
that he was told he needed to sign the “Payroll Check Pick-Up Register”
document in order to receive his paycheck and that he signed a document
entitled “Payroll Check Pick-Up Register” every week when he picked up his
paycheck. (Diaz Bustamante Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
Plaintiff
states that the Accounting Booth was where both also were customers would line
up to pay their bills, and that the waiting line consisted of both employees
and customers. (Diaz Bustamante Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
For this reason, this
was always a fast process. We did not want to keep customers waiting or hold up
other employees from receiving their checks. We would simply get in line and
when it was our time to pick up the check, we would quickly sign a log which I
was told was to indicate that I had received my check. In the payroll lines,
there was never opportunity to discuss any issues. There was also not enough
time to read documents before signing.
 
(Ibid.)

 
Plaintiff
does not dispute that his signature appears on the register but states that the
date is not in his handwriting and that he did not see anyone initial after he
signed the register. (Diaz Bustamante Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff states that the “Payroll
Check Pick-Up Register” that he signed looks different from the form he
signed to obtain his check and that “it is possible that I overlooked the small
print in the haste of the payroll line and thought it was simply the same
Payroll Check Pick-Up Register document I had seen and signed dozens of times.
I never remember seeing the three sentences mentioning arbitration at the top
when I picked up my checks.” (Id. ¶ 9.) Furthermore, Plaintiff asserts
that he does not remember anyone by the name of Frida Marlene Amaya Oritz and
that “[t]he person who usually worked the accounting booth was the Accounting
Booth Manager.” (Id. ¶ 10.) 
 
“[A]
person with capacity of reading and understanding an instrument signs it, he
may not, in the absence of fraud, imposition or excusable neglect, avoid its
terms on the ground he failed to read it before signing it.” (Bauer v.
Jackson (1971) 15 Cal.App.3d 358, 370.) “Although it is true that when a
person with the ability to read and understand an instrument signs it, he is
bound by the provisions of such instrument, in the absence of fraud or
imposition, it is likewise true that a party to a contract will not be bound by
it unless he assents to it and, if he did not in reality assent, such want of
assent may be shown in order to avoid the effect of his signature.” (Wetzstein
v. Thomasson¿(1939) 34 Cal.App.2d 554, 559.) Fraud in the “execution” or
“inception” of a contact “goes to the inception or execution of the agreement,
so that the promisor is deceived as to the nature of his act, and actually does
not know what he is signing, or does not intend to enter into a contract at
all, mutual assent is lacking, and the contract is¿void.” (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp.¿(1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 415 [italics
original].) 
 
Plaintiff
presents sufficient evidence to show that there was no valid agreement to
arbitrate because there was no mutual assent. Instead of having an
acknowledgment form that was separate from the Payroll Register, Defendant
included the acknowledgment of the agreement to arbitrate in a register
entitled “Payroll Check Pick-Up Register,” making it indistinguishable from
other payroll registers employees signed weekly.  Therefore, a reasonable employee could
believe that by signing the register they were not acknowledging that they were
informed and received a copy of the Agreement and agreed to its terms. Instead,
a reasonable employee could believe that they were signing the register either
as a condition of receiving their paycheck or as an acknowledgment that they
did receive their paycheck. A signature obtained under such conditions would
void any agreement due to fraud in the execution. (See Najarro v. Superior Court
(2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 871, 877.) 
 
Furthermore,
the “SPECIAL NOTE” on the register was cut-off, so the acknowledgment
was not fully legible to employees who did see and read the notice. Without the
declaration or testimony of the person who was physically present at the
Accounting Both, Frida Marlene Amaya Ortiz, there is no evidence the
arbitration acknowledgment was brought to the attention of employees, that
copies of the Agreement were provided to all employees, that the Agreement was
explained to employees, and employees understood that their signature was an
acknowledgment of having received a copy the Agreement and was not a
requirement for receiving their paycheck. Without such evidence, Defendant
fails to show mutual assent. “The policy is to make ‘arbitration agreements as
enforceable as other contracts, but not more so.’ [Citation.]” (Morgan
v. Sundance, Inc. (2022) 212 L.Ed.2d 753 [142 S.Ct. 1708, 1713].)
 
As
Defendant has failed to show that a valid agreement to arbitrate exists between
the parties, the Motion is denied, without prejudice. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration is denied without prejudice. 
 
Defendant to give notice. 
 