 Case Number:  23STCV02429    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, March 19, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV02429
CASE NAME:                        Douglas Smith v. Burbank Unified School District
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Burbank Unified
School District
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Douglas Smith
TRIAL DATE:                        18 February 2025
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Strike Third
Amended Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        6 March 2024
REPLY:                                  12
March 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant’s motion to strike portions of the
TAC is granted with leave to amend. Plaintiff is granted __ days leave to amend.
The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint for _, at 8:30 a.m. Defendant to
give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This action arises out of the employment of Douglas Smith
(“Plaintiff”) with Burbank Unified School District (“Defendant”). Plaintiff was
employed by the Defendant and worked as a teacher from August 1, 1992, until
his employment was terminated on May 27, 2022. According to the original
Complaint, Plaintiff alleges he requested a religious exemption as a reasonable
accommodation from the Defendant’s September 12, 2021, Ordinance mandating
COVID-19 vaccination for all employees (“Vaccination Ordinance”). 
 
On September 12, 2021, an interactive dialogue was initiated for
Plaintiff’s request for reasonable accommodation. Plaintiff’s request was
submitted to Defendant. On October 11, 2021, Defendant acknowledged Plaintiff
was entitled to religious accommodation and placed Plaintiff on an unpaid leave
of absence. On May 27, 2022, Defendant terminated Plaintiff’s employment. 
 
Plaintiff’s original Complaint alleged five causes of action: (1)
religious discrimination in violation of the FEHA; (2) failure to prevent
discrimination and retaliation in violation of FEHA; (3) retaliation in
violation of FEHA; (4) failure to accommodate in violation of FEHA; and (5)
failure to engage in the interactive process in violation of FEHA. Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging identical causes of action. 
 
On June 6, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to Plaintiff’s
FAC but with leave to amend only the first, second, third, and fourth causes of
action. On July 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”).
The SAC alleges four causes of action for (1) unlawful
discrimination based upon religion and religious creed in violation of Gov.
Code § 12940; (2) failure to prevent discrimination in violation of Gov. Code §
12940; (3) retaliation in violation of Gov. Code § 12940; and (4) failure to
accommodate religion and religious creed in violation of Gov. Code § 12940. 

 
On December 11, 2023, the court
sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action without leave to
amend and sustained the demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of
action with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
On January 1, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleging three causes of action: (1) unlawful discrimination based upon religion and religious creed
in violation of Gov. Code § 12940; (2) failure to prevent discrimination in
violation of Gov. Code § 12940;  and (3)
retaliation in violation of Gov. Code § 12940. Defendants now move to strike
portions of the TAC. Plaintiffs’ oppose the Motion. The matter is now before
the court. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard¿¿ 
 
A.        Motion to Strike 
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Motion to Strike[1]
 
Defendant seeks to strike the following from the TAC:  
 
Portions of
Paragraph 14 (4:25-5:9) which are underlined:
 

14. [First sentence omitted.] As an alternative to the
     District’s action of placing Mr. Smith on indefinite unpaid leave, Mr.
     Smith requested the District to conduct routine PCR based testing via spit
     sampling to comply with the District’s safety measures of maintaining a
     covid free environment. A true and correct copy of the Center of
     Disease Control (“CDC”) literature supporting saliva sampling is attached
     hereto as “Exhibit B.” This alternative accommodation would have been just
     as effective as swab testing and would not have resulted in a substantial
     increase in costs to Defendant BUSD because the District already mandated
     weekly routine testing for all District employees and provided paid
     testing kits to its Employees. The District required its employees to test
     every Sunday and upload their results by noon on the Sunday prior to the
     beginning of every school week. The District also provided on-site testing
     clinics for its employees.

 
Paragraph 15
(5:10-5:22), which states:
 

In addition to routine testing, the District was simply able
     to provide Mr. Smith with a KN95 face mask (“Face Masks”) that was to be
     worn at all times during his live teaching sessions amongst live students.
     In response to the California Department of Public Health’s (“CDPH”)
     masking requirement for K12 schools, the District mandated all employees
     and students to wear the Face Masks while on campus grounds regardless of
     vaccination status. A true and correct copy of the CDPH’s Requirements for
     Universal Masking Indoors at K-12 Schools is attached hereto as “Exhibit
     C.” The Face Masks were sufficient enough to minimize Covid-19 exposure
     amongst students and staff. Merely ingesting the Covid-19 vaccines were
     deemed to be insufficient to contain the spread of the virus since
     vaccinated individuals were still at risk for infection and were still
     contagious. See Exhibit C. The only approach to minimize Covid exposure
     during this time was: 1) wearing a Face Mask; and 2) conduct routine PCR
     testing. Mr. Smith was more than willing to wear a Face Mask and
     participate in the District’s routine PCR testing protocol.

 
Paragraph 16
(5:23-6:11), which states:
 

16. On January 12, 2022, the CDPH published a guidance
     specifically for K-12 schools in California. The CDPH addresses universal
     masking in the guidance as follows: 

“Masks are one of the most effective and
simplest safety mitigation layers to prevent in-school transmission of
COVID-19. SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, is primarily transmitted
via airborne particles. Masks limit the spread of the virus in the air from
infected persons and protect others exposed to these particles. Universal
masking indoors in K-12 schools is recommended by the American Academy of
Pediatrics and by the CDC in its Guidance for COVID-19 Prevention in K-12
Schools (updated July 27, 2021). As the CDC noted: "CDC recommends
universal indoor masking for all teachers, staff, students, and visitors to
K-12 schools, regardless of vaccination status. Children should return to
full-time in-person learning in the fall with layered prevention strategies in
place." 
Universal masking prevents outbreaks and permits
modified quarantine under certain conditions in K-12 settings, supporting more
instructional time and minimizing missed school days for students.
Additionally, universal masking indoors is critical to enabling all schools to
offer and provide full in-person instruction to all students without minimum
physical distancing requirements at the outset of the school year.” See Exhibit C. 
 
Paragraph 17
(6:12-6:17), which states:
 

17.
     In Mr. Smith’s case, he was able to simply wear a Face Mask and engage in
     routine PCR testing that collectively would have been effective enough to
     minimize any risks of spreading Covid 19 amongst other students and staff
     members and thereby allowing him to safely resume live teaching.
     Additionally, Mr. Smith would have been able to use a District provided
     microphone to help project his voice amongst his students while wearing
     the required Face Mask during live classroom sessions.

 
Paragraph 18
(6:18-6:19), which states:
 

Mr.
     Smith was entitled to the above-mentioned accommodation to safely teach
     live students as a paid employee of the District.

 
Because a demurrer
does not lie in a portion of a cause of action, a motion to strike is the
proper vehicle to strike portions of a pleading or cause of action. (See PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680,
1682; Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) 
 
In sustaining the
demurrer to the FAC on June 6, 2023, the court explained that in California, in
Love v. State Dept. of Education (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 980, the Court of
Appeal ruled that mandatory vaccination did not violate the plaintiffs’ right
to privacy because “’compulsory immunization has long been recognized as the
gold standard for preventing the spread of contagious diseases’” and society
has a compelling interest in “fighting the spread of contagious diseases
through mandatory vaccination of school-aged children.’ [Citations]” (Id.
at pp. 933-994.) Similarly, in Jacobson v. Massachusetts (1905) 197 U.S.
11, the United States Supreme Court held that “vaccination,
as a means of protecting a community against smallpox, finds strong support in
the experience of this and other countries, no court, much less a jury, is
justified in disregarding the action of the legislature simply because in its
or their opinion that particular method was—perhaps, or possibly—not the best
either for children or adults.” (Id. at p. 35.) 
 
Given the
interest of the State and Defendant in preventing disease, in considering the
demurrer to the SAC, the court noted that “If Plaintiff wants the pleadings to
focus on his being allowed to continue teaching to an entire classroom of
children while unvaccinated during an international pandemic, which he contends
could be done ‘safely,’ then Plaintiff must set forth facts – not conclusions
that support this allegation.” (Order of 11/29/2023.) 


A motion to strike
can be used as a “scalpel,” to cut out any “irrelevant, false or improper
matters inserted in any pleading.” (CCP § 436(a).) CCP § 431.10(b) defines
“immaterial” matters to include: “(1) An allegation not essential to the claim
or defense. (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an
otherwise sufficient claim or defense. (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”
 
The relevant
portions of Paragraph 14 of the TAC allege PCR based testing is as effective as
swab testing and that the District was already swab testing employs every
Sunday and uploading their results by noon of the Sunday prior to the beginning
of every school week. (TAC ¶ 14.) Plaintiff fails to state facts as to why his
religious beliefs were opposed to swab testing and why PCR Testing would have
accommodated his religious beliefs. Plaintiff also fails to allege that PCR
testing along with a mask mandate would have been just as safe or safer than
routine swab testing and a vaccine mandate, such that Plaintiff’s requested
accommodation was reasonable and Defendant’s refusal to provide such an
accommodation is evidence of discriminatory animus.  (TAC ¶¶ 11, 14.) 
 
Paragraph 15 states
that Plaintiff would have been able to teach with a KN95 mask and that the
District in response California Department of Public Health (CDPH) directive
mandated all employees and students swear face masks. (TAC ¶ 15.) There are no
allegations to show that Plaintiff requested to wear a KN95 mask and that
wearing a mask along with routine PCR testing was just as safe, if not a safer
alternative, then the District’s policy of a vaccine mandate, accompanied by
routine swab testing and a universal masking requirement such that Plaintiff’s
requested accommodation was reasonable under the circumstances. (TAC ¶¶ 11, 14,
15.) 
 
Paragraph 16
relates to CDPH’s guidance that masks were the most effective and simplest
means to mitigate COVID-19 infections in school, Exhibit C clarifies that such
advice is given because “COVID-19 prevention strategies in K-12 schools are
designed to protect people who are not fully vaccinated. Almost all K-6th
graders are unvaccinated and will not be eligible for vaccines at the onset of
the 2021-22 school year.” (TAC Ex. C.) The TAC alleges that the school already
had a universal mask mandate. (TAC ¶ 15.) While masks are “one of the most
effect and simplest safety mitigation” effort to prevent the transmission of
COVID-19, Plaintiff fails to state facts to show that masks alone or in
combination with PCR testing are more effective or just as effective as the
Defendants routine swab testing, universal mask mandate, and vaccination
mandate. (TAC ¶¶ 11, 14, 15.) Without such facts, Paragraph 16 is superfluous. 
 
Paragraph 17
alleges that Plaintiff’s wearing a face mask and engaging in routine PCR
testing “collectively would have been effective enough” to minimize the risk of
COVID-19. (TAC ¶ 17.) However, Plaintiff failed to explain why he was opposed
to swab testing, sufficient to show that his requested accommodation was
reasonable and that his objections to swab testing related to his religious
objections. “An employee cannot demand
clairvoyance of his employer.” (King v. United Parcel Service, Inc. (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 426, 443.)¿Plaintiff fails to allege that as a reasonable
accommodation he not only requested PCR Testing (TAC ¶ 14), but that plaintiff
specifically requested that PCR Testing and KN95 masks be provided together as
a reasonable accommodation to for his religious beliefs and that Defendant
denied both requested accommodations in violation of Plaintiff’s religious
beliefs despite granting the same accommodations to other teachers. “ ‘[T]he
employee can't expect the employer to read his mind and know he secretly wanted
a particular accommodation and sue the employer for not providing it.’ ” (Prilliman
v. United Air Lines, Inc. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 935, 954.) 
 
Paragraph 18 is
conclusory and merely states that wearing a face-mask and routine PCR testing
collectively was an “accommodation to safely teach live students as a paid
employee of the District” without stating facts that both accommodations were
collectively requested by Plaintiff, both were denied by the district, and said
accommodations would have permitted Plaintiff to teach in person to students in
a manner that was as safe as or safer than the Defendants’ existing policies of
routine swab testing, universal mask mandate, and vaccine mandate. The court is
aware that Plaintiff has alleged that another teacher was granted a vaccine
exemption due to “medical-based” reasons, but Plaintiff has not alleged that
being exempt from the vaccine mandate was his requested accommodation. Instead,
Plaintiff asserts that Mr. Khodagolian's requested accommodation was the same
as his, a “request to continue teaching live students.” (TAC ¶ 18.) The TAC is
devoid of facts to show how Defendant permitted Mr. Khodagolian to teach
without being vaccinated and if such accommodation was provided without any
safety measures or with safety measures that were in line or similar to the
safety measures Plaintiff proposed in his request for religious accommodations
to the vaccine mandate. Without such facts, Paragraph 18 is conclusory. 
 
Based on the above,
the motion to strike is granted. Plaintiff has requested leave to amend without
providing facts as to how Plaintiff intends to remedy the above deficiencies.
The court has outlined the deficiencies in Plaintiff’s pleadings for the third
time and is not inclined to grant leave to amend a fourth time. However, in the
interest of justice, the court grants Plaintiff leave to amend to fix the above-noted
deficiencies. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s motion to strike
portions of the TAC is granted with leave to amend. Plaintiff is granted __
days leave to amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint for _, at
8:30 a.m. Defendant to give notice.
 
 


