 Case Number:  23STCV23861    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants Jason Schoener
and Ten Key Films, Inc.’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First
Amended Complaint
Demurrer
            Defendants
Jason Schoener and Ten Key Films, Inc. (Ten Key) demur to plaintiffs George
Gamble and Nancy Gamble’s sixth and ninth causes of action.
6th Cause of Action: Aiding and Abetting Conversion
Plaintiffs do not allege sufficient facts for this
cause of action.  “[T]here
can be no aiding and abetting liability absent the commission of an underlying
tort.”  (Nasrawi v. Buck Consultants
LLC (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 328, 344, fn. 7.)  Plaintiffs do not allege sufficient facts for
conversion, so this cause of action fails. 
Conversion of money
requires that the defendant “wrongfully exercised dominion over a specifically
identifiable pot of money that already belongs to the” plaintiff.  (Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th
1141, 1152–1153.)  The plaintiff must “allege
[he or she] is ‘entitled to immediate possession at the time of conversion.’
”  (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 452.)
Plaintiffs do not allege any defendant converted money to which they had
a right to immediate possession.  Plaintiffs
allege they “formed a special purpose company to produce the Film (the ‘Company’).”  (FAC, ¶ 20.) 
Early in the first amended complaint, they allege, “Plaintiffs owned and
possessed certain petty cash funds which they allowed to be used in connection
with the production of the Film.”  (¶
27.)  Plaintiffs allege defendants Turrow
and Featurepro, Inc. converted these petty cash funds.  (¶¶ 77-81.) 
Later, they allege “Defendants Schoener, Ten Key and
Roven had advance, specific and direct knowledge that Turrow and Feature Pro
were not authorized to make personal use of the Company’s petty cash assets.”  (¶ 88, italics added.)  They further allege, “Defendants Schoener and
Ten Key nonetheless continued to assist Defendants Turrow and Featurepro in
their tortious appropriation of the Film’s petty cash assets.”  (¶ 90, italics added.)  The first amended complaint also refers to
“the Film’s petty cash assets” in two headings on page 14.  (P. 14, lines 6, 19.)  Finally, plaintiffs allege defendants “agreed
to appropriate the Film’s petty cash assets.” 
(¶ 134.)
Plaintiffs do not allege facts showing
they had any immediate right to possess this petty cash.  They allege they formed a corporation to
produce a film and allowed that money to be used to further the
production.  “It is fundamental that a corporation is a legal
entity that is distinct from its shareholders.” 
(Grosset v. Wenaas (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1100, 1108; accord Curci
Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 214, 221 [the
law generally recognizes “separation between an individual and a business
entity”].)  Generally, “an
incorporator should be precluded from ignoring his own deliberately chosen
corporate form.”  (In re Marriage of
Imperato (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 432, 439.) 
Plaintiffs cannot sue as individuals for conversion of the corporation’s
money.  
That Turrow and Featurepro allegedly misappropriated the
money does not constitute an injury to plaintiffs directly.  They were not obligated to return that money
to plaintiffs.  (See Fischer v. Machado (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 1069, 1072 [conversion applies where an agent sells principal’s
goods and is therefore “ ‘required to turn over to his principal a definite sum
received by him on his principal’s account’ ”].)  They were supposed to use the money to
produce the film—not give it back to plaintiffs.  Using the money for the wrong purposes does
not constitute conversion of something plaintiffs had the immediate right to
possess.
Plaintiffs’ opposition responds to this argument
only by relying on Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41(b), which provides,
“A party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after a demurrer to
an earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not demur to any portion
of the amended complaint … on grounds that could have been raised by demurrer
to the earlier version of the complaint.”  Schoener and Ten Key could not have raised
this basis for their demurrer to the initial complaint.  They primarily rely on paragraphs 88 and 90,
which are unique to the first amended complaint.  
9th Cause of Action: Civil Conspiracy
Plaintiffs do
not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action against Schoener and Ten
Key.  “There is no separate tort of civil
conspiracy and no action for conspiracy to commit a tort unless the underlying
tort is committed and damage results therefrom.”  (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb &
Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1136.) 

This cause of action fails for the same reasons as the sixth cause of
action for aiding and abetting conversion. 
Plaintiffs allege Schoener and Ten Key are liable for civil conspiracy
because they “agreed to a common plan to appropriate the Film’s petty cash
assets.”  (FAC, p. 14, line 6.)  “Pursuant to the agreement…, the Film’s petty
cash assets were appropriated.”  (Id.,
line 19.)  The only allegations
supporting this cause of action against Schoener and Ten Key concern conspiracy
to commit the tort of conversion. 
Without that underlying tort, plaintiffs cannot state a cause of action
against Schoener and Ten Key. 
Motion to Strike
            Defendants
Jason Schoener and Ten Key Films, Inc. move to strike four portions of
plaintiffs’ first amended complaint. 
Schoener and Ten Key Films successfully demurred to both causes of
action alleged against them.  Their
motion to strike is therefore moot.
Disposition
            Defendants
Jason Schoener and Ten Key Films, Inc.’s demurrers to plaintiffs’ sixth and
ninth causes of action are sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.  
Defendants Jason Schoener and Ten Key Films, Inc.’s
motion to strike portions of plaintiffs’ first amended complaint is moot. Defendant Randolf L.
Turrow’s Motion to Set Aside Default
            Defendant
Randolf L. Turrow moves to set aside his default.  
Evidentiary Objections
            Plaintiffs
George Gamble and Nancy Gamble make “general objections” and three objections
to portions of the declaration of John V. Tamborelli.  They make “general objections” and two
objections to portions of the declaration of Randolf L. Turrow.  All objections are overruled.      
Turrow’s Default
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b) provides, “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”  “Because the law favors disposing of cases on
their merits, ‘any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of
the party seeking relief from default.’ ” 
(Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980.)                   
Turrow shows his default resulted from his mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
He was served with the summons and complaint both on October 15, 2023,
and October 28, 2023.  (Turrow Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)  He states that, as a result, he believed he
had 30 days after the latter date to respond to the complaint.  (Id., ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff requested entry of Turrow’s default
on November 16.  Turrow’s failure to
respond before November 16 constitutes mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  Believing his 30 days
began running from the second service was a reasonable mistake.  Turrow also acted in good faith to timely
respond to the complaint based on that belief. 
On November 21, Turrow and co-defendant Feature Pro Inc. filed a
declaration of demurring party to extend the deadline to demur.  Turrow and Feature Pro Inc. filed a demurrer
on January 5, 2024.  
In his reply brief, Turrow also contends his default
was automatically vacated when plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint.  Materially amending a complaint vacates defendants’ defaults.  (See Greenup
v. Rodman (1986) 42 Cal.3d 822, 830; accord Airs Aromatics, LLC v.
CBL Data Recovery Technologies, Inc. (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 1013,
1025.)  Turrow explains he did not make
this argument in the moving papers because plaintiffs never served the first
amended complaint on him.  (Tamborelli
Reply Decl., ¶ 3.)  
Plaintiffs’ first
amended complaint materially amended the allegations against Turrow.  Plaintiffs added several paragraphs of new allegations,
including substantive allegations about Turrow. 
They added new allegations that: “Defendant Turrow arranged for the
transfer of Petty Cash Funds to the bank account of his personally owned
company, Defendant Featurepro.”  (FAC, ¶
95); “Defendant Turrow instructed Defendants Schoener and Ten Key to falsify
the financial records to conceal and disguise the Petty Cash Funds Defendant
Turrow transferred to Defendant Featurepro’s bank account”  (¶ 96); “Defendant Turrow intended to hire
production accounts who would be willing to assist him in his plan to
appropriate the Petty Cash Funds”  (¶
125); “Defendant Turrow believed that Defendants Schoener and Ten Key would
report to him directly, follow his instructions specifically, and provide
assistance to Turrow in his plan to appropriate the Petty Cash Funds.”  (¶ 126). 
Filing the first amended complaint therefore vacated Turrow’s default.
In their opposition,
plaintiffs argue Turrow’s motion is defective because he did not submit a
proposed responsive pleading as required under Code of Civil Procedure section
473(b).  The court rejects this argument
for two reasons.  First, as discussed
above, filing the first amended complaint vacated Turrow’s default even without
relief under section 473(b).  Second,
Turrow already filed a demurrer to the initial complaint.  The court struck Turrow’s demurrer because he
had defaulted.  Requiring him to submit
the demurrer again by attaching it to this motion would serve no purpose.
Sanctions
            In his
reply brief, Turrow seeks monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.5.  This request for
sanctions is procedurally defective.  Section
128.5(f)(1)(A) provides, “A motion for sanctions under this section shall be
made separately from other motions or requests.”  It cannot be done in a reply brief.  Turrow also did not follow the required
two-step procedure permitting 21 days of safe harbor.  (See Transcon Financial, Inc. v. Reid &
Hellyer, APC (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 547, 550-551.) 

Even if this request
were procedurally proper, the court would decline to impose sanctions.  Code
of Civil Procedure section 128.5 applies to “ ‘actions or tactics’ which
are both frivolous and in ‘bad-faith.’ ”  (Summers v. City of Cathedral City (1990)
225 Cal.App.3d 1047, 1070.)  Such sanctions “requir[e] subjective bad faith”
(In re Marriage of Sahafzadeh-Taeb & Taeb (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 124,
128), meaning “committed with an improper motive, such as to harass or
manipulate opposing counsel or the court” (id. at p. 141).  Assuming plaintiffs engaged in frivolous
actions or tactics, Turrow does not present sufficient evidence of subjective
bad faith.  
Disposition
            Defendant
Randolf L. Turrow’s motion to set aside default is granted.  The court
hereby vacates the default of defendant Randolf L. Turrow.  Turrow may file a pleading responding to
plaintiffs’ first amended complaint within 30 days.  If plaintiffs file a second amended
complaint, Turrow may file a responsive pleading within 30 days of service of
the second amended complaint.