 Case Number:  23STCV30876    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Propark America West, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration of Individual PAGA
Claim and Stay the Representative PAGA Claims
Defendant
Propark America West, LLC moves to compel arbitration of plaintiff Nancy
Benavides’s individual claims under the Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA)
and moves to stay the representative PAGA claims.  (See Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana
(2022) 596 U.S. 639, 662-663 (Viking River); Adolph v. Uber
Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1113-1114 (Adolph)
[discussing arbitrable “individual” PAGA claims and nonarbitrable
representative or “non-individual” claims].)
Plaintiff
opposes the motion on two grounds.  First,
she argues her first amended complaint (which she filed after defendant filed
this motion) alleges only representative or non-individual claims, so there are
no individual claims subject to arbitration under Viking River and Adolph.  (Opp., pp. 4-5.)  Second, she argues the parties’ arbitration
agreement contains an unenforceable waiver of the right to bring a representative
PAGA action and the agreement provides that a court is the exclusive forum for
PAGA claims.  (Opp., pp. 5-7.)  
The
parties’ agreement delegates to the arbitrator the power to rule on these
gateway issues.  “Parties to an
arbitration agreement may agree to delegate to the arbitrator, instead of a
court, questions regarding the enforceability of the agreement.  [Citation.] 
They ‘can agree to arbitrate almost any dispute—even a dispute over
whether the underlying dispute is subject to arbitration.’ ”  (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 231, 241.)  “There are
two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective.  First, the language of the clause must be
clear and unmistakable.  [Citation.]  Second, the delegation must not be revocable
under state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or
unconscionability.”  (Id. at p.
242.)
The
parties’ agreement includes a clear and unmistakable delegation clause.  It provides, “[A]ny dispute whatsoever
relating to the interpretation, validity, or performance of this Agreement
shall be submitted to final binding arbitration.  If an arbitrator finds that a dispute is not
covered by this Agreement, then the appropriate state or federal court will
decide the claim.”  (Prevost Decl., Ex. J,
p. 56.)  In plain language, this
provision broadly requires the arbitrator to decide gateway issues of
arbitrability, including whether a dispute is “covered by this Agreement.”  
Plaintiff
does not demonstrate any basis for revoking the above provisions.  The party opposing arbitration “ ‘ “bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” ’ ”  (Kader v. Southern California Medical
Center, Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214, 220-221.)  Plaintiff does not argue the delegation
clause (or any part of the agreement) is revocable.  Plaintiff’s opposition does not address defendant’s
delegation argument.
Disposition
            Defendant Propark America West,
LLC’s motion to compel arbitration of plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim and
stay representative PAGA claims is granted.  The court hereby orders plaintiff Nancy
Benavides to arbitrate her disputes with defendant, including gateway issues of
arbitrability and the scope of the arbitration agreement, but not including
plaintiff’s representative PAGA claims.  The
court hereby stays the entire action pending resolution of the
arbitration proceeding.  