 Case Number:  23STCV28309    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Neda Alhilali’s Motion to Quash Subpoena
Plaintiff
Neda Alhilali moves to quash a subpoena to Bank of America, N.A.  Upon a party’s motion, a court “may make an
order quashing [a] subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders.  In addition, the
court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”  (CCP §
1987.1(a).)  
Defendant
Clan Co issued a subpoena to Bank of America for two categories of
documents.  (Belisle Decl., Ex. A.)  No. 1 demands, “Any and all DOCUMENTS, bank
statements, checks, deposits, withdrawals, transactions related to NEDA
ALHILALI’s bank account number ending in 33961 between January 1, 2018 until
the DATE OF PRODUCTION.”  No. 2 demands,
“Any and all DOCUMENTS, bank statements, checks, deposits, withdrawals,
transactions related to any and all bank accounts associated with NEDA ALHILALI
between January 1, 2018 until the DATE OF PRODUCTION.”  
Plaintiff
objects that this violates her privacy rights. 
“The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.”  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (Williams).) 
If the objecting party shows all three elements, then the court must
balance the need for disclosure against the right to privacy.  (Ibid.)  The court must also consider “the
availability of alternatives and protective measures.”  (Id. at p. 556.)
Plaintiff establishes all three elements.  First, the California Constitution provides a
right “of informational privacy.”  (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552.)  Second, it is reasonable to expect that one’s
financial records are private.  Suing for
damages generally does not mean the plaintiff must completely open her
financial records to the defendant. 
Third, the intrusion is relatively serious.  Defendants seek the records for all
transactions from plaintiff’s bank accounts for over six years.       
When considering the protective measures available,
defendants’ need for disclosure outweighs plaintiff’s need for privacy.  Plaintiff claims damages arising from
payments she made to others.  As for the
rent payments made to defendants, defendants adequately explain why they cannot
get this information from any other source. 
“Plaintiff Neda Alhilali’s rent checks were deposited into a Bank of
America account in the name of Frank Wattles.  Unfortunately, Frank Wattles is currently
suffering from dementia and Alzheimer’s disease and is unable to access that
bank account.”  (A. Wattles Decl., ¶¶
2-3.)  Frank Wattles’s family has been
unable to access his bank account.  (Id., ¶¶ 4-7.) 
As for payments for repairs, plaintiff claims
damages arising from payments of $400, $800, $1,000, and $2,500 between 2019 to
2023.  (Belisle Reply Decl., Ex. A, No.
9.1.)  Defendants’ counsel states
plaintiff  “has not yet produced any
documentary evidence of any repairs she made to the apartment.”  (Montgomery Decl., ¶ 13.)  Whether plaintiff made those payments is
directly relevant to her damages.  Acquiring
plaintiff’s bank records directly from the bank is the most reliable way to
establish whether she made those payments. 

Though this discovery constitutes a relatively
serious intrusion, entering a protective order limiting disclosure will
adequately mitigate the invasion of plaintiff’s privacy.  The court will also narrow the subpoena to
records from January 1, 2019, to the present. 

Sanctions
            Both
parties move for sanctions against one another. 
“[T]he court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable
expenses incurred in making or opposing” a motion to quash a subpoena, “including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” 
(CCP § 1987.2(a).)  The court
exercises its discretion not to impose sanctions.  The motion was not made in bad faith.  The subpoena was not oppressive.  
Disposition
Plaintiff
Neda Alhilali’s motion to quash subpoena is granted in part.  The court hereby modifies the subpoena as
follows: Request No. 1 shall state, “Any and all DOCUMENTS, bank statements,
checks, deposits, withdrawals, transactions relatedto NEDA ALHILALI’s bank
account number ending in 33961 between Jaunary 1, 2019 until the DATE OF
PRODUCTION.”  Request No. 2 shall state,
“Any and all  DOCUMENTS, bank statements,
checks, deposits, withdrawals, transactions related to any and all bank
accounts associated with NEDA ALHILALI between Jaunary 1, 2019 until the DATE OF
PRODUCTION.”
The
parties are ordered to meet and confer regarding a stipulated protective
order within 7 days.    Defendants apply
ex parte to advance the hearing on their motion to reopen discovery and to
compel site inspection.  Defendants show good cause to advance the hearing
and to shorten the time of notice.  The jury trial is set for June 5,
2024.  There is not enough time for a regularly noticed motion.                  
The application is granted.  The court hereby advances the
hearing on defendants’ motion to reopen discovery and compel site inspection
from June 26, 2024, to May 27, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.  Plaintiff shall file
any opposition to the motion no later than May 21, 2024.  Defendants shall
not file any reply.
