  Case Number:  23STCP03551    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



In Re: STRATCAP INVESTMENTS, INC.  
        
  
 

 


 Case
  No.:  23STCP03551
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 3, 2023



 
Petitioner Stratcap Investments, Inc.’s petition
for approval of transfer of structured settlement payment rights is denied without
prejudice.  
 
Petitioner
Stratcap Investments, Inc. (“Stratcap”) (“Petitioner) petitions this Court to approve
this Petition and enter an order in accordance with Insurance Code §10139.5 and
26 U.S.C. §5891, approving this transfer of structured settlement payment
rights and ordering the Payment Obligor which Pacific Life & Annuity
Services, Inc. (“PLAS”) (“Payment Obligor”) and Payment Issuer Pacific Life
Insurance Company (“PLIC”) (“Payment Issuer”), regardless of whether Payee C.
E. (“Payee”) is then living, to pay certain structured settlement payments
described in Paragraph 5.2 the Transfer Agreement (“Transferred Payments”) to
Petitioner or its designated assigns.
 
Discussion
Payee
Information on Petition (Ins. Code § 10139.5(c))
Pursuant to the Insurance Code, “Every petition for
approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights, except as
provided in subdivision (d), shall include, to the extent known after the
transferee has made reasonable inquiry with the payee, all of the following: 
(1) The payee’s
name, address, and age.
(2) The payee’s marital
status, and, if married or separated, the name of the payee’s spouse.      
(3) The names,
ages, and place or places of residence of the payee’s minor children or other
dependents, if any.
(4)
The amounts and sources of the payee’s monthly income
and financial resources and, if presently married, the amounts and sources of
the monthly income and financial resources of the payee’s spouse. 
(5)  Whether the payee is currently obligated under
any child support or spousal support order, and, if so, the names, addresses,
and telephone numbers of any individual, entity, or agency that is receiving
child or spousal support from the payee under that order or that has
jurisdiction over the order or the payments in question.
(6) Information
regarding previous transfers or attempted transfers, as described in paragraph
(11), (12), or (13) of subdivision (b). 
The transferee or payee may choose to provide this information by
providing copies of pleadings, transaction documents, or orders involving any
previous attempted or completed transfer or by providing the court a summary of
available information regarding any previous transfer or attempted transfer,
such as the date of the transfer or attempted transfer, the payments transferred
or attempted to be transferred by the payee in the earlier transaction, the
amount of money received by the payee in connection with the previous
transaction, and generally the payee’s reasons for pursuing or completing a
previous transaction.  
 
The Petition does not include any of the
information required under Insurance Code section 10139.5(c).  Petitioner states, “[t]he evidence in support
of this is shall be presented in the Declaration of the Payee, to be filed and
served separately herein and which is incorporated herein by this reference,
along with any testimony to be provided at the hearing should the Court deem
inquiry appropriate.”  (Petition
¶8.)  However, no Declaration of Payee
has been filed with this Court.
          Accordingly,
Petitioner’s petition is denied without prejudice.
 
Conclusion
Petitioner’s petition is denied without
prejudice.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  November
_____, 2023
                                                                             





  