  Case Number:  22CMCV00459    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  A 
22CMCV00459
 Canteen SJC Properties, LLC v. Robertson’s Ready Mix, Ltd., et al.
Tuesday,
 October 22, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING MOTION BY
 DEFENDANT, RRM PROPERTIES, LTD., FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT 
 
I.      
BACKGROUND
      The
first amended complaint (“FAC") alleges that Plaintiff holds an undivided
74 percent of the interest in real property with Robertson’s Ready Mix, Ltd. (“RRM”),
who owns 26 percent of the property. Defendant, Adams Bennett Investments, LLC
(“Adams”) is purportedly wholly owned and controlled by RRM. Plaintiff leased its
74 percent interest in the property for a definite term to RRM, who allegedly
breached the lease agreement by failing to comply with terms when the lease
expired. Instead, Plaintiff alleges that RRM entered into a lease with
Defendant Adams, its wholly owned company, to force Plaintiff to extend RRM’s lease.
Plaintiff alleges claims for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, accounting, ouster, and declaratory relief. 
II.    
ARGUMENTS
      Defendant
RRM moves for an order granting leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff
for partition of the real property, to which Plaintiff will not agree. RRM no
longer wishes to co-own the property with Plaintiff.
      Plaintiff
does not oppose the motion, so long as Plaintiff is provided the opportunity to
amend the complaint. RRM would not stipulate to these conditions.
      In
reply, RRM argues that Plaintiff has not filed a motion for leave to amend nor
has Plaintiff proposed an amended complaint. This request is premature. 
III.   
DISCUSSION
      A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint may file
a cross-complaint setting forth either a cause of action against any of the
parties who filed the complaint, or any cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable, whether or not such person is already a party. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.10 subd. (b).) Leave to file or amend a cross-complaint may be
granted so long as the moving party acted in good faith. The statute is
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50)
      Plaintiff
does not oppose the motion, and there is no evidence of Defendant’s bad faith. Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED. RRM is ordered to file its proposed cross-complaint
within Click or tap here to
 enter text. days. (Mot. Ex. D.) Plaintiff’s request to
file an amended complaint is governed by (Code Civ. Proc., §
473 subd. (a)(1)), which requires a noticed motion. 