 Case Number:  22STCV16462    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV16462




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Monica Jeannettee Vasquez 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition filed on October 2, 2024 by Petitioner Monica Jeannettee Vasquez (Petitioner)
on behalf of Claimant James Roman Arevalo, age 5. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the
following reasons: 
 
Petitioner states in item 6 that Claimant was injured due
to the motor vehicle collision but did not receive any medical treatment due to
his infancy. Petitioner must provide medical records/reports, or other evidence
showing that Claimant is fully recovered in attachment 8. 
 
Petitioner
should not include Claimant’s settlement in item 11b(5) as that section should
only reflect settlements to “persons other than claimant.” 
 
Petitioner must provide attachment 11b(6) describing the reasons
for apportionment of the settlement for Claimant and Estate of Erika Dominguez.

 
Petitioner requests $5,000 in attorney fees which represents
40% of the gross settlement. Counsel’s declaration does not adequately explain
the factors set forth in California Rule of Court 7.955, in order to justify
the amount sought.
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), items 5 and 6b must be
marked. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 