  Case Number:  22STCV04047    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV04047




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant/Cross-complainant ASN Calabasas I
  LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Edelmira Vega Rios, David Dwight Rios-Howard, and Janel Blanco  



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
3.     Request for Judicial Notice
4.     Declaration of Kiara French in Support 
5.     Declaration of Laura C. Williams in Support 
6.     Declaration of Jose Barrera in Support 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.     Plaintiffs’ Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Opposition
2.     Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement in Opposition
3.     Plaintiffs’ Objections to Evidence
4.     Plaintiffs’ Appendix of Exhibits in Support 
 
REPLY 
1.     Reply to Plaintiffs’ Opposition
2.     Reply to Plaintiffs’ Response to Separate
Statement 
3.     Responses to Plaintiffs’ Objections 
4.     Defendant’s Objections 
5.     Declaration of Laura C. Williams
6.     Notice of Errata and Corrected Exhibit 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 26, 2022,
Plaintiffs Edelmira Vega Rios (individually and as successor in interest
to Melissa Amber Rios), David Dwight Rios-Howard (a minor), and Janel Blanco
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the operative second amended complaint
(“SAC”) against ASN Calabasas I LLC and Does 1 to 100 for wrongful
death-negligence/premises liability and negligent infliction of emotional
distress. 
 
The SAC alleges that on March 27, 2020, Decedent Melissa Amber Rios
(“Decedent”) passed away after slipping on water leaking from a broken toilet
on premises owned, managed and controlled by ASN Calabasas I LLC. (SAC ¶ 14,
16.) 
 
David Dwight Rios-Howard is Decedent’s surviving son and asserts the
wrongful death action. Plaintiff Edelmira Vega Rios is Decedent’s surviving
mother and Janel Blanco is the surviving sibling; they both assert the
negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”) cause of action. 
 
Defendant/Cross-complainant ASN Calabasas I LLC (“Defendant”) now
moves for summary judgment, or alternatively summary adjudication, on the
following issues: (1) the negligence/premises liability action fails because
Plaintiffs’ cannot establish that Defendant had notice of the alleged condition
and cannot establish causation; (2) the NIED action fails because Plaintiffs’
cannot establish that Defendant had notice of the alleged condition, cannot
establish causation, and Plaintiffs did not witness the injury-producing event.

 
Plaintiffs oppose and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court sustains Plaintiff’s objections to the Coroner’s Report, and
the declaration of Kiara French paragraph 5 to the extent it quotes text from
the lease agreement. The Court overrules Plaintiffs’ objection to the
declaration of Kiara French paragraph 6. 
 
The Court rules as follows on Defendant’s objections:
1.    
Overruled.
2.    
Overruled.
3.    
Overruled.
4.    
Overruled.
5.    
Overruled.
6.    
Overruled.
7.    
Overruled.
8.    
Overruled.
9.    
Overruled.
10.  Overruled.
11.  Sustained.
12.  Overruled.

13.  Sustained.
14.  Overruled.
15.  Overruled.

16.  Sustained.
17.  Overruled.
18.  Overruled.
19.  Overruled.
20.  Overruled.
21.  Overruled.

22.  Overruled.
23.  Overruled.
24.  Overruled.
25.  Overruled.
26.  Overruled.
27.  Overruled.
28.  Overruled.
29.  Sustained.
30.  Overruled.
31.  Overruled.
32.  Sustained.
33.  Sustained.
34.  Sustained.

 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
The Court denies Defendant’s
request for judicial notice that the Los Angeles County Medical
Examiner-Coroner officially reported Melissa Rios' manner of death as, “natural,”
and reported the only cause of death as, “sudden unexpected death in epilepsy.”
Matters
are ordinarily subject to judicial notice when they are “reasonably beyond
dispute.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.¿(2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) As a result, a court can take judicial notice of the
existence of a document. However, it cannot take judicial notice of the truth
of statements within that document if they are reasonably disputable.[1] (Id.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence­–Premises
Liability
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and
damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671.) 
 
A.   
Duty
 
            “The owner
of premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such
premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Brooks
v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619;
see Civil Code § 1714.) Stated differently, because a property owner is not the
insurer of the safety of its guests, the owner’s actual or constructive
knowledge of the dangerous condition is key to establishing liability. (Hall
v. Aurora Loan Servs., LLC (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1134, 1139-1140; Ortega
v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206 [“to impose liability for
injuries suffered by an invitee due to a defective condition of the premises,
the owner or occupier must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition or have been able by the exercise of ordinary care to
discover the condition, which if known to him, he should realize as involving
an unreasonable risk to invitees on his premises”] [cleaned up].)
 
“Historically,
the public policy of this state generally has precluded a landlord's liability
for injuries to his tenant or his tenant's invitees from a dangerous condition
on the premises which comes into existence after the tenant has taken
possession.”¿ (Uccello v. Laudenslayer (1975) 44
Cal.App.3d 504, 510; Mora v. Baker Commodities, Inc. (1989) 210
Cal.App.3d 771, 778.)¿This policy is based on the principle that the landlord has surrendered possession
and control of the land to the tenant and has no right to enter without
permission. (Uccello, supra, 44 Cal.App.3d at 511.) 
 
A commercial landowner[2] “owed no duty to appellant for defective conditions which
occurred after the property was transferred to its commercial tenant(s) if the
premises were reasonably safe at the time the tenant(s) took possession.” (Mora,
supra, 210 Cal.App.3d at 781.) However, “[a]t the time the lease is
executed and upon renewal a landlord has a right to reenter the property, has
control of the property, and must inspect the premises to make the premises
reasonably safe from dangerous conditions.” (Id.) “Even if the commercial
landowner executes a contract which requires the tenant to maintain a property
in a certain condition, the landlord is obligated at the time the lease is
executed to take reasonable precautions to avoid unnecessary danger.” (Id.)
The court has held that “when a landlord renews a lease or re-leases the
premises to the same tenant, the very making of a new lease shows that at the
time the landlord has a right of entry to the premises, and logically, having a
right to enter the landlord must remedy the defect.” (Id. at 782
[citations and alterations omitted].) “However, the landlord’s responsibility
to inspect is limited. Like a residential landlord, the duty to inspect charges
the lessor ‘only with those matters which would have been disclosed by a
reasonable inspection.” (Id. [citations omitted]; but see Garcia v.
Holt (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 600, 605 [no duty to inspect for a
month-to-month lease unless actual notice].)
 
B.   
Causation
“ ‘[T]he
decision whether that breach caused the damage (that is, causation in
fact) is again within the jury’s domain; but where reasonable men will not
dispute the absence of causality, the court may take the decision from the jury
and treat the question as one of law. [Citations.]’ [Citations.]” (Constance
B. v. State of California (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 200, 207 (“Constance”)
[italics in original].)¿Causation
is established by showing that a defendant’s breach of duty was a substantial
factor in bringing about plaintiff’s injury, and there is no legal rule
relieving defendant from liability. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) Defendant’s negligence is the actual cause, or cause in
fact, of plaintiff’s injury if it is a substantial factor in bringing about the
harm. (Mitchell v. Gonzales (1991) 54 Cal.3d 1041, 1052.) “In other
words, [the] plaintiff must show some substantial link or nexus between
omission and injury.” (Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th
763, 778.)¿¿ 
The doctrine of proximate cause relieves
defendants from liability for injuries they, in fact, caused, based on
considerations of policy and justice. (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p.
1205.) But proximate cause only becomes relevant after it has first been
determined that defendant’s conduct was the cause in fact of plaintiff’s
injury. (See Rest.2d Torts, § 431, subd. (a).)¿¿
Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
“ ‘Negligent infliction of emotional
distress is a form of the tort of negligence, to which the elements of duty,
breach of duty, causation and damages apply…’ ”¿ (Huggins v. Longs Drug
Stores California, Inc. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 124, 129-130.)¿ “The law of
negligent infliction of emotional distress in California is typically
analyzed…by reference to two ‘theories' of recovery: the ‘bystander’ theory and
the ‘direct victim’ theory.”¿ (Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2
Cal.4th 1064, 1071.)¿  
 
The elements of a cause of action
for the negligent infliction of emotional distress based on the bystander
theory are: (1) the plaintiff is closely related to the injury victim; (2) is
present at the scene of the injury producing event at the time it occurs and is
then aware that it is causing injury to the victim; and (3) as a result suffers
serious emotional distress-a reaction beyond that which would be anticipated in
a disinterested witness and which is not an abnormal response to the
circumstances.¿ (Thing v. La Chusa (1989) 48 Cal.3d 644, 667–68; see also Ra v. Sup. Ct.
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 142, 148–49 [bystanders must be closely related to the
victim, have been present at the scene and contemporaneously aware of injuring,
and have suffered serious emotional distress]; Smith v. Pust (1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 263, 273 [plaintiff must be direct victim or a bystander who
witnessed to the injury].)¿ 
 
“For purposes of clearing the awareness
threshold for emotional distress recovery, it is awareness of an event that is
injuring the victim – not awareness of the defendant’s role in causing the
injury – that matters.” (Downey v. City of Riverside (2024) 16 Cal.5th
539, 544.) “Such liability will not lie ‘based on nothing more than a
bystander’s ‘observation of the results of the defendant’s infliction of
harm,’ however ‘direct and contemporaneous.’” (Id. at 546 [citations
omitted, emphasis in original].) “There can be no recovery for emotional
distress caused by the negligent infliction of injury on a third party unless
the plaintiff contemporaneously understands that the injury-causing event is in
fact causing injury to the victim.” (Id. at 552.) “In Thing, the
plaintiff was not allowed to recover because she had perceived neither
the event nor the defendant’s injurious conduct.” (Id. at 553
[emphasis in original].) “[T]he emotional trauma must be the result of directly
witnessing and understanding that harm is being done — not the result of
learning of the harm after the fact.” (Id. at 559.) “The emotional
trauma that comes from witnessing such an accident exists regardless of whether
the plaintiff is aware at the time of the accident of all the individuals or
entities that have contributed to the accident through their conduct.” (Id.)
 
Analysis 
 
Here, the following is undisputed. On
or about April 22, 2017, Plaintiffs Edelmira Vega Rios and Janel Blanco, along
with Decedent Melissa Rios, entered into a 12-month lease agreement
("Agreement") with Defendant for the apartment unit located at 3837
N. Lupine Lane, Apt. A, Calabasas, California 91302. (UMF 1.) Plaintiffs do not
dispute that annual renewals of the Lease Agreement were entered into by
Plaintiffs and Defendant in 2018 and 2019. (Pl. Response UMF 2.) On or about
April 5, 2017, prior to Plaintiffs taking possession of the Subject Unit, ASN
made the unit ready for occupancy through the Turn Process, which included a
complete inspection and cleaning of the apartment. (UMF 4.) During Turn
Process, no problems were identified or repairs needed on the subject toilet.
(UMF 5.) Plaintiffs allege that on March 27, 2020, Decedent died “when she
slipped and fell on water and/or similar substance leaking and/or seeping from
a broken and/or deteriorating toilet and/or hose and/or supply line and/or
similar toilet and/or plumbing component in the restroom of her rental that was
not properly installed, maintained, cleaned and/or protected at the SUBJECT
PROPERTY.” (UMF 6.) Prior to March 27, 2020, Plaintiffs had never submitted any
work order requests to ASN complaining of the subject toilet or water leaking
from the toilet equipment in the subject bathroom. (UMF 7.) Plaintiff Edelmira
Vega Rios admitted that neither she or Plaintiff Janel Blanco ever made a
complaint to ASN about the subject toilet in decedent's bathroom. (UMF 8.) 
 
            Although
Defendant has met its initial burden to show the absence of a triable issue of
fact that it had a duty to repair, based on the evidence that it had no notice
of any defect with the toilet, Defendant does not address a duty to inspect at
the time of the lease renewals in 2018 and 2019. Rather, Defendant establishes
that it did not inspect after the initial lease. Accordingly, it presents no
evidence that a reasonable inspection at the time of each lease renewal would
not have disclosed the toilet defect.[3] A
triable issue of fact remains regarding whether Defendant breached a duty to
inspect in 2018 and 2019.[4] 
 
            Next,
Defendant argues Plaintiffs cannot establish causation. In light of the Court’s
evidentiary rulings, Defendant has not established the absence of a triable
issue of fact regarding causation.[5]
 
Therefore, the motion for summary
adjudication on the wrongful death-negligence/premises liability cause of
action is denied. 
 
Next, Defendant argues the NIED
cause of action fails because Plaintiffs did not witness the injury producing
event. Defendant sets forth the following fact:
 
-       
Plaintiff Edelmira Vega Rios admitted that neither she
or Plaintiff Janel Blanco witnessed decedent's subject fall. 
 
Here, Edelmira Vega Rios testified
that she and Janel were in her bedroom the entire night. She did not recall
hearing any strange noises or a cry or a thud and did not wake up until the
maintenance man had arrived at her unit. (Def. Exh. 21, Rios Depo. 114:15-115:15.)
Therefore, Defendant meets its initial burden to show that none of the
Plaintiffs who have asserted the NIED cause of action witnessed Decedent’s
fall.[6] The
burden shifts to Plaintiffs. In opposition, Plaintiffs present no facts
suggesting that they perceived Decedent slipping and falling on the water.
Therefore, they fail to meet their burden.
 
Plaintiff
relies primarily on Wilks v. Hom (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1264. However, in
that case, the plaintiff was in the house when she called to her daughter to
pull the vacuum cleaner plug out of the socket. (Id. at 1267.) As her
daughter pulled the plug, there was an immediate explosion. (Id.) The
court found that “it is not necessary that a plaintiff bystander actually have
witnessed the infliction of injury to her child, provided that the plaintiff
was at the scene of the accident and was sensorially aware, in some important
way, of the accident and the necessarily inflicted injury to her child.” (Id.
at 1271.) There, the plaintiff “was personally impressed by the explosion at
the same instant damage was done to her child, and instantly knew of the likely
severe damage to the child.” (Id.) In Downey, the Supreme Court
explained that the mother in Wilks “had seen, heard, and felt a
residential explosion” and therefore satisfied Thing’s “second
requirement because ‘she personally and contemporaneously perceived the
injury-producing event and, its traumatic consequences.’” (Downey, supra,
16 Cal.5th at 556-57.) Here, the only evidence presented is that Plaintiffs
personally and contemporaneously perceived the traumatic consequences, not the
injury-producing event.[7]
 
As a result, the motion for summary
adjudication on the NIED cause of action is granted. 
 
The Court declines to deny
Defendant’s motion on procedural grounds based on California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1350(g). (Opp., 13.) Though rule 3.1350(g) requires the evidence to be
separately bound and contain a table of contents, it does not appear this
limited Plaintiffs’ ability to oppose.  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant
ASN Calabasas I LLC’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED in part as to
the NIED cause of action. Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 


