 Case Number:  22STCV28368    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV28368




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Joanna Navarro 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition filed on October 7, 2024 by Petitioner Joanna Navarro (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Jennifer Llerenas, age 4. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the
following reasons: 
 
Petitioner must write the correct address for the Spring
Street Courthouse in the petition and proposed orders to provide sufficient notice.
 
In item 1, Petitioner should also mark “guardian ad
litem.” Item 2d should be marked. 
 
Petitioner asserts that Claimant struck her head against
the ground after her mother who was carrying her, fell on a sidewalk. Petitioner
asserts Claimant is recovered. However, given the nature of the injury, and the
fact the medical records provided are only from the date of the incident, the
Court requires a parent declaration or other evidence attesting to Claimant’s
current condition. 
 
Petitioner
must complete item 10c describing the terms of the settlement.
 
Item 11b(5)
must state the plaintiff/claimant receiving the settlement. 
 
It is unclear if Petitioner is seeking to have medical
expenses reimbursed from the settlement proceeds. Item 12a(4) states that $0
are to be reimbursed, while 12b4 shows a $280.87 Medi-Cal lien. However, the
attached Medi-Cal letter reflects a $652.57 lien. If the lien will be paid by
the settlement, then the correct amount must be written in 12a4. Furthermore, Petitioner
must review and explain the values in item 12a, in attachment 12. As written in
12a, it is unclear how only $280.87 in liens exist, given the total medical
expenses, reductions, and payments. 
 
Petitioner requests $1,250 in attorney fees which represents
25% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this amount to be reasonable. 
 
Petitioner must complete item 15. Item 16b should reflect
the Medi-Cal lien, while 16d should reflect $32.60. 
 
Attachment 17e must be included. 
 
Attachment 18b(2) must be included. 
 
Item 21 should not be completed since Claimant is not an
adult with a disability. 
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), items 1, 5, 6b, should be
completed. Item 8a2 should only reflect the value in 13b of the petition.
Medical expenses should only be in item 8a(3). 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 