 Case Number:  23STCV17921    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV17921




MOTION


Motion to Specially Set/Advance Hearing Date or, in the
  alternative, Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  PV Holding Corp. 




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed
  



 
MOTION
 
Defendant PV Holding Corp. (“Defendant”) moves to specially set its
summary judgment motion hearing, or alternatively, continue trial. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on July 28, 2023. Trial was initially set for
January 24, 2025. 
 
Defendant’s answer was filed on October 2, 2023.  
 
On August 16, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment. The
hearing for summary judgment is currently scheduled for February 18, 2025. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The Court notes that the proof of
service for this motion only shows that Plaintiff received notice, and not
Defendant Arthur Randolph McDonald, who appeared in this case on February 23,
2024. A moving
party’s failure to serve the notice of motion and moving papers on a non-moving
party violates the basic principles of procedural due process under the federal
and state constitutions – notice and an opportunity to be heard.¿ (Logan v.
Zimmerman Brush Co. (1982) 455 U.S. 422, 428 [minimum due process requires
notice and opportunity for hearing appropriate to the nature of the case]; Horn
v. County of Ventura (1979) 24 Cal.3d 605, 612 [due process principles
require reasonable notice and opportunity to be heard].)   
 
Therefore, because
notice is defective, the motion is denied on procedural grounds. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to specially set hearing date/continue
trial without prejudice.
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 