 Case Number:  22STCV29989    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV29989




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set
  One
(2)  
  Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
  Documents, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Manuel Anthony Noriega 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Manuel Anthony Noriega (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel further
responses from Defendant Freddie Mac’s Inc. dba Hadley Tow (“Defendant”) to Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Production of Documents, Set One. No
opposition has been filed.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
requires counsel to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
before the Court will hear any motion to compel further responses to discovery,
and provides that PI Hub Courts may deny or continue any motion if parties fail
to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing. There is no
indication in the record that Plaintiff filed an IDC statement with the Court
or scheduled an IDC for this motion. 
 
The
Court therefore continues the motions. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court continues the motion to December 13, 2024 at 1:30
p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. Plaintiff shall schedule
and complete an IDC promptly in order for the motions to be heard. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and file
a proof of service of such.