 Case Number:  23STCV15849    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV15849




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Intervene  




MOVING PARTY:


Oak River Insurance Company, administered
  by Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 7, 2023, Plaintiff Vanessa Mesia-Ullrich (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against The Arden, LLC and Does 1 to 10 for negligence and premises
liability. 
 
Proposed Intervenor Oak River Insurance Company, administered by
Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies, seeks a Court order granting leave to file
a complaint-in-intervention in this action on grounds that Plaintiff was acting
within the course and scope of her employment with St. James’ Episcopal School when
she was injured. As St. James’ Episcopal School’s workers’ compensation
benefits provider and the party responsible for paying Plaintiff’s workers’
compensation benefits, Proposed Intervenor argues it is entitled to intervene
in this action. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 387(d) states, “[t]he court shall,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: (A) A provision
of law confers an unconditional right to intervene. (B) The person seeking
intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is
the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition
of the action may impair or impede that person's ability to protect that
interest, unless that person's interest is adequately represented by one or
more of the existing parties.” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 387(d)(1).)  
 
“Pursuant to section 387 the trial court has discretion to permit a
nonparty to intervene where the following factors are met: (1) the proper
procedures have been followed; (2) the nonparty has a direct and immediate
interest in the action; (3) the intervention will not enlarge the issues in the
litigation; and (4) the reasons for the intervention outweigh any opposition by
the parties presently in the action.” (Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 386.) 
 
Labor Code sections 3852 and 3853 provide that an employer against
whom a claim for workers’ compensation damages was made may join in an action
against a third party arising out of the incident for which the workers’
compensation payment was made.  (Lab.
Code, §§ 3852, 3853.)  “[Labor Code]
[s]ection 3853 states that when an action is brought against a third party by
either the employer or the employee, ‘the other may, at any time before trial
on the facts, join as party plaintiff.’” 
(Jordan v. Superior Court (1981) 116 Cal.App.3d 202, 206 (quoting
Labor Code section 3853).) An employer includes the employer’s insurer.  (Lab. Code, § 3850(b).)
 
DISCUSSION
Here, Oak River Insurance Company asserts it insured
Plaintiff’s employer and as a result, is obligated to pay workers’ compensation
benefits to Plaintiff for the subject incident. (Johnson Decl. ¶ 2–3.) Plaintiff
was working within the course and scope of her employment during the incident. 
Accordingly, the Court grants the motion.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Oak River Insurance Company’s motion to intervene is
GRANTED. 
 
Oak River Insurance Company is ordered to file and serve its
Complaint-in-Intervention within 10 days.
 
Oak River Insurance Company to provide notice and file a proof of
service of such. 
 
 
 