 Case Number:  23STCV13051    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:  Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the
tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off
calendar.  If a party submits on the
tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the
party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
in-person or remotely.

 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV13051




MOTIONS


Motion
  to Compel Response to Subpoena for Production of Documents and Things 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  City of Los Angeles




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  Riverside Sheriff Department



 
 
MOTION
 
Plaintiffs Jordan C. Darian and Jordan Darian (“Plaintiffs”) filed the
Complaint against Defendants City of Los Angeles (“City”), Los Angeles Police
Department (“LAPD”), State of California (“State”), Department of California
Highway Patrol (“CHP”), County of Riverside (“County”), Riverside Sheriff
Department (“RSD”) (collectively, “Defendants”) and DOES 1 through 25,
inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) False Imprisonment, Detention and
Arrest against Public Entities; (2) False Imprisonment, Detention, Arrest and
Unnecessary Delay in Processing and/or Releasing Against all Defendants; (3)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (4) Negligence against all
Defendants. 
 
The City now moves for an order compelling third-party Riverside
County Sheriff’s Office (“RCSO”) to produce video footage and policy documents.

 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal
service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a
resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies;
to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the
subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ A deponent
who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt without the
necessity of a prior order of the court directing compliance by the witness.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿A motion to compel compliance with a deposition
subpoena must be made within 60 days after completion of the deposition record,
the date objections are served, or the date specified for production, and be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.480,
subd., (b); Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson & Johnson)
(2021) 59 CA5th 1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
Although the pleadings are unclear, it appears that the City is only
seeking to compel production of the video footage of Plaintiffs and documents
relating to the policies and procedures for high risk and felony traffic stops.
Accordingly, the Riverside Sheriff’s Department’s (“RSD”) opposition, which
seems to ask the Court to quash the subpoena, is not responsive. The Court
therefore only addresses the two categories sought in the motion.
 
As to the first category, video footage, RSD agrees that the video
footage of the stop is “likely very relevant.” (Opp. at p. 3-4.) RSD seeks a
protective order regarding the release of the video footage. However, neither
attaches a proposed protective order to the pleadings.[1] The City and RSD shall be prepared to discuss at the hearing why the
Los Angeles Superior Court’s form protective order is insufficient.
 
As to the second category, policies and procedures relating to
traffic stops, RSD argues that such materials are not relevant or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, because the
plaintiffs’ claims as to the City only relate to putting the car into the
state’s stolen vehicle reporting system. The City does not respond, except to
say that it and plaintiff’s counsel agree that “RSCO’s policies and procedures
relating to the high-risk stop are highly relevant to the just resolution of
this case.” (Reply at p. 6.) This is insufficient.[2]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants in part Defendant City of Los
Angeles’ Motion to Compel Response to Subpoena for Production of Documents and
Things. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


