


[1]
Defendant cites to People v. Dungo (2012) 55 Cal.4th 608, 615, but that
case involves a Confrontation Clause objection to an autopsy report and does
not support the proposition that the Court may take judicial notice of findings
in a coroner’s report. Moreover, the request for judicial notice does not
establish a hearsay exception to the document.


[2] Although
Mora involved a commercial landowner, the same reasoning appears to
apply to residential landowners. (See, e.g., Mora, supra, 210 Cal.App.3d
at 780 [discussing heightened responsibilities of residential landlords
compared with commercial landlords].)


[3] In
reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to present evidence
“regarding what the precise defect in the toilet was, how it would have been so
obvious upon the unspecified ‘reasonable inspection,’ why if it was so obvious,
Plaintiffs failed to report it, or when the alleged ambiguous defect actually
arose.” (Reply at p. 4.) However, Defendant bears the initial burden. No fact
is presented in Defendant’s separate statement.


[4]
Defendant does not explain the basis of its argument that it had no duty to inspect
at the time of the lease renewals and cites to cases that suggest otherwise.
(See Reply at p. 5.) Accordingly, Defendant’s argument that it had no
constructive notice is unsupported. Finally, although Defendant argues that it
“did inspect Plaintiffs’ unit prior to and during their occupancy with
frequency,” the declaration cited does not state that Defendant inspected the
unit during the lease period. (Reply at p. 6.)


[5] The only
remaining fact presented by Defendant is as follows: The entirety of
Plaintiffs' responses to written discovery requests designed to obtain all
information in support of their Negligence/Premises Liability and NIED causes
of action against ASN, including multiple sets of form interrogatories, special
interrogatories and requests for production of documents are devoid of factual
evidence in support of said causes of actions. (UMF 15.) This is insufficient.
(See Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)


[6] In
opposition, Plaintiffs attempt to argue that Defendant did not meet its burden because
it failed to show that Decedent’s son did not witness the event. (Opp., 12.)
However, this motion is limited by the operative SAC, which asserts the NIED
cause of action as to Plaintiffs Edelmira Vega Rios and Janel Blanco only. (Lyons v.
Security Pacific Nat. Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1018 [“In a motion
for summary judgment, the issues are framed by the pleadings.”].)


[7]
Plaintiffs themselves argue that Decedent died from injuries sustained when she
slipped on water. (PAMF 5.)

