 Case Number:  23STCV01213    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV01213




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Deem Requests for Admission, Set One, to Plaintiff, Admitted




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Goya Studios, Inc.   




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Goya Studios, Inc. (“Defendant”)
moves to deem admitted Request for Admissions, Set One, served on Plaintiff Amanda
Pham (“Plaintiff”). Defendant also requests monetary sanctions. No opposition
has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Where there has
been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the
waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a
substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)¿ The court “shall” grant a motion to
deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
Where a party
fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
 
On May 8, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved,
effective upon filing proof of service of the order on Plaintiff. The proof of
service was filed on May 9, 2024. Plaintiff is currently self-represented. 
 
On July 24,
2024, Defendant served Request for Admissions, Set One on Plaintiff via mail. (Galvan
Decl. ¶ 11, Exh. A.) The responses were due August 23, 2024. (Id. ¶ 12.)
Since then, no responses have been served. (Id. ¶ 16.) 
 
Here,
notice of the instant motion was served on Plaintiff via overnight delivery to
the address indicated on the order to relieve counsel. No opposition has been
filed for this motion. Therefore, since there was no response, the motion to
deem admitted is granted. 
 
Defendant
requests $1,650 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff representing a $265
hourly rate and the $60 filing fee. The Court finds sanctions are warranted but
the amount requested is excessive given the type of motion, lack of opposition,
and the fact counsel can appear at the hearing remotely. Therefore, the Court
awards $457.50 in monetary sanctions (1.5 hours of attorney time, plus the
filing fee). 
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant Goya Studios, Inc.’s motion to deem admitted Request
for Admissions, Set One served on Plaintiff Amanda Pham, is GRANTED. 
 
The Court further imposes $457.50 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 