 Case Number:  22STCV18097    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV18097




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Dermatology & Laser Medical Center, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Dermatology & Laser Medical Center, Inc. (“Defendant”)
moves to continue trial and all related dates. No opposition has been filed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on June 2, 2022 and alleges injuries from a
medical procedure. Trial was initially set for November 30, 2023.   
 
On November 14, 2023, pursuant to stipulation, the Court set aside
Defendant’s default. Defendant was ordered to file a responsive pleading within
15 days. The Court also continued trial and all related dates to September 11,
2024. 
 
On November 30, 2023, pursuant to stipulation, the Court extended the
deadline for a responsive pleading to January 5, 2024. 
 
On July 17, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to continue
trial and continued trial and all related dates to February 11, 2025. 
 
On July 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed the first amended complaint
(“FAC”). 
 
On September 18, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to strike
punitive damages from the complaint, with leave to file a motion to amend the
complaint within 15 days. (Min. Order, 9/18/24.) Plaintiff did not file a
motion for leave to amend. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
 “Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good
cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of
civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)  
The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;
(2)  
The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(3)  
The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
(4)  
The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;
(5)  
The
addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)  
A
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7)  
A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include:
 
(1)  
The
proximity of the trial date;
(2)  
Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;
(3)  
The
length of the continuance requested;
(4)  
The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance;
(5)  
The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)  
If
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay;
(7)  
The
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials;
(8)  
Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9)  
Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 ¿ 
Discussion
 
Defendant asks to continue trial and all related dates for six months.
Defendant contends Dr. Khadavi passed away in November 2023 and is still named
in the complaint; Defendant asserts the complaint be amended before the case
can proceed to trial. (Arshakyan Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant propounded initial
discovery on Plaintiff on July 3, 2024. Once Defendant inquired about responses
on September 19, 2024, Plaintiff represented they would be sent before October
10, 2024. Defendant argues it is prevented from completing further discovery
until the initial responses are served. (Id. ¶ 5.) Finally, Defendant
argues its lead trial counsel has a paid vacation starting January 18, 2025 and
ending February 17, 2025, and will be unavailable for the current trial date. (Peterson
Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff does not oppose this motion, yet no
stipulation was filed. (Arshakyan Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
Although Defendant argues again that Dr. Khadavi passed away, it fails
to show how this by itself will prevent trial from proceeding. The Court notes
this was a basis for the previous motion to continue trial that was granted on
July 17, 2024. There is also no update from Plaintiff as to whether Dr. Khadavi
will be substituted in this action. Therefore, Defendant sets forth
insufficient good cause to warrant a six-month continuance, given the previous
five-month month continuance that was granted. 
 
Nevertheless, given there is no opposition, there have been two prior
continuances, and in light of Defendant’s trial counsel’s pre-paid vacation,
the Court finds good cause to grant a short continuance. The Court further
notes that no answers have been filed, nor default sought.
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court grants in part Defendant’s motion to continue trial.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to February 25, 2025 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to March 11, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of
the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
All discovery and related deadlines are associated with the new trial
date.
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 