 Case Number:  21STCV47094    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARCUS BRIGGINS,  
  
         vs.
 
DALE
  AARON JONES, et al.


 Case No.:  21STCV47094
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  March 27, 2024



 
Defendant Elena
Talan’s demurrer to Plaintiff Marcus Briggans’ first amended complaint is overruled
as to the 1st, 6th, 8th, 9th, and 10th causes of action.  
Defendant Elena
Talan’s motion to strike is denied.
 
Defendant Elena Talan (“Talan”) (“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff Marcus
Briggans’ (“Briggans”) (“Plaintiff”) first amended complaint (“FAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P.
§§430.10(e), (f), 430.50(a).)  Talan also
moves to strike portions of the FAC. 
(Notice of MTS, pgs. 1-3; C.C.P. §§435, 436.)
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and confer
in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed
the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections
to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.)  The demurring party must identify all of the
causes of action it believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal
support the basis of the deficiencies. The party who filed the pleading must
explain with legal support the basis for its position that the pleading is
legally sufficient or, if it is not, how the pleading could be amended to cure
any legal insufficiency.   (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(1).)
Talan’s counsel declares she attempted to meet and confer with
Plaintiff’s counsel via a meet and confer letter dated September 27, 2023, to
which she did not receive a response. 
(Decl. of Porter ¶7, Exh. 4.) 
Talan’s counsel declares she provided her availability for a telephonic
meet and confer and requested Plaintiff’s counsel provide their
availability.  (Decl. of Porter ¶7.)  Talan’s counsel declares she sent multiple
follow up emails to Plaintiff’s counsel requesting a phone meet and confer and
received no response.  (Decl. of Porter ¶8,
Exh. 5.)  
Talan’s counsel’s declaration is insufficient under C.C.P. §§430.41(a)
because she did not demonstrate an attempt to personally call Plaintiff’s
counsel, rather, she sent letters requesting Plaintiff’s counsel schedule a
telephonic meet and confer.  However, the
failure to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(4).)  Accordingly, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Background
This action arises out of Plaintiff’s alleged entry into a lease
agreement (“Lease”) with Defendant Dale Aaron Jones (“Jones”) on or around
December 18, 2014, for real property located at 1815 N. Wilton Place #4, Los
Angeles, CA 90028 (“Subject Building”). 
(FAC ¶¶6, 7, 17, Exh. A.)  Plaintiff
alleges during his tenancy, ownership and management of the Subject Building
transferred from Non-moving Defendant Jones to Talan on or around October 30,
2019.  (FAC ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that Talan owned the Subject Building and managed the property with Defendants Alina
Kutsevol (“Alina”) and Ivan Kutsevol (“Ivan”). 
(FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges he was
forced to move out of the Subject Property in or around March 2020 due to the
various habitability problems and due to Defendants’ attempts to illegally
remove Plaintiff from the Subject Property. 
(FAC ¶49.)
On December 27, 2021, Plaintiff filed his original complaint
(“Complaint”). On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative FAC against
Defendants alleging eleven causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach
of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (3) breach of warranty of habitability; (4)
negligence; (5) private nuisance; (6) violation of Civil Code §1942.4; (7)
violation of unfair business practices; (8) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; (9) retaliation; (10) wrongful eviction; and (11) discrimination.  
On October 23, 2023, Talan filed the instant demurrer and motion
to strike.  On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff
filed his opposition.  On March 19, 2024,
Talan filed her reply.
 
A.  
Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
In support of her demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC, Talan demurs to the
1st, 6th, 8th, 9th, and 10th causes of action, arguing the 1st and 8th causes
of actions fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action, and
the 6th, 9th, and 10th causes of action are barred by the statute of
limitations.  (Demurrer, pgs. 3-4; C.C.P.
§§430.10(e), 340(a).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all
facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court
does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Breach of Contract (1st COA)
“To prevail on a cause of action for
breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s
breach, and (4) resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
Plaintiff alleges he resided at the
Subject Property pursuant to a written rental agreement whereby Plaintiff
rented the Subject Property for an agreed upon monthly sum of $850.00 (Eight Hundred
and Fifty Dollars).  (FAC ¶54.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that when ownership transferred from Jones to Talan, Jones also assigned his
interests and obligations under the lease to Talan.  (FAC ¶55.) 
Plaintiff alleges he performed the obligations under the Lease or has
otherwise been excused from said performance. 
(FAC ¶57.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached
the lease agreement with Plaintiff by, among other things, breaching the
implied warranty of habitability by failing to maintain the Subject Property in
a habitable and tenantable condition, despite being put on notice of the
uninhabitable and untenantable conditions. 
(FAC ¶58.)  Plaintiff alleges the Subject
Property’s uninhabitable conditions include dilapidation, unsanitary conditions,
vermin infestation, insufficient weather protection, inadequate electrical
wiring, dampness and mold, nuisance, and illegal units.  (FAC ¶59.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants did not properly remediate these issues to
the detriment of Plaintiff.  (FAC
¶59.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendants began
massive construction near the Subject Property which fundamentally changed the
nature of Plaintiff’s tenancy.  (FAC
¶60.)  Plaintiff alleges the Subject
Property is an illegal unit and the Lease contemplated the leasing of a legal
premises, thus the Defendants also breached the Lease by failing to resolve
this issue.  (FAC ¶60.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendants and/or
their agents collected rent from Plaintiff throughout the period during which
the substandard conditions listed above have existed.  (FAC ¶61.) 
Plaintiff alleges these substandard conditions at the Subject Property
were not caused by acts or omissions of Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶62.) 
Plaintiff alleges as a result of the Defendants’ actions and inaction,
Plaintiff suffered damages in an amount to be proven at trial.   (FAC ¶63.)
A landlord’s sale, assignment or other
transfer of ownership does not affect an existing lease. Instead, the
transferee, in effect, “steps into the landlord’s shoes.”  (Kirk Corp. v. First American Title Co. (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 785, 809; see also, Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 1317, 1328.)  Thus, the successor ordinarily remains bound
by all the terms and conditions in the lease and the tenant, in turn, becomes a
tenant of the landlord’s successor, obligated to the successor under all of the
tenant covenants in the lease. (See Chapman v. Great Western Gypsum Co.
(1932) 216 Cal. 420, 427; Peter Kiewit Sons’ Co. v. Richmond
Redevelop. Agency (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 435, 441; Rosenkranz v. Pellin (1950)
99 Cal.App.2d 650, 652-653.)  
Here, the transfer of ownership and
management of the Subject Building from Jones to Talan is noted in FAC ¶¶19 and
55.  Further, Plaintiff attached a copy
of the Lease to his FAC, which states the material terms and conditions of the
contract.  (FAC ¶17, Exh. A.)  Plaintiff alleges his full performance of the
contract or excuse for nonperformance.  (FAC
¶57.)  Plaintiff alleges Talan’s breach
of the lease by, among other things, breaching the implied warranty of
habitability by failing to maintain the Subject Property in a habitable and
tenantable condition, despite being put on notice of the uninhabitable and untenantable
conditions. (FAC ¶58.)  Plaintiff also
alleges breach of the lease because the Subject Property is an illegal unit and
the Lease contemplated the leasing of a legal premises, and the Defendants also
breached the Lease by failing to resolve this issue.  (FAC ¶60.)
Talan’s argument that the cause of
action for breach of contract duplicative of the cause of action for breach of
the warranty of habitability is unavailing. 
The two causes of action have distinct elements, and distinct causes of
action can be alleged on the same factual circumstances.  Further, Talan fails to cite case law in
support of the proposition that facts shared between a cause of action for
breach of contract and a cause of action for breach of the warranty of
habitability cannot be alleged for both.
Accordingly, Talan’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 1st cause of action is overruled.
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress (8th COA)
“The elements of a prima facie case for
the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th
999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted; CACI 1600.)  “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.”  (Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921, quoting Newby v. Alto Riviera Apartments
(1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 288, 297.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ actions
and failure to act, as detailed above, including, but not limited to, the
Defendants’ refusal or failure to repair all the habitability and safety
issues, despite numerous pleas for repairs from Plaintiff, represents
outrageous and malicious conduct.  (FAC
¶113.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants acted
with reckless disregard to the probability that Plaintiff would suffer
emotional distress, knowing that Plaintiff lived in the Subject Property with
the dangerous and uninhabitable conditions. 
(FAC ¶114.)  Plaintiff alleges
Defendants attempted to illegally remove Plaintiff and tried to scare Plaintiff
into vacating the premises when he was not required to do so. Defendants were
also hostile towards Plaintiff in order to get him to leave the Subject
Property.  (FAC ¶115.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendants knew that
Plaintiff lived in the Subject Property with the dangerous and uninhabitable
conditions and Defendants knew that Plaintiff had a right to remain at the Subject
Property.  (FAC ¶116.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants acted with a
reckless disregard to the probability that Plaintiff would suffer severe
emotional distress; including annoyance, mental anguish, anxiety, worry, fear, discomfort,
loss of enjoyment of life, and humiliation as a result of the Subject Property’s
uninhabitable conditions, which the Defendants created and allowed to continue.  (FAC ¶117.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ conduct
was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s severe emotional distress, and
Plaintiff suffered mental injury and loss of use and enjoyment of his rental home
as a result.  (FAC ¶118.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that Defendants sought to punish the Plaintiff for seeking redress from the
housing authority about the conditions at the Subject Property.  (FAC ¶119.) 
Plaintiff alleges when he refused to leave the Subject Property,
Defendants made it their mission to annoy, vex and harass Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶119.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants knew that their actions would cause severe
emotional distress and yet they continued this behavior until Plaintiff was
ultimately forced to vacate.  (FAC ¶119.)
          Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges various habitability defects; Defendants’ failure to
address the habitability defects; and that Plaintiff suffered annoyance, mental
anguish, anxiety, worry, fear, discomfort, loss of enjoyment of life, and
humiliation as a result of Talan’s conduct. 
(FAC ¶117.)  Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges Talan abused a relation or position which gives her power
to damage the Plaintiff’s interest.  (FAC
¶¶19-20, 39, 52; Stoiber, 101 Cal.App.3d at pg. 921.)
Accordingly, Talan’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 8th cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress is overruled.
 
          Statute
of Limitations
Violation of Civil Code §1942.4 (6th
COA)
C.C.P. §340(a) provides that a plaintiff
must commence, within one year, “[a]n action upon a statute for a penalty or
forfeiture, if the action is given to an individual . . . except if the statute
imposing it prescribes a different limitation.” 
(C.C.P. §340(a).)
Talan argues Civil Code §1942.4
is subject to C.C.P. §340(a)’s one year statute of limitations.  However, courts have considered the statute
of limitations for a statute allowing for actual damages and a mandatory
penalty to have two statutes of limitations, and that the shorter statute of
limitations is severable.  (See
G.H.I.I. v. MTS, Inc. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 256, 279 [“Here, as in Ashland,
appellant’s requests for actual and treble damages are based upon separate
statutes contained within the same act. Appellants claim compensatory damages
pursuant to section 17070, and request trebling of those damages in accordance
with section 17082. Since these claims are patently severable, and the actual
damages are not in the nature of a ‘penalty or forfeiture,’ we conclude that
appellants are entitled to recover all actual damages which accrued within
three years of the filing of the complaint, and that all of such damages which
accrued within one year prior to the filing of the complaint may be trebled
under section 17082.”].)
Accordingly, Talan’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 6th cause of action is overruled.
 
Retaliation (9th COA)
Civil Code §1942.5(a)(2) provides, in
part, 
The lessor may not recover possession of a dwelling in any action or
proceeding, cause the lessee to quit involuntarily, increase the rent, or
decrease any services within 180 days of [¶] . . . the lessee, in good faith, .
. . [filing] a written complaint, or an oral complaint which is registered or
otherwise recorded in writing, with an appropriate agency, of which the lessor
has notice, for the purpose of obtaining correction of a condition relating to
tenantability . . . [¶] [or] [a]fter the date of an inspection or issuance of a
citation, resulting from a complaint described in paragraph (2) of which the
lessor did not have notice. 
 
(Civil Code §§1942.5(a)(2), (3).)
Talan argues Plaintiff’s retaliation
cause of action is premised on Civil Code §1942.4 is therefore subject
to C.C.P. §340(a)’s one year statute of limitations.  The Court disagrees for the same reasons
stated in Talan’s demurrer to the 6th cause of action. 
Accordingly, Talan’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 9th cause of action for retaliation is overruled.
 
Wrongful Eviction (10th COA)
Talan argues Plaintiff’s wrongful cause
of action is premised on Talan’s alleged violation of the Los Angeles Rent
Stabilization Ordinance (“RSO”), codified as Los Angeles Municipal Code
§§151.00 et seq. is therefore subject to C.C.P. §340(a)’s one year statute of
limitations because it provides for mandatory civil penalties.  (See LAMC §151.30.)  
LAMC §151.10(A) provides:  
Any person who demands, accepts or retains any
payment of rent in excess of the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, or any regulations or orders
promulgated hereunder, shall be liable in a civil action to the person from
whom such payment is demanded, accepted or retained for damages of three times
the amount by which the payment or payments demanded, accepted or retained
exceed the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent which could be lawfully
demanded, accepted or retained together with reasonable attorneys’ fees and
costs as determined by the court.
 
(LAMC §151.10(A).) 
The Court disagrees for the same reasons
stated in Talan’s demurrer to the 6th cause of action.  (See G.H.I.I., 147 Cal.App.3d at pg. 279
[“Here, as in Ashland, appellant’s requests for actual and treble
damages are based upon separate statutes contained within the same act.
Appellants claim compensatory damages pursuant to section 17070, and request
trebling of those damages in accordance with section 17082. Since these claims
are patently severable, and the actual damages are not in the nature of a ‘penalty
or forfeiture,’ we conclude that appellants are entitled to recover all actual
damages which accrued within three years of the filing of the complaint, and
that all of such damages which accrued within one year prior to the filing of
the complaint may be trebled under section 17082.”]; see id. [“It is
necessary to add that the complaint is not, in any event, subject to demurrer
for violation of the statute of limitations. It is only when a complaint shows
on its face that it is necessarily barred, rather than
possibly, that a demurrer on such grounds will be sustained.”], internal
citations omitted.)
Accordingly, Talan’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 9th cause of action for retaliation is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Talan’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is overruled as to the 1st, 6th, 8th, 9th, and 10th
causes of action.  
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
B.    Motion to Strike
Talan moves to strike the following portions
of Plaintiff’s FAC: (1) Complaint at 2:7; (2) Complaint at 5:5; (3) ¶25; (4)
¶29; (5) ¶51; (6) ¶92; (7) ¶102; (8) ¶107; (9) ¶124; (10) ¶133; (11) ¶144; (12)
Complaint 22:22; and (13) Complaint 22:23, on the grounds that: (1) the
punitive damage allegations in the FAC are unsupported by a factual showing of
malice, oppression or fraud; (2) references to Defendants acting collectively at
any time prior to Defendant Talan’s involvement with the subject property are false
and improper as to Defendant Talan; and (3) statements intended only to
inflame, such as “slum housing,” are improper and should be stricken.  (MTS, pgs. 2-3; C.C.P. §§435, 436.)
 
Legal Standard
C.C.P. §436 provides that the Court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to C.C.P. §435, or at any time within its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper, “strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading,” or any pleading or part thereof “not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.”  (C.C.P. §436.)
 
Punitive Damages
Punitive damages may be recovered upon a
proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression.  (Civ. Code §3294(a).)  “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to
cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and
conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.  (Turman
v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53,
63.)  “Oppression” means despicable
conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious
disregard of the person’s rights.  (Id.)  “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to
deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury.  (Id.)
 Conclusory allegations, devoid of any
factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted
with oppression, fraud or malice.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
Plaintiff alleges an array of habitability
issues that Defendants were aware of but failed to cure including insect roof
leaks, mold infestation, cockroach infestation and a broken water heater.  (See FAC ¶¶22-23, 30-39.)  Further, Plaintiff alleges that he notified
the Defendants on multiple occasions about the habitability concerns via
various forms of communication, yet the issues he raised were not remediated.  (See FAC ¶24-25, 51.)
Accordingly, Talan’s motion to strike
Plaintiff’s requests for punitive damages is denied.
 
Irrelevant, False, or Improper Matter
Defendant Talan moves for this Court to
strike allegations predating her involvement with the Subject Property and
language referring to the Subject Property as “slum-housing” or that Defendants
are “slum lords.”  (MTS, pgs. 9-11.)
For the purposes of a demurrer or motion to
strike, the court must consider all allegations in the complaint to be true.  Moreover, courts have continually ruled that
“line-item vetoes” are not proper for a motion to strike.  (See PH III Inc. v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1683.) 
First, Plaintiff’s allegations predating Defendant Talan’s involvement
with the Subject Property are relevant to his allegations regarding
habitability issues.  Second, the term
“slum-housing” has been repeatedly recognized as a phrase to describe substandard
living conditions generally in lower income areas.  (See Apartment Association of Los Angeles
County, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2001) 24 Cal.4th 830, 834.)
Accordingly, Talan’s motion to strike is
denied.
 
Conclusion
Talan’s motion to strike is denied.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  March _____, 2024
                                                                             





  