  Case Number:  21SMCV01387    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED.  This case was brought by plaintiff to
forestall a foreclosure of certain real property.  To make a long and very complicated story
very short, the property was allegedly pledged as security for at least some of
the various loans that defendant made to plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s principal lived in the property.  Defendant contends that the loans were not
repaid and has sought to foreclose on the property, which had since been badly
damaged by a fire.  Plaintiff brought
this action claiming that in fact it had paid the debt (or at least the part
secured by the property) by providing stock in a closely-held company that
defendant was obligated to sell.  Had
defendant sold it, plaintiff claims, the proceeds would have been sufficient to
pay down the debt considerably or entirely. 
However, plaintiff alleges, defendant did not sell the stock.  Instead, defendant used the stock to launch a
hostile takeover.  Since then, the stock
purportedly declined in value and is no longer sufficient, but plaintiff
asserts that is not its fault.  The
foregoing is a gross over-simplification, and the reader ought to look to this
court’s prior orders for a more complete and accurate summary of the case thus
far. 
 
Defendant now moves to file a cross-complaint.  Essentially, defendant wants to sue under the
notes.  Defendant contends that this is
likely a compulsory cross-complaint, and the rules therefore require that leave
be granted absent bad faith.  The court
agrees that the cross-complaint is compulsory. 
Defendant seeks to sue under the same loan documents that gave rise to
the foreclosure and plaintiff’s action against defendant.  It is hard to see how this case can be
adjudicated and defendant could then be allowed to bring a separate action
under those notes.
 
The court does not see bad faith here.  While it is true defendant waited a long time
to bring this motion, the court sees no prejudice and no evil motive has been
convincingly suggested.  To the contrary,
defendant suggested that the parties were in discussions concerning a
settlement and that is why the motion was not filed.  That is certainly a plausible explanation.  Further, the trial date is far enough away
such that the matter can be ready for trial on schedule even with the
cross-complaint.
 
Plaintiff also argues that the cross-complaint is futile
because it will be barred by the statute of limitations.  Maybe; maybe not.  That is a better argument for demurrer or summary
judgment than an argument not to allow defendant to bring the action at all.
 
Therefore, the motion is GRANTED.  Defendant may file a stand-alone
cross-complaint (as set forth in its motion) within five court days.  Plaintiff will have the time allowed by law
to answer or otherwise respond. 