  Case Number:  21STCV36602    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
VAROUJ SHEKERDEMIAN,
                        Shekerdemian,
            v.
 
DESAI HOLDINGS USA, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  21STCV36602
  Hearing Date:  December 1, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Shekerdemian’s motions to compel further
  responses  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 5, 2021, Varouj
Shekerdemian filed this action against Desai Holdings USA, LLC dba R Bar and
Rakesh David Desai, alleging the following causes of action: (1) failure to provide
accurate wage records; (2) unfair business practices; (3) constructive
discharge; and (4-5) intentional/negligent infliction of emotional distress. The
operative First Amended Complaint, filed May 27, 2022, adds causes of action
for discrimination, harassment, and violation of civil rights. 
            Shekerdemian alleges that Desai
hired him as the general manager at R Bar. Desai did not classify or pay Shekerdemian
as an employee but rather as an independent contractor. Desai initially ignored
Shekerdemian’s requests to be properly classified but eventually put Shekerdemian
on the payroll as a traditional exempt employee. During Shekerdemian’s
employment, Desai was allegedly abusive and racist towards Shekerdemian and R
Bar’s employees and patrons. This resulted in multiple altercations, causing Shekerdemian
to fear for his safety. Shekerdemian eventually resigned due to the hostile
work environment. After Shekerdemian quit, Desai allegedly continued harassing Shekerdemian
through racist and vulgar text messages and also visited Shekerdemian’s new place
of employment. 
            On June 13, 2023, R Bar and Desai
filed a complaint against Shekerdemian (23LBCV01084). The complaint asserts (1)
breach of fiduciary duty, (2) intentional interference with business relations,
(3) contractual interference, (4) conversion, and (5) unfair competition. The complaint
alleges that Shekerdemian appointed himself as head of R Bar, harassed customers,
stole restaurant property, and tried to poach R Bar employees to Shekerdemian’s
own business. The two cases have been deemed related, with this case
(21STCV36602) as the lead case. 
            On October 23, 2023, Shekerdemian
filed the instant four motions to compel Rakesh David Desai and Desai Holdings
USA, LLC dba R Bar to provide further responses to Form Interrogatories and
Requests for Admission. R Bar and Desai have not filed an opposition. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            Upon
receiving responses to its discovery requests, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling further responses if the responses are incomplete or
evasive, or objections are without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a),
2031.310(a), 2033.290(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1), 2031.310(b),
2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Shekerdemian has satisfied the meet and
confer requirement. (See Tokar Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Requests for Admission
            R Bar and Desai objected to the RFAs
on the grounds that the requests “include general definitions” or “exceed the
statutory maximum without good cause.” R Bar and Desai refused to answer the
RFAs that they contend exceed the statutory maximum, and Shekerdemian seeks an
order deeming those RFAs admitted. 
There is no prohibition against using
definitions in RFAs. The Code contemplates the use of defined terms: “Any term
specially defined in a request for admission shall be typed with all letters
capitalized whenever the term appears.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.060(e).)
Shekerdemian complied with this requirement by capitalizing all defined terms
and providing the definitions. (Tokar Decl., Ex. A.) Therefore, the first
objection is without merit. 
A party may propound more than 35 RFAs if
supported by the requisite declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.050.) Here,
Shekerdemian propounded up to 48 RFAs, which is moderately above the normal
limit. Shekerdemian included a declaration supporting the extra RFAs. (Tokar Decl.,
Ex. A, p. 11 ¶ 8.) Therefore, R Bar and Desai should answer the remaining RFAs.

R Bar and Desai shall provide further
responses to RFAs Nos. 1-33 and 35. The remaining RFAs are not deemed admitted,
but R Bar and Desai shall answer them. 
II.
Form Interrogatories
            a. R Bar
            R Bar responded to FROG No. 17.1 with
the following: “No Because defendant has not yet served code and compliant
requests for submission.” As discussed above, the RFAs are proper and must be
answered. Because R Bar must respond to the RFAs, it must also answer the corresponding
FROG No. 17.1.
            b. Desai
            Desai simply failed to respond to
the FROGs at all. (Tokar Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) The discovery was served on July 28,
2023, and Shekerdemian granted an extension to September 14, 2023, after which
Desai still failed to provide any responses. Therefore, Desai shall provide
responses to the subject FROGs without objection except those based on privacy
or privilege. 
III.
Sanctions
            Sanctions are warranted in the amount
of $1,290, representing 3 hours at $350 per hour, plus $240 in filing fees. 
CONCLUSION
            Varouj Shekerdemian’s motions to
compel further responses are GRANTED. Desai Holdings USA, LLC dba R Bar and Rakesh
David Desai shall provide responses or further responses to the subject discovery
requests within 15 days. The Court sanctions R Bar, Desai, and their counsel in
the total amount of $1,290, to be paid within 30 days. 
    