 Case Number:  23STCV20264    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
COVERAGESYNC RESTAURANT INSURANCE
  SERVICES, LLC, et al.,
                        
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
HISCOX INSURANCE
  COMPANY, INC., 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV20264
  Hearing Date: December 1, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 23, 2023, Plaintiffs
CoverageSync Restaurants Insurance Services, LLC and Christopher Schaible filed
this action against Defendant Hiscox Insurance Company, Inc., asserting (1)
breach of contract and (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing. 
            Plaintiffs operate an insurance
brokerage that obtains insurance for retail businesses. (Compl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs
were sued in July 2021 by operators of a bar in Los Angeles (Underlying
Action). (Ibid.) Plaintiffs allege that their insurance policy with
Defendant covers claims such as those made in the Underlying Action. (Id.,
¶ 3.) Defendant allegedly accepted coverage and agreed to provide Plaintiffs
with a full defense and indemnity. (Id., ¶ 4.) Defendant has allegedly
delayed settlement of the Underlying Action for its own benefit, to Plaintiffs’
detriment. (Id., ¶¶ 5-6.) Defendant is allegedly stalling in bad faith with
the goal of withdrawing coverage completely. (Id., ¶ 7.)      
            On October 27, 2023, Defendant filed
the instant demurrer and motion to strike against the complaint. Plaintiffs
filed their opposition on November 16, 2023. Defendant filed its reply on November
22, 2023. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
(SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on
the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th
at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike,
the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to
strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court notes
that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Gettell
Decl.)
DISCUSSION
To establish
breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the contract existed, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff. (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) Additionally, “in every
contract there is an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing that
neither party will do anything which injures the right of the other to receive
the benefits of the agreement.” (Murphy v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1976) 17
Cal.3d 937, 940.) In the insurance context, “the implied obligation of
good faith and fair dealing requires the insurer to settle in an appropriate
case although the express terms of the policy do not impose such a duty.” (Id.
at pp. 940-41.) “[T]he insurer must settle within policy limits when there is
substantial likelihood of recovery in excess of those limits.” (Id. at
p. 941.) “An unreasonable refusal to settle may subject the insurer to
liability for the entire amount of the judgment rendered against the insured,
including any portion in excess of the policy limits.” (Hamilton v. Maryland
Casualty Co. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 718, 725.) 
Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant “breached the Policy by refusing to authorize a
reasonable settlement of the Underlying Action within policy limits.” (Compl. ¶
38.) Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant acted in bad faith by stalling
negotiations and unreasonably refusing to settle. (Id., ¶ 45.) 
I. Ripeness of the
Claims
            “In
most cases, an excess judgment (a judgment against the insured in an amount
exceeding policy limits) is needed to establish liability and damages for
wrongful refusal to settle.” (Howard v. American National Fire Ins. Co.
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 526-27.) After all, “[i]f the insurer declines to
settle and decides to go to trial and then obtains a judgment below the
settlement offer or obtains a complete defense verdict, then the insured would
have no cause to complain, and the insurer would have no liability.” (Safeco
Ins. Co. of Am. v. Superior Court (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 782, 788.) 
However, “[a]lthough
an excess judgment is the common way in which an insured establishes liability
and damages in a failure to settle case, it is not the only way.” (Howard,
supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at p. 527.) “An insurer's wrongful failure to settle
may be actionable even without rendition of an excess judgment.” (Ibid.)
“An insured may recover for bad faith failure to settle, despite the lack
of an excess judgment, where the insurer's misconduct goes beyond a simple
failure to settle within policy limits or the insured suffers consequential
damages apart from an excess judgment.” (Ibid.) “[U]nreasonable conduct
during the handling of the claim can be a proximate cause of injury before the
final disposition of the claim as well as after.” (Bodenhamer v. Superior
Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1472, 1477, citing Larraburu Bros. Inc. v.
Royal Indem. Co. (9th Cir. 1979) 604 F.2d 1208, 1215.) 
Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs’ lawsuit is premature because the Underlying Action is
ongoing, and there has been no final judgment. However, Plaintiffs allege that “CoverageSync
has lost significant business and taken a huge reputational hit because of the
Underlying Action.” (Compl. ¶ 32.) Additionally, “Hiscox’s bad faith has also
caused Schaible to suffer personally. Schaible paid more than $11,000
out-of-pocket to hire cleaners following the break-ins.” (Id., ¶ 33.)
Lastly, “Schaible has also suffered severe emotional distress . . . [while] the
Underlying Action continues to loom over Schaible and approaches trial.” (Id.,
¶ 34.) These are “consequential damages apart from an excess judgment.” (See
Howard, supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at p. 527.) 
Moreover, Defendant’s
misconduct allegedly “goes beyond a simple failure to settle within policy
limits.” (See Howard, supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at p. 527.) Rather,
Plaintiffs allege that despite being provided with analyses of the claims and
litigation risks, Defendant rejected reasonable offers without explanation and disregarded
the effect of prolonged litigation on Plaintiffs’ business, in order to save
money and extract more profit. (Compl. ¶¶ 27, 29, 31, 46.) This constitutes
actionable bad faith conduct regardless of whether the Underlying Action
ultimately results in a judgment in excess of the policy. 
Because
Plaintiff may sue for bad faith failure to settle even without a judgment in
excess of the policy, Plaintiff need not wait until a judgment in the
Underlying Action before filing this suit. Howard and Bodenhamer
make clear that there are damages beyond an excess judgment that may arise
before final judgment in an underlying case. Even if the Underlying Action
results in no liability, or Defendant fully indemnifies the liability,
Plaintiff has sufficiently articulated independent injuries suffered as a
result of protracted litigation caused by Defendant’s refusal to settle. 
In sum, the
claims do not fail merely because the Underlying Action has not resulted in a
final judgment. The demurrer cannot be sustained for this reason. However, it
appears to be in the interests of judicial economy to stay the case until the
Underlying Action is resolved. The Court will hear from the parties on this
matter. 
II. Breach of
Contract
            Defendant
argues that it could not have breached the contract as a matter of law because
the policy does not impose a duty to settle. (See Compl., Ex. A.) “While the allegations
of a complaint must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, the facts
appearing in exhibits attached to the complaint will also be accepted as true and,
if contrary to the allegations in the pleading, will be given precedence.” (Moran
v. Prime Healthcare Management, Inc. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1131, 1145-46,
citations omitted.) However, “an insurer moving for a demurrer based on
insurance policy language must establish conclusively that this language
unambiguously negates beyond reasonable controversy the construction alleged in
the body of the complaint.” (Palacin v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2004) 119
Cal.App.4th 855, 862.) “To meet this burden, an insurer is required to
demonstrate that the policy language supporting its position is so clear
that parol evidence would be inadmissible to refute it.” (Ibid.) 
            Here,
the policy language does not conclusively contradict Plaintiffs’ interpretation.
While the policy does not impose an express requirement to settle a covered
claim, it does require Defendant to “defend” such claim. The term “defend” is not
defined in the policy, but it reasonably may include the duty to settle a claim
where reasonable and necessary to protect the insured against excessive losses.
Plaintiffs have alleged that the claimant in the Underlying Action made a reasonable
offer below the policy limit that Defendant rejected despite being provided
with an analysis of the claim and knowing the risks of litigation. Defendant
allegedly disregarded the harm to Plaintiffs in favor of its own interests. For
pleading purposes, this sufficiently constitutes a breach of Defendant’s duty
to defend its insured. 
III. Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
“The covenant of
good faith and fair dealing imposes obligations on the contracting parties
separate and apart from those consensually agreed to.” (Bodenhamer, supra, 192
Cal.App.3d at p. 1477.) “The obligations imposed by the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing are not those set out in the terms of the contract
itself, but rather are obligations imposed by law.” (Id. at p. 1478.)
“In essence, the covenant is implied as a supplement to the express
contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging in conduct
which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants) frustrates
the other party's rights to the benefits of the contract.” (Love v. Fire
Ins. Exchange (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1153.) 
Defendant argues
that if the policy has not been breached, the implied covenant cannot be
breached either. However, as discussed above, Plaintiffs have alleged a breach
of the policy. Additionally, the implied covenant is separate from the express
duties imposed by contract. While the implied covenant derives from contractual
rights, it may be independently breached by conduct that does not “technically
transgress[] the express covenants” of the contract. (Love, supra, 221
Cal.App.3d at p. 1153.) “[B]reach of a specific provision of the contract is
not a necessary prerequisite to a claim for breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing.” (Schwartz v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1329, 1339.)
IV. Punitive
Damages
“In an action
for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
The conduct discussed
above sufficiently supports punitive damages for pleading purposes. Again,
Defendant allegedly rejected reasonable settlement offers in order to prolong litigation
for its own benefit. This constitutes a willful and conscious disregard of
Plaintiffs’ rights. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED. The Court will hear
from the parties regarding a stay. 