  Case Number:  23VECV03021    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




KASOWER
  PROPERTIES, LLC,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
BORIS
  DOBRIN, et al., 
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV03021              107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  DECISION:
PRELIMINARY
  INJUNCTION       



 
 
Deny
 
I.                   
BACKGROUND 
 
On November 11, 2022, Plaintiff
Kasower Properties, LLC (“Plaintiff”) entered into a commercial lease with
Defendant the Testing Company, LLC (“the Testing Company”). (First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) ¶10.) Defendant Boris Dobrin executed a Guaranty of Lease
agreement. (FAC ¶ 11.) The Testing Company defaulted on the lease. (FAC ¶14.)
 
On
July 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Boris Dobrin alleging a
single cause of action for breach of contract.
 
On
September 18, 2023, the court granted Plaintiff’s application for a right to
attach order, writ of attachment, and temporary protective order against Boris
Dobrin in the amount of $113,737.00. (09/13/23 Minute Order.) The subject of
the writ of attachment was Boris Dobrin’s property located at 25548 Kingston
Court, Calabasas, CA 91302 (the “Subject Property”) and all of the deposit and
investment accounts held by Boris Dobrin in California. (Right to Attach Order
filed 10/02/23 p. 2.)
 
On
May 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants
Boris Dobrin, Zarina Dobrin, the Testing Company, Bellnorth Venture LLC, and
Does 1 to 10, alleging five causes of action for breach of contract – lease,
breach of contract – guaranty, avoidance and recovery of fraudulent transfers
pursuant to California Civil Code section 3439.04(A)(1), avoidance and recovery
of fraudulent transfers pursuant to California Civil Code section
3439.04(A)(2), and avoidance and recovery of fraudulent transfers pursuant to
California common law. (FAC p. 1.) 
On
October 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application for a temporary
restraining order preventing Defendant Bellnorth Ventures, LLC (“Bellnorth”)
from selling, transferring, hypothecating or encumbering the Subject Property.
On October 30, 2024, this court held a hearing and granted the ex parte
application, in part. (10/30/24 Minute Order.) 
 
This
court set a hearing on Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary injunction for
November 12, 2024, ordered any opposition to be filed by November 4, 2024, and
any reply to be filed by November 7, 2024.
 
On November 4, 2024, Bellnorth
filed an opposition. On November 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
II.                   
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
An
injunction may be granted “[w]hen it appears by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act
complained of, either for a limited period or perpetually.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 526.) A
preliminary injunction may be granted upon an affidavit which shows the
existence of sufficient grounds for the issuance of an injunction. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 527(a).)
 
“[T]rial
courts consider two interrelated questions in deciding whether to issue a
preliminary injunction: (1) are the plaintiffs likely to suffer greater injury
from a denial of the injunction than the defendants are likely to suffer
from its grant; and (2) is there a reasonable probability that the plaintiffs
will prevail on the merits.” (Robbins v. Superior Court (1985) 38 Cal.3d
199, 206.) “Plaintiff carries the burden of proof and persuasion on these
issues.” (Drakes Bay Oyster Co. v. California Coastal Com. (2016) 4
Cal.App.5th 1165, 1172.) “[A] court may deny a preliminary injunction either (1)
on its finding irreparable injury will not result to the party seeking the
injunction, or (2) that the party has failed to demonstrate a reasonable
probability of success on the merits.” (Jessen v. Keystone Savings &
Loan Assn. (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 454, 459, emphasis original.) “Regardless
of the balance of interim harm, the preliminary injunction cannot be allowed to
stand unless there is ‘some possibility’ [the party] will prevail on the merits
of its action.” (Costa Mesa City Employees' Ass'n v. City of Costa Mesa (2012)
209 Cal.App.4th 298, 309.) 
 
III.                   
THE ARGUMENTS
 
a.     Plaintiff’s Motion
 
Plaintiff
seeks a preliminary injunction preventing Bellnorth from selling, transferring,
hypothecating, or encumbering the Subject Property. (Motion p. 7.) Plaintiff
states it filed and served its application for a right to attach order on
August 15, 2023. (Motion p. 9.) At that time, the Subject Property was worth $5
to $6 million and was encumbered by a first position lien of $2.58 million and
a tax lien with the Franchise Tax Board of $355,115.10. (Motion p. 9; Gizer
Declaration ¶ 9.) On August 24, 2023, a title order was opened by Bellnorth and
Boris Dobrin for a $600,000 loan. (Motion p. 9; Gizer Declaration ¶ 4.) On
October 2, 2023, the court issued the right to attach order and order for
issuance of right of attachment. (Gizer Declaration ¶ 5.) On October 31, 2023,
Boris Dobrin executed a promissory note which increased the Bellnorth loan from
$600,000 to $3,350,000. (Gizer Declaration ¶ 6.) On November 1, 2023, Bellnorth
recorded a deed of trust encumbering the Subject Property. (Gizer Declaration ¶
11.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues Bellnorth’s loan transaction documents indicate Bellnorth and Boris
Dobrin engaged in a fraud designed to hinder Plaintiff’s ability to collect any
judgment it receives on this case. (Motion pp. 10-11.) Plaintiff states: (1)
“The Bellnorth Loan appears to be secured solely by the Subject Property and
hard money lenders do not customarily make loans to individuals secured by a
primary residence”; (2) “The combined loan to value ratio for the Bellnorth
loan is at or above one-hundred (100) percent which greatly exceeds the
standard for a hard money loan”; (3) “There are several preexisting liens that
would be red flags to a bona fide hard money lender”; (4) “The Promissory Note
does not meet hard money loan industry standards as it does not state the
purpose of the loan and the interest rate is not clearly defined”; (5) “The
Updated Lender’s Instructions to Escrow do not state the loan amount or lien
position of the deed of trust and indicate that only $300,000 will be disbursed
through escrow as ‘the last remaining balance’ of the loan” and “[it] is
contrary to hard money lending industry customs and practices to disburse funds
to a borrower outside of escrow”; (6) “Bellnorth’s name is spelled wrong
throughout the loan documents”; (7) “The Updated Lender’s Instructions have
different font sizes and types throughout”’; (8) “The Updated Lender’s
Instructions agree that items 7-20 in the preliminary report are to remain in
the final title policy even though the preliminary report only lists 13 items”;
(9) “The Updated Lender’s Instructions state property taxes are to be paid
current even though the preliminary report indicates that they are paid
current”; (10) “A broker fee of $27,000 is being paid to DCM Capital Partners,
LLC, which appears to be a Florida LLC that has not been in good standing since
2021 and there are no instructions to pay that entity in the escrow file”; and
(11) “There is no public information on Bellnorth except that it is a Delaware
LLC. It is not a licensed lender or licensed to do business in California.”
(Motion pp. 11-12.) Plaintiff submits a declaration by a lending and real
estate expert, James Hibert. (Hibert Declaration ¶ 1.) Hiber’s declaration
discusses relevant customary hard money lending practices and states Bellnorth’s
loan does not meet industry standards and does not appear to be a bona fide
hard money loan. (Hibert Declaration ¶¶ 6-17.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues it is likely to succeed on the merits of the action because the deed of
trust was recorded four weeks after this court issued the writ of attachment,
and it secured a loan amount five times more than the original amount that
“coincidentally took up any remaining equity in the Subject Property.” (Motion
pp. 13-14.) Plaintiff argues “[t]he timing and amount of the loan alone
strongly support that Dobrin intentionally engaged with Bellnorth to hinder
Plaintiff’s ability to recover any judgment lien arising from adjudication in
Plaintiff’s favor.” (Motion p. 14.) Plaintiff further argues the escrow
documents and evidence Bellnorth’s loan is not a bona fide hard money loan
support finding fraud. (Motion pp. 14-15.)
 
Plaintiff
argues it will suffer irreparable harm because Boris Dobrin’s only material
asset is the Subject Property and, if Bellnorth forecloses on the Subject
Property, Boris Dobrin “is likely to claim insolvency when this matter is
concluded and unable to pay any judgment in Plaintiff’s favor.” (Motion p. 16.)
 
Plaintiff
also argues the balance of equities favors issuing an injunction. Plaintiff
states Bellnorth would suffer no harm from an injunction because the Subject
Property was fraudulently transferred, making the Bellnorth deed of trust void.
(Motion p. 16.) Plaintiff further argues that if Bellnorth argues it is a bona
fide lender, the only potential harm to Bellnorth is the temporary delay of
sale. (Motion p. 16.) 
 
b.     Bellnorth’s Opposition
 
Bellnorth
argues its promissory note and deed of trust are legitimate, and the loan and
deed of trust were recorded in good faith without knowledge of any alleged
encumbrances. (Opposition p. 3.) Bellnorth states that before it recorded the
deed of trust, a title report was prepared, which indicated the Subject
Property was free of any material encumbrances, aside from the senior deed of
trust, tax liens, and other minor liens. (Opposition p. 3; Munoz Declaration ¶¶
9-11.)  Bellnorth argues that its “reliance
on a clear title report is sufficient to demonstrate good faith.” (Opposition
p. 4.) Bellnorth further states that Plaintiff failed to file the writ of
attachment with the Los Angeles County Recorder, which could have ensured
Bellnorth had notice of the attachment lien. (Opposition p. 5.)
 
Bellnorth
also argues Plaintiff’s fraud allegations are speculative, unsupported, and do
not establish a fraudulent scheme. (Opposition p. 5.) Bellnorth states
Plaintiff’s claim Bellnorth is not a bona fide hard money lender is “baseless,
lacking any supporting evidence from industry standards, and mischaracterizes
the nature of private loans.” (Opposition pp. 5-6.) Bellnorth argues the
combined loan-to-value ratio and nature of the collateral are guidelines, not
requirements and “[p]rivate lenders, particularly those focused on asset-based
lending, frequently offer loans based solely on collateral value rather than
creditworthiness, particularly where a title report confirms ownership and
priority liens.” (Opposition p. 6.) Bellnorth states it is not required to give
Plaintiff a justification for the loan terms. (Opposition p. 7.) 
 
Bellnorth
argues Plaintiff has not shown it is likely to prevail on the merits because
the claims do not involve a direct real property interest in the Subject
Property. (Opposition p. 7.) 
 
Bellnorth
further argues Plaintiff cannot demonstrate irreparable harm because financial
harm alone does not warrant injunctive relief. (Opposition pp. 7-8.) Bellnorth
argues Plaintiff’s claims are speculative because Plaintiff has not received a
recorded Notice of Sale for the Subject Property, no foreclosure sale is
currently scheduled, and the Subject Property is not currently listed for sale.
(Opposition p. 9.) Bellnorth argues “courts do not grant injunctions based on
conjecture and unsubstantiated fears” and “Plaintiff’s fears about a potential
sale are hypothetical at best, and do not rise to the level of immediate,
irreparable harm required to justify a TRO.” (Opposition pp. 8-9.) Bellnorth
also states that Plaintiff’s alleged harm is financial, and Plaintiff can be
compensated with monetary damages. (Opposition p. 9.)
 
Finally,
Bellnorth argues it “stands to suffer significant harm if enjoined from
proceeding with its foreclosure, which was lawfully initiated following the
Notice of Default recorded on July 15, 2024.” (Opposition p. 9.)
 
c.      Plaintiff’s Reply
 
Plaintiff
states Bellnorth’s $1 million wire receipt leaves $2 million of the loan
undocumented and unaccounted for. (Reply p. 4.) 
 
Plaintiff
also argues Bellnorth has proffered little evidence supporting its good faith
defense. Plaintiff argues that “Bellnorth and Dobrin rushed to beat Plaintiff’s
recording of its writ” and “Bellnorth and Dobrin knew this, which is why they
sped up their process, increased the loan amount five-fold and only funded
$300,000 through escrow.” (Reply p. 5.) Plaintiff also argues that “Bellnorth’s
continued refusal to produce any evidence of complete disbursement
of the loan proceeds only further supports Plaintiff’s case that the loan is
fraudulent and Dobrin did not receive a reasonably equivalent value for the
Deed of Trust.” (Reply p. 5.)
 
Plaintiff
argues it has shown a likelihood of prevailing on the merits because an
attachment creates a real property interest. (Reply p. 6.) 
 
Plaintiff
also argues that Bellnorth’s contention financial harm cannot warrant relief
“misstates the findings and facts of its cited authority.” (Reply p. 8.)
Plaintiff states that “Dobrin simply does not have the means to adequately
compensate Plaintiff if Bellnorth’s foreclosure sale is effected” because
“Dobrin and his wife have tax liens and several judgment liens recorded against
them.” (Reply p. 8.) Plaintiff also states, “[t]he only assets of theirs that
had equity was the Subject Property” and “[i]f it is foreclosed upon by
Bellnorth’s fraudulent lien, Plaintiff will have no ability to collect on any
monetary damage award it receives.” (Reply p. 8.) 
 
Finally,
Plaintiff states irreparable harm is irrelevant for a preliminary injunction
and the balance of equities favors issuing an injunction because Bellnorth’s
only potential harm is a temporary delay of sale while Plaintiff will lose the
ability to collect any judgment against Dobrin. (Reply p. 10.)
 
IV.                   
 ANALYSIS 

 
a.     Injury
 
The
court first considers which of the parties is likely to suffer greater injury
upon the grant or denial of the injunction. 
 
Plaintiff
states it will suffer irreparable harm because if Bellnorth forecloses on the
Subject Property, Boris Dobrin will claim insolvency and be unable to pay any
judgment in Plaintiff’s favor. (Motion p. 16.) Plaintiff states Bellnorth’s
only potential harm is a temporary delay in selling the property. (Motion p.
16.)   Bellnorth argues it will suffer
significant harm because it lawfully recorded its interest but will be
prevented from proceeding with its foreclosure. (Opposition p. 9.)
 
When
a cause of action involves real property, the court may find that the party who
stands to lose the property is more likely to suffer irreparable harm than the
party seeking to sell the property. (Baypoint Mortgage Corp. v. Crest
Premium Real Estate etc. Trust, (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 818, 824.) At worst,
if the party seeking to sell the property prevails at trial, “the worst that it
will have suffered will have been some delay in foreclosure.” (Id.) In
contrast, the party who stands to lose the property is more likely to suffer
greater harm because it may lose its trust deeds and be chargeable with
foreclosure expenses. (Id. at pp. 824-825.)
 
This
cause of action originated because the Testing Company breached its contractual
obligations under a lease. (FAC ¶ 29; Complaint ¶¶ 12-17.) Plaintiff’s first
amended complaint added causes of action against Bellnorth and alleged “a
fraudulent transfer was made by Defendants with the actual intent to hinder,
delay or defraud Plaintiff and to avoid Plaintiff from being able to recover
the amounts due and owing under the Lease and Guaranty, as amended, and to
enforce the writ of attachment granted.” (FAC ¶ 37.) Thus, although this cause
of action involves the Subject Property, other than its interest as Boris
Dobrin’s potential creditor, Plaintiff alleges no interest in the Subject
Property. 
 
A
“mere monetary loss is not irreparable in contemplation of the remedy of
injunction unless there is an averment or a showing that [the] parties causing
the loss are insolvent or in any manner unable to respond in damages.” (West
Coast Constr. Co. v. Oceano Sanitary Dist. (1971) 17 Cal.App.3d 693, 700.)
 
Plaintiff
argues that if the Subject Property is sold, Boris Dorbin will claim insolvency
and will be unable to pay any judgment in Plaintiff’s favor. (Motion p. 16.)
Plaintiff submits a declaration by its counsel stating that the Subject
Property is valued at $5 to $6 million. (Gizer Declaration ¶ 8.) Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration further states that with the Bellnorth loan, the Subject
Property’s total obligations are roughly $6.2 million. (Gizer Declaration ¶ 9.)
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration states that “if the Subject Property is
foreclosed upon and sold for its current estimated value, Dobrin will be
rendered insolvent and unable to pay any judgment rendered in Plaintiff’s
favor.” (Gizer Declaration ¶ 9.) 
 
Plaintiff
has submitted evidence showing the obligations on the Subject Property total
more than what the Subject Property is worth. (Gizer Declaration ¶ 9.) However,
Plaintiff has submitted no evidence showing Boris Dobrin lacks other assets to
pay the judgment. 
 
Like
Plaintiff, Bellnorth risks suffering monetary harm if it is prevented from
selling the property.
 
Accordingly,
because both parties risk suffering monetary harm, this court finds that
Plaintiff has not shown it is likely to suffer greater injury upon the denial
of the injunction.
 
b.     Reasonable Probability of Prevailing
on the Merits
 
Next,
this court considers whether there is a reasonable probability Plaintiff will
prevail on the merits.
 
Plaintiff
asserts a cause of action for fraudulent transfer under Civil Code section
3439.04. (Motion p. 13.) Section 3439.04(a) states:
 
(1)  
A transfer made or obligation incurred by a
debtor is voidable as to a creditor, whether the creditor's claim arose before
or after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred, if the debtor
made the transfer or incurred the obligation as follows:
 
(1)  
With actual intent to hinder, delay, or
defraud any creditor of the debtor.

 
(2)   Without
receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or
obligation, and the debtor either:
 
(1)   
Was engaged or was about to engage in a
business or a transaction for which the remaining assets of the debtor were
unreasonably small in relation to the business or transaction.
 
(2)   
Intended to incur, or believed or reasonably
should have believed that the debtor would incur, debts beyond the debtor's
ability to pay as they became due.
 
(Civ.
Code § 3439.04(a).)
 
To determine whether the debtor acted with
actual intent, the court may consider, “among other factors . . . any or all of
the following:” 
 
(1)  
Whether the transfer or obligation was to an
insider.
 
(2)  
Whether the debtor retained possession or
control of the property transferred after the transfer.
 
(3)  
Whether the transfer or obligation was
disclosed or concealed.
 
(4)  
Whether before the transfer was made or
obligation was incurred, the debtor had been sued or threatened with suit.
 
(5)  
Whether the transfer was of substantially all
the debtor's assets.
 
(6)  
Whether the debtor absconded.
 
(7)  
Whether the debtor removed or concealed
assets.
 
(8)  
Whether the value of the consideration
received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the value of the asset
transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred.
 
(9)  
Whether the debtor was insolvent or became
insolvent shortly after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred.
 
(10)        
Whether the transfer occurred shortly before
or shortly after a substantial debt was incurred.
 
(11)        
Whether the debtor transferred the essential
assets of the business to a lienor that transferred the assets to an insider of
the debtor.
 
(Civ.
Code § 3439.04(b).)
 
Plaintiff
must show the debtor made a transfer or incurred an obligation. (Civ. Code § 3439.04(a).) Plaintiff filed its
complaint against Boris Dobrin on July 10, 2023. The promissory note was
executed on October 31, 2023, and Bellnorth’s deed of trust was recorded on
November 1, 2023. (Gizer Declaration ¶¶ 6, 11.) Accordingly, Plaintiff submitted evidence Dobrin made a
transfer or incurred an obligation.
 
Plaintiff must show the transfer was made
“[w]ith actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor.”
(Civ. Code § 3439.04(a).) As noted above,
Plaintiff filed its complaint against Boris Dobrin on July 10, 2023, the
promissory note was executed on October 31, 2023, and Bellnorth’s deed of trust
was recorded on November 1, 2023. (Gizer Declaration ¶¶ 6, 11.) Thus,
Plaintiff submitted evidence showing the transfer was made after the debtor was sued. (Civ. Code § 3439.04(b)(4).)
 
Moreover, the timing here supports
Plaintiff’s claim that the transfer was made “[w]ith actual intent to hinder,
delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor.” (See Oiye v. Fox (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1059 [“The timing of defendant’s conveyance of his
personal residence to a trust after he was arrested on charges of molestation
may be indicative of an intent to protect his assets against creditors.”]) On
August 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed its application for a right to attach order
seeking an attachment against the Subject Property. (Gizer ¶ 3.) On August 24, 2024, a title
company provided a preliminary title report to Bellnorth and Dobrin for a
$600,000 loan, to be secured by the Subject Property. (Gizer Declaration ¶ 4.) The court issued a right to attach
order and order for issuance of right of attachment on October 2, 2023, Boris
Dobrin executed the promissory note on October 31, 2023, which increased the
loan amount from $600,000 to $3,350,000, and Bellnorth recorded the deed of
trust on November 1, 2023. (Gizer Declaration ¶¶ 5-6, 11.) Finally,
Plaintiff submits evidence by way of an expert’s declaration indicating the
Bellnorth loan does not meet industry standards and does not appear to be a
bona fide hard money loan. (Hibert Declaration ¶¶ 6-17.) Accordingly, this
court finds Plaintiff has submitted evidence showing “the debtor made the
transfer or incurred the obligation . . . [w]ith actual intent to hinder,
delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor.” (Civ. Code § 3439.04(a)(2).)
 
Plaintiff must also show the “debtor made the transfer or
incurred the obligation . . . [w]ithout receiving a reasonably equivalent value
in exchange for the transfer or obligation.” (Civ. Code § 3439.04(a)(2).)
Bellnorth’s Member and Manager, David Munoz, submits a declaration stating that
Bellnorth disbursed $3,050,000.00 outside of escrow and $300,000 through
escrow. (Munoz Declaration ¶ 3.) Munoz’s declaration further states that the
“Promissory Note was an all-inclusive promissory note which incorporated the
previous amounts loaned and disbursed to Boris Dobrin and Zarina Dobrin,
including, but not limited to the wire transfer of $1,016,665.00, along with
the final $300,000.00 disbursed to Boris Dobrin and Zarina Dobrin through
escrow as set forth in the Lender’s Instructions.” (Munoz Declaration ¶ 3.)
And, at the request of Boris Dobrin and Zarina Dobrin, Bellnorth deposited
$1,016,665.00 into Boris Dobrin’s company, the Testing Company, “instead of to
them individually.” (Munoz Declaration ¶ 3.) 
 
The total loan amount was purportedly for
$3,350.000.00. (Gizer Declaration ¶ 5.) Munoz’s declaration accounts for
transfers totaling $1,316,665.00. (Munoz Declaration ¶ 3; Ex. 8.) This leaves
more than $2 million dollars of the purported loan unaccounted for.  Accordingly, this court finds that Plaintiff
has shown the “debtor made the transfer or incurred the obligation . . .
[w]ithout receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer
or obligation.” (Civ. Code § 3439.04(a)(2).)
 
Plaintiff must also show Dobrin “[w]as engaged or was about to engage in a
business or a transaction for which the remaining assets of the debtor were
unreasonably small in relation to the business or transaction” or “[i]ntended
to incur, or believed or reasonably should have believed that the debtor would incur, debts
beyond the debtor's
ability to pay as they became due.”(Civ. Code § 3439.04(a)(2).) Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration
states that “[w]ith the Bellnorth loan encumbering the Subject Property
further with a $3,350,000 deed of trust, assuming no further obligations, the
total obligations on the Subject Property total roughly $6.2 million. Thus, if
the Subject Property is foreclosed upon and sold for its current estimated
value, Dobrin will be rendered insolvent and unable to pay any judgment
rendered in Plaintiff’s favor.” (Gizer Declaration ¶ 9.)  Accordingly, although this court acknowledges
its finding above that Plaintiff submitted no specific evidence showing Boris
Dobrin lacks other assets, this court finds that Plaintiff has shown “the
debtor . . . reasonably should have believed that the debtor would incur, debts beyond the debtor's ability to pay as
they became due.” (Civ. Code §
3439.04(a)(2)(B).)
 
Thus,
Plaintiff has shown it is likely to prevail on the merits. However, because
Plaintiff has not shown it is likely to suffer greater harm upon the denial of
the injunction, this court denies the Motion.
 
V.                   
CONCLUSION
 
For
the foregoing reasons, this court denies the Motion.
 
Dated:  November 12, 2024                                                             _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                   Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                            Judge of the Superior Court