 Case Number:  24STCV20969    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JULIO GOMEZ CARRERO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ARCHITECTURAL SURFACES GROUP, LLC, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV20969
  Hearing Date:  November 15, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant caesarstone usa, inc.’s
  demurrer and motion to strike (CRS# 2050, 6743)




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 19, 2024, Plaintiff Julio
Gomez Carrero filed this action against various defendants, asserting (1)
negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3) products liability –
design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, and (5) breach of implied warranties.      
According to the complaint, from 2007 to
2024, Plaintiff worked as a cutter, fabricator and/or installer of Defendants’
stone products. (FAC ¶¶ 63-72.) As a result of this work, Plaintiff came into
contact with “inherently hazardous stone products manufactured, imported,
supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by the named Defendants and
Does 1-100.” (Id., ¶ 73.) Specifically, Plaintiff was “exposed to and
inhaled stone dust containing silica and other toxins and carcinogens.” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff allegedly developed lung disease and is at increased risk of
developing other silica-related diseases. (Id., ¶ 74.) Plaintiff alleges
that he “has had to receive substantial medical treatment, including
hospitalizations and surgeries, including a lung biopsy and a possible future
lung transplantation.” (Id., ¶ 75.) 
            On September 30, 2024, Defendant
Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike.
Plaintiff filed his opposition on November 1, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Spratt Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer

            a. Causation
In order for a complaint to properly plead
causation in a toxic exposure case, the plaintiff must allege the
following:  
(1) he was exposed to each of the toxic
materials claimed to have caused a specific illness;
(2) he must identify each product that
allegedly caused the injury;
(3) he must allege that as a result of the
exposure, the toxins entered his body;
(4) he must allege that he suffers from a
specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his body was a substantial
factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating that illness; and
(5) he must allege
that each toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied by a named defendant. 
(Bockrath
v. Aldrich Chemical Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 80.) These facts must be pled
“in ordinary and concise language” and may be pled “in a conclusory fashion if [the
plaintiff’s] knowledge of the precise cause of injury is limited.” (Ibid.)
            Here, the complaint identifies the
offending products attributable to Defendant Caesarstone and alleges that
Plaintiff was exposed to toxic chemicals, specifically silica, within those
products. (Compl. ¶¶ 62-73.) Plaintiff alleges that the exposure caused the
toxins to enter his body through inhalation while he worked as a cutter,
fabricator and/or installer of the stone products. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
alleges that the toxins were a substantial factor in his illness, specifically
silicosis and other lung diseases. (Id., ¶ 74.) Plaintiff alleges that
each hazardous stone product was “manufactured, imported, supplied,
distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by the named Defendants.” (Ibid.)
Therefore, the complaint satisfies the requirements of Bockrath, and
Plaintiff has adequately pled causation. 
            b. Failure to Warn
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff
fails to allege his injuries could have been avoided if adequate warnings had
been provided. However, the complaint alleges that the stone products “lacked
warnings or contained warnings that were inadequate to apprise Plaintiff of
their toxic hazards and their serious effects upon the human body, and they
either lacked instructions for handling and use or lacked instructions adequate
to prevent exposure and disease.” (Compl. ¶ 1259.) The complaint alleges that
as a result of this, Plaintiff was exposed to toxins which entered his body,
leading to injuries such as silicosis. (Id., ¶¶ 1264-1265.) This is
adequate for pleading purposes.
            c. Substantial Factor
            Defendant argues that “Plaintiff has
failed to allege that Caesarstone’s, (or any defendants’) products were used in
a reasonably foreseeable way and were a substantial factor in causing
Plaintiff’s alleged injury.” (Dem. 9:9-10.) However, as discussed above,
Plaintiff has satisfied the Bockrath standard for pleading causation.
Plaintiff alleges that he inhaled toxic stone dust while working as a cutter,
fabricator and/or installer of the stone products. (Compl. ¶¶ 62-73.) This
demonstrates a reasonably foreseeable use of the product and resulting injury. 
The fact that Plaintiff attributes the
same defect and wrongdoing to multiple defendants does not mean the claim is
inadequately pled against Caesarstone. Despite grouping the defendants
together, the allegations are sufficient “to put the defendant on notice about
what the plaintiff is complaining and what remedies are being sought.” (See Leek
v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.) 
            
d. Fraudulent Concealment
            “The elements of fraud that will
give rise to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974, quoting Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) A fraudulent concealment claim is
actionable in toxic exposure cases. (See Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198-1200.) 
            Here, the complaint alleges that “Defendants
fraudulently concealed from Plaintiff, JULIO GOMEZ CARRERO, that their stone
products were toxic and that they contained silica, metals and other toxins
that cause fibrotic lung disease upon inhalation.” (Compl. ¶ 85.) Plaintiff
alleges that due to this concealment, he unknowingly inhaled toxic particles
through the course of his work, leading to lung disease. (Id., ¶ 84.)
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants were aware of the toxic and fibrogenic
nature of their stone products and that exposure to them causes silicosis.” (Id.,
¶ 1301.) Defendants allegedly concealed these hazards “so that [Plaintiff]
would use Defendants' stone products in his work.” (Id., ¶ 1307.)
Plaintiff alleges that he “purchased and/or received toxic stone products from
Defendants.” (Id., ¶ 1306.) These are allegations of ultimate fact which
facially satisfy the elements of fraudulent concealment.    
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed
to plead fraud with the requisite specificity. However, the rule of specificity
“is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations.” (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System &
Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) “[I]t is harder to
apply this rule to a case of simple nondisclosure. How does one show ‘how’ and
‘by what means’ something didn't happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or
‘where’ it never happened?” (Ibid.) Plaintiff cannot provide specific
details on nonexistent statements. For pleading purposes, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged that Defendant failed to disclose the hazardous nature of its
stone products, thereby inducing Plaintiff to purchase or use Defendants’
products, leading to his injuries. (Compl. ¶¶ 1297-1329.)
II.
Motion to Strike
            “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
            As discussed above, Plaintiff has adequately
pled fraudulent concealment. Fraud is an independent basis for punitive
damages. Additionally, even if the conduct did not constitute fraud, knowingly
selling toxic products without disclosing their hazards may be considered a
conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights and safety, as well as imposing
unjust hardship. The specific identity of the corporate officers who ratified
the concealment is a factual question for discovery. The complaint adequately
pleads punitive damages.        
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Caesarstone USA. Inc.’s demurrer
is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED. 