 Case Number:  23STCV31867    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ODILE MADDEN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
GETTY CONSERVATION
  INSTITUTE, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV31867
  Hearing Date:  November 15, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant j. paul getty trust’s motion
  to compel mental examination 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff
Odile Madden filed this employment discrimination action against Defendants
Getty Conservation Institute and J. Paul Getty Trust.  
            On October 4, 2024, Defendant J.
Paul Getty Trust filed the instant motion to compel a mental examination of
Plaintiff. Plaintiff filed her oppositions on November 1, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by
means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an
agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal
control of a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition
(including the blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in
the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020(a).) “If any party desires to obtain
discovery by . . . a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.”
(Id., § 2032.310(a).) “The court shall grant a motion for a physical or
mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown.” (Id.,
§ 2032.320(a).)
DISCUSSION
I.
Good Cause 
There is no dispute over Defendant’s right
to take a mental examination, and Plaintiff has not refused to submit to a
mental examination. Plaintiff “does not deny that her mental state is at issue.”
(Opp. 5:20.) Thus, there is good cause for the examination. (See Vinson
v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 839 [“a party who chooses to allege that
he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in
controversy”].)   
II.
Procedural Disputes 
However, the parties are conflicted over
the following conditions related to the examination: (1) the scope of
questioning; (2) the release of test data to Plaintiff’s counsel; (3)
Defendant’s right to take further examinations; and (4) Plaintiff’s right to
strike portions of the doctor’s report. 
            a. Scope
            The expert who will be conducting
the examination, Dr. Ari Kalechstein, avers that “taking a detailed history is
essential to the evaluation and often invaluable since it helps to guide the
test selection process, allows for interpretation of test data within a
suitable context, and may yield important clues to a correct diagnosis.”
(Kalechstein Decl. ¶ 3.) Therefore, “clinical interviews typically involve
questioning regarding the history of the subject, including the following
information: basic descriptive data, developmental history, social history,
relevant past medical history, current medical status, and the effect of the
disorder.” (Ibid.) Dr. Kalechstein further avers that “[a]nother
integral element of a neuropsychological evaluation is the administration of
neuropsychological tests, which serve as objective measures of cognition,
personality/emotional functioning, and behavior.” (Kalechstein Decl. ¶ 4.) 
            Plaintiff argues that “the DME must
be limited in scope to the emotional distress Dr. Madden has alleged to have
suffered as a result of the wrongful termination” and that “[c]ognitive and
neuropsychological tests are . . . irrelevant to any of the issues and damages
asserted in this litigation.” (Opp. 4:15-16, 5:14-16.) However, a psychiatrist
is the most qualified to determine the necessary scope of a mental examination.
(Edwards v. Superior Court (1976) 16 Cal.3d 905, 911.) “Many questions
which would be legally objectionable, if posed in a courtroom, might be very
relevant in the formulation of a sound psychiatric judgment.” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff cites no expert testimony rebutting Dr. Kalechstein’s assertions.
Therefore, the Court defers to Dr. Kalechstein’s assessment of the necessary
scope of examination. 
            Additionally, Plaintiff’s proposed
limitation presupposes that her emotional distress was solely caused by
Defendant. However, Defendant is entitled ascertain evidence proving otherwise,
which includes discovering alternative stressors. (See Vinson, supra, 43
Cal.3d at p. 840 [“by asserting a causal link between her mental distress and
defendants' conduct, plaintiff implicitly claims it was not caused by a
preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the question of alternative
sources for the distress”].) Because the medical expert has averred to the
necessary scope of the examination, Defendant’s proposed scope is not based on
speculation as was the case in Tylo v. Superior Court (1997) 55
Cal.App.4th 1379, 1388. 
            In sum, the scope of the examination
may include Plaintiff’s history and the neurological tests that Dr. Kalechstein
determines to be necessary. 
            b. Test Data
            “The examiner and examinee shall
have the right to record a mental examination by audio technology.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.530(a).) Furthermore, the party submitting to a mental
examination may demand the following materials: “(1) A copy of a detailed
written report setting out the history, examinations, findings, including the
results of all tests made, diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions of the
examiner. (2) A copy of reports of all earlier examinations of the same
condition of the examinee made by that or any other examiner.” (Id., §
2032.610(a).) 
“[G]iven the trial court's broad
discretion in discovery matters, the trial court . . . has the power to order
disclosure of test materials and data to the plaintiff's attorney.” (Randy's
Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 835.) Test data
is necessary to effectively cross-examine an expert and ensure the legitimacy
of the examination. (See id. at pp. 834-35; Evid. Code, § 721.)
Therefore, Plaintiff’s counsel is entitled to obtain the test materials,
including the audio recording. 
Defendant argues that releasing the test
data and recording to anyone other than Plaintiff’s expert would compromise the
integrity of the examination and result in ethical violations for Dr.
Kalechstein. However, the American Psychological Association Code of Ethics
states that a psychologist may release patient records under a court order.
(APA Rule 9.04.) There is no indication that disclosure to counsel, especially
under a protective order, would risk dissemination to the public or other
misuse of the material. 
In sum, Plaintiff’s counsel is entitled to
obtain the test data and audio recording. Production shall be subject to a
protective order. 
c. Further Examinations
Plaintiff cannot condition this examination
on Defendant waiving its right to compel future examinations. There is only one
mental examination at issue in this motion, for which Plaintiff has already
agreed there is good cause. Any further mental examinations would require a
separate motion demonstrating good cause. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320(a).)
The Court will not preemptively determine whether there is good cause for
speculative future exams that are not at issue.   
d. Striking the Report
Plaintiff cites no authority allowing an
examinee to strike portions of a test report. Plaintiff retains the right to
object to the admissibility of the report or portions thereof, and to challenge
the veracity of the report through cross-examination and her own evidence. But
there is no precedent for authorizing an examinee to unilaterally strike
portions of a report that he or she deems irrelevant. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant J. Paul Getty Trust’s
motion to compel mental examination is GRANTED on the conditions set forth
above. 