  Case Number:  22SMCV00885    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV00885




MOTION


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Paradigm Talent Agency, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff 8942 Wilshire, LLC



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff 8942 Wilshire, LLC (“Plaintiff”) asserts in its First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) two causes of action against its former commercial
tenant, Defendant Paradigm Talent Agency LLC (“Defendant’) for (1) breach of
lease and (2) fraud.  
 
Defendant now demurs to the second cause of action for fraud for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action under Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  Plaintiff opposes the Demurrer and Defendant
replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of California Executive Order N-33-20. 
Judicial notice may be taken of “Official acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States.”  (Evid. Code § 452, subd.
(c).)  Therefore, the Court takes
judicial notice of Executive Order N-33-20.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Here, the FAC alleges:
 
6. Landlord is the owner of the real property
located at 8942 Wilshire Boulevard, Beverly Hills, California 90210 (the
“Premises”). 
 
7. Landlord and Tenant are parties to the July
14, 2017 written office lease agreement (as amended, “Lease”), pursuant to
which Tenant leases the Premises from Landlord. A true and correct copy of the
Lease, including all amendments, is attached hereto as Exhibit “1” and
incorporated herein by this reference. 
 
8. As required by the Lease, Tenant tendered a
letter of credit as security for Tenant’s performance under the Lease (“LOC”).
The Lease permits Landlord to draw on the LOC in the event of any monetary
default under the Lease by Tenant
 
9. In May of 2020, Tenant’s former Chief
Executive Officer, Michael Dates, contacted Landlord by phone and written
correspondence to request relief from its obligation to pay rent under the
Lease, due to the alleged impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic (“Pandemic”) on
Tenant’s business and finances. Tenant represented to Landlord that it was in
“financial distress” and that the Pandemic “caused a temporary and
unprecedented disruption to all areas of Paradigm’s business.” 
 
10. As part of its request for relief from its
rental obligations under the Lease, Tenant provided Landlord with financial
records relating to Tenant’s business and financial performance. Tenant
represented to Landlord that the financial records and summaries were true and
accurate. In reality, the financial records and summaries were misrepresented
and inaccurate. Defendant provided financial records to Plaintiff that
intentionally concealed Defendant’s pending transaction with Wasserman Media
Group, LLC (“Wasserman”) regarding the sale of its assets and its pending new
business relationship with Platinum Equity, LLC (“Platinum Equity”). 
 
11. Ultimately, based in part on the information
provided by Tenant, and in reliance on the accuracy and completeness of such
information, Landlord and Tenant agreed to a modified rent schedule up to and
including July of 2021. Landlord and Tenant memorialized this agreement as to
rent relief and adjusted rental payment terms in a December 21, 2020 Amendment
to the Lease (“December 2020 Amendment”). 
 
12. Sometime in late 2020 or early 2021, and
shortly after consummating the December 2020 Amendment, Tenant sold a
significant portion of its business and assets, including its entire music
department, for consideration estimated to be in excess of $150 million to
Wasserman. 
 
13. Tenant never advised Landlord of its plans to
sell a significant portion of its assets, and never advised Landlord that its
financial statements did not reflect this anticipated transaction. Additionally,
Tenant did not provide Landlord any of the terms relating to this sale of a
significant portion of Tenant’s assets, at or after the consummation of this
transaction, or an accounting of the disposition of the consideration received
by Tenant as a result of this transaction. 
 
14. Landlord alleges, on information and belief,
that the funds and consideration received by Tenant from the sale of a portion
of its business and assets in 2020 or 2021, referenced above, were transferred
and/or conveyed in an effort to defraud Tenant’s creditors, including without
limitation Landlord here. 
 
15. Tenant misrepresented its financial condition
to obtain rent relief from Landlord. Tenant was aware of the pending sale of
its music assets to Wasserman when it requested rent relief from Landlord. In a
press release, Tenant’s principal, Sam Gores, stated that the sale to Wasserman
“is a win for all parties and a vital step on the restructuring path we
embarked upon more than a year ago.” (Hollywood Reporter, March 17, 2021.) This
press release reveals that Tenant had decided, before demanding rent relief
from Landlord in May of 2020, that Tenant would complete a major restructuring
of its business, including selling valuable assets, but it elected not to
advise Landlord about this sale or strategy. This information would have been
of great significance to Landlord’s willingness to negotiate with Tenant
regarding its obligations under the Lease. This timeline shows that Tenant
intentionally misrepresented its financial condition to ensure that Landlord
would grant it rent relief. 
 
16. Tenant was also aware that Platinum Equity,
chaired by Sam Gores’ brother Tom Gores, had taken a controlling stake in
Tenant in June of 2020, but Tenant failed to disclose this information to
Landlord when seeking rent relief. This means that Tenant was backed by $6
billion in individual wealth held by Tom Gores, and the many more billions of
dollars held by Platinum Equity. In requesting rent relief purportedly based on
the effects of the Pandemic, Tenant intentionally concealed from Landlord this new
backing and its major “restructuring plan,” which likely already included a
determination to reduce Tenant’s space costs, irrespective of the supposed
impacts of the Pandemic. Indeed, Tenant later publicly confirmed that its
desire to vacate the Premises was a conscious and intentional business
strategy, spurred by the “lessons” learned during the Pandemic, and its desire
to provide a “progressive hybrid work model” for its employees. (Los Angeles
Times, February 9, 2022.) Tenant did not disclose any of this information to
Landlord when seeking rent relief. 
 
17. Less than one year after Landlord granted
Tenant’s request for rent relief, in approximately July of 2021, Tenant advised
Landlord that it would not satisfy its rental obligations under the Lease, and
that Landlord should look to the LOC for recovery of rents due under the Lease
going forward. 
 
18. Upon being advised by Tenant that Tenant
intended to breach the Lease, and would not pay the monetary obligations due
under the Lease, Landlord engaged in a number of discussions with Tenant and
its representatives, as well as representatives of Platinum Equity, which had
some economic or financial interest in Tenant and in Tenant’s attempt to avoid
the obligations of the Lease. 
 
19. Notwithstanding the above, which left
Landlord facing millions of dollars in uncollected rent, Landlord continued to
discuss Tenant’s options for meeting its obligations under the Lease with
Tenant and Platinum Equity, now its controlling stakeholder, all the while
reserving all of Landlord’s rights under the Lease. 
 
20. In late 2021, Landlord was advised that an
unrelated entertainment company was interested in leasing the entire Premises
that was then occupied by Tenant. Tenant and Landlord engaged in a number of
discussions regarding this potential transaction, and agreed that it would be
beneficial to both Landlord and Tenant if this transaction were to proceed, as
the income generated by this replacement lease of the Premises would
significantly mitigate the damages that Landlord had suffered, and would
suffer, by virtue of Tenant’s breach and repudiation of the Lease. 
 
21. Notwithstanding Landlord’s good faith efforts
to accommodate a potential transaction with an unrelated company to lease all
or a portion of the Premises, and thus reduce Landlord’s damages attributable
to Tenant’s breach, the transaction was not consummated.
 
22. Landlord understands that Tenant has secured
a new location for its business operations, even though Tenant remains liable
on the Lease with Landlord. 
 
23. Tenant has continuously failed to pay to
Landlord the monetary amounts due under the Lease since August of 2021. 
 
24. Landlord has drawn on the LOC to recover the
amounts that Tenant has failed to pay to Landlord, which are due under the
Lease. These draws have fully exhausted the balance under the LOC.
 
[…]
 
37. The above representations were knowingly
false. In reality, Tenant was in the process of selling off significant parts
of its business at the same time it was claiming business turbulence and
financial distress relating to the Pandemic. Tenant sold a significant portion
of its business and assets, including its entire music department in late 2020
or early 2021 to Wasserman. Based on multiple press reports, Tenant had
decided, before demanding rent relief from Landlord in May of 2020, that Tenant
would complete a major restructuring of its business, including selling
valuable assets, but it elected not to tell Landlord about this strategy. This
information would have been of great significance to Landlord’s willingness to
negotiate with Tenant regarding its obligations under the Lease. This timeline
shows that Tenant intentionally misrepresented its financial condition to
ensure that Landlord would grant it rent relief.
 
38. Tenant was also aware that Platinum Equity
chaired by Sam Gores’ brother Tom, had taken a controlling stake in Tenant in
June of 2020, but it failed to disclose this information to Landlord during
rent negotiations. This means that Tenant was backed by $6 billion in
individual wealth held by Tom Gores, and the many more billions of dollars held
by Platinum Equity. In requesting rent relief purportedly based on the effects
of the Pandemic, Tenant intentionally concealed from Landlord this new backing
and its major “restructuring plan,” which likely already included a
determination to reduce Tenant’s space costs, irrespective of the supposed
impacts of the Pandemic. 
 
39. The representations regarding Tenant’s
financial distress were knowingly false. The true facts are that Tenant did not
require rent relief: Tenant concealed the intended sale of its assets to
Wasserman and its relationship with Platinum Equity to reduce or eliminate its
rent obligations under the Lease. 
 
40. When Tenant made these misrepresentations, it
knew them to be false and made them with the intention to deceive and defraud
Landlord and to induce Landlord to act in reliance on them. Landlord
justifiably and detrimentally relied on these representations by granting
Tenant rent relief. 
 
41. As a result of Tenant’s actions, Landlord has
sustained damages in an amount exceeding the jurisdictional minimum of this
Court, and that is subject to proof at the time of trial. 
 
42. In undertaking the actions and conduct
described above, Tenant acted with the intention to deceive and defraud
Landlord and was guilty of fraud, oppression, and malice. In addition to actual
damages, Landlord is entitled to an award of exemplary and punitive damages in
an amount to be determined at trial.
 
 
(FAC ¶¶ 6-24; 37-42.)  
 
Thus the FAC adequately pleads
with particularity the who (Defendant’s former Chief Executive Officer,
Michael Dates); what (COVID-19 related financial distress requiring a rent
reduction/abatement); when (May 2020); and how (phone calls and written
correspondence) of the alleged fraudulent misrepresentation.  Further, the FAC provides specific details
about various pending and imminent revenue streams available to Defendant when
the representations were made, demonstrating Defendant knew at the time that its
financial prospects were not as dire as represented to Plaintiff.  
 
Defendant argues that the allegations regarding financial statements
that were allegedly provided to Plaintiff lack the requisite details.  But the specific contents of the financial
statements Defendant provided to Plaintiff are generally within Defendant’s
knowledge, and as such, less specificity is required regarding the specific
contents of those statements.
 
Defendant further argues that
Plaintiff fails to allege damages stemming from the alleged fraud.  To the contrary, Defendant alleges that in
reliance upon Plaintiff’s representations about its financial situation,
Defendant modified the rental agreement and accepted lower amounts of rent.
 
Whether Defendant actually
made fraudulent misrepresentations about its financial situation and whether
Plaintiff actually suffered the damages alleged are factual questions to be
determined at later stages of the litigation. 
But for pleading purposes, Plaintiff has asserted a prima facie claim
for fraud against Defendant.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the Second Cause of Action for Fraud, and orders Defendant to file and serve an
Answer to the FAC on or before July 9, 2024. 

 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  June 18, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court