 Case Number:  24STCV12552    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Chohyun Lee’s Demurrer
with Motion to Strike
 
The Demurrer – with Motion to
Strike (CCP 430.10) filed by Chohyun Lee on 8/28/24 is Sustained in Part and
Overruled in Part.
The Motion to Strike (not
initial pleading) filed by Chohyun Lee on 8/28/24 is Granted in Part and Denied
in Part.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Chohyun Lee brought
this action against Defendant Paul Woo Hyun Kim,
alleging damages resulting from their business relationship. 
The causes of action are: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach
of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Breach of Oral Contract; (4)
Common Count; (5) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; (6) Fraud – False
Promise Without Intent to Perform; (7) Fraud – Negligent Misrepresentation; and
(8) Unjust Enrichment.  
Kim filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint alleging: (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Negligent
Misrepresentation, (4) Fraud; and (5) Negligence. 
The motion now before the Court is Lee’s Demurrer with
Motion to Strike. Kim opposes, and Lee filed a reply.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. Wilson v. Transit Authority of City of Sacramento
(1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716, 720-21. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not on the evidence or facts alleged.” E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. As such, courts
assume the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. Ibid. However, it does not accept as true deductions,
contentions, or conclusions of law or fact. Stonehouse Homes LLC v. City of
Sierra Madre (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 531, 538. “When the facts are
undisputed, as they are deemed to be on a ruling on a demurrer, the
interpretation of a contract … is a question of law.” Hervey v. Mercury
Casualty Co. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 954, 962-963. 
Further, the court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a). The court
may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading
has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. Id. § 436. The grounds for moving to strike must
appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id. §
437.


ANALYSIS
I. Demurrer
A. Breach of Fiduciary Duty
First, Lee argues that Kim’s claim fails to state a cause of
action because Lee did not owe Kim a fiduciary duty.  
“The elements of a breach of fiduciary duty cause of action
are: (1) existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and
(3) damage proximately caused by the breach.” Stanley v. Richmond (1995)
35 Cal.App.4th 1070, 1086. 
In the Cross-Complaint, Kim alleges that Lee owed him a
fiduciary duty “as partners pursuant to the Partnership Agreement.” FACC ¶
10-11. Lee contends that the “Partnership Agreement” did not create a legal
partnership despite its title. Instead, it was a contract to “lay the
foundations for their future business together, which was to incorporate their
business venture and allocate their roles.” 
A partnership is “an association of two or more persons to
carry on as coowners a business for profit,” “whether or not the persons
intended to form a partnership.” Corp. Code § 16101, subd. (a)(9); Corp. Code §
16202, subd. (a). “An association organized as another entity (e.g., a
corporation) is not a partnership.” Eng v. Brown (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th
675, 694 (citing Corp. Code., § 16202, subd. (b)). In the usual case … a
partnership does not continue to exist after the formation of a corporation. Persson
v. Smart Inventions, Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1157.  
Here, the Partnership Agreement provides for the creation of
a joint stock company. Complaint Ex. B. Despite its use of the term “partnership,”
the document is a contract for the creation of “CLPK Inc.,” a corporation that
would be owned 51% by Lee and 49% by Kim. Complaint Ex. B. While the Court
accepts all factual allegations as true, the legal effect of the Partnership
Agreement is a question of law. Based on the plain terms of the agreement, the parties
had no intent to carry on a business as an association but as a corporation. Therefore,
the Court concludes that Kim failed to plead the existence of a fiduciary duty
under the Partnership Agreement.   
Kim alternatively argues that as manager of their LLC, Lee
owed Kim, a member of that LLC, a fiduciary duty. Opposition at p. 2.  However, Kim failed to plead such an
allegation in the FACC. Accordingly, the Court sustains Lee’s demurrer to the
breach of fiduciary duty claim with leave to amend.
 
B. Negligent Malpresentation
Lee argues that Kim’s claim for negligent misrepresentation
fails because the alleged representation is not false.
“The elements of a negligent misrepresentation are (1) the
misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable
ground for believing it to be true, (3) with intent to induce another’s
reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable reliance on the
misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.” Borman v. Brown (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 1048, 1060 (internal quotation marks omitted”). 
Lee argues that Kim fails to allege the first element,
misrepresentation of a material fact because he contradicts his claim that Lee misrepresented
having certain funds by alleging “she was late on making payments which
hindered timely progress” and  that “[a]t
the end when more money was needed to keep the project going, [Lee] decided not
to proceed…” Demurrer at p. 6:16-21; FACC ¶ 6.  No contradiction exists. Kim alleges that Lee
claimed she “had sufficient funds to carry forth with the project.” FACC ¶ 3. Kim
further alleges that Lee “did not have the funds she said she had, and in fact,
it was discovered that she used EIDL loan money from another restaurant for the
funds she deposited, which was an improper use of the funds.” FACC ¶ 6. Whether
or not Lee ultimately paid the specific amounts due under the agreement does
not speak to the falsity of the representation at the time it was made. Kim alleges
that Lee used loan money from another restaurant when she made the late
payments. Therefore, there is no contradiction in Kim’s allegation that Lee
misrepresented her funds for the project. 
Because Kim adequately alleged misrepresentation of a
material fact, and Lee does not argue that Kim fails to plead any other
elements, the Court overrules the demurrer as to negligent misrepresentation. 
 
C. Fraud
Lee argues that Kim’s claim for fraud should be dismissed
because it is duplicative of his claim for breach of contract.  
While it is true that a person may not recover duplicative
damages for breach of contract and fraud, “it has long been the rule that where
a contract is secured by fraudulent representations, the injured party may
elect to affirm the contract and sue for the fraud.” Rattagan v. Uber
Technologies, Inc. (2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, 41 (quoting Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645) (Lazar) (internal quotation marks
omitted). Moreover, the elements of fraud are “(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”);
(c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and
(e) resulting damage.” Lazar, supra, (1996) 12 Cal.4th at p. 638. In
contrast, the elements of breach of contract are “(1) the contract, (2) Lee’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) Kim’s breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to Lee.” Kumaraperu v. Feldsted (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th
60, 70. Accordingly, the causes of action for breach of contract and fraud are
not duplicative, and the demurrer is overruled. 
 
D. Negligence 
Finally, Lee argues that the economic loss rule bars the negligence
claim. 
The economic loss rule provides that “[i]n general, there is
no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning
financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property damage. Sheen v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922 (quoting, Southern
California Gas Leak Cases (2019) 7 Cal.5th 391, 400). Furthermore, it “requires
a [contractual party] to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to
disappointed expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a
broken contractual promise.” Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp.
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988. 
Kim argues that the negligence claim should be permitted as
an exception to the economic loss rule because Lee’s negligence induced him to sign
the contract. See Opp. at p. 3:2. However, ”[n]egligent
misrepresentation is a separate and distinct tort” from negligence. Bily v.
Arthur Young & Co. (1992) 3 Cal.4th 370, 407. Moreover, Kim concedes
that this cause of action is redundant to the negligent misrepresentation
claim. Opp. at p. 3:3. Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the
negligence claim without leave to amend. 
  
II. Motion to Strike
Lee further moves to strike the following portions of the Cross-Complaint.
 
A. Punitive Damages 
First, Lee argues that Kim’s request for punitive damages
should be stricken because he fails to plead sufficient facts to support the
allegations of “oppression, fraud, or malice.”
To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage
statute, Civil Code Section 3294. College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721. These statutory elements include allegations that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (a). “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (c)(1).
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of
punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must
be pled by a plaintiff. In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion
to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike
as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth. In ruling on a
motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.” Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255. (citations omitted). “The
mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant
an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.” Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
159, 166 (fn. omitted) (citations omitted). Punitive damages may be assessed
against an employer where the employer authorized or ratified a malicious act. College
Hospital Inc., supra,8 Cal.4th at. p 723.
The Cross-Complaint includes a request for punitive
damages under the second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty and
fourth cause of action for fraud. Because the Court sustained the demurrer to
the breach of fiduciary duty, the motion to strike as to that claim is now
moot.  
An award of punitive damages is statutorily permitted for
fraud. Punitive damages are properly recoverable where oppression, fraud, or
malice is proven by clear and convincing evidence. See Civil Code
§3294(a). “Fraud,” for purposes of punitive damages, “means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” Civil Code
§3294(c).
Since this Court has overruled Lee’s demurrer to the fraud
cause of action, the Court must also deny Lee’s motion to strike the claim for
punitive damages included under that cause of action. Moreover, as pleaded, the
Cross-Complaint includes allegations that Lee made fraudulent allegations as to
her available funds and ability to perform under the contract and knew that Kim
would not have entered the contract if she told the truth. Cross-Complaint at pp.
3, ¶¶ 13, 17. Accordingly, the Court denies the motion to strike the request
for punitive damages from the fraud claim. 
 
 B. Tort Claims
Lee moves to strike all the tort claims in the
Cross-Complaint because the alleged conduct amounts to a breach of
contract, and Kim fails to allege an independent duty.
Code of Civil Procedure section 436 is not the appropriate
procedural vehicle to attack an entire cause of action. Where an entire cause
of action is properly subject to a pleading challenge, the court should sustain
a demurrer to the cause of action rather than grant a motion to strike. See
Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal. App. 4th 1256, 1281; Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal. App. 4th 509, 528.
Accordingly, the motion to strike the fraud and negligent misrepresentation
causes of action is denied.
 
C. Injunctive and Declaratory Relief
Lee argues that the Cross-Complaint includes in the prayer
for relief “injunctive and /or declaratory relief” but fails to include what
acts are to be enjoined or an explanation of the sought declaratory relief
sought. Kim does not oppose the motion on this point and notes that he is not
currently seeking an injunction and presently has no intention of seeking one.
Opp. at p. 2:11-13.  Accordingly, the
motion to strike injunctive and declaratory relief is granted with leave to
amend.  
 
D. Attorney’s Fees
Lee argues that Kim’s request for attorney’s fees should be
stricken because he fails to allege that he is entitled to attorney’s fees under
any statute or contract. 
Attorney’s fees are recoverable as costs when authorized by
contract, statute, or law. Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).  “A party may not recover attorney fees unless
expressly authorized by statute or contract.” Brown Bark III, L.P. v. Haver
(2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 809, 818. 
Here, the Cross-Complaint does not specify any contractual
or statutory basis for an award of attorney’s fees. Kim argues that the Partnership
Agreement arguably allows for the recovery of fees. However, because the
contract lacks any specific reference to attorney’s fees, it is an improper
basis for an attorney fee award. See Complaint, Ex. B. Accordingly, the
Court grants the motion to strike the request for attorney’s fees with leave to
amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Lee’s demurrer is sustained
in part and denied in part. The demurrer to the breach of fiduciary duty claim
is sustained with leave to amend. The demurrer to the negligent
misrepresentation claim is overruled. The demurrer to the fraud claim is
overruled. The demurrer to the negligence claim is sustained without leave to
amend. 
Lee’s motion to strike is granted
in part and denied in part.  The motion
to strike is granted with leave to amend as to injunctive and declaratory
relief and attorney’s fees.  The
motion to strike is denied as to punitive damages and the fraud and negligent
misrepresentation causes of action.  
Kim shall have 14 days from
service of the Court’s ruling to file and serve an amended cross-complaint.
Lee shall then have 20 days
to respond to the amended cross-complaint.