  Case Number:  22PSCV00879    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Hector  Olavarria, Jr. v. Doe Unified School District, et al. Defendant El Monte Union High School District’s Motion for Summary  Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of the Issues  TENTATIVE  RULING Per Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), the  Court CONTINUES the hearing on Defendant El Monte Union High School District’s  motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication of the  issues, to permit further discovery to be conducted. The new hearing date will  be set pending the December 5, 2023 hearing on this matter. Plaintiff’s  supplemental opposition, if any, will be due 14 days before the new hearing  date per Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(2). Defendant’s  supplemental reply, if any, will be due five days before the new hearing date  per Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(4).  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file  proof of service of same within five days of the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND This is a childhood sexual assault case based on events that  occurred between 1987 and 1988 and the recent enactment of AB 218 which revived  a plaintiff’s right to pursue childhood sexual assault claims. On August 17,  2022, Plaintiff Hector Olavarria, Jr. (Plaintiff) filed this action. Plaintiff  filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) on October 26, 2022, against  Defendant El Monte Union High School District (Defendant) and Does 1 through 50,  alleging causes of action for negligence, negligence per se, negligent hiring,  retention, and supervision of an unfit employee, negligent supervision of a  minor, and negligent failure to warn, train, or educate. On November 16, 2022,  Defendant filed an answer to the SAC.  On September 19, 2023,  Defendant filed the instant motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative,  summary adjudication of the issues. On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed an  opposition. No reply has been filed.  LEGAL  STANDARD The function  of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party can show evidentiary  support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal  without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th  826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to  grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences  reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences  or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and  that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.  Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of  the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the  issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether  there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the  pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,  citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,  381-382.)  As to each  claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting evidence  to negate an essential element, or to establish a complete defense. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128  Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of  the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence  in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39  Cal.4th 384, 389.)  Once the  defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that  a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action  or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party  opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)   DISCUSSION             “If it appears from the affidavits submitted in  opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that  facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated,  be presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit  affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as  may be just.” (Civ. Proc. Code § 437c, subd. (h).)              In Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff requests the Court  to either deny Defendant’s motion or continue the hearing on it per Code of  Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), on the grounds that additional  evidence may exist to support Defendant’s opposition and that additional  discovery is needed. Plaintiff contends the parties have only engaged in  limited written discovery thus far, and that only Plaintiff has been deposed.  (Drake Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff still seeks to depose the alleged perpetrator and  other third parties, such as Defendant’s employees. (Id.) The Court is  persuaded that additional discovery is warranted here. The alleged perpetrator  is an essential person to this lawsuit and her deposition may produce facts that  further justify Plaintiff’s opposition to this motion. Depositions of  Defendant’s employees may also produce facts that further justify Plaintiff’s  opposition.              Therefore, per Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,  subdivision (h), the Court will CONTINUE the hearing on Defendant’s motion for  summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication of the issues, to  permit the parties to conduct additional discovery.  CONCLUSION Per Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), the  Court CONTINUES the hearing on Defendant El Monte Union High School District’s  motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication of the  issues, to permit further discovery to be conducted. The new hearing date will  be set at the December 5, 2023 hearing on this matter. Plaintiff’s supplemental  opposition, if any, will be due 14 days before the new hearing date per Code of  Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(2). Defendant’s supplemental  reply, if any, will be due five days before the new hearing date per Code of  Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(4).  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file  proof of service of same within five days of the Court’s order.