 Case Number:  KC070042    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Bhrat  Patel, et al. v. Dr. Prakash Patel Defendants Dr. Prakash Patel’s and Hardika Patels’ Motion for Summary  Judgment and for Summary Adjudication  TENTATIVE RULING The Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment and summary adjudication.              Cross-Complainants Bharat and Dinesh  are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of  the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND This is a real property dispute. On February 14, 2018, Plaintiffs Bharat  Patel (Bharat) and Dinesh Patel (Dinesh) filed this action (KC070042) against  Dr. Prakash Patel and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action for breach  of settlement agreement and fraud. On March 16, 2020, Prakash Patel (Prakash)  and Hardika Patel (Hardika) filed a separate action (20STCV10801) against  Bharat Patel, Dinesh Patel, and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action  for voiding and rescission of first settlement agreement, voiding and  rescission of second settlement agreement, voiding and rescission of third  settlement agreement, fraud (misrepresentation), fraud (false promise), fraud  (concealment), negligent misrepresentation, voiding and rescission of first  settlement agreement (fraud), voiding and rescission of second settlement  agreement (fraud), and voiding and rescission of third settlement agreement  (fraud). The actions were later consolidated on June 23, 2020, with KC070042  being designated as the lead case.  On July 27, 2020, Bharat and Dinesh filed a cross-complaint  against Prakash and Hardika. The current operative pleading is the Second  Amended Cross-Complaint, filed on March 13, 2023, which alleges causes of  action for breach of settlement agreement, fraud (misrepresentation), fraud  (concealment), conspiracy to commit fraud, and declaratory relief.  On October 10, 2022, the Court entered summary judgment in favor  of Defendants Bharat and Dinesh on Plaintiffs Prakash and Hardika’s complaint  in Case No. 20STCV10801.  On September 18, 2023, Cross-Defendants Prakash and Hardika filed  the instant motion for summary judgment and summary adjudication. On November  17, 2023, Cross-Complainants Bharat and Dinesh opposed the motion. Cross-Defendants  replied on November 30, 2023.  LEGAL  STANDARD             The function  of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show  evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal  without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th  826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to  grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences  reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences  or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and  that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.  Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of  the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the  issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether  there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the  pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,  citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,  381-382.)  As to each  claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary  judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting  facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128  Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of  the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence  in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39  Cal.4th 384, 389.)  Once the  defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that  a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action  or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party  opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE             The Court DENIES Bharat’s  and Dinesh’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibits E, H, J, N, and P, as  there is no indication that those documents are conformed copies of pleadings that  had been filed with the Court. (See Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) The Court  otherwise GRANTS Bharat’s and Dinesh’s request for judicial notice. (See Id.) However, the Court only takes  judicial notice of the foregoing documents as to “the existence, content and  authenticity of public records and other specified documents”, it does not take  judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those  documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION Analysis             Cross-Defendants Prakash and Hardika  move for summary judgment and summary adjudication on the grounds that there is  no triable issue of material fact regarding the SACC and its five causes of  action alleged therein.              Consolidated Actions             Prakash and Hardika contend the  entire action should be deemed terminated with one judgment since this action was  consolidated from two separate actions (KC070042 and 20STCV10801) and the Court  previously granted summary judgment in favor of Bharat and Dinesh on Prakash’s  and Hardika’s complaint. The Court finds this argument to be without merit.  Consolidation merely converts two actions into one. (Guardianship  of C.E. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 1038, 1053.) Prakash and Hardika’s citation  to Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp. Ltd. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1127 is unavailing,  as it merely sets forth the Court’s ability to consolidate cases for purposes  of trial or merge two actions into one. (Id., at p. 1147.) The fact the  Court merged this action into one from two separate actions has no bearing on  the continued viability of Bharat’s and Dinesh’s claims in the SACC.  Moreover, the law makes clear that cross-complaints  are treated as independent actions and not dependent on the plaintiff’s action.  (D. Cross-Complaint, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 6-D, italics  in original [“A cross-complaint is treated as an independent action. It is not dependent on  plaintiff's action. The issues raised by the cross-complaint are treated as  ‘completely severable’ from the issues raised by the original complaint and  answer. [Citations.]”) The dismissal of the plaintiff’s complaint has no effect  on the cross-complainant’s ability to proceed to trial on a related  cross-complaint. (Bertero  v. National Gen. Corp. (1974) 13 Cal.3d 43, 51-52 [“Dismissal of  the complaint, for instance, does not affect the independent existence of the  cross-complaint or counterclaim.”]) The Court granting summary judgment in  favor of Bharat and Dinesh as to Prakash’s and Hardika’s complaint has no  effect on Bharat’s and Dinesh’s causes of action in the SACC. In fact, the  Court’s October 12, 2022 interlocutory judgment expressly states that, “Bharat  Patel’s and Dinesh Patel’s First Amended Cross Complaint remains at issue.”  (Interlocutory Judgment (10/10/2022).)  Accordingly, Prakash and Hardika have failed to establish the  absence of a triable issue of material fact here.  First Cause of Action – Breach of  Contract             “To  prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove  (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for  nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the  plaintiff. [Citation.]”) (Richman v. Hartley  (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)              Prakash and Hardika contend this  cause of action is moot based on res judicata because the Court previously  granted Bharat’s and Dinesh’s motion to enforce settlement agreement on April  1, 2021. The Court finds this argument to be without merit.              “Claim preclusion applies when ‘(1) the decision in the prior proceeding is final and on the merits; (2) the present proceeding is on the same cause of action as the prior proceeding; and (3) the parties in the present proceeding or parties in privity with them were parties to the prior proceeding.’ [Citation.] Upon satisfaction  of these conditions,  claim preclusion bars ‘not only issues  that were actually litigated  but also issues  that could have been litigated.’  [Citation.]” (Planning & Conservation League v. Castaic Lake Water  Agency (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 210, 226.)  Prakash and Hardika have not presented evidence of a final  judgment on the merits from a prior action between the parties. The April 1,  2021 order granting Bharat’s and Dinesh’s motion to enforce settlement  agreement simply directed Prakash and Hardika to perform under the settlement  agreement. (Order on Motion to Enforce Settlement (4/1/21).) It is not a final  resolution of all claims in this action or in a prior action. “Res judicata  gives conclusive effect to a former judgment only when the former judgment was  in a different action; an earlier ruling in the same action cannot be res  judicata….” (Phillips v. Sprint PCS (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 758, 770.) (See  also (1) [§ 390] Interlocutory Orders., 7 Witkin, Cal. Proc. 6th Judgm § 390  (2023) [“The doctrines of claim and issue preclusion apply only to judgments  and orders that are final in the sense that no further judicial act remains to  be done to end the litigation. Intermediate determinations, such as rulings on  motions and interlocutory orders, are not conclusive. [Citations.]”])  Moreover, the Order enforcing the settlement agreement is not a  decision on Bharat’s and Dinesh’s causes of action in the SACC and does not  involve the same primary right. The claims in the SACC seek damages Bharat and  Dinesh allegedly sustained as a result of Prakash and Hardika’s actions in  breaching the settlement agreement and as a result of their alleged  misrepresentations and/or concealment relating to the settlement agreements.  The enforcement of the settlement agreement does not address the same injury --  the damages Bharat and Dinesh allegedly incurred.  Based on the foregoing, the Court finds Prakash and Hardika have  failed to establish the absence of a triable issue of material fact on this  cause of action, and the Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment. The  Court will proceed to address the motion for summary adjudication as to the  remaining causes of action.  Second Cause of Action – Fraud  (Misrepresentation) “’To establish a claim for fraudulent  misrepresentation, the plaintiff must prove: ‘(1) the defendant represented to  the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2) that representation was  false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation was false when the  defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation recklessly and  without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff  rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied on the  representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance  on the defendant's representation was a substantial factor in causing that harm  to the plaintiff.’’ [Citation.]” (Graham v. Bank of Am., N.A.  (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605-606.)  Prakash and Hardika contend the second cause of  action for fraud (misrepresentation) is barred by res judicata because the  merger rule of res judicata regarding the breach of contract claim assumes that  there is one cause of action. Prakash and Hardika further contend that Prakash  conveyed his interest via grant deed and that Bharat and Dinesh are now suing  on the same primary right. The Court disagrees.  As noted above, Prakash and Hardika have failed to  present any evidence of a final judgment on the merits to any prior action  between the parties. The April 1, 2021 order granting Bharat’s and Dinesh’s  motion to enforce settlement agreement is not from a prior action and it is not  a final judgment because it did not dispose of the entire action between the  parties. Nor does the order address the same injury sought in the SACC.  Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion for summary  adjudication as to the second cause of action for fraud (misrepresentation).  Third Cause of Action – Fraud (Concealment) “’The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment  or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose  the fact to the plaintiff;  (3) the defendant intended to defraud  the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing  the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact  and would not have acted  as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed  or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment  or suppression of the fact. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Med. Grp., Inc. (2015)  238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)  Prakash’s and Hardika’s arguments here are the same  as those above with respect to breach of contract and fraud (misrepresentation),  and therefore fail for the same reasons set forth above. Accordingly, the Court  DENIES the motion for summary adjudication as to the third cause of action for  fraud (concealment).  Fourth Cause of Action – Conspiracy to Commit Fraud “Civil conspiracy is not an independent tort.  ‘Standing alone, conspiracy does no harm and engenders no tort liability. It  must be activated by the commission of an actual tort.’” (Favila v. Katten  Muchin Rosenman LLP (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 189, 206, quoting Applied  Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510.)  “The major significance of a conspiracy cause of action lies in the fact that  it renders each participant in the wrongful act responsible as a joint  tortfeasor for all damages ensuing from the wrong… regardless of the degree of  his activity. The essence of the claim is that it is merely a mechanism for  imposing vicarious liability; it is not itself a substantive basis for  liability. Each member of the conspiracy becomes liable for all acts done by  others pursuant to the conspiracy, and for all damages caused thereby.” (Id.,  quotations and citations omitted.)  “In order to state a cause of action based upon a  conspiracy theory the plaintiff must allege the formation and operation of the  conspiracy, the wrongful act or acts done pursuant to it, and the damage  resulting from such acts. In making such allegations bare legal conclusions,  inferences, generalities, presumptions, and conclusions are insufficient.” (State  of California ex rel. Metz v. CCC Information Services, Inc. (2007) 149  Cal.App.4th 402, 419, internal citations omitted.)  Prakash and Hardika reiterate their arguments  regarding res judicata from the second and third causes of action discussed  above. They also contend that the fourth cause of action for conspiracy to  commit fraud is subject to summary adjudication because it is not a cause of  action. The Court disagrees.  As explained above, Prakash and Hardika have not  presented evidence of a final judgment on the merits from a prior action  between the parties to warrant the application of res judicata here. With  respect to conspiracy to commit fraud not being a cause of action, the Court previously  addressed this argument when ruling on Prakash’s and Hardika’s motion for  judgment on the pleadings. (Manukyan Decl., Ex. O.) The Court rejected this  argument because, although a conspiracy by itself is not a cause of action, a conspiracy  to commit fraud is a cause of action because the underlying fraud is an  independent tort, (Favila, supra, 188 Cal.App.4th at p. 206; State of  California ex rel. Metz, supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at p. 419). For this  motion, Prakash and Hardika need to present evidence establishing the absence  of a triable issue of material fact. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p).) Prakash  and Hardika have not presented any such evidence, and therefore have failed to  meet their moving burden on summary adjudication.  Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion  for summary adjudication as to the fourth cause of action for conspiracy to  commit fraud.  Fifth Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief “’To qualify for declaratory relief, [a party] would  have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: ‘(1) a proper  subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving  justiciable questions relating to [the party's] rights or obligations.’’ [Citation.]”  (Jolley v. Chase Home Fin., LLC (2013)  213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.)  Prakash and Hardika’s arguments with respect to the  fifth cause of action for declaratory relief are the same as those made with  respect to the second and third causes of action addressed above, and therefore  fail for the same reasons. Moreover, the fifth cause of action also seeks a  determination as to Hardika’s rights to and interest in the subject property. Accordingly,  the Court DENIES the motion for summary adjudication as to the fifth cause of  action for declaratory relief.  CONCLUSION The Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment and summary  adjudication.               Cross-Complainants Bharat and Dinesh  are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of  the Court’s order.