 Case Number:  21STCV00876    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
The Motion for Summary Judgment, filed by Defendants Public Storage
and Public Storage Pickup and Delivery, Inc., is GRANTED.
 
Background 
 
According to
the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), Plaintiff Robert Libby (“Plaintiff”) was
injured on two occasions when he tripped and fell on a raised portion of the
sidewalk. The first incident occurred on March 2, 2020, near 4725 Venice
Boulevard in Los Angeles.  The second
incident occurred on June 7, 2020, near 5681 Venice Boulevard in Los
Angeles.  The sidewalk at 4550 W. Pico
Blvd was allegedly owned, controlled, and/or operated by Defendants Madison and
City of Los Angeles, while the sidewalk at 5681 Venice Blvd. was allegedly
owned, controlled, and/or operated by Defendants Public Storage Pickup &
Delivery, Inc. and City of Los Angeles. (Id.) Plaintiff asserts causes
of action for general negligence and premises liability. (Id. ¶ 10.)
 
On January 8,
2021 Plaintiff filed his Complaint. On February 25, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
FAC Defendants City of Los Angeles, Madison Marquette Real Estate Services,
Inc., Public Storage Pickup & Delivery Inc., and Does 1-25, inclusive.
 
On February
17, 2021, City of Los Angeles filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1-10,
inclusive, alleging indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory
relief. 
 
On April 25,
2021, Madison Marquette Real Estate Services, Inc. filed a cross-complaint
against Foes 1-100, inclusive, alleging implied indemnity, contribution, and
declaratory relief. 
 
On June 24,
2021, City of Los Angeles amended its cross-complaint to replace Roe 1 with
Mept Midtown Crossing, LLC. 
 
On July 1,
2021, Plaintiff amended his complaint to replace Doe 1 with Mept Midtown
Crossing, LLC.
 
On July 29,
2021, Mept Midtown Crossing, LLC filed a cross-complaint against City of Los
Angeles and Foes 101-150, alleging alleging implied indemnity, contribution,
and declaratory relief. 
 
On October 6,
2021, Plaintiff amended his complaint to replace Doe 2 with Public Storage, a
Maryland REIT.
 
On December
14, 2021, Madison Marquette Real Estate Services, Inc amended its
cross-complaint to replace Foe 1 with City of Los Angeles.
 
On June 8, 2023, Defendants Public Storage and Public Storage Pickup
and Delivery, Inc. (“PS Defendants”) filed a motion for summary judgment. On September
13, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On September 21, 2023, PS Defendants filed
a reply.
 
Legal Standard 
“The
purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to
cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of
the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.) 
As to
each cause of action as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ...
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850-51; Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action
or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at 850-51.) 
To
establish a triable issue of material fact, a party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of
the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
Discussion 
 
The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same
as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (Castellon v.
U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) Those who own, possess, or
control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing
the property to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm. (Annocki
v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) 
 
PS Defendants argue that Plaintiff tripped and fell entirely on a City
of Los Angeles public sidewalk that was uprooted by a tree maintained by the
City and that while PS Defendants owned the property several feet away from the
sidewalk, they did not own the tree or the sidewalk or any property within
several feet of the sidewalk, they did not maintain the tree or the sidewalk or
otherwise exercise any control over the sidewalk, and they did not manifest
anything close to a “dramatic alteration” of the sidewalk that is required to
find liability in this case under the “sidewalk accident decisions,” (See, Lopez
v. City of Los Angeles (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 244, 250 and Jones v.
Deeter (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 798, 803.) 
 
“[T]he ‘general rule’ has been that, ‘in the absence of a statute[,] a
landowner is under no duty to maintain in a safe condition a public street’ or ‘sidewalk’
‘abutting upon his property.’ [Citations; see generally, Isaacs v.
Huntington Mem'l Hosp. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 112, 134, 211 Cal.Rptr. 356, 695
P.2d 653 [‘A defendant cannot be held liable for the defective or dangerous
condition of property which it [does] not own, possess, or control.’].)” (Lopez
v. City of Los Angeles (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 244, 255.) 
 
“This general rule has one notable exception: A person who owns or
occupies land will owe a duty to maintain abutting, publicly owned property in
a reasonably safe condition if that person has ‘exercise[d] control over th[at]
property.’ [Citations.] … As a threshold matter, the owner or occupier must
take some ‘affirmative’ or ‘positive’ action toward the abutting, publicly
owned property. [Citations.] This threshold requirement flows inexorably from
the general rule that a person's ownership or occupancy of property, without
more, is insufficient to impose a duty to maintain abutting, publicly owned
property. [Citation.] Thus far, courts have identified two situations in which
an owner or occupier of private land has engaged in affirmative or positive
action sufficient to hold them liable for a hazard located on abutting,
publicly owned property: (1) when the owner or occupier has created that
hazard [Citation] or, (2) if the hazard was created by a third party, when the
owner or occupier has ‘ “ ‘dramatic[ally] assert[ed]’ ” ’dominion and control
over the abutting, publicly owned property by effectively treating the property
as its own [Citations].” (Lopez, supra, 55 Cal.App.5th at 255-256.)
 
Here, there is no evidence that PS Defendants created the hazard.
Plaintiff does not appear to dispute this since he argues that PS Defendants
need not create or contribute to the condition for legal duty to attach. (Opp.
p. 8-9.) The issue is whether PS Defendants exercised dominion and control over
the abutting publicly owned sidewalk, thereby treating the property as its own.
The Court finds that the evidence in the record shows there is no triable issue
of fact as to PS Defendants’ control over the public property such that the
alleged defect would be attributable to them. 
 
Plaintiff argues that there are numerous facts evidencing PS
Defendants’ possession and control over the subject area: (1) PS Defendants
underwent a landscaping project that was completed on or about November 21,
2019 (Ramon Decl. Exhibs A, C); (2) PS Defendants removed turf and irrigation
along the Venice Boulevard sidewalk and replaced with rock, gravel, and mulch (id.,
Exhib. A); (3) PS Defendants routinely maintained the area by trimming palm
trees and hedges prior to the installation of the drought tolerant landscaping  as well as trimming trees along Venice
Boulevard located within the public right of way (id., Exhibs. B, D, E,
G); (4) the drought tolerant installation involved leveling out the dirt,
laying plastic down over the dirt, and pouring decorative rocks over the
plastic (id., Exhib. B); (5) after the landscaping was complete, rocks
would spill out onto the Venice Boulevard sidewalk which was cleaned by PS
employees (id, Exhib. B, F); and the uplifted condition of the sidewalk
was located nearest to the drought tolerant landscaping where the district
manager for PS Defendants walked daily (id, Exhib. B). Plaintiff asserts
that these actions go beyond neighborly maintenance and that PS Defendants in
fact treated the public right of way more like its own property and that they
were aware of the uplifted condition and significant defect but failed to report
or warn of the condition.  
 
The parties do not dispute that the tree which caused the sidewalk
defect was not owned by PS Defendants. This is distinguishable from Moeller
v. Fleming (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 241, 186 Cal.Rptr. 24, where “the
plaintiff fell on a break in the sidewalk [and] the break was allegedly caused
by the roots of a tree located on defendant’s property. [There t]he court noted
the abolition of the traditional distinction between injuries caused by ‘natural
conditions’ and those caused by affirmative acts (id. at 245, 186
Cal.Rptr. 24) and held that defendant could be held liable if it were proved
that he ‘suffer[ed] the roots of his tree to cause ... a dangerous condition on
the adjacent public sidewalk.’ (Id. at 245, 186 Cal.Rptr. 24.)” (Jones
v. Deeter (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 798, 803.) The court in Jones v. Deeter distinguished
its case from Moeller by pointing out that “the disruptive roots
extended from a tree which was located in the parkway, rather than in
defendant's front yard, as was the case in Moeller.” (Id. at
803-804.) The Court finds this case to be analogous to Jones. Here, the
unsafe condition caused by the tree is attributable to the City, not to PS Defendants.

 
“[In some localities, d]angerous conditions caused by neglect of [the]
duty [to keep surfaces in a reasonably safe condition] are attributable to the
abutting owners and may give rise to liability in tort. On the other hand, in
localities where the city has habitually maintained the surface of the parkway,
it is solely the city’s duty to keep this surface area safe for pedestrians;
hazards on such areas are not attributable to abutting owners.” (Jones, supra,
152 Cal.App.3d at 805.) “We hold that a similar but separate rule applies with
regard to the trees planted on the parkway. In settings where the abutting
owners have planted the trees or have habitually trimmed or cared for them,
these abutting owners have the duty to maintain the trees in a safe condition
toward pedestrians. The contrary situation exists when the city has planted the
trees on the parkway and has performed all necessary maintenance on them. Under
these latter circumstances, the duty to maintain the trees in safe condition
rests with the city; dangerous conditions caused by the trees are attributable
to the city, not to abutting owners.” (Ibid.) 
 
In Jones, the “[p]laintiff claim[ed] that she tripped on a break in the sidewalk;
this break, she allege[d], was caused by the roots of magnolia trees pressing
up from underneath the concrete. The offending magnolia trees grew on a grassy
strip or ‘parkway’ which is located between the sidewalk and the public street
running in front of [the] defendant’s home. [The] defendant allegedly
maintained this parkway by cutting the grass and watering the grass and trees. [The
p]laintiff filed a complaint for damages against defendant and the City of Long
Beach (the ‘City’), alleging negligence in maintenance of the sidewalk and the
magnolia trees.” (Jones, supra, 152 Cal.App.3d at 801.) The court found that the “defendant
did no more than water the parkway. His uncontroverted declaration, which may
be accepted for summary judgment purposes (Conn v. National Can Corp.
(1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 630, 638, 177 Cal.Rptr. 445), state[d] that all
maintenance of the trees was performed by employees of the City. Since the City
habitually maintained these trees, the rule set forth above provides that the
city alone bore the duty to keep the trees in reasonably safe condition towards
pedestrians.” (Id. at 805.) Further, the court held “that this
conclusion [wa]s unaffected by the fact that defendant mowed, edged and watered
the parkway.” (Id.) “These acts do suggest that defendant did
have a duty to maintain the surface area of the parkway. This duty may have
entailed some minor care of the trees, such as removing fallen leaves or
hanging branches. We cannot say, however, that this duty required defendant to
make the major repairs required here, i.e., digging up roots and repairing the
sidewalk. On the contrary, the circumstances of this case indicate that these
bulging roots, and any injuries caused by them, are attributable to the City
which maintained the trees.” (Id. at 805-806.)
 
Similarly, here, PS Defendants’ acts of
maintaining the trees on the public property and sweeping rocks that fall on
the sidewalk are insufficient to impose liability for injuries caused by unsafe
conditions described here. Further, there are no facts to show that PS
Defendants’ landscaping project contributed or caused the alleged defect.  
 
Accordingly, there is no triable issue of fact as to whether PS
Defendants breached any duty or caused injury. PS Defendants are entitled to
summary judgment.
 
Conclusion
 
PS Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
 
The Motion for Summary Judgment filed by Defendants
Public Storage and Public Storage Pickup and Delivery, Inc. on 06/08/23
is Granted. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 