  Case Number:  19STCV20944    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




dan sackheim

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
amazon studios, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV20944




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   1, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to compel further responses to requests for production of documents
  from carlton cuse productions
(2)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to compel further responses to requests for production of documents
  from skydance media, llc
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Dan Sackheim
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Carlton Cuse Productions
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents from
Defendant Carlton Cuse Productions
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Dan Sackheim
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Skydance Media, LLC
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents from
Defendant Skydance Media, LLC
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with each
motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court grants defendant
Carlton Cuse Productions’ request to strike the “Notice of Errata of
Plaintiff’s Separate Statement in Support of Plaintiff’s Second Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, from
Defendant Carlton Cuse Productions,” filed by plaintiff Dan Sackheim on October
23, 2023, because it was not filed and served 16 court days before the hearing
as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b).
The court overrules plaintiff
Dan Sackheim’s objection to defendant Carlton Cuse Productions’ “sur-reply,”
because the court has construed that filing to be an evidentiary objection,
irrespective of its labeling as a sur-reply, since it requests that the court
strike the amended separate statement and does not include further arguments in
support of its opposition. 
The court grants defendant
Skydance Media, LLC’s request to strike the “Notice of Errata of Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement in Support of Plaintiff’s Second Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, from Defendant
Skydance Media, LLC,” filed by plaintiff Dan Sackheim on October 23, 2023,
because it was not filed and served 16 court days before the hearing as
required by Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b).
The court overrules plaintiff
Dan Sackheim’s objection to defendant Skydance Media, LLC’s “sur-reply,”
because the court has construed that filing to be an evidentiary objection for
the same reasons as set forth above. 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS FROM CARLTON CUSE PRODUCTIONS
Plaintiff Dan Sackheim
(“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order (1) compelling defendant Carlton
Cuse Productions (“CC Productions”) to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents, numbers 11, 30, and 31,[1] and (2) awarding sanctions
in favor of Plaintiff and against CC Productions in the amount of $5,469.
The court grants Plaintiff’s
motion to compel CC Productions’ further response to Requests for Production, number
11 because CC Productions asserts both a statement of compliance with the
demand, which is incomplete, and a representation of an inability to comply
with the demand, which is inadequate. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(1), (a)(2).)  Defendant CC Productions is required to
provide a statement of compliance that complies with Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.220 or a representation of its inability to comply that complies
with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230, but not both.
The court denies Plaintiff’s
motion to compel CC Productions’ further responses to Request for Production,
numbers 30-31 because the representations of its inability to comply with those
demands are not inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(a)(2).) 
In light of the mixed results
of the court’s ruling, the court finds that the circumstances presented would
make the imposition of sanctions against defendant CC Productions unjust and
therefore denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(h).) 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS FROM SKYDANCE MEDIA, LLC
Plaintiff moves the court for
an order (1) compelling defendant Skydance Media, LLC (“Skydance”) to provide
further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, numbers
30 and 31,[2] and (2) awarding sanctions
in favor of Plaintiff and against Skydance in the amount of $5,469.
The court denies Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Skydance’s further responses to Requests for Production, numbers
30-31 because the representations of its inability to comply with those demands
are not inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(2).) 
The court denies Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).) 
ORDER
            The court grants in part plaintiff Dan Sackheim’s motion to compel further
responses to requests for production of documents from Carlton Cuse Productions
as follows. 
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.310, the court orders defendant Carlton Cuse Productions (1) to
serve on plaintiff Dan Sackheim a further written response to plaintiff Dan
Sackheim’s Request for Production, number 11 that complies with Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2031.210-2031.250, and (2) to produce to plaintiff Dan
Sackheim all documents and things in defendant Carlton Cuse Productions’
possession custody, or control which are responsive to that request, within 20
days of the date of this order. 
            The court denies plaintiff Dan Sackheim’s request for sanctions against defendant Carlton Cuse
Productions.
The court denies plaintiff Dan
Sackheim’s motion to compel further responses to requests for production of
documents from Skydance Media, LLC. 
The court orders defendant
Skydance Media, LLC to give notice of this ruling. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  November 1, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


