 Case Number:  24TRCV00451    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 November 7, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV00451
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Raul Rubio; Noemi Rubio v. American Honda
Motors Co., Inc., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc.

 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs, Raul and Noemi Rubio
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set. 
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer 
                                                (2)
Motion to Strike 
            
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAIN. Leave to
Amend is determined during oral argument, especially as to causes of action as
to repair complaints that were allegedly tolled by the class action as distinct
from ones that were not contained in the class action
                                                (2)
MOOTED.  
 
 
                                                
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On February 2,
2024, Plaintiffs, Raul Rubio and Noemi Rubio (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed
a Complaint against Defendants, American Honda Motor Co., Inc., and DOES 1
through 10. On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”). On July 10, 2024, this court SUSTAINED American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc.’s (“AHM”) demurrer to the FAC with leave to amend. 
 
On August 9,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of
action for: (1) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil
Code section 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3); and
(4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability (Civil Code §§ 1791.1,
1794, 1795.5).
 
Now, AHM files
a demurrer and motion to strike portions of the SAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On September 9, 2024, AHM filed its Demurrer and
Motion to Strike. On October 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed opposition briefs. On October
31 2024, AHM filed reply briefs. 
 
 
 
II. ANALYSIS  
 
A.   
Demurrer 
 
                         
i.         
Legal
Standard 
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is
ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
                       
ii.         
Meet and Confer Requirement 
                       
The
declaration of Leanna L. H. Vault, Esq., is offered in support of counsel’s
compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. Vault declares that on
August 14, 2024, she sent counsel for Plaintiff a substantive meet and confer
letter outlining the grounds in which AHM intended to file a demurrer and
motion to strike. (Declaration of Leanna L. H. Vault (“Vault Decl.”), ¶¶
2-3.) Vault met and conferred telephonically with counsel for Plaintiffs, but
notes they were unable to come to an agreement regarding the grounds in which
AHM brings the demurrer and motion to strike. (Vault Decl., ¶ 3.) Thus, this
Court finds that the meet and confer requirements have been met. 
 
                     
iii.       
Statute of Limitations 
                       
Previously,
this Court held that Plaintiff’s FAC lacked detail as to what happened between
October 18, 2019 when Plaintiffs presented the subject vehicle for a powertrain
complaint and the filing of suit more than four years later. This Court
explained, the FAC lacks any allegation as to what it was that occurred
“shortly before” suit was filed that caused them to discover AHM;s alleged
wrongful conduct. The FAC also failed to allege the date and circumstance of
the claimed belated discovery, and 
failed to address whether the same alleged defect or symptom reappeared
on a particular date or whether that was or was not brought to AHM’s or its
dealers attention. Instead, the FAC vaguely alleged that Plaintiffs “continued
to experience symptoms of the defects.” This Court held that if Plaintiffs
experienced those symptoms on or before February 8, 2020, more than four years
before suit was filed, Plaintiff would need considerably more and different
allegations to avoid the bar of he statute of limitations. Further, this court
held that if Plaintiffs alleged they had no such symptoms for four years, until
“shortly before” suit was filed, they would need to make more specific
allegations as to how a claimed ongoing defect did not manifest symptoms for
such a long period of time such that AHM should be responsible for failing to
repurchase an apparently long-repaired vehicle. 
 
Since
then, Plaintiffs have amended their pleading to include that in the following
months after October 18, 2019, they continued to experience symptoms of the
above transmission and engine complaints, and realized in March 2020 that the
Vehicle was not conforming to warranty, despite Defendant’s authorized repair
facility’s representations that the Vehicle was working as designed.  (SAC, ¶ 24.) Despite the newly included
illusive date of March 2020, Plaintiffs do not include allegations that repairs
continued after October 18, 2019 through March 2020 that would have supported
their tolling argument under the repair doctrine. Further, the FAC does not add
any factual allegations that they took the vehicle in for repair at all after
the original October 18, 2019 date, and what representations would have been
made during those repair visits. 
 
Again,
the Plaintiffs pleads class action tolling, by the District Court case of MacDougall et al v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (United States District Court for the Central District of
California, Case No. 8:17-01079-JGB-DFM) filed on June 21, 2017.   The SAC alleges that the class action covered
a lack of acceleration issue, as well as that the class certification was
granted on October 3, 2023. This Court acknowledges that Plaintiffs’ SAC
includes allegations of “delayed acceleration” and “lack of acceleration” in
the SAC. However, the Court also notes that Plaintiffs have generally
complained of “transmission defects, engine defects, and other defects and/or
non-conformities. As such, whether class action tolling may save plaintiff’s
belated filing or not depends on whether the defects present in the District
Court class action case involve symptoms suffered by the Subject
Vehicle in this case.   The FAC fails to
allege that Plaintiff was a member of the class action, what causes of action
are present in the class action, and as noted by AHM, fails to detail how the
other lawsuit’s pendency bears on the allegations of the case at bar. Plaintiffs
fail to address the class action argument in their opposition brief to the
demurrer nor do they in the motion to strike, which aims to strike these
additional facts from the motion to strike. 
 
As such, this Court’s
tentative ruling is to find that Plaintiffs SAC also fails to sufficiently
allege tolling. 
                      
iv.         
Sufficiency of Allegations 
 
In
this Court’s previous tentative ruling on the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ FAC, it
held that the FAC was barely one step removed from a lawsuit that merely
recites the elements of a cause of action by quoting CACI. This issue with
Plaintiffs’ pleading has not changed by the allegations made in the SAC. The
SAC adds no substantive factual allegations regarding any of the causes of
action. Instead, Plaintiffs merely attempted to better their statute of
limitations arguments unsuccessfully (as noted above). Plaintiffs will be
required to convince this Court that they are able to amend a future pleading
to adequately allege sufficient facts in order for this court to grant leave to
amend. 
 
B.   
Motion to Strike 
 
                         
i.         
Legal Standard 
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to
a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may, upon a
motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d
767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is
surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the
allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿ 
 
                       
ii.         
Discussion 
 
AHM seeks to strike the following from
Plaintiffs’ SAC: 
 
1.    
Paragraph 24, line 10; 
2.    
Paragraph 29, lines 3-4; and
3.    
Paragraph 35, lines 11-12
4.    
Paragraph 28, lines 1-2; 
5.    
Paragraph 32 in its entirety. 
 
As
this Court does not find that Plaintiffs’ allegations are sufficient enough to
overcome demurrer, including allegations regarding the statute of limitations,
the Court holds that the motion to strike is MOOTED. However, the court
clarifies that when it granted leave to amend the FAC, it did not disallow
amendments as to class action tolling generally. 
 
III.
CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, AHM’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED. Leave to amend is determined during oral argument. AHM’s
Motion to Strike is MOOTED. 
 
AHM is ordered to provide
notice. 
¿¿¿ 

 
 