 Case Number:  23STCV20055    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
PG Imtech of California, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV20055




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Kathleen M. Saylor, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 11, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Cross-Complaint 
Moving Party: Cross-Defendant PG Imtech of
California
Responding Party: Cross-Complainants Kathleen M. Saylor
and Patricia A. Marrero
 
T/R:     CROSS-DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE AN
ANSWER TO THE CROSS-COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. 
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the
day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff PG Imtech
of California, LLC sued Defendants Kathleen M. Saylor and Patricia A. Marrero,
asserting causes of action for (1) specific performance; and (2) breach of
written contract. Plaintiff, a commercial tenant of Defendants, alleges it
exercised an option in the lease to purchase the property from Defendants.
Plaintiff alleges the parties could not agree on a sales price and Plaintiff
seeks specific performance to purchase the property at the appraisal value
Plaintiff obtained.
 
On October 2, 2023, Saylor and Marrero
filed a cross-complaint against PG Imtech for declaratory relief regarding
interpretation of the appraisal provision in the option to purchase in
the lease.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732–33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Plaintiff demurs to the cross-complaint
on the grounds that it is uncertain and fails to state a cause of action. 
 
Plaintiff asserts the cross-complaint
is uncertain because it fails to specify or attach the subject agreement. The
parties do not dispute that the lease agreement is the subject of the complaint
and cross-complaint. The demurrer cannot be sustained on this basis.
 
Plaintiff argues that the
cross-complaint fails to state sufficient facts because its interpretation of
the appraisal provision in the option agreement is incorrect. The provision at
issue states, “If Lessee exercises this option to purchase,
the purchase price to be paid by Lessee shall be the fair market value of the
Premises (‘FMV’).” The parties dispute the proper method for determining the fair market
value. The Court does not see how this issue could be
resolved on demurrer; Plaintiff does not provide authority stating its
interpretation is the correct one as a matter of law.
 
The demurrer is OVERRULED.


 