  Case Number:  22STCV19629    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  14 #5Case Background
Plaintiffs were dietitians at the UCLA Medical Center.
They complain that they were driven into retirement by a new supervisor, who
wanted to replace them with younger employees.
On August 17, 2022, Plaintiffs filed their First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) FEHA Discrimination, (2) FEHA Harassment, (3)
FEHA Retaliation, (4) Failure to Prevent, (5) CFRA Violation, (6) Violation of
Sick Leave and Kin Care Law, and (7) Violation of Labor Code § 1102.51 against
Defendants The Regents of the University of California (“Regents”), Angel Maree
Jones (“Jones”), and DOES 1-10. Only the second and seventh causes of action
are asserted against Defendant Jones.
On September 27, 2023, Defendants filed their motion
for summary judgment.
On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition.
On September 4, 2024, Defendants filed their reply.
Instant Pleading
Defendants move for summary judgment or summary
adjudication.
Decision
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or adjudication
is DENIED.
Discussion
Over the past several years,
various courts have noticed certain problematic uses of separate statements.
The Court of Appeal has recently urged trial courts to take a more active
approach in policing separate statements. (See Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel
Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 874-876.) And because
the separate statement enables the court to focus its deliberations, proper
preparation of the separate statement is critical to court function. A court
may, in its discretion, deny a motion for summary judgment for failure to
comply with the requirement of a separate statement. (Code Civ. Proc., section
437c(b)(1).) 
Defendants’ 401-page separate statement does not comply
with Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350. Rule 3.1350. A separate statement must
only include material facts, not facts that are not pertinent to the
disposition of the motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350(a)(2).) A material
fact is a fact related to a cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or
affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion and that would make a
difference in its disposition. (Id.) 
Here, Defendants’ separate statement consists of the
format prescribed for summary judgment followed by the format prescribed for
summary adjudication. Just the portion pertaining to summary judgment is 50
pages long and consists of 122 paragraphs. These paragraphs comprise a
long-winded narrative of Plaintiffs’ employment. Rather than provide only the material
facts, Defendants provided over 400 pages of largely superfluous details that
are not material to the disposition of this case. As for the summary adjudication
portion, groups of facts, many overlapping, are pasted verbatim repeatedly for
each of the 19 issues identified for summary adjudication. The result is Defendants’
401-page separate statement and, consequently, Plaintiffs’ 473-page response
separate statements. 
Plaintiffs’ separate statement was improperly filed in
two separate documents and contains the same issues as Defendants’ separate
statement. Rather than only the material facts, Plaintiffs submitted a lengthy
narrative containing superfluous details which were not pertinent to the
disposition of the case.
Separate Statements which run to 300+ pages are, in
practical terms, unusable. And the court has no obligation to try. (See San
Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th
308, 313-316.) No one can meaningfully take in that much information during the
time allotted for review of these motions. And even if that were possible, the
physical copy of the document simply cannot be manipulated without being
dismantled and scattered into multiple, untraceable pieces. Scrolling through
page after page of an electronic copy is no better. Thus, the separate
statements are unusable for their sheer length alone. 
On reply, Defendants argue that they complied with Rule
3.1350 because they set forth 122 facts at the start of the separate statement
for the Court’s convenience. (Reply, p. 3.) Nothing about 122 facts spread out
over 50 pages is convenient. 
Defendants also argue that they would not have been in
compliance with Rule 3.1350 if they did not identify and support the 19 issues
stated in their motion for summary adjudication. However, the rule did not
provide that the facts were to be copied hundreds of times for 19 issues.
Rather, Defendants should have incorporated the overlapping facts by reference
to avoid submitting an excessively long and unusable separate statement.
Aside from the separate statements’ length, they are
further unusable because the citations to evidence in each entry of the
separate statement are as long or longer than the fact the evidence is to
support. Instead of using evidence to support one fact at a time, each entry in
the separate statement summarizes large swathes of evidence which are scattered
throughout Defendants’ three volumes of evidence. The citations do not contain
page numbers. It is impossible for the Court to determine which evidence supports
which fact without searching through the record to read each piece of cited
evidence. Defendants’ evidence consists of 50 pages of declarations and 869
pages of evidence, which is a total of 919 pages of evidence. 
Plaintiffs’ papers suffer from the same defects. Each
entry in the response separate statement is followed by a long string of
evidence with no page numbers. Plaintiffs’ evidence is 833 pages long. Again, to
determine which evidence is material to this case, the Court would be required
to sift through each piece of evidence cited in the separate statement.
The Court is not obliged to reconstitute the separate
statements itself, or to go diving in the other papers looking for ways to
reach a ruling. (See San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. at pp. 313-316.) Here,
the parties submitted well over 2,000 pages between them. The material facts
are buried in the parties’ separate statements and the Court would have been
required to dig through thousands of pages of evidence to identify the material
evidence. The Court will not go searching through a voluminous record to reach
a ruling.
Both parties have failed to supply the court with
separate statements it can properly use. Therefore, the motion for summary
judgment is DENIED.
Conclusion
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or adjudication
is DENIED.