 Case Number:  23STCV10850    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings
 
Moving
Party: Defendants Ben-O, Inc., John Y. Oh, and Vicky
Oh
Resp.
Party:    Plaintiff
Samuel Lee
                                    
 
The Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings is DENIED.  
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On May 15, 2023, Plaintiff Samuel Lee filed his Complaint
against Defendants Ben-O Inc., Jung Hoon Oh, and Vicky Oh on causes of action
arising from his employment. 
 
On June 7, 2023, Plaintiff amended his Complaint to
correct the name of Defendant John Y. Oh, who was erroneously sued as Jung Hoon
Oh. 
 
On August 14, 2023, Defendants filed their Answer to the
Complaint. 
 
On December 22, 2023, Defendants filed their Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings. Defendants concurrently filed Declaration of Haewon
Kim. 
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition. 
 
On January 25, 2024, Defendants filed their Reply. 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“A party may move for judgment on the pleadings.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (b)(1).)
 
The motion provided for in this section may only be
made on one of the following grounds: . . . (B) If the moving party is a
defendant, that either of the following conditions exist: (i) The court has no
jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint.
(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B).)
 
“A motion for
judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and
hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters
that can be judicially noticed.” (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999, citations omitted.) 
 
“In deciding
or reviewing a judgment on the pleadings, all properly pleaded material facts
are deemed to be true, as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred
from those expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Super. Ct. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)
 
II.       Discussion
 
Defendants move for judgment on the
pleadings as to Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for conversion, arguing: (1)
that California courts continue to recognize common law motions for judgment on
the pleadings that can be made up through trial; and (2) that the sixth cause
of action does not state a claim for conversion because Plaintiff did not have
a right of possession to pooled tips. (Motion, p. 2:1–2, 3:4–5.)
 
Defendants are correct that they may
file a common law motion for judgment on the pleadings at this time. 
 
However, Defendants are wrong on the
law. 
 
“Conversion is the
wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements of a
conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of
the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition
of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th
1225, 1240.)
 
“It is not necessary that there be a manual
taking of the property; it is only necessary to show an assumption of control
or ownership over the property, or that the alleged converter has applied the
property to his own use. Money can be the subject of an action for conversion
if a specific sum capable of identification is involved. Neither legal title nor
absolute ownership of the property is necessary. A party need only allege it is
entitled to immediate possession at the time of conversion. However, a mere
contractual right of payment, without more, will not suffice.” (Farmers Ins.
Exch. v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 451–52 [cleaned up].)
 
        “No employer or agent shall collect,
take, or receive any gratuity or a part thereof that is paid, given to, or left
for an employee by a patron, or deduct any amount from wages due an employee on
account of a gratuity, or require an employee to credit the amount, or any part
thereof, of a gratuity against and as a part of the wages due the employee from
the employer. Every gratuity is hereby declared to be the sole property of the
employee or employees to whom it was paid, given, or left for. An employer that
permits patrons to pay gratuities by credit card shall pay the employees the
full amount of the gratuity that the patron indicated on the credit card slip,
without any deductions for any credit card payment processing fees or costs
that may be charged to the employer by the credit card company. Payment of
gratuities made by patrons using credit cards shall be made to the employees
not later than the next regular payday following the date the patron authorized
the credit card payment.” (Lab. Code, § 351.)
 
Among other things, Plaintiff
alleges: (1) that Plaintiff was employed as a sushi chef by Defendant Ben-O,
Inc.; (2) that while employed in this position, Plaintiff participated in tip
pooling; (3) that Defendant John Y. Oh (the owner of Defendant Ben-O, Inc.)
distributed a portion of pooled tips to Defendant Vicky Oh, but that these tips
were designated as being for an individual (the son of Defendants John Y. Oh
and Vicky Oh) who did not work in the restaurant; (4) that Plaintiff did not
consent to this diversion of the tips to a non-employee; and (5) that Plaintiff
was harmed by this diversion of tips. (Complaint, ¶¶ 11, 21, 47–49.)
 
        The pleading
sufficiently alleges that Plaintiff did have a right to possession of his share
of the pooled tips. Whether Defendants actually diverted part of that share to
a non-employee, which in turn caused a conversion of a portion of Plaintiff’s
property, is a question of fact that is not properly determined on a demurrer. 
 
        Defendants point
to Leighton v. Old Heidelberg, Ltd. (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1062 and Avidor
v. Sutter’s Place, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1439 in support of their
arguments. In Leighton, the Court of Appeal held that employer-mandated
tip pool that ensures equitable sharing of gratuities among employees does not
violate Labor Code section 351. (Leighton, supra, at p. 1071.) In
Avidor, the Court of Appeal held, among other things, that an
employer-mandated tip pool that required a portion of gratuities to be shared
with other employees did not violate Labor Code section 351 and was not
conversion. (Avidor, supra, at pp. 1450–1453.) 
 
Both of these cases are inapposite
to the situation at hand. Here, Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants are
diverting a portion of the tip pool to a non-employee. That is different from
the situations cited by Defendants. 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings is DENIED.  
 