 Case Number:  22SMCV01644    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion brought under CCP section 664.6 to enforce
a settlement agreement.  Plaintiff
entered into a settlement.  As part of
the written settlement, three parties were responsible for making monetary
payments to the plaintiff.  They were
Luminosity, GVN Releasing, and MMJ Productions. 
Defendants also included four individuals, but they had no personal
obligation to pay anything under the settlement.  (Rather, the settlement provided that if the
payments were not made, those the release as to those individuals would be of
no effect.)  As the reader has probably
guessed by now, the payments were not made. 
The settlement agreement provided that if Luminosity did not pay,
plaintiff could apply ex parte to file a stipulated judgment against
Luminosity.  There was no similar
provision as to GVN or MMJ.  In fact,
according to the defense, a provision that would have allowed such a remedy was
removed from a draft.  Plaintiff has now
brought a noticed motion to obtain a judgment against GVN and MMJ for the
unpaid amounts.  GVN and MMJ oppose,
claiming that a judgment could only be entered against Luminosity and that no
judgment against them would be appropriate.
 
Section 664.6 is a procedure enacted by our Legislature to
allow courts a speedy way to enforce a settlement.  Where certain conditions are met (and no one
disputes that they were met here), a party can bring a motion to enforce the
agreement.  The court can enforce the
agreement without requiring the pleadings to be amended.  Further, the court can receive evidence and
make determinations thereon where appropriate without the need for a
trial.  Before section 664.6 was enacted,
the settlement was in the nature of a contract. 
If a party wanted to enforce it, the complaint or answer had to be
amended to plead the existence of the settlement contract and its breach.  If that was done, the settlement could be
enforced after a trial on the merits or, if there were no disputed questions of
material fact, on summary judgment.  That
was cumbersome and made settlements less attractive.  Hence the statute.
 
Plaintiff contends that it is entitled to enforce the
agreement.  Defendants state that the
only express agreement pertaining to a judgment related to Luminosity,
suggesting that no judgment could or would lie against GVN or MMJ.  (All agree that there is no judgment against
the individuals because they had no obligations under the settlement agreement,
meaning that they have not breached it.) 
The court must agree with plaintiff here.
 
If GVN’s and MMJ’s position were credited, then the
settlement provision that they would be responsible for the payment would be a
dead letter.  The court can think of no
way to enforce the payment obligation other than to enter a judgment so
enforcing.  If the court could not do
that, what could it do?  The court will
not interpret the settlement agreement to have a toothless payment obligation
or to be illusory as to those parties. 
This is not some minor term; it is the agreement’s core.  Such a promise will not be viewed as illusory
if there is any other option.  And there
is.  The court interprets the agreement
as providing for a stipulated judgment that could be entered on an ex
parte basis as to Luminosity.  Those
are strong terms.  It allows a speedy
process to be even speedier.  GVN and MMJ
are not subject to the stipulated judgment provision nor are they subject to
plaintiff’s right to move ex parte. 
And they may challenge the proposed judgment’s terms if they believe the
terms to be wrong.  But that does not
mean that their promise can be ignored.
 
Accordingly, plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.  The court will enter a judgment against GVN
and MMJ for the amount they promised to pay. 
Plaintiff is entitled to its costs and fees as provided in the
settlement agreement, except that its fees are limited to fees relating to
enforcing the settlement.
 