 Case Number:  23SMCV04653    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to vacate a default.  The motion is GRANTED. 
 
Defense counsel received the complaint in November
2023.  Counsel reached out to plaintiff’s
counsel later that month, noting that service was improper and also to state
that there was a defect regarding plaintiff’s standing.  Counsel asked plaintiff’s counsel to let him
know if the complaint was going to be corrected and whether plaintiff was going
to re-serve defendant.  Defense counsel
offered to accept service of process.  Or
at least that is what the defense says. 
Plaintiff’s counsel recalls being contacted, but telling defense counsel
that service was proper and that plaintiff was going to move forward and he
expected a timely response to the complaint. 

 
However the conversation occurred, defense counsel says that
there was no communication after that and it was not until counsel checked the
docket that he learned that there had been a default entered.  Counsel sent plaintiff’s counsel a letter
asking that the default be set aside but plaintiff’s counsel did not respond.
 
The merits here are easy. 
Given the state’s strong policy in favor of adjudication on the merits
and the lack of any prejudice, the court believes it would be an abuse of
discretion to deny the motion.  True, at
least plaintiff states that he told defense counsel that he expected a
response.  But not having obtained one,
the better course would be to call rather than to take the default.  The motion to vacate is GRANTED.
 
The harder question is why we are here.  Frankly the court has better things to do
than to adjudicate these sorts of avoidable and technical motions and
squabbles.  Had the parties (especially
plaintiff) operated with even an ounce of common sense or professional
courtesy, we would not be here today. 
Plaintiff’s counsel should have called defense counsel before taking the
default.  It takes no brilliant leap of
reasoning to conclude that defendant was not going to take a default here.  And defense counsel should have offered to
deem the original complaint served—perhaps effective the date of the call—or
perhaps have followed up.  Alas, no one
did so.  Even a neophyte lawyer, but one
who wanted to avoid needless motion practice, could have seen many paths to
compromise of this issue.
 
The court expects better of counsel going forward.  The court has plenty of tools at its disposal
to deal with this sort of thing in the future. 
The court also ORDERS both parties to review the LA Superior Court’s
Litigation Guidelines, appended to the Local Rules.  The court tends to expect compliance with
them.  
 