  Case Number:  22STCV41098    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff
alleges that a grant deed was forged conveying Plaintiff’s properties, which
was then encumbered, all without Plaintiff’s authorization. Plaintiff brings a
quiet title action. 
 
Defendants
Wilshire Quinn Income Fund REIT, LLC and Wilshire Quinn Income Fund, LLC move
to strike portions of the Second Amended Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants
Wilshire Quinn Income Fund REIT, LLC and Wilshire Quinn Income Fund, LLC’s
motion to strike portions of the Second Amended Complaint is DENIED as to
Paragraph 41, page 11, lines 17-2; Paragraph 47, page 12, line 22- page 13,
line 1; and Prayer Item No. 5, page 14, lines 19-21, and GRANTED without
leave to amend as to Prayer Item No. 7, page 14, lines 19-23 and Prayer Item
No. 15, page 16, lines 1-4.
 
Defendants
are ordered to answer the remaining allegations of the Second Amended Complaint
within 10 days.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion To Strike
 
Meet and Confer
 
            The Declaration of Mhare Mouradian
reflects that Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to meet and confer efforts.
This satisfies Civ. Proc. Code § 435.5(a)(3)(B).
 
Discussion
            
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition with a proposed Third Amended Complaint that purportedly
removes all portions which Defendants move to strike. This does not moot the
motion, and the Court will proceed to rule on the merits. 
 
Defendants
Wilshire Quinn Income Fund REIT, LLC and Wilshire Quinn Income Fund, LLC move
to strike portions of the Second Amended Complaint as follows:
 
1.         Paragraph 41, page 11, lines 17-25: “In
doing the things herein alleged, Plaintiff is informed and believes that the
Wilshire Defendants were actually aware of the improper nature of the
Fraudulent Mesa Road Grant Deed, the Fraudulent N. Grand Grant Deed, the
Fraudulent Deed of Trust and participated in actions causing the Properties to
be fraudulently encumbered. In knowingly recording the Fraudulent Deed of Trust
and refusing to remove the Fraudulent Deed of Trust, the Defendants, including
the Wilshire Defendants, have acted with fraud so as to 
entitle
Plaintiff Beck to punitive damages in an amount to be proven at trial.” 
 
 
DENIED.
 
¶¶ 22, 28 and
29 allege:
 
22. More than
30 days prior to filing this action, Wilshire Defendants were informed in
writing of the fraudulent loan and identify theft. Despite such notice, Unknown
Defendants have not reconveyed the Fraudulent Deed of Trust, nor has it
diligently investigated the claim of fraud after notification of the identity
theft.  
. . .
 
28.        Plaintiff Beck is informed and believes
and thereon alleges that Wilshire Defendants failed to diligently
investigate following Beck’s notification of a possible identity theft by,
among other things, continuing to ignore that the Fraudulent Grant Deeds
are purported to be both to and from Cynthia Beck, there are obvious date
issues with the Fraudulent Instruments, and the lack of notarization of the
Fraudulent Deed of Trust, which were all used in connection with the approval
of the Fraudulent Deed of Trust.  
 
29. Plaintiff
Beck alleges that the Wilshire Defendants knowingly and willingly engaged in
fraudulent conduct by purposefully ignoring the defects of the Fraudulent
Instruments, obtaining notarization of the Fraudulent Grant Deeds after the
execution of the Fraudulent Deed of Trust, and refusing to release the
Properties held by the Fraudulent Deed of Trust back to Plaintiff Beck despite
its knowledge and participation in executing the Fraudulent Instruments.  
 
     (2AC, ¶¶ 22, 28, 29 [bold emphasis
added].)
 
            The
foregoing facts are sufficient to plead “fraud” for purposes of recovering
punitive damages in connection with slander of title. Civil Code, § 3294(c)(3)
provides:
 
 “Fraud” means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
Plaintiff
will be entitled to conduct discovery regarding the identity of persons
involved in the execution, recordation and failure to release the properties. 
 
 
2.         Paragraph 47, page 12, line 22- page
13, line 1: “In doing the things herein alleged, Plaintiff is informed and
believes that the Wilshire Defendants were actually aware of the improper
nature of the Fraudulent Mesa Road Grant Deed, the Fraudulent N. Grand Grant
Deed, the Fraudulent Deed of Trust and participated in actions causing the
Properties to be fraudulently encumbered. In knowingly recording the Fraudulent
Deed of Trust and refusing to remove the Fraudulent Deed of Trust, the 
Defendants,
including the Wilshire Defendants, have acted with fraud so as to entitle
Plaintiff Beck to punitive damages in an amount to be proven at trial.” 
 
DENIED.
 
See
discussion above re: No. 1.
 
3.          Prayer Item No. 5, page 14, lines
19-21: “For punitive damages on the Second and Third Causes of Action in an
amount to be proven at trial, but sufficient to punish Defendants and to
prevent the behavior from repeating.” 
 
DENIED.
 
See
discussion above re: No. 1.
 
4.         Prayer Item No. 7, page 14, lines
19-23: “For damages arising out of violations of the CITL as alleged in the
Fifth Cause of Action including actual damages, statutory damages of up to
$30,000, costs and attorney’s fees all as provided for by statute;” 
 
GRANTED without
leave to amend.
 
There is no
fifth cause of action for violation of the CITL pled in the 2AC.
 
5.         Prayer Item No. 15, page 16, lines 1-4:
“For damages arising out of violations of the Credit Reporting Act as alleged
in the Sixth Cause of action including actual damages, statutory damages of up
to $30,000, costs and attorney’s fees all as provided for by statute.;”
 
GRANTED without
leave to amend.
 
There is no
sixth cause of action for violation of the Credit Reporting Act pled in the
2AC.
 