 Case Number:  24STCV08845    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
accused Plaintiff of being a drug addict and would not fill his opioid pain
medication prescription. 
 
Defendants Costco Wholesale
Corporation and John Louis demur to the Complaint and moves to strike portions
thereof.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants Costco Wholesale
Corporation and John Louis demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend as to the first, second, fifth seventh and eighth causes of action and
OVERRULED as to the third, fourth and sixth causes of action.
 
            Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED without  leave to amend as to: prayer for judgment for
an award of attorneys’ fees as to causes of action 1 -5. (Complaint p. 20 in
prayer for judgment); ¶¶ 55 and 63 (attorney fees); Complaint, p. 13 (Penal
Code); ¶¶ 52, 58 and 60 (Penal Code); 
 
The motion to
strike is GRANTED with leave to amend as to the prayer for judgment for
punitive and exemplary damages as to all causes of action. (Complaint p. 20 in
prayer for judgment); ¶ 32 (punitive damages); ¶ 78 (exemplary and punitive
damages); ¶ 92 (punitive damages); ¶ 78 (injunctive relief).
 
            The motion to strike is DENIED as to ¶¶ 9, 10, 11, 23, 28
and 32.
 
            The motion to strike is MOOT as to ¶¶ 47, 67, 82, 83.
 
            Plaintiff is given 30 days’ leave to amend where
indicated.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Demurrer
 
Meet and Confer
 
            The
Declaration of Sweta H. Patel indicates that Plaintiff’s counsel did not
respond to meet and confer efforts. This satisfies Civ. Proc. Code, §
430.41(a)(3)(B).
 
Discussion
 
Defendants Costco Wholesale
Corporation and John Louis demur to the Complaint as follows:
 
1.         First
Cause of Action (Defamation).
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff fails to identify the exact statements upon which he basis
his defamation cause of action and who heard and understood the defamatory
statements.
 
“The elements of a
defamation claim are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4)
unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or causes special
damage. [Citation.] Civil Code section 45 provides, ‘Libel is a false and
unprivileged publication by writing, printing, picture, effigy, or other fixed
representation to the eye, which exposes any person to hatred, contempt,
ridicule, or obloquy, or which causes him to be shunned or avoided, or which
has a tendency to injure him in his occupation.’” (Wong v. Jing (2010) 189
Cal.App.4th 1354, 1369 [117 Cal. Rptr. 3d 747].)

“ ‘The sine qua non of recovery for defamation … is the existence of
falsehood.’ [Citation.] Because the statement must contain a provable
falsehood, courts distinguish between statements of fact and statements of
opinion for purposes of defamation liability. Although statements of fact may
be actionable as libel, statements of opinion are constitutionally protected.”
(McGarry v. University of San Diego (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 112 [64 Cal.
Rptr. 3d 467] (McGarry).)

“That does not mean that statements of opinion enjoy blanket protection.
[Citation.] On the contrary, where an expression of opinion implies a false
assertion of fact, the opinion can constitute actionable defamation.
[Citation.] The critical question is not whether a statement is fact or
opinion, but ‘ “whether a reasonable fact finder could conclude the published
statement declares or implies a provably false assertion of fact.” ’ ” (Wong v.
Jing, supra, 189 Cal.App.4th at p. 1370.)

“To determine whether a statement is actionable fact or nonactionable opinion,
courts use a totality of the circumstances test of whether the statement in
question communicates or implies a provably false statement of fact.
[Citation.] Under the totality of the circumstances test, ‘[f]irst, the
language of the statement is examined. For words to be defamatory, they must be
understood in a defamatory sense. … [¶] Next, the context in which the
statement was made must be considered.’” (McGarry, supra, 154 Cal.App.4th at p.
113.)

“The ‘crucial question of whether challenged statements convey the requisite
factual imputation is ordinarily a question of law for the court. [Citation.]’
[Citation.] ‘Only once the court has determined that a statement is
 [*863]  reasonably susceptible to such a defamatory interpretation
does it become a question for the trier of fact whether or not it was so
understood. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]  The question is ‘ “whether a
reasonable fact finder could conclude the published statement declares or
implies a provably false assertion of fact. …” ’ ” (Summit Bank v. Rogers
  (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 669, 696 [142 Cal. Rptr. 3d 40] (Summit Bank).)


(Sanders v. Walsh (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th
855, 862-63.)
 
“The allocation of functions between court and jury with respect to
factual content is analogous to the allocation with respect to defamatory
meaning in general. On the latter issue, the court must first determine as a
question of law whether the statement is reasonably susceptible of a defamatory
interpretation; if the statement satisfies this requirement, it is for the jury
to determine whether a defamatory meaning was in fact conveyed to the listener
or reader. [Citations.] Similarly, it is a question of law for the court
whether a challenged statement is reasonably susceptible of an interpretation
which implies a provably false assertion of actual fact. If that question is
answered in the affirmative, the jury may be called upon to determine whether
such an interpretation was in  fact conveyed.” (Kahn v. Bower, supra, 232
Cal.App.3d at p. 1608.)


(Bently Reserve LP v. Papaliolios (2013) 218
Cal.App.4th 418, 428.)
 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges:
 
16. . . . So Jon proceeds to tell me in
front of other people that I have a “big problem” because I filled my
medication on 3/22/23 and was not due to fill my medication, that I had to wait
until 4/22/23. I  told him that’s
incorrect because I got my medication filled on 3/9/23 so there is no way that
is possible. He then he started to yell at me. I was shocked and scared. He
asked if I was calling him “a liar” and I told him no that’s not what I am
saying I am just saying that we are not on the same page here so then he points
at the sheets of paper yelling this is from the Department of Justice, they are
not lying, so don’t call me a liar. I asked to see the paper, he showed it to
me and I told him it clearly says filled on 3/9/23 and sold on 3/22/23 which is
when my previous pharmacy billed my insurance but it was filled and picked up
on 3/9/23. He had all my information where other people could see it and was
yelling, he was all worked up and telling me that I was wrong and he was right
but I told him it’s not right. So he went back into the pharmacy and talked to
the pharmacist then he comes back and tells me “we called and confirmed that
you filled and picked up your medicine on the 22nd”. . .
. . .
 
34. Defendants recklessly and
intentionally caused unsolicited publication of false defamatory statements of
and concerning Plaintiff, to third persons. Defendants’ false and defamatory
statements included express and implied accusations that Plaintiff was abusing
drugs, and had engaged in criminal misconduct.
 
 
            Here, Plaintiff has not alleged any
defamatory statements which were published to third persons. The statements
attributed to Jon are not reasonably susceptible to a defamatory meaning.
Rather, those statements are to the effect that Plaintiff came to fill a
prescription too early and that he wanted his medication just like everyone
wants their medication. Jon’s use of the word “drugs” does not connote illegal
drug use, because Jon liked Plaintiff to everyone else who wanted their
“drugs,” which did not single Plaintiff out, and cannot be construed as
accusing everyone else of illegal drug use or criminal misconduct. 
 
            The demurrer to the first cause of
action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
2.         Second
Cause of Action (Negligence).
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not pled a duty owed which was breached, and the
allegation that Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty of care not to treat him
unreasonably is circular. 
 
            The
Complaint alleges: 
 
43. Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty of
care not to treat him unreasonably, violate his right to privacy, and to cause
him injury and emotional distress.
 
44. When Defendants, and each of them,
acted as herein alleged, it was foreseeable that their actions would cause
serious damage and injuries inflicted upon Plaintiff. As a result of this foreseeability,
and because they owed a duty to Plaintiff to act with reasonable care towards
Plaintiff, Defendants breached said duty by defaming Plaintiff, threatening
Plaintiff, assaulting Plaintiff, battering Plaintiff, and depriving him of his
civil rights.
 
            The Court
discerns that the only injury Plaintiff claims is emotional distress. However,
Plaintiff does not allege threatened physical injury to himself. (See further
discussion on this below.) While Defendants as pharmacists owed Plaintiff a
duty to dispense the correct medication as prescribed, Defendants did not owe a
duty to avoid hurting Plaintiff’s feelings. 
[B]ecause the [*156]  only injury Wilson
claimed in her lawsuit was emotional distress, she was required to show that
Edison's breach threatened physical injury to her. (See Potter v. Firestone
Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 984–985 [25 Cal. Rptr. 2d 550,
863 P.2d 795] (Potter) [“[T]here is no independent tort of negligent
infliction of emotional distress. [Citation.] The tort is negligence, a cause
of action in which a duty to the plaintiff is an essential element.
[Citations.] That duty may be imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or
exist by virtue of a special relationship.”].)  “[U]nless the defendant
has assumed a duty to plaintiff in which the emotional condition of the
plaintiff is an object, recovery is available only if the emotional distress
arises out of the defendant's breach of some other legal duty and the emotional
distress is proximately caused by that breach of duty. Even then, with rare
exceptions, a breach of the duty must threaten physical injury, not simply
damage to property or financial interests.” (Potter, supra, 6 Cal.4th at
p. 985.) Thus, at the very least, there could not have been a breach of duty
during the period when no shocks were felt on the property.
(Wilson v. Southern California Edison Co. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th
123, 155-156.)
 
            The
demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
3.         Third
Cause of Action (Assault) and Fourth Cause of Action (Battery).
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff does not allege conduct which amounts to assault and battery.

A battery is an intentional and offensive touching of a
person who has not consented to the touching. (Citations omitted.) Although
typically a battery is a violation of a person's wishes to avoid bodily contact
that is hostile, aggressive or harmful, the tort is committed if there is
unwanted intentional touching of any kind. (1 Dobbs, The Law of Torts, supra,
§ 29, pp. 54-55.) For example, a person is entitled to refuse well-intentioned
medical treatment. (Id., at p. 54 & fn. 2.) Thus, lack of consent is
an essential element of battery. (Rains, at p. 938.) Generally, one who
consents to a touching cannot recover in an action for battery. (Ashcraft v.
King (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 604 [278 Cal.Rptr. 900].) 
(Conte v. Girard Orthopaedic
Surgeons Medical Group, Inc. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1266 [bold
emphasis added].)
 
Historically, assault has been defined
as an attempted battery. (Citations omitted.) The harm addressed is a battery.
Williams rejects the view that assault requires an intent to commit a battery.
It holds that “assault only requires an intentional act and actual knowledge
of those facts sufficient to establish that the act by its nature will probably
and directly result in the application of physical force against another.”
Williams, supra, 26 Cal. 4th at p. 790. The test is objective. The actor
“need not be subjectively aware of the risk that a battery might occur.” (Id.
at p. 788, fn. omitted.) This defines the mental state as a species of
negligent conduct, a negligent assault. 
 
(People v. Wright (2002) 100 Cal. App. 4th 703, 706 [bold emphasis added].)
 
      Here, Plaintiff
alleges at ¶ 16 in pertinent part as follows: 
 
16.  . . . So Jon
proceeds to tell me in front of other people that I have a “big problem”
because I filled my medication on 3/22/23 and was not due to fill my
medication, that I had to wait until 4/22/23. I told him that’s incorrect
because I got my medication filled on 3/9/23 so there is no way that is
possible. He then he started to yell at me. I was shocked and scared. He
asked if I was calling him “a liar” and I told him no that’s not what wrong
because it’s valid until 9/15/23 then he tells me “oh you just don’t give up do
you” so I told him I am just simply trying to get my prescription filled that’s
all, then that’s when he started to loudly yell in front of everyone in
the pharmacy area, “I get it you just want your drugs just like everyone else
wants their drugs” when he said that there were people around that were staring
at me. I was humiliated and I started to cry because I couldn’t
believe this was happening to me so he reaches over and comes at me, when
he saw I was scared, he tried to make it look like he was trying to
shake my hand, he then grabbed my hand, I was humiliated and scared he
was going to hurt me, and that’s when I just decided to leave.”
 
     (Bold emphasis
and underlining added.)
 
            The
foregoing allegations are sufficient to plead assault and battery for purposes
of demurrer.
 
            The
demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action is OVERRULED. 
 
4.         Fifth
Cause of Action (Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress).
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff ha snot pled conduct so extreme as to exceed all bounds
of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.
 
“The elements of the tort of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: ‘ “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by
the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct. …” Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community.’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) “It is not enough
that the conduct be intentional and outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the
presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware.” (Ibid.)
 
(Catsouras v. Department of
California Highway Patrol (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 856, 874-75.)
 
 
Ordinarily mere insulting language, without more, does not constitute
outrageous conduct. The Restatement view is that liability "does not extend to mere
insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other
trivialities . . . . There is no occasion for the law to intervene . . . where
some one's feelings are hurt." (Rest.2d Torts, § 46, com. d.) Behavior
may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position
which gives him power to damage the plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to
injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably
with the recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through
mental distress. (Citations omitted.)
 
(Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Protection Dist. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 148, 155
[bold emphasis added].)
 
            Here,
Jon’s alleged yelling at Plaintiff and then grabbing his hand are insufficient
to constitute extreme and outrageous conduct as a matter of law. Causing
Plaintiff humiliation by yelling at him in the pharmacy amounts to indignity
and hurt feelings which are insufficient for this tort.
 
            The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
5.         Sixth
Cause of Action (Violation of Civil Rights).
 
            Defendants
argue that an Unruh claim cannot be brought against an individual, but only a
business establishment. Defendants also argue that Plaintiff has not alleged
that he was denied something provided to similarly situated customers and, in
fact, Plaintiff alleges that he received his medication. Defendants argue that
Plaintiff is actually alleging that he was treated differently because of the
dosage of his opioid prescription which is not a protected category under
Unruh. 
 
            Defendants
do not cite case law holding that an Unruh Act claim may not be asserted
against an individual. 
 
            Indeed,
Civil Code, § 52 provides that “[w]hoever denies, aids or incites a denial or
makes any discrimination or distinction contrary to Section 51 . . . is liable
for each and every offense.” This includes an individual. 
 
            Moreover,
Plaintiff claims disability discrimination and, because he is in a wheelchair
(Compliant, ¶ 12), that disability is visible. It is a question of fact as to
whether he was discrimination based on this visible disability.  
 
            As for
differential treatment, Plaintiff alleges: 
 
21. Defendant COSTCO, JON and DOES1-100
discriminated against Plaintiff on the basis of disability. Defendant COSTCO’s
Opioid Dispensing Policy discriminates on the basis of disability. The policy
not only treats patients with non-opioid prescriptions differently from other
patients, but also imposes arbitrary dosage thresholds of 50-90 MME (Morphine
Milligram Equivalent), and duration thresholds of 3-7 days, or some similar
threshold, on some or all opioid prescriptions, such hat patients with opioid
prescriptions exceeding those thresholds are treated differently from patients
with opioid prescriptions not exceeding those thresholds and from patients with
non-opioid prescriptions.
 
 
Moreover, Defendants’ demurrer does
not address the alleged violation of the Bane Civil Rights Act, Civil Code, §
51.7. (Complaint, ¶ 71.) A demurrer does not lie to only part of a cause of
action or a particular type of damage or remedy. (See Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2003)
108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046; PH
II, Inc. v. Superior Court (Ibershof) (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1680, 1682.)  The proper procedure is to
bring a motion to strike the substantively defective allegation.  (Id.
at 1682-83.)
 
The demurrer to the sixth cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
6.         Seventh
Cause of Action (Unfair Business Practices).
 
Defendants argue that this cause of
action cannot be brought against an individual, as it prohibits unlawful
business practices. Defendants do not cite any case law for this proposition. While
Defendants could have demurred on the ground of standing as against Defendant
John Louis, they did not raise this argument, so the Court does not address it.

 
Defendants argue that this cause of
action is not plead with the specificity required for pleading a statutory
claim. 
 
The Complaint alleges at ¶ 80 as
follows:
 
80. Defendants, and each of them,
individually and in concert, committed the foregoing acts with the intent of
causing Plaintiff harm. Plaintiff is informed and believed Defendant has a
business pattern and practice of falsely targeting disabled individuals who
fill opioid prescriptions as drug abusers.
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff has
not pled that Defendants targeted him as a drug abuser. Plaintiff must specify
how Defendants committed an unfair, unlawful or fraudulent business practice.
 
The demurrer to the seventh cause
of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
7.         Eighth
Cause of Action (CLRA).
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not prove that he gave the required CLRA 30-day
notice. (Civ. Code, § 1782.)  However, ¶
87 alleges:
 
87. Plaintiff and/or his
representatives notified the Defendants of actionable conduct under California
Civil Code §1770(a), (5), (7),(9)(10)(14)(18), and demanded remedy. Plaintiff
has brought this action, through this Complaint and did not serve same until
more than 30 days after said notice was provided in the proper venue. Plaintiff
has complied with all provisions of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act.
 
            Whether or
not this notice was actually sent is an evidentiary matter outside the scope of
this demurrer. 
 
            Defendants
also argue that Plaintiff does not plead any facts to support a violation of
the cited subsections of Civil Code, § 1770(a). 
 
Defendants also argue that
Plaintiff does not allege the sale of goods, only services, but Costco only
sold goods in connection with Plaintiff’s prescription, not services.  
 
Defendants also argue that
Plaintiff did not allege damages. 
 
The Complaint alleges at paragraphs
87 and 88 as follows:
 
87. Plaintiff and/or
his representatives notified the Defendants of actionable conduct under California
Civil Code §1770(a), (5), (7),(9)(10)(14)(18), and demanded remedy. Plaintiff
has brought this action, through this Complaint and did not serve same until
more than 30 days after said notice was provided in the proper venue. Plaintiff
has complied with all provisions of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act.
 
88. Defendants undertake
the sale of their services through unfair and deceptive practices. Defendants
breached their duties owed to Plaintiff herein, by the acts and/or omissions
stated above. Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges that the
Defendants have breached their duties owed to consumers and Plaintiff by other
acts and/or omissions of which Plaintiff is presently unaware. Plaintiff will
seek leave of court to amend this complaint at such time as he discovers the
other acts and/or omissions of Defendants which constituted such breach.
 
     (Bold emphasis added.)
 
            “[S]tatutory
causes of action must be pleaded with particularity.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.) Here, Plaintiff
does not identify how Defendants allegedly violated Civil Code
§1770(a), (5), (7),(9)(10)(14)(18), and indeed, does not set forth the language
of these subsections. 
 
            Further,
as Defendants point out, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants undertake the sale
of services. However, the facts pled by Plaintiff are not that Defendant Costco
sold Plaintiff services—such as medical service—but rather, undertook to
provide medication to Plaintiff, which is a good, not a service.
 
            The
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Motion To Strike
 
Meet and Confer
 
            The
Declaration of Sweta H. Patel indicates that Plaintiff’s counsel did not
respond to meet and confer efforts. This satisfies Civ. Proc. Code, § 435.5(a)(3)(B).
 
Discussion
 
Defendants Costco Wholesale
Corporation and John Louis move to strike the following portions of the
Complaint:
 
1. Plaintiff’s prayer for judgment for
an award of attorneys’ fees as to causes of action 1 -5. (Complaint p. 20 in
prayer for judgment.)
 
GRANTED without leave to
amend.
 
There is not contractual or statutory
basis for recovery of attorney’s fees in connection with the first through
fifth causes of action. 
 
2. Phrase “attorneys fees.” (Complaint
¶¶ 32, 47, 55, 63, and 67.)
 
DENIED as to ¶ 32 – this is a
general request for attorney’s fees, which is still viable given that the sixth
cause of action for violation of civil rights codified in the Civil Code is
still viable. 
 
MOOT as to ¶¶ 47, 67 – the
demurrer was sustained as to these causes 
 of action. 
 
GRANTED without leave to
amend as to ¶¶ 55 and 63 – there is no basis to recover attorney fees for
assault and battery.
 
3. Plaintiff’s prayer for judgment for
punitive and exemplary damages as to all causes of action. (Complaint p. 20 in
prayer for judgment.)
 
            GRANTED
with leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff does not allege facts which
show that Defendant Jon acted with malice, oppression or fraud as those terms
are defined in Civ. Proc. Code, § 3294(c). Nor does Plaintiff alleges facts
whereby Defendant Costco can be held liable for punitive damages under the
standard set forth at § 3294(b).
 
 
(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to
subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.
 
(c) As used in this section, the following definitions shall apply:
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.
 
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.
 
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.
 
 
     (Civ. Code §
3294(b) & (c).)
 
4. “Accordingly, Plaintiff is entitled
to punitive damages, according to proof, as to each of his causes of action
stated below.” (Complaint ¶ 32.)
 
GRANTED with leave to amend.
 
See No. 3 above.
 
5. Phrase “exemplary and punitive
damages.” (Complaint ¶ 78.)
 
GRANTED with leave to amend.
 
See No. 3 above.
 
6. “The Defendants' conduct as
described herein was deceptive, fraudulent, and was undertaken with a conscious
disregard of Plaintiff's rights so as to entitle Plaintiff to punitive damages,
which are also allowed per statute. (Complaint ¶ 92.)
 
GRANTED with leave to amend.
 
See No. 3 above.
 
7. Phrase “injunctive”. (Complaint ¶
78.)
 
`           GRANTED with leave to amend.    
 
            Plaintiff
must allege facts justifying injunctive relief.
            
8. “On information and belief, absent
entry of appropriate injunctive relief, Defendants, and each of them,
individually and in concert, will engage in similar misconduct in the future,
in connection with other consumers. (Complaint ¶ 82.)
 
MOOT given the ruling on the
demurrer.
 
9. The foregoing acts of Defendants,
and each of them, individually and in concert, were, are and/or will be
unlawful, unfair and/or fraudulent business acts and practices in violation of
Business &Professions Code §17200, et seq., as a result of which Plaintiff
and aggrieved members of the general public are entitled to appropriate
injunctive relief, and other equitable relief.” (Complaint ¶ 83.)
 
MOOT given the ruling on the
demurrer.
 
10. “PENAL CODE §§422.55, 422.6.”
(Complaint, p. 13 heading to assault cause of action.)
 
            GRANTED
without leave to amend.
 
            There
does not appear to be a private right of action under Penal Code, §§ 422.55 and
422.6 and that statute is unnecessary relative to a common law cause of action
for assault.
 
11. Phrase “in violation of the Penal
Code.” (Complaint ¶¶ 52, 58 and 60.)
 
GRANTED without
leave to amend.
 
            There
does not appear to be a private right of action under Penal Code, §§ 422.55 and
422.6 and that statute is unnecessary relative to a common law cause of actions
for assault and battery.
 
12. “The United States government,
through the Food & Drug Administration ("FDA"), has recognized
that opioid medication has risks but also great benefits for patients suffering
from pain, which is why the FDA designated opioids as Schedule II drugs
available only through prescriptions issued by prescribers registered with the
Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA"). The FDA continues to approve
these drugs for use where medically appropriate, and when the FDA was requested
in 2013, at a time when the opioid crisis was already full blown, to impose
dose or duration limits, the FDA declined to do so, leaving such decisions
instead to the healthcare practitioner in consultation with his or her
patient.” (Complaint ¶ 9.)
 
DENIED.
 
These allegations
will be permitted as relevant to Plaintiff’s discrimination theory. 
 
13. “Similarly, the California
Legislature has approved, and continues to approve, the availability of opioid
medications and has passed a Patient's Bill of Rights related to opioid
medication treatment. Cal. Health & Safety Code §124960.” (Complaint ¶ 10.)
 
DENIED.
 
These allegations
will be permitted as relevant to Plaintiff’s discrimination theory. 
 
14. “The California Patient's Bill of
Rights provides: (a) A patient who suffers from severe chronic intractable pain
has the option to request or reject the use of any or all modalities in order
to relieve his or her pain. (b) A patient who suffers from severe chronic
intractable pain has the option to choose opiate medications to relieve that
pain without first having to submit to an invasive medical procedure, which is
defined as surgery, destruction of a nerve or other body tissue by manipulation,
or the implantation of a drug delivery system or device, as long as the
prescribing physician acts in conformance with the California Intractable Pain Treatment
Act, Section 2241.5 of the Business and 
Professions Code.( c ) The patient's physician may refuse to prescribe
opiate medication for the patient who requests a treatment for severe chronic
intractable pain. However, that physician shall inform the patient that there
are physicians who treat pain and whose methods include the use of opiates. (d)
A physician who uses opiate therapy to relieve severe chronic intractable pain
may prescribe a dosage deemed medically necessary to relieve the patient's
pain, as long as that prescribing is in conformance with Section 2241.5 of the
Business and Professions Code. (e) A 
patient may voluntarily request that
his or her physician provide an identifying notice of the prescription for
purposes of emergency treatment or law enforcement identification. Cal. Health
& Safety Code§ 124961.” (Complaint ¶ 11.) 
 
DENIED.
 
These allegations
will be permitted as relevant to Plaintiff’s discrimination theory. 
 
15. “The initial, and primary,
responsibility for issuing a valid prescription is with the treating physician.
Before prescribing opioids for any patient, the treating physician must conduct
and document a complete medical history and physical examination of the
patient. The examination will include a review and analysis of the condition
for which the treatment is sought and its cause, the nature and intensity of
the patient's pain, current and past treatments for the condition and pain,
underlying or coexisting diseases or conditions and a review of medical records
and previous diagnostic studies. The physician then develops a treatment plan
and treatment goals, including curing, if possible, the underlying medical condition,
decreasing pain and increasing function, improving pain associated effects
(e.g., sleeping issues, depression, anxiety, etc.), screen for treatment side effects,
and avoiding unnecessary or excessive medication. The plan is evaluated and
updated throughout the course of treatment so that it continues to be appropriate
and realistic.” (Complaint ¶ 23.)
 
DENIED.
 
These allegations
will be permitted as relevant to Plaintiff’s discrimination theory. 
 
16. “Plaintiff already spends hours a
week in doctors' offices and on the phone with insurers and billing
departments, and is already hindered by pain and fatigue.”(Complaint ¶ 28.)
 
DENIED.
 
These allegations
will be permitted as relevant to Plaintiff’s disability.
 
            Plaintiff
is given 30 days’ leave to amend where indicated.
 