  Case Number:  22PSCV00580    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION BY
PLAINTIFF WENDY LIN TO QUASH SUBPOENA is GRANTED in part/DENIED in part; the
motion is quashed as to Wendy’s personal finances (Item No. 6), but Wendy is to
produce documents as to the financial records of all corporations (Item Nos.
1-5, 7). 
 
Background
 
(Even though
the motion was filed in case 22PSCV00580
(filed 6/14/22), it relates to the related case of 22STCV31621 (filed 9/27/22), as acknowledged by
both parties.[1]
Therefore, the court will provide case 22STCV31621’s factual background and
related filings.) 
 
This is a contracts case. Plaintiff Wendy Lin (“Wendy” or
“Plaintiff”) alleges that she and Defendant Bo Sun (“Bo” or “Defendant”) formed
TOPTREE INVESTMENT LLC (“Toptree”) with the purpose of jointly purchasing a
property in Chino Hills (the “property”). Plaintiff paid the entire purchase
price, but Bo has failed to pay his $50,000 capital contribution such that by
the terms of the Operating Agreement, Bo has lost his entire membership
interest in the company. (See generally First Amended Complaint (FAC).)[2]

 
On June 3,
2024, Wendy filed the instant motion to quash.
 
On July 12,
2024, Bo filed his opposition.
 
On July 23,
2024, Wendy filed her reply. 
 
On July 25,
2024, the court granted Bo’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against
Wendy in addition to Nature Land, Inc. and Vua Kho Bo, Inc. which are other
third-party entities which are owned by Wendy (case 22STCV31621). That same
day, in case 22PSCV00580, pursuant to oral stipulation during the hearing due
to the court’s ongoing connectivity issues such that the reply brief was not
timely received, the hearing was continued to 8/8/24.
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987.1(a) provides as follows: “If a subpoena requires...the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things...the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b)...may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying
it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court
shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any
other orders as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”
 
Discussion
 
On or about May 8, 2024, Defendant Bo Sun (“Defendant”)
served Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Business Records (“Subpoenas”)
dated May 8, 2024, on John Wu CPA, Inc., seeking the following:
 
1.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements, for Toptree
Investment LLC from December 2019 to the present time.
2.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements, for Nature
Land, Inc. from May 2008 to the present time. 
3.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements, for Jerky
King, Inc. from September 2009 to the present time. (Wendy does not take
issue with categories 3.) 
4.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements for Vua
Kho Bo, Inc. from December 2011 to the present time. 
5.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements for Vua
Kho Bo & Omai from December 2011 to the present time.[3]

6.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements for Wendy
Lin from May 2008 to the present time.
7.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements for Bo
Sun from May 2008 to the present time. (Wendy does not take issue with
category 7; Motion p. 4:5-6.)
 
Wendy moves
to quash said subpoena because they seek private financial information. It is
well established that individuals have a legally
recognized privacy interest in their personal financial information.
(See Motion p. 6, citing Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975)
15 Cal. 3d 652, 656-58; see also p. 7, citing In re Ins. Installment Fee
Cases (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1428 [information privacy in personal
financial affairs]; see p. 7, citing Look v. Penovatz (2019) 34
Cal.App.5th 61, 73 [right to privacy extends to an individual's confidential
financial information in whatever form it takes, e.g., tax returns, checks,
statements, or other account information].) 
 
In the
court’s 8/8/24 ruling, the court continued the matter for supplemental briefing
because Bo failed to meet his burden “to explain the relevancy of the financial
information and that the information sought cannot be obtained through less
intrusive means.” (8/8/24 Ruling.) 
 
Though the
supplemental brief does not explicitly lay out why the discovery is directly
relevant, Bo directs the court to his cross-complaint filed on 7/25/24 (before
this motion was filed).[4]
(See Bo Supp. Brief. p. 3:11-18.) With that, the court turns to the
cross-complaint filed in case 22PSCV00580. In his cross-complaint, Bo alleges in relevant part as
follows:
 
-       
In
2008, the parties entered into joint venture and formed three companies: Nature
Land, Jerky King, and Vua Kho Bo (“Vua”). 
-       
Bo
is the owner of Jerky King and Wendy is the owner both Vua and Nature Land;
even though Vua and Nature Land are not in Bo’s name, Bo is a 50% owner.
-       
Wendy
structured the three companies so that Jerky King would receive all the
cash income from the retail stores while all of the credit card income would go
to Nature Land. 
-       
“On information and belief, Lin transferred
Jerky King, Inc.’s cash to ROES 1-50 without SUN’s authorization or consent.” 
-       
“LIN took the credit card income that was
deposited into NATURE LAND, INC. and used it to buy property.” (See
Cross-Complaint pp. 4-6.)
 
It is unclear, however, how the foregoing
sufficiently meets Bo’s burden as his allegations are based on nothing more
than “information and belief.” For example, there is no allegation Bo, who despite seeming control of
the cash from all the stores as he owned Jerky King and brought the cash home,
noticed any cash missing, despite living together. Instead, Bo conclusively
deems Lin’s conduct as “highly questionable.” (Supp. Opp. p.
2:2-8, emphasis added.) But whether something is questionable does not meet the propounding party’s
burden to show that information is ‘directly relevant’ to a cause of action or
defense, ‘essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit,’ and not available
through less intrusive means. (Ibid; see also Supp. Reply p. 2:21-22 [“Defendant
is simply fishing for the "hope" if there are other entities which
may exist from Plaintiff.”].) 
 
Thus, the motion to quash is GRANTED as to Wendy’s personal
finances. 
 
As to the
corporate entities, as stated in the court’s 8/8/24 ruling, the burden
is on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the
seriousness of the prospective invasion, and then the court must weigh the
countervailing interest the opposing party identifies. (William v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.) Here, Wendy bears the initial burden to show that the right to
privacy exists. However, the supplemental brief merely argues that “there
is no rational reason why Bo Sun would need private financial records such as
tax returns and other documents to “verify” his claim that he sent money to
Plaintiff Wendy Lin.” (Wendy Supp. Brief p. 3:21-23.) This does not address the “seriousness”
requirement of inquiring into a corporation’s financial records. 
 
Thus, the motion to quash is DENIED as to the financial
records of the various corporations Wendy created/under Wendy’s control. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the motion is granted in part/denied in part; the motion is
quashed as to Wendy’s personal finances, but Wendy is to produce documents as
to the financial records of all corporations. 
 


