 Case Number:  24PSCV01147    Hearing Date:   August 26, 2024    Dept:  H Plaintiff Mediterranean Shipping Company (USA)
Inc., as agent for MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company, S.A., Geneva’s
Application for Default Judgment is DENIED without prejudice.
Background  Plaintiff Mediterranean Shipping Company (USA) Inc., as agent for MSCMediterranean Shipping Company, S.A., Geneva (“Plaintiff”)
alleges as follows:
Plaintiff and White Mountain Trucking, Inc. (“Defendant”)
entered into a “Uniform Intermodel Interchange and Facilities Access Agreement”
(“Agreement”) wherein Plaintiff agreed to provide intermodal equipment for
Defendant between December 1, 2021 through July 31, 2023. Defendant failed to
return the intermodal equipment to Plaintiff within the time allowed and failed
to pay all sums due under the Agreement.
On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Defendant and Does 1-10 for: (1) breach of agreement; (2)
goods sold and delivered; (3) reasonable value; (4) account stated; (5) open
book account; and (6) unjust enrichment.
On June 12, 2024, the Clerk entered default against Defendant.
Pending before the Court is Plaintiff’s Application for Default Judgment. 
Discussion 
Plaintiff’s Application for Default Judgment is denied without
prejudice. The following defects are noted: 
1.       Plaintiff has
not provided the Court with any documentary evidence of its relationship with MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company, S.A.,
Geneva.

2.       Plaintiff has
not provided the Court with any signature pages to the various agreements attached as Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of Neil
Ross (“Ross”). The “Participating Party Agreement” pages in Exhibit 1 do not
appear to have been completed.

3.       The Court directs
Plaintiff to attach copies of the invoices summarized in Exhibit 3 to Ross’s declaration.
Accordingly,
the Court denies Plaintiff’s Application without prejudice and directs
Plaintiff to submit a new default judgment packet that addresses the
aforementioned issues. 