On March 2, 2022, Plaintiff Roland Esparza filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Conagra Brands, Inc., The Vons Companies, Inc., and Does 1-50 for (1) Strict Product Liability—Manufacturing Defect, (2) Strict Product Liability—Design Defect, (3) Strict Product Liability—Failure to Warn, (4) Negligence, and (5) Breach of Implied Warranties.  Plaintiff alleges that he used butter spray manufactured, distributed, or sold by Defendants and that this butter spray contains diacetyl, acetyl propionyl, and/or other hazardous food flavoring components dangerous to the lungs.Doe 29 has been identified as Defendant Full-Fill Industries, LLC.Defendant Full-Fill Industries, LLC now seeks to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.  A defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground the Court lacks personal jurisdiction.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1).)  “Although the defendant is the moving party, the plaintiff must carry the initial burden of demonstrating facts by a preponderance of evidence justifying the exercise of jurisdiction in California.”  (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I and II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 110.) By statute, the courts of this state may exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresident defendants to the extent permitted by the United States Constitution.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 410.10.)  Constitutional due process requires that a nonresident defendant have “certain minimum contacts” with a forum such that the Court’s exercise of personal jurisdiction does not offend traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.  (International Shoe Co. v. State of Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)  The extent of the defendant’s contacts with the forum determines whether the Court’s jurisdiction is general or specific.  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 134 S.Ct. 746, 754-755.)  Courts may assert general jurisdiction where the foreign defendant’s contacts with the forum “ ‘are so “continuous and systematic” as to render them essentially at home in the forum State.’ ”  (Id. at p. 754.)  To determine whether the exercise of specific jurisdiction is proper in a given case, courts consider the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.  (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269.)  “A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice.”  (Elkman v. National States Ins. Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1314.)  It is the plaintiff’s burden to demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct giving rise to the pleaded causes of action amounts to constitutionally cognizable “minimum contacts.”  (Id. at p. 1313.)Here, there is no general jurisdiction because, as Defendant puts it, “Full-Fill conducts all of its business operations at its sole location in Henning, Illinois. [ ] Full-Fill is not registered to do business in California; does not pay any taxes in California; does not have any physical location, assets, or operations in California . . . .”With respect to specific jurisdiction, Defendant contends that it “makes the cooking oils that it packages for Conagra and its other customers available for the customers to pick-up at Full-Fill's Illinois facility. [ ] It is Conagra who arranges for, and pays, the truckers who pick up the cooking oils and deliver them to Conagra. [ ] Full-Fill does not own the cooking oils once they are picked up from Full-Fill's Illinois facility. [ ] Most importantly, Full-Fill has no involvement in where its customers ship their cooking oils after they pick them up from Full-Fill's Illinois facility, and Full-Fill does not have any control over, or involvement with, where or how its customers sell their cooking oils.” Plaintiff’s initial evidence of specific jurisdiction was purported statements on Full-Fill’s website that it produced the products that Plaintiff purchased in California.  According to Plaintiff, Full-Fill “manufactured, distributed, supplied and/or sold the PAM butter-flavored cooking spray that caused Plaintiff Roland Esparza’s injuries.”  The totality of the evidence, however, seems to indicate that Full-Fill’s role was to make products for ConAgra and that it was ConAgra that sold and distributed these products in California.  Plaintiff also points to a statement that Full-Fill was launching a website to help with “national and international sales efforts . . . .”  Plaintiff, however, did not provide any specific evidence of the marketing activity that Full-Fill directed at California, other than the mere existence of its website.  That is, Plaintiff did not provide sufficient evidence of Full-Fill’s contacts with this forum.Previously, the Court continued the instant Motion for jurisdictional discovery.  Plaintiff’s only new argument is that “On or about July 1, 2024, ConAgra (the designer and previous manufacturer of PAM butter flavored cooking spray) completed its purchase of Full-Fill and ‘took over’ Full-Fill. See 9/11/24 News-Gazette article, Full-Fill Looks to Future with New Owner ConAgra (attached as Exhibit ‘D’). Since ConAgra has submitted to this Court’s jurisdiction and is registered to do business in the State of California, no jurisdictional argument remains in regard to Full-Fill.”This is insufficient because Plaintiff failed to establish that Full-Fill and ConAgra merged such that Full-Fill has no separate existence and the personal jurisdiction with respect to ConAgra applies.  An asset sale alone would not seemingly confer personal jurisdiction.  Separate corporations have separate existences.  Plaintiff provided no citation to authority that indicates otherwise under the circumstances here.The Court concludes that Plaintiff failed to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that personal jurisdiction exists over Full-Fill.  Therefore, the Motion to Quash is granted.  Moving party to give notice.