 Case Number:  24GDCV00309    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 24GDCV00309
Hearing Date:  05/02/2024-830am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: EMY ESCOBAR LOPEZ, an individual; v.
THE VONS COMPANIES, INC., a Michigan corporation; SAFEWAY INC., a Delaware
corporation; AVIANA DOE, an individual; and DOES 1-100
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION TO STRIKE
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant, Aviana Macias (erroneously named as
Aviana Doe) moves for an order striking the following portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint:
1. Portions of
paragraph 32 of Plaintiff’s Complaint as set forth below: "so as to
justify an award of punitive damages against Defendants in an amount according
to proof,"
2. Portions of
paragraph 37 of Plaintiff's Complaint as set forth below: "so as to
justify an award of exemplary or punitive damages against Defendants in an
amount according to proof at trial."
3. Portions of
paragraph 45 of Plaintiff's Complaint as set forth below: "entitling
Plaintiff to recover punitive damages from the Defendants in an amount
sufficient to deter such conduct in the future and according to proof."
4. Paragraph 7 in
Plaintiff's Prayer for Relief as follows: "For punitive and exemplary
damages in a sum to be determined at trial."
This motion to strike
is made pursuant to Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322, Code of Civil Procedure
§§425.10, 435, 435.5, 436, and 437, on the grounds that plaintiff's complaint
does not contain allegations which adequately support plaintiff's claim for
punitive damages as against any named defendant as a matter of law.”
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Emy Escobar Lopez, filed a Complaint
on 2/15/2024 against The Vons Companies, Inc.,; Safeway Inc.; and Aviana Doe.
On 4/18/2024, this
Court heard Defendant, The Vons Companies, Inc.’s, motion to strike, and it was
denied in its entirety. Further, on 4/18/2024, as noted in the Dismissal and
the 4/18/2024 Minute Order, Plaintiff’s counsel (Molly Hoot) made an oral
request to dismiss Defendant Safeway Inc. from the Complaint. 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendant, Aviana Macias (erroneously sued as
Aviana Doe)
Responding Party: Plaintiff,
Emy Escobar Lopez
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion
Opposition: Opposition
Reply: Reply
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok
Meet and
Confer
Before filing a motion
to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If
an amended pleading is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again
with the party who filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike
the amended pleading. (CCP § 435.5(a).)
Defendant’s counsel met
and conferred. (See Decl. Lewis ¶¶3.)
LEGAL
STANDARD – MOTION TO STRIKE
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike cannot be based upon the
grounds that a complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, but instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive
allegations, or improprieties in form or procedure.  (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509,
528-29.)   
The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code. Civ. Proc. § 437; Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth”].)   
Further, CCP § 431.10(a)-(c)
states as follows:
(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the
following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement
of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter”
as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP §431.10(a)-(c).)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.
Defendant moves to strike the punitive damages
requests in the assault, battery, and intentional infliction of emotional
distress causes of action in Plaintiff’s Complaint. Defendant also moves to
strike the punitive and exemplary damages request in ¶7 of the Prayer for
Relief.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to allege
specific facts to support an award of punitive damages against Defendant and
that Plaintiff fails to allege actions which rise to the level of oppression,
fraud, or malice.
Punitive
Damages
In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example by way of punishing the defendant. (Cal. Civ. Code § 3294(a).)

“‘Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (CCP § 3294(c)(1).) 
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person’s rights. (CCP § 3294(c)(2).) 
“‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (CCP § 3294(c)(3).)
“In order to survive a motion to strike
an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any
factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted
with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal. App.
4th 1033, 1042.) 
Here, Plaintiff has pled sufficient
facts at the pleading stage to support a claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff
pled that Aviana (an alleged Vons employee/supervisor) followed Plaintiff to
her car, yelled at Plaintiff and accused her of trying to steal, called
Plaintiff a “dirty Latino stealing,” told Plaintiff she should be ashamed of
herself for using EBT, told Plaintiff that Vons is a store for people who have
money and not for bums using EBT, and that Plaintiff should go somewhere for
“Spanish people” because “Glendale is for Armenians and white people,” and that
Aviana spit on Plaintiff. (See Compl. ¶¶19-22.)
Those allegations are sufficient for a
jury to potentially find that the assault, battery, and intentional infliction
of emotional distress claims were committed with oppression or malice.
The Court
notes the following:
While it is
true that pleading conclusions of law does not fulfill this requirement,
it has long been recognized that ‘[t]he distinction between conclusions of law
and ultimate facts is not at all clear and involves at most a matter of degree.
[Citations.] For example, the courts have permitted allegations which obviously
included conclusions of law and have termed them “ultimate facts” or
“conclusions of fact.” ’ [Citations.] What is important is that the
complaint as a whole contain sufficient facts to apprise the defendant
of  the basis upon which the plaintiff is seeking relief. [Citations.]''
(Doheny
Park Terrace Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Truck Ins Ins. Exchange (2005)
132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1098-99 citing Perkins v. Superior Court (1981)
117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.)
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED in its
entirety.
 