  Case Number:  23STCV22235    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, March 1, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV22235
CASE NAME:                        Qiang Yang v. Youssef Tahiri, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Cross-Defendants Qiang Yang aka Michelle Yang
and Y&S Enterprise Inc.
OPPOSING PARTY:             Defendant/Cross-Complainant Youssef
Tahiri
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to
Strike Punitive Damages 
OPPOSITION:                        26 January 2024
REPLY:                                  1
February 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Cross-Defendant Y&S Enterprise, Inc.’s
demurrer is sustained in its entirety. Cross-Defendant Yang’s demurrer is
overruled as to the first cause of action of intentional interference with
economic relations, the third cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and the fifth cause of action for defamation pro quad and
sustained with leave to amend as to the second cause of action for negligent
interference with economic relations, the fourth cause of action for
negligence, and the sixth cause of action for negligence per se. 
 
The motion to strike is granted in part, as to
Cross-Defendant Y&S Enterprise Inc. with regard to the prayer for punitive
damages and is otherwise denied. OSC re: Amended Cross-Complaint set for __. Moving
parties to give notice. 
 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On September 14, 2023, Qiang Yang aka
Michelle Yang (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Youssef Tahiri
(“Tahiri”), John Reinsch (“Reinisch”), and Does 1 to 50. The Complaint alleges
eight causes of action for (1) promissory fraud, (2) promissory estoppel, (3)
negligent misrepresentation, (4) quantum meruit, (5) common law
misappropriation, (6) violation of California Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200,
(7) libel, and (8) libel per se. 
 
On November 30, 2023, Defendant Tahiri
filed a Cross-Complaint (“CC”) against Plaintiff Michelle Yang, David Barel,
Medical Boulevard LLC, Medical Boulevard, Inc., Y&S Enterprise Inc.
(“Y&S”), and Moses 1 to 20. The Cross-Complaint alleges five causes of
action: (1) intentional interference with economic
relations; (2) negligent interference with economic relations; (3) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (4) negligence; (5) defamation per quod; and
(6) defamation per se. 
 
On January 10, 2024, Cross-Defendants
Yang and Y&S Enterprise, Inc. (collectively “Cross-Defendants”) filed a
demurrer with a motion to strike Dr. Tahiri’s Cross-Complaint. Dr. Tahiri
opposes the Motion. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the
demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted
to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Demurrer[1]
 
A.        Allegations
in the Cross-Complaint
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Tahiri is a plastic and reconstructive surgeon and is one of three surgeons in
the world trained to perform a specific procedure to correct the congenital
malformation known as microtia. (CC ¶ 26.)
 
From
August 2016 to October 24, 2022, Dr. Tahiri was employed by Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center (“Cedars”) as a plastic surgeon, and during his tenure he
operated on many Chinese patients. (CC ¶¶ 28, 29.) On or about June 26, 2017,
Cedars hired Plaintiff Yang to provide Chinese translation and establish
communications with Chinese nationals via social media to assist in the
coordination of plastic surgery patients who were Chinese nationals. (CC ¶ 30.)

 
On
information and belief, Plaintiff Yang created a “specific groups and profiles
to correspond and develop relationships with Chinese nationals” and while Dr.
Tahiri provided free video consultations to prospective clients, “Yang secretly
charged prospective patients thousands of dollars for said video consultations”
by directing prospective patients to wire money directly to her via WeChat
Wallet. (CC ¶¶ 31, 32.) Yang never informed Cedars or Dr. Tahiri about the
charges and neither Cedars nor Dr. Tahiri solicited or accepted such charges
for the video consultation. (CC ¶ 32.) Other unauthorized charges by Yang
included charging prospective clients for assisting with visa applications,
“another service which Cedars and Dr. Tahiri provided free of charge.” (CC ¶
33.) 
 
In
or around August 2022, Dr. Tahiri began to transition from Cedars into private
practice and Yang was kept on staff to translate and send official Cedars’
communications regarding the transition to all former, current, and prospective
patients of Dr. Tahiri. (CC ¶¶ 34-26.) At the time Dr. Tahiri’s employment with
Cedar’s ended, three Chinese nationals had surgeries scheduled with Dr. Tahiri,
and Yang was tasked with providing instructions about wire refunds from Cedars
and wire instructions for Dr. Tahiri’s private practice to the three patients.
(CC ¶¶ 37-39.) Yang instead provided contact information for her WeChat profile
and instructed the patients to wire funds to a bank account held by Medical
Boulevard LLC (“MBLLC”) for an amount in excess of Dr. Tahiri’s customary rate.
(CC ¶¶ 42, 43.) For two of the patients Dr. Tahiri operated on, he received
less than his customary rate. (CC ¶ 43.) 
 
Plaintiff
Yang continued to solicit Chinese patients via WeChat to represent to Chinese
nationals that she could schedule surgeries with Dr. Tahiri and accept payment
for the same. (CC ¶¶ 45, 47.) “Yang fabricated and falsified documents to
provide prospective patients the appearance that Dr. Tahiri’s office had
scheduled their surgeries and associated appointments, had possessed payment,
and had provided the necessary assistance with visa applications.” (CC ¶ 47.)
Yang received deposits from prospective patients who believed they had
scheduled surgeries with Dr. Tahiri despite the funds never being transferred
to Dr. Tahiri or his practice, despite Yang having no authority to schedule
such surgeries and no actual surgeries being scheduled. (CC ¶¶ 48, 49.) Dr.
Tahiri and his office were unaware of Yang’s false representations. (CC ¶ 49.)
 
Plaintiff
Yang would tell the prospective patients that their scheduled surgeries were
delayed while asking Dr. Tahiri to take on the patients, which Dr. Tahiri
refused to ensure his protection from any finder’s fees claims Yang might make
for bringing in new patients to his practice. (CC ¶ 50, 51.) Yang was forced to
tell patients that Dr. Tahiri was no longer performing the surgery, resulting
in the patients contacting Dr. Tahiri directly asking for their money and when
the surgeries would be performed. (CC ¶ 52.) 
 
Upon
being informed that Dr. Tahiri had no surgeries scheduled for them, a number of
prospective patients disparaged Dr. Tahiri and his practice on social media and
in online reviews. (CC ¶ 53.) Dr. Tahiri incurred expenses in hiring a
translator to explain to prospective Chinese patients that he did not have
their records or their money. (CC ¶¶ 55, 56.) Through the translator, Dr. Tahiri
learned that Dr. Yang had defrauded several former patients, and “upwards to
twenty prospective patients” “irreparably destroying Dr. Tahiri’s reputation
with potential Chinese patients.” (CC ¶ 57.) “Given the tight-knit online
communities related to microtia and its treatment in China, Dr. Tahiri has
effectively lost the opportunity to operate on any Chinese patients for the
foreseeable future, costing Dr. Tahiri millions of dollars.” (CC ¶ 58.)­  Due to the negative online reviews, Dr.
Tahiri’s reputation has been damaged causing him severe emotional distress,
including anguish, horror, nervousness, anxiety, worry, shock, humiliation, and
shame. (CC ¶¶ 59, 60.) 
 
Cross-Defendants Yang and Y&S
Enterprises now demurrer to all the causes of action in the Cross-Complaint on
the basis that Defendant Tahiri fails to state sufficient facts to support the
causes of action alleged. 
 
B.        First and Second Causes of Action –
Intentional Interference with Economic Relations and Negligent Interference
with Economic Relations 
 
The
tort of intentional interference with prospective economic relations (“IIPEA”)
is the tort of intentional interference with prospective economic advantage.
(See Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th
376, 378 (Della Penna)  [Analyzing
the burden of proof and the “the elements of the tort variously known as
interference with ‘prospective economic advantage,’ ‘prospective contractual
relations,’ or ‘prospective economic relations’[.]”].)  In Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin
Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153 (Korea Supply Co.) and Ixchel
Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130, 1141, the California
Supreme Court reiterated that the correct name of the tort was intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage.
 
“The five elements for intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage are: (1) an economic relationship between the
plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit
to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3)
intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the
relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm
to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant.” (Youst v.
Longo (1987) 43 Cal.3d 64, 71, fn. 6.) The tort of negligent interference
with a prospective economic advantage (“NIPEA”) differs in that the defendant's
act disrupting the economic relationship does not need to be intentional. (Venhaus
v. Shultz (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078.)
 
For both IIPEA and NIPEA, the interference must
be wrongful by some legal measure other than the fact of the interference
itself. (Della Penna, supra, 11 Cal.4th at p. 378. “[A]n act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is
proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other
determinable legal standard.” (Korea Supply Co., supra,  29 Cal.4th at p. 1159.) 
 
Cross-Defendants
assert that the IIPEA and NIPEA causes of action fail because Dr. Tahiri fails
to allege he had an existing economic relationship with the prospective
patients and instead alleges he has a prospective speculative expectancy. “The
law precludes recovery for overly speculative expectancies by initially
requiring proof the business relationship contained  ‘the probability of
future economic benefit to the plaintiff.’ [Citation.]”(Westside Center Associates v. Safeway Stores 23, Inc.
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 507, 522.) The plaintiff needs to plead “the existence of
a business relationship with which the tortfeasor interfered. [Citation.]
Although this need not be a contractual relationship, as an existing
relationship is required. [Citation.]” (Roth v. Rhodes
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 530, 546 [finding that a case cannot be predicated on
“future referrals and patient contracts” because the plaintiff “cannot have an
existing relationship with these speculative ‘future patients.’”) 
 
Here, the Cross-Complaint does allege
that Dr. Tahiri had an existing relationship with three Chinese nationals who
were scheduled for surgeries after his employment with Cedars ended. (CC ¶ 37.)
Plaintiff Yang interfered with that relationship by instructing the patients to
wire funds to the MBLLC account in excess of the actual fees charged by Dr. Tahiri
and kept the excess funds. (CC ¶¶ 41-43.) These facts are sufficient to sustain
the IIPEA and NIPEA claims as a demurrer does not lie when it disposes of only
part of a cause of action. (See PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682.) 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the first
cause of action for IIPEA  is overruled.
The demurrer to the second cause of action for NIPEA is sustained with leave to
amend due to the Cross-Complainant’s failure to allege duty, as outlined below.

 
            C.        Fourth Cause of
Action – Negligence 
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for negligence are well established. They are (a) a legal duty to use due care;
(b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal
cause of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th
913, 917 [internal quotation marks omitted].) The existence and scope of a
property owner’s duty are legal questions for the court. (Annocki v.
Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 36.) However,
the elements of breach of that duty and causation are ordinarily questions of
fact for the jury's determination. (Andrews v. Wells (1988) 204
Cal.App.3d 53. (Vasquez v. Residential Investments, Inc. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 269, 278.) 
 
Cross-Defendants demur
to the fourth cause of action on the basis that Dr. Tahiri fails to allege an
element of duty and that the claim is barred by the economic loss rule. The
Cross-Complaint alleges that “[i]n representing to potential patients that she
was authorized to accept payment on behalf of Dr. Tahiri’s office, Yang breached
her duty to Dr. Tahiri.” (CC ¶ 96.) The court agrees that the above allegation
fails to show that Cross-Defendants owed a duty to Dr. Tahiri.  
 
“[T]he economic loss rule, which generally bars recovery in
negligence for purely economic losses, meaning financial harm
unaccompanied by personal injury
or property damage.” (Moore v. Centrelake Medical Group, Inc. (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 515, 523.) Here, Dr. Tahiri does
allege personal injury in the form of an IIED claim and two defamation claims.
Accordingly, his fourth cause of action is not barred by the economic loss rule
although the negligence claim may be dependent on the success of his personal
injury claims. 
 
Dr. Tahiri’s opposition references the
harm caused by the Cross-Defendants but no facts to support the finding that
the Cross-Defendants owed a duty to Dr. Tahiri. The Cross-Complaint fails to
allege facts to show that the Cross-Defendants and Dr. Tahiri had a type of
special relationship that gave rise to a legal duty of care. Accordingly, the
demurrer to the negligence cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
            D.        Third Cause of Action – Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress requires: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct
by appellants with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the appellants’ outrageous conduct. [Citation.] 
Conduct is considered outrageous when it is ‘so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ [Citation.]” (Belen v. Ryan Seacrest Productions, LLC (2021) 65
Cal.App.5th 1145, 1164.) Whether Defendant’s conduct was outrageous, oppressive
or malicious is a question of fact for the jury. (Alcorn v. Anbro
Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 499.)
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges that by
charging patients for services Dr. Tahiri provided free of charge, Yang engaged
in “outrageous conduct” because she knew that her online interactions with
Chinese patients, while employed by Cedars, would destroy Dr. Tahiri’s
reputation among potential Chinese patients and lead to negative online
reviews. (CC ¶¶ 86-88.) As a result of the loss of reputation, Dr. Tahiri
experiences “severe emotional distress, including sustained anguish, horror,
nervousness, anxiety, worry, shock, humiliation and shame.” (CC ¶ 9.) Had it
not been for Yang’s actions, Dr. Tahiri would not have experienced destruction
to his reputation and resultant severe emotional distress. (CC ¶ 91.) 
 
Cross-Defendants challenge the IIED claim
on the basis that the wrongful conduct must be directed at the plaintiff or
occur in the presence of the plaintiff with the awareness of the Defendant.
Cross-Defendants rely on Berry v. Frazier
(2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, for the proposition that the conduct must be “directed at the plaintiff or occur in the presence of
the plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at
p. 1273.) However, in Berry v. Fraizer, the appellate court found that
despite the fact that the “euthanasia procedure was not done in Berry's immediate presence” “the FAC includes allegations that Frazier's conduct
was specifically directed at Berry” and the “IIED cause of action is predicated upon Frazier's alleged
conduct directed at Berry – that he intentionally lied to or misled her about
the nature of an inhumane and painful euthanasia[.]” (Id. at p.
1274.) 


Pursuant to Berry v. Frazier (2023), an
IIED claim can be premised on the allegation that the wrongful conduct was
directed at the Plaintiff. Here, the Cross-Complaint sufficiently alleges that
Yang acted with reckless disregard for the probability of causing emotional
harm to Dr. Tahiri and his reputation and business by representing to potential
clients that she could schedule surgeries with Dr. Tahiri and accepting payment
from the clients for services she was not authorized to offer. (CC ¶¶ 94-98.)
Despite being only one of three surgeons trained in microtia surgery, Dr.
Tahiri was precluded from operating on any of the patients defrauded by Yang as
it could implicate him in Yang’s criminality and jeopardize his medical
license. (CC ¶ 99.) 
 
At the pleading stage, the Cross-Complainant
is not required to prove this allegation in the Cross-Complaint.  The court finds that Dr. Tahiri’s IIED claim
is sufficiently pled. Accordingly, the demurrer to the third cause of action is
overruled. 
 
E.        Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action for Defamation Per Quod and
Defamation Per Se
 
“To prevail on a
claim¿for defamation, plaintiff must show four elements: that defendants
published the statements; that the statements were about plaintiff; that they
were false; and that defendants failed to use reasonable care to determine the
truth or falsity.” (Hecimovich v.¿Encinal¿School Parent Teacher Org.
(2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 450, 470.) 
 
A
statement is defamatory when it tends ‘directly to
injure [a person] in respect to his office, profession, trade or business,
either by imputing to him general disqualification in those respects which the
office or other occupation peculiarly requires, or by imputing something with
reference to his office, trade, profession, or business that has a natural
tendency to lessen its profits[.]’ (Civ .Code, § 46, subd. 3.) Statements that
contain such a charge directly, and without the need for explanatory matter,
are libelous per se. (Civ. Code, § 45a.) A statement
can also be libelous per se if it contains
a charge by implication from the language employed by the speaker and a
listener could understand the defamatory
meaning without the necessity of knowing extrinsic explanatory matter.
[Citation.] However, if the listener would not recognize the defamatory meaning without ‘knowledge of
specific facts and circumstances, extrinsic to the publication, which are not
matters of common knowledge rationally attributable to all reasonable persons’
[citation], the matter is deemed defamatory
per quod
and requires pleading and proof of special damages. [Citation.]
 
(McGarry v. University of San
Diego (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 112 (McGarry).) 
 
Dr. Tahiri asserts that Yang made false
statements to prospective Chinese patients that she was authorized to accept
payment on behalf of his office and that she was authorized to schedule
surgeries for him. (CC ¶¶ 103, 104.) Consequently, Yang’s wrongdoing was
attributed to Dr. Tahiri and his office and caused injury to his profession,
reputation, and business. (CC ¶¶ 107-109.) 
 
Cross-Defendants assert that the
defamation per quod claim fails because Dr. Tahiri cannot show that the
statements were defamatory and he has not pled special damages. “The question
whether a statement is reasonably susceptible to a defamatory interpretation is
a question of law for the trial court.” (Smith v. Maldonado
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 637, 647.) “ ‘Where the words or other matters which are
the subject of a defamation action are of ambiguous
meaning, or innocent on their face and defamatory
only in the light of extrinsic circumstances, the plaintiff must plead and prove that as used,
the words had a particular meaning, or ‘innuendo,’ which makes them defamatory.’ ” [Citation.] (Gilbert v. Sykes (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 13, 33.) 
 
The court finds that Yang’s statements
about being able to accept and schedule surgeries for Dr. Tahiri exposed Dr. Tahiri
“to hatred, contempt, ridicule, or obloquy, or which causes him to be shunned
or avoided, or which has a tendency to injure him in his occupation” because
the defrauded patients blamed Dr. Tahiri for the loss of their monies and no
surgery. (Civ. Code, § 45.) The statement was made more defamatory when Yang
told patients that Dr. Tahiri was no longer performing surgery on any Chinese
patients in an effort “to cover up her fraudulent scheme,” resulting in the
prospective patients blaming Dr. Tahiri for Yang’s actions and writing negative
reviews of his business, thus damaging his professional reputation. (CC ¶
51-53, 111.) “It is clear that under California law, a loss of clients
following defamation is evidence of recoverable special damages.”
(O'Hara v. Storer Communications, Inc. (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 1101, 1112.) Here, Dr. Tahiri alleges that due to Yang’s actions,
prospective Chinese patients and other patients were discouraged from seeking his
services. (CC ¶ 108.) “[O]ther economic losses in one's employment” are
sufficient allegations of special damages to support a claim for defamation per
quod. (O’Hara, at p. 1114.) 
 
Based on the above, the demurrer to the
fifth cause of action is overruled. 
 
The defamation per se cause of action is
premised on Yang’s February 2023 WeChat post that included the following
allegations: 
 
a.
“I was forcibly fired without reason, and subsequently received various
threats, intimidation, and slander.” 
 
b.
“Many people repeatedly fabricate rumors, spread rumors, and say false things
without knowing the truth. It have caused me serious physical and mental
damage, reputation injury and infringement.” 
c.
“The motivation behind many people with bad intentions is to take the fruits of
other people's labor for free. Take it all, and don't want to pay a penny.” 
 
d.
“Those people who are white coat angel are pretenders with extremely dirty,
have an illhearted, and greedy. Constantly fabricating false lies, deceiving,
framing, stealing and illegally using my labor achievements and intellectual
property rights.” 
 
e.
“As an innocent victim, I suffered severe physical and mental pain that I have
no choice but to continue to rely on my lawyer team and legal tools to fight
against these bad forces and protect my labor income.”
 
(CC ¶ 114.) 
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges that because
Yang made prior representations that she worked with and for Dr. Tahiri, the
February 2023 post was reasonably understood to refer to Dr. Tahiri, even
though Dr. Tahiri did not engage in any of the alleged conduct. (CC ¶¶ 116,
117.) 
 
The court finds that the sixth cause of
action is not sufficiently pled to support a claim for defamation per se
because the alleged statements are sufficiently ambiguous such as to require
“explanatory matter” to be understood and/or the listener needs knowledge of
“extrinsic explanatory matter” to understand the defamatory statement. (McGarry,
supra, 154 Cal.App.4th at p. 112.) 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the sixth
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
            F.        Allegations Against Y&S Enterprises,
Inc. are Insufficiently Pled
 
Cross-Defendants demurrer to all the
causes of action alleged against Y&S Enterprises, Inc. (“Y&S”) because
the Cross-Complaint fails to state facts regarding Y&S conduct. 
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges that Yang
formed Y&S on or about August 11, 2022 and is the only officer, including
Chief Executive Officer, Secretary, and Director of Y&S. (CC ¶¶ 10, 12.)
The Cross-Complaint alleges that Yang and Y&S are alter egos, that Yang
carried out Y&S’s business without adherence to corporate formalities, that
Yang transferred assets between herself and Y&S Inc, that Yang conceived,
intended, and used Y&S as a device to avoid individual liability and for
the purpose of substituting a financially insolvent entity in her place while
using Y&S to defraud those doing business with Y&S, and that adhering
to the fiction that Y&S are distinct entities would permit Yang to abuse
the corporate form, sanction fraud, and promote injustice. (CC ¶¶ 22, 23.) 
 
Accordingly, because Yang is the
corporate agent for Y&S, they assert the corporation can be held
vicariously liable as a principle for the tort of its agent, Yang. (See Secci v. United Independant Taxi Drivers, Inc. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 846, 855 [“A corporation may be held vicariously liable as a
principal for the torts of its agents”].) 
 
“[A]n agency cannot
be created by the conduct of the agent alone; rather, conduct by
the principal is essential to create the agency. Agency ‘can be
established either by agreement between the agent and the principal, that is, a
true agency [citation], or it can be founded on ostensible authority, that is,
some intentional conduct or neglect on the part of the alleged principal
creating a belief in the minds of third persons that an agency exists, and a
reasonable reliance thereon by such third persons.’ [Citation.]” (Flores
v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 581, 587–588.) 
 
The allegation that
Yang is a corporate officer of Y&S Enterprises is insufficient to find that
Y&S is the principal which authorized Yang’s conduct and should be held
vicariously liable. The Cross-Complaint is devoid of facts to show that Yang’s
conduct of defrauding potential clients was conduct done at the behest of
Y&S or for the benefit of Y&S. There are no allegations that Yang was
acting within the scope of her agency relationship with Y&S when she
engaged in the fraudulent conduct. 
 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s
Y&S demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is sustained in its entirety. 
 
III.      Motion to Strike
 
Cross-Defendants move
to strike the following from the Cross-Complaint: 
 
1)    
Page 13, Paragraph 74
2)    
Page 15, Paragraph 92
3)    
Page 18, Paragraph 112
4)    
Page 19, Paragraph 118
5)    
Prayer for Relief, Page 19, Paragraph
3, which states, “For punitive and exemplary damages in an amount to be
determined at trial;”
 
To state a claim for punitive damages under Civ.
Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant
has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)¿ The basis for punitive damages must be
pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions
are insufficient. (Id.)¿¿“Malice” is defined in Civ. Code § 3294 (c)(1)
as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or “despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined as
“despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).) The
term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible.” (Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales
& Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 891.) Fraud means “an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
(Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3). When the defendant is a¿corporation, “the oppression, fraud, or malice
must be perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director,
or managing agent of the¿corporation.” (Wilson v. Southern California Edison
Company (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164; see Civ. Code, § 3294(b).)
The court finds that although allegations against
Cross-Defendant Y&S Enterprises, Inc. are insufficiently pled and cannot
sustain a claim for punitive damages against an entity, the court finds that Dr.
Tahiri has pled sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages
against Cross-Defendant Yang. The Cross-Complaint sufficiently alleges that
Yang acted intentionally or with reckless disregard in making representations
to potential patients that she could schedule surgeries and accept money on
behalf of Dr. Tahiri, despite knowing that the representations were false and
would cause injury to both the prospective clients and to Dr. Tahiri’s personal
reputation and business when the services were not provided. (CC ¶¶ 32, 49, 77,
86, 94, 95, 103.) 
 
Based on the above, the motion to strike is granted in part
as to Cross-Defendant Y&S in regard to the prayer for punitive damages, and
is otherwise denied.
 
Conclusion
 
Cross-Defendant Y&S Enterprise,
Inc.’s demurrer is sustained in its entirety. Cross-Defendant Yang’s demurrer
is overruled as to the first cause of action of intentional interference with
economic relations, the third cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and the fifth cause of action for defamation pro quad and sustained
with leave to amend as to the second cause of action for negligent interference
with economic relations, the fourth cause of action for negligence, and the
sixth cause of action for negligence per se. 
 
The motion to strike is
granted in part, as to Cross-Defendant Y&S Enterprise Inc. with regard to the
prayer for punitive damages and is otherwise denied. OSC re: Amended Cross-Complaint
set for __. Moving party to give notice. 


