 Case Number:  24SMCV00879    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
KEN LISTOE, individually,  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
WG HACIENDA SH LP dba Atria Hacienda;
  ATRIA MANAGEMENT COMPANY, LLC dba Atria Hacienda; AG RANCHO MIRAGE, LLC dba
  Rancho Mirage Health and Rehabilitation Center and DOES 1 through 200,
  inclusive, 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  24SMCV00879
 
  Hearing Date:  January 15, 2025
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  DEFENDANTs’ MOTION TO 
  COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY 
  PROCEEDINGS
 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
               This case
involves alleged elder/dependent adult abuse. 
Plaintiff Ken Listoe (“Plaintiff”) was a resident at Atria Defendants’ assisted
living/residential care facility for the elderly.  While he was a resident at Atria’s facility, Plaintiff
alleges that he fell several times and Atria never updated his fall prevention
care plan or took any steps to prevent future incidents.  As a result, Plaintiff alleges that he
suffered several injuries.  Plaintiff
also alleges that he developed sores and pressure injuries because of Atria’s
failure to monitor Plaintiff’s skin or reposition him. 
Upon his admission to the Atria living facility,
Plaintiff executed a voluntary Arbitration Agreement.  (Cox Decl., Ex. A.)  The Arbitration Agreement was between
Plaintiff and Hacienda.  The Agreement
applies to “any and all claims and disputes related to or arising out of
Resident’s residence at [Atria] that may be asserted by either party against
the other party as well as any claim or dispute that may be asserted by or
against Atria Management Company, LLC, any and all past, present, and/or future
parent, affiliated, principals, or subsidiary entities, and any and all
agents/employees or contractors of same…as well as any owner, leasee, or
licensee of Community.”  (Cox Decl., Ex.
A, p. 1.) 
The
arbitration agreement indicates that it is voluntary and states that it is not
a prerequisite to residing at the Community.  (Cox Decl., Ex. A, p. 2.)  The Agreement also states that it is governed
by the FAA, and that the arbitrator shall be a widely-recognized organization
that is mutually agreeable to the parties.  (Cox Decl., Ex. A, p. 1.) 
The
operative complaint asserts three claims for (1) elder abuse, (2) negligence,
and (3) violation of resident rights.  
This
hearing is on Defendant WG Hacienda SH LP dba Atria Hacienda and Atria Management,
LLC’s (collectively “Defendants”) motion to compel arbitration.  Defendants argue that the parties entered
into a valid, enforceable arbitration agreement which covers the claims raised
by Plaintiff in this case.  Defendants
also argue that they have not waived their right to compel arbitration and that
the Agreement is not unconscionable.  Finally,
Defendants seek a stay of the proceedings pending the completion of
arbitration.    
LEGAL
STANDARD
Under the FAA, “any doubts concerning the scope of arbitrable
issues should be resolved in favor of arbitration …”  (Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospital v. Mercury Constr. Corp. (1983) 460 U.S. 1, 24–25.)  This federal policy
favoring arbitration preempts any state law impediments to the policy’s
fulfillment.  If a state law
interferes with the FAA’s purpose of enforcing arbitration agreements according
to their terms, the FAA preempts the state law provision, no matter how
laudable the state law’s objectives.  (AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 352.)  Under the supremacy clause of the United States Constitution (art. VI,
cl. 2), the FAA requires any conflicting state law to
give way.  (Nitro-Lift Technologies, L. L. C. v. Howard (2012) 133 S. Ct. 500, 504).
However, while
the arbitration agreement here is governed by the FAA, the agreement may be
enforced via the summary procedures provided by California arbitration
law.  (Rosenthal v. Great Western
Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal. 4th 394,
409-410.)  It is a “general and
unassailable proposition . . . that States may establish the rules of procedure
governing litigation in their own courts,” even though the
controversy is governed by substantive federal law.  (Felder
v. Casey (1988) 487 U.S. 131, 138.)  By the same token, however, a state
procedural rule must give way “if it impedes the uniform application of the
federal statute essential to effectuate its purpose, even though the procedure
would apply to similar actions arising under state law.”  (McCarroll v. L.A. County etc. Carpenters (1957) 49 Cal. 2d 45, 61, 62.)  
“We think it plain the California
procedures for a summary determination of the petition to compel arbitration
serve to further, rather than defeat, the enforceability policy of the [FAA.]”  (Rosenthal,
14 Cal. 4th at 409.)  Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2 and 1290.2 are neutral
as between state and federal law claims for enforcement of arbitration
agreements.  (Id.)  “They display no hostility to arbitration as
an alternative to litigation; to the contrary, the summary procedure provided,
in which the existence and validity of the arbitration agreement is decided by
the court in the manner of a motion, is designed to further the use of private
arbitration as a means of resolving disputes more quickly and less expensively
than
through litigation.”  (Id.)
As
with federal law, under California law, public policy favors
arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of resolving private
disputes.  (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992)
3 Cal.4th 1, 8-9; AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion, 563
U.S. at 339.)  To further that policy, Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2 requires a
trial court to enforce a written arbitration agreement unless it finds (1) no
written agreement to arbitrate exists, (2) the right to compel arbitration has
been waived, (3) grounds exist for rescission of the agreement or (4) litigation
is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting
rulings on common issues.   
When
seeking to compel arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to
demonstrate the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance
of evidence.  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
836, 841-42; Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th
158, 164-65.)  It is sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of
the arbitration agreement or set forth the agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The burden then shifts to the opposing party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract
or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The trial court
then weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion to make a final
determination.  (Id.)  “California law, like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements[.]”  (Wagner
Const. Co. v. Pacific Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31 (internal
quotations omitted).) 
If
the court orders arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until
arbitration is completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
DISCUSSION
Existence of an Agreement
In
ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the Court must first determine
whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general
principles of California contract law help guide the court in making this
determination.  (Mendez v.
Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541; Victoria
v. Superior Court (1985) 40 Cal. 3d 734, 835.)   
Although
“[t]he law favors contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties” (Player
v. Geo. M. Brewster & Son, Inc. (1971) 18 Cal.App.3d 526, 534), “there
is no policy compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which
they have not agreed to arbitrate[.]”  (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal. App. 3d 350, 353.)  “[A]rbitration is a matter
of contract and a party cannot be required to submit to arbitration any dispute
which he has not agreed so to submit.”  (AT&T
Technologies v. Communications Workers (1986) 475 U.S. 643, 648 (citations
and internal quotations omitted); see also Sparks v. Vista Del Mar Child
& Family Services (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 1511, 1518 (“Because
arbitration is a contractual matter, a party that has not agreed to arbitrate a
controversy cannot be compelled to do
so”).)        
Here, Defendants have met their burden of
showing that an arbitration agreement exists.   Plaintiff
signed the Arbitration Agreement (Cox Decl., Ex. A, p. 3), and Plaintiff’s
opposition does not dispute the existence of the Arbitration Agreement.   
Arbitrability of Claims    
The Arbitration Agreement is broad enough to
cover Plaintiff’s suit.  The Arbitration
Agreement applies to any and all claims arising out of Plaintiff’s residence at
the Community.  (Cox Decl., Ex. A, p. 1.)
Possibility of Conflicting Rulings
            Plaintiff opposes the
motion to compel arbitration on the basis that there is a possibility of
conflicting rulings because Defendant AG Rancho Mirage, LLC (“AG Rancho Mirage”)
is not a party to the Arbitration Agreement. 
Plaintiff argues that there is a risk of conflicting rulings because the
claims against all Defendants arise from the same series of transactions and
involve common issues of law and fact. 
In support of this argument, Plaintiff cites Code of Civ. Proc. §
1281.2(c), which gives the Court discretion to deny a motion to compel
arbitration if there is the risk of conflicting rulings.  (See also Cronus Investments, Inc. v.
Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal.4th 376.)
            Defendants argue in
reply that Plaintiff’s arguments on this matter are unavailing because AG
Rancho Mirage has not appeared in the case and no default has been pursued
against it, making it seem as if Plaintiff does not intend to pursue his case
against AG Rancho Mirage.   Defendants also argue that there is no risk of
conflicting rulings because AG Rancho Mirage has not joined the issue, and AG
Rancho Mirage’s involvement is separate and distinct from the Atria Defendants’
involvement because Plaintiff’s residency at the two facilities did not
overlap.  Because of the lack of overlap,
Defendants argue that CCP § 1281.2(c) does not warrant denial of the motion.
            Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that there is not sufficient overlap or risk of conflicting
rulings to warrant denial of the motion on this basis.
Waiver of Right to Compel Arbitration
            Next, Plaintiff argues
that the Atria Defendants have waived their right to arbitration because they
have engaged in litigation activities like responding to the complaint and
serving initial discovery requests. 
Plaintiff also argues that Defendants delayed in filing the motion to
compel arbitration.  Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that he would be prejudiced because he incurred significant
legal expenses responding to the initial discovery requests.  However, as Defendants note in their reply,
Plaintiff would have to respond to these requests whether the case proceeded in
court or went to arbitration. 
            Furthermore, Plaintiff
does not cite any legal authority to support his contention that Defendants
waived their right to arbitrate.
            Accordingly, the Court
finds that there is not sufficient basis to find that Defendants waived their
right to arbitration.
Right to a Jury Trial Pursuant to California Health and Safety Code §
1569.269(c)
            Plaintiff argues that residents
of residential care facilities cannot be required to waive their rights,
including their right to jury trials, and cites Cal. Health and Safety Code §
1569.269(c), which states “No provision of a contract of admission, including
all documents that a resident or the resident’s representative is required to
sign as part of the contract for, or as a condition of, admission to a
residential care facility for the elderly, shall require that a resident waive
benefits or rights to which they are entitled under this chapter or provided by
federal or other state law or regulation.”
            However, as Defendants
note in their reply, the text of the Arbitration Agreement explicitly states
that Plaintiff is not required to sign it to reside at the Community.  Specifically, the Arbitration Agreement states,
“VOLUNTARY AGREEMENT. This Agreement is entered into voluntarily by the Parties
and is not a prerequisite to residing at the Community or receiving services at
the Community. Refusal by Resident, Responsible Party, and/or Resident’s
designee shall not affect residency status.”  (Cox Decl., Ex. A, p. 2.)  The terms of the Arbitration Agreement make
it clear that Plaintiff was not required to sign the Agreement and that his
signing of the Agreement was entirely voluntary.  Plaintiff has not provided any evidence that
would demonstrate that it was not voluntary.
            Accordingly, Cal.
Health and Safety Code § 1569.269(c) would not apply.
Unconscionability 
The Court
must next consider whether the Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable.  Unconscionability generally includes the
absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with
contract terms that unreasonably favor the other party.  (Carboni v. Arrospide (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 76, 82-83.)  Unconscionability
has both a ‘procedural’ and a ‘substantive’ element.”  (A & M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp.
(1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486.)  An
agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable only if both procedural and substantive
unconscionability is shown.  (Stirlen
v. Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1533.)  
Procedural
unconscionability focuses on whether there is “oppression” arising from an
inequality of bargaining power or “surprise” arising from buried terms in a
complex printed form.  (Id. at
1280.)  Substantive unconscionability
addresses the existence of overly harsh or one-sided terms.  (Id.) 

Plaintiff
has the burden of proving both procedural and substantive unconscionability. (Crippen
v. Central Valley RV Outlet. Inc. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1165).  Both, however, need not be present to the
same degree.  A sliding scale is applied
so that the “more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Morris
v. Redwood Empire Bancorp (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1317; see also A & M Produce Co., 135
Cal.App.3d at 486.)
Here, the
only arguments that Plaintiff makes regarding unconscionability are that the
Agreement was procedurally unconscionable because it was presented to Plaintiff
as a condition of admission to the facility, and the Agreement was
substantively unconscionable because the Agreement imposes limitations on
Plaintiff’s rights.
First, as
already established, Plaintiff’s signing of the Agreement was voluntary and was
not a condition of his residence, so the Agreement is not procedurally
unconscionable.  As for substantive
unconscionability, Plaintiff’s opposition does not elaborate on this contention
beyond saying that the Agreement included a waiver of the right to a jury trial
and is unfair and one-sided.  This is not
sufficient to demonstrate that the Agreement was substantively unconscionable.
Accordingly,
the Arbitration Agreement is not unconscionable.
               Stay of
Proceedings
Code Civ. Proc. §1281.4 provides
that if the court has ordered the arbitration of a controversy, it “shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.”  Therefore,
pursuant to Section 1281.4, the Court stays this action pending conclusion of
the arbitration proceedings.
 
CONCLUSION
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS Defendant
WG Hacienda SH LP dba Atria Hacienda and Atria Management Company, LLC’s motion
to compel arbitration and stays the action pending arbitration.  
 
DATED: January 15, 2025                                                   ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court