 Case Number:  24SMCV02797    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles – West District  
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205 
 
 



BERNARDS BUILDERS, INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
SEED LA FACILITIES LLC, et al.,
                        Defendants.


  Case No.:  24SMCV02797
  Hearing Date:  01/15/25
  Trial Date: 
  Not Set
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
 DEFENDANT SEED LA FACILITIES LLC'S
  NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION TO EXPUNGE BERNARDS BUILDERS, INC.’S MECHANICS
  LIEN
 



 
BACKGROUND
            On June 11, 2024, plaintiff Bernards
Builders, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed its complaint against Seed LA Facilities LLC
(Defendant). (Compl. p. 1.) On October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint with the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract,
(2) Violation of Prompt Payment Statutes, and (3) Foreclosure on Mechanics
Lien. (First Amend. Compl. p. 1.) Part of the complaint involves a dispute over
a $10,520,371 mechanic’s lien. (First Amend. Compl. ¶ 33.) The dispute began
after Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a contract to construct a building
and its amenities on real property (Property) owned by the County of Los
Angeles (the County) but leased to Defendant. (First Amend. Compl. ¶¶ 8, 28;
Motion p. 3.) Plaintiff agreed to act as the contractor. (First Amend. Compl. ¶
8.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant breached the contract by providing incomplete
or inaccurate contract documents, not providing timely and adequate design,
engineering, and administration services, not furnishing and approving
information in a timely manner, remitting payment in accordance with the
contract, and issuing change orders costing additional time and money. (First
Amend. Compl. ¶ 16.) 
Plaintiff
seeks, in part, to foreclose on Plaintiff’s $10,520,371 amended mechanic’s lien
(the Lien) recorded against the Property owned by the County, which Defendant
leased. (Motion p. 3.) Originally, the Lien was $13,665,675, as filed on May
21, 2024. (Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) Exh. 2.) The Lien describes the
parcel of land and names Defendant as owner but does not mention that
Defendant’s property interest is a leasehold and does not name the County as
owner. (RJN Exhs. 1-2.) On September 17, 2024, Defendant’s counsel asked
Plaintiff to immediately release or amend the Lien “to clarify it is expressly
limited to [Defendant]’s leasehold interest and not recorded against the
Property.” (Motion p. 5.) Plaintiff refused. (Motion p. 5.) Plaintiff did not
file an opposition. 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            “Judicial
notice may be taken of the following matters to the extent that they are not
embraced within Section 451: … (c) Official acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States[,] (d) Records of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States[,] … [and] (h) Facts
and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.”  (Evid. Code §§
452, subds. (c), (d), (h).) 
“The trial court shall take judicial notice
of any matter specified in Section 452 if a party requests it and:
(a) Gives each adverse party sufficient notice of the request, through the
pleadings or otherwise, to enable such adverse party to prepare to meet the
request; and (b) Furnishes the court with sufficient information to enable it
to take judicial notice of the matter.” (Evid. Code § 453.) 
The court GRANTS judicial notice of all
requests. Request Nos. 1 and 3 can be granted under Evidence Code section 452, subds.
(c) and (d), because the liens and lease involved are recorded documents that
are official acts of the executive branch not reasonably subject to dispute and
are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy. (RJN
Exhs. 1-4.) Request No. 2. can be granted under Evidence Code section
452, subd. (d), because the first amended complaint is a record of this court. (RJN
Exh. 3.)
MOTION TO EXPUNGE MECHANIC’S LIEN LEGAL STANDARD
Sovereign
Immunity
            Under California law, principles of sovereign immunity
generally prevent the assertion of liens against public property unless
expressly provided by statute. (In re South Bay Expressway, L.P. (2010) 434
B.R. 589, 601, citing Mayrhofer v. Board of Educ. (1891) 89 Cal. 110,
112.) “Because of sovereign immunity, any right to assert a mechanic’s lien
against public property must be expressly provided for by statute.” (Ibid.,
citing Mayrhofer v. Board of Educ., supra, 89 Cal. at 112-113.) 
            However, “the assertion of mechanic’s liens solely against a
private property interest in public property does not implicate principles of
sovereign immunity.” (In re South Bay Expressway, L.P., supra, 434
B.R. at 601.) In Industrial Asphalt, Inc. v. Garrett Corp. (1986)
180 Cal.App.3d 1001,1004, the court allowed the plaintiff to assert the mechanic’s
lien against a private entity’s leasehold interest in public real property at
Los Angeles International Airport. The plaintiff did not assert it against the
government. (Ibid.) 
            In addition, the
bankruptcy court of In re South Bay Expressway, L.P. (2010) 434 B.R. 589,
596 found that the plaintiff properly asserted a mechanic’s lien on the private
company’s interest because it explicitly provided: “NOTWITHSTANDING THE
FOREGOING, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, CLAIMANT DOES NOT ASSERT A
PRESENT MECHANICS LIEN ON REAL PROPERTY WHICH IS OWNED BY THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA OR ANY OTHER GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY WHOSE PROPERTY IS NOT SUBJECT TO MECHANICS
LIENS UNDER CALIFORNIA LAW.”
 
 
Overstated Liens
            The California Constitution provides: “Mechanics, persons
furnishing materials, artisans, and laborers of every class, shall have a lien
upon the property which they have bestowed labor or furnished material for the
value of such labor done and material furnished; and the Legislature shall
provide, by law, for the speedy and efficient enforcement of such liens.” (Cal.
Const., art. XIV, § 3.) The purpose of a mechanics’ lien is to prevent unjust
enrichment of a property owner at the expense of laborers or material
suppliers. (Abbett Electric Corp. v. California Fed. Savings &
Loan Assn. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 355, 360.) “The mechanics’ lien is the
only creditors’ remedy stemming from constitutional command and our courts “have
uniformly classified the mechanics” lien laws as remedial legislation, to be
liberally construed for the protection of laborers and materialmen.” (Wm. R.
Clarke Corp. v. Safeco Ins. Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 882, 889.)
“A
motion to remove a mechanic’s lien is recognized as a device that allows the
property owner to obtain speedy relief from an unjustified lien or a lien of an
unjustified amount without waiting for trial on the action to foreclose the
lien. (Lambert v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 383, 387.) The
inquiry upon such motion is likewise limited to the ‘probable validity’ of the
lien. (Id.) However, unlike the grant of a motion to expunge the notice
of lis pendens, the grant of a motion to remove a mechanic’s lien is
essentially a judgment on the underlying foreclosure action that no lien
exists—a judgment that, upon recordation, removes the lien from the public
records. And, that judgment is a final, appealable judgment for
which writ relief would ordinarily be denied. (Howard S. Wright Construction
Co. v. Superior Court (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 314, 318.) The lien
claimant has the burden of establishing the validity of the lien. (Selby
Constructors v. McCarthy (1979) 91 Cal.App.3d 517, 526.) However, the
actual amount due on the lien presents a question of fact for the trial court. (Howard
A. Deason & Co. v. Costa Tierra Ltd (1969) 2 Cal.App.3d 742,
754-757.)
“The
lien is a direct lien for the lesser of the following amounts: (1) [t]he
reasonable value of the work provided by the claimant” or “(2) [t]he price
agreed to by the claimant and the person that contracted for the work.” (Civ.
Code,[1] § 8430, subd.
(a).) Work “means labor, service, equipment, or material provided to a work of
improvement.” (§ 8448.)
In
addition, “[e]xcept as provided in subdivisions (b) and (c),
erroneous information contained in a claim of lien relating to the claimant's
demand, credits and offsets deducted, the work provided, or the description of
the site, does not invalidate the claim of lien. … (c) Any person who shall
willfully include in a claim of lien labor, services, equipment, or materials
not furnished for the property described in the claim, shall thereby forfeit
the person’s lien.” (§ 8422, subds. (a), (c).) 
Section
8422 does not define willfully. However, “[i]n common usage the word ‘willful’
is considered synonymous with such words as ‘voluntary,’ ‘deliberate,’ and ‘intentional.’
[Citation.] The word “willful” is widely used in the law, and, although it has
not by any means been given a perfectly consistent interpretation, it is
generally understood to refer to conduct that is not merely negligent.” (McLaughlin
v. Richard (1988) 486 U.S. 128, 133, citation omitted.) 
ANALYSIS
Sovereign
Immunity
Sovereign
immunity prevents the assertion of the mechanic’s lien against the Property, because
the County owns the Property, Plaintiff asserts the mechanic’s lien against a public
property interest, and the government does not authorize the suit under a
statute.
            Neither Plaintiff nor Defendant
dispute the fact that the County owns the Property. Plaintiff did not file an
opposition to this motion to suggest otherwise. Instead, the contract provides
that Plaintiff “understands that … [Defendant] has leased the Property site
from the County.” (RJN Exh. 3, §§
3.17, 11.3.1.) Defendant
has also provided a copy of its lease with the County and the Lien to show
Plaintiff is placing a lien on public property. The lease states, “THIS
MEMORANDUM OF LEASE, dated as of April 30, 2021, is made by the COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES (“Lessor”) and SEED LA Facilities LLC, a California limited liability
company (Lessee”).” (RJN Exh.
4.) The lease describes the land as follows: “THAT CERTAIN PARCEL OF LAND, IN
THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES, COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, BEING
THOSE PORTIONS OF LOTS 30 THROUGH 34, 37, AND 80, VERMONT AVENUE, AND THE
NORTH-SOUTH AND EAST-WEST ALLEYS ADJACENT TO SAID LOTS, AS SHOWN ON MAP OF SUNNY SIDE PARK, FILED IN BOOK 6, PAGE
8, OF MAPS, IN THE OFFICE OF THE COUNTY RECORDER OF SAID COUNTY … .” (RJN Exh. 4, emphasis added.)
Plaintiff’s mechanic’s lien described the Property in the following way: “LOTS
30 THROUGH 37 AND 77 THROUGH 87, OF
SUNNY SIDE PARK IN THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES, COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, AS PER MAP
RECORDED BOOK 6, PAGE 8 OF MAPS, IN THE OFFICE OF THE COUNTY RECORDER OF SAID
COUNTY.” (RJN Exh. 2, emphasis
added.) Both describe the same area of land.    
The Lien
is not enforceable under the principles of sovereign immunity. As shown above
and seen in the Request for Judicial Notice, Exhibit 2, Plaintiff only places
the Lien on the Property. Unlike In re South Bay Expressway, L.P., the Lien does
not contain language such as “it does not assert a mechanic's lien on real
property which is now owned and was owned by the State of California or any
other governmental entity whose property is not subject to mechanic's liens
under California law” in the Lien itself. (In re South Bay Expressway, L.P., supra, 434 B.R. at p. 596.) Thus, the Lien does not
express that it is only pursuing the leasehold interest.
            Although the complaint claims the Lien
only targets Defendant’s interest in the Property, the Lien itself only
discusses and places a lien on the Property. There is no language in the Lien
to suggest it is not targeting the real Property. (See RJN Exh. 2.) In addition, the complaint
mentions “an ownership interest,” not Defendant’s leasehold interest. (RJN Exh.
3, ¶ 37.) As mentioned above, the Lien did not include the language regarding
leasehold interest. Therefore, the Lien implicates sovereign immunity unless the government expressly allows
Plaintiff’s Lien by statute. Plaintiff’s complaint does not provide this
statute nor does any other document before this court. 
            For these reasons, the principle of
sovereign immunity prevents Plaintiff’s Lien from being asserted against the
Property and makes it invalid. The Court GRANTS Defendant Seed LA Facilities LLC's
Motion to Expunge Bernards Builders, Inc.’s Mechanics Lien.
CONCLUSION
Defendant Seed LA Facilities LLC’s Notice of
Motion and Motion to Expunge Bernards Builders, Inc.’s Mechanics Lien is GRANTED.

 
Dated: January 15, 2025
__________________________________________
Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge of the Superior Court


