 Case Number:  23STCV15242    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 



REDWOOD LIQUIDATING CO.
  
         vs.
 
PAUL HASTINGS LLP and DOES 1-20, inclusive. 

 


 Case
  No.:   23STCV15242
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: April 2, 2024




 
            Attorney Michelle
M. Sloss’s Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice for Plaintiff Redwood Liquidating
Co. is GRANTED. 
 
            On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff Redwood Liquidating Co.
(Plaintiff) filed suit against Defendant Paul Hastings LLP (Defendant) and DOES
1-20 alleging legal malpractice. 
 
            Michelle M. Sloss seeks an order permitting her to appear
as counsel pro hac vice on Plaintiff’s behalf in this action. 
 
Legal Standard
 
California
Rules of Court 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another
jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of written
application upon notice by mail to all interested parties, as well as service
on the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that
attorney is not a resident of California, does not work in California, and does
not perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities
in the State. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.)¿ 
 
The
written application must provide the following information: (1) applicant
attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the
applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) representation
that the attorney applicant is a member in good standing in the courts of
admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (4) the
title of each court and action in which the applicant attorney has appeared pro
hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if any; and (5) the name,
address, and telephone number of the active California State Bar member who is
counsel of record in the local action.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40(d).)¿ 
 
Discussion 
 
            This Application is made on the grounds that Michelle M.
Sloss is a member of the New York bar and meets the conditions for admission in
this case as counsel pro hac vice. 
 
            Sloss’s Application indicates that she has been admitted
to practice in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
since May 3, 2022 and the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New
York since May 18, 2022. (Sloss Decl. ¶ 3.) Furthermore, Sloss declares she is
a member in good standing with the New York State Bar and never been suspended
or disbarred in any court. (Id. ¶¶ 3-4.) Sloss also declares that in the
past two years she has not applied to appear and have not appeared, as pro
hac vice counsel in a California Court. (Id. ¶ 7.) Moreover, Sloss
provides her residential and office addresses, and telephone number. (Id.
¶¶ 5-6.) Similarly, Sloss provides the address and telephone number for Michael
E. Papas of Lesnick Prince & Pappas LLP, who is the active California State
Bar member who is counsel of record in this action. (Id.) Additionally,
the proof of service attached to the application indicates that all interest
parties and the California State Bar in San Francisco were provided notice.
Lastly, Pappas declares that Sloss paid the $50.00 fee to the California State
Bar for this application. (Pappas Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
            The Court finds that Michelle M. Sloss’s application
complies with the requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).
 
            In light of the foregoing, the application to appear pro
hac vice is GRANTED.  
 
 
 
Dated:  April 2, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517. 
 