  Case Number:  20STCV03642    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 



SANG RIM SON, as Trustee of THE SANG RIM SON LIVING
  TRUST UA dated 9/20/18
  
         vs.
 
ADAM JEFFREY HALL; BROKER SOLUTIONS, INC. dba NEW
  AMERICAN FUNDING; PACIFIC TITLE COMPANY; MORTGAGE ELECTRONIC REGISTRATION
  SYSTEMS, INC., acting solely as a nominee under Deed of Trust dated 11/15/19,
  for BROKER SOLUTIONS, INC. dba NEW AMERICAN FUNDING and its successors and
  assigns; and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive.

 


 Case
  No.:   21STCV17667
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: April 2, 2024




 
            Defendant Adam
Jeffrey Hall’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED. 
 
            On January 29, 2020, Plaintiff Sang Rim Son, as Trustee
of the Sang Rim Son Living Trust UA dated 9/20/18 (Plaintiff) filed this suit
against Defendants Adam Jeffrey Hall; Broker Solutions, Inc. dba New American
Funding; Pacific Title Company; Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc.,
acting solely as a nominee under Deed of Trust dated 11/15/19, for Broker
Solutions, Inc. dba New American Funding and its successors and assigns; and
DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, alleging: (1) money due on default on note; (2)
fraud; (3) negligence; (4) financial abuse of elder; (5) double damages for
wrongful taking, concealment, or disposition of property of elder – Cal.
Probate Code § 859; (6) treble damages for unfair or deceptive practices
against senior citizen – Cal. Civ. Code § 3345; (7) quiet title; and (8)
cancellation of written instruments. 
 
            Defendant Adam Jeffrey Hall (Hall) moves for an order
expunging the Notice of Pendency of Action (Lis Pendens) recorded on the
property located at 2052 S. Hobart Blvd, Los Angeles, CA 90018. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure Section 405.30, “At any time after notice of
pendency of action has been recorded, any party, or any nonparty with an
interest in the real property affected thereby, may apply to the court in which
the action is pending to expunge the notice…The claimant shall have the burden
of proof under sections 405.31 and 405.32” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.30.) The court
must order the notice expunged if the court finds that the “pleading on which
the notice is based does not contain a real property claim” or “claimant has
not established by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the
real property claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.31, 405.32.)  
 
Discussion 
 
            This motion is made on the grounds that: (1) the seller’s
case was dismissed for failure to appear and Hall’s counterclaim was settled,
concluding all legal matters between parties; (2) there is no reasonable
probability seller will prevail on the merits; and (3) the existence of the Lis
Pendens is causing substantial prejudice to Hall’s ability to sell the
property, hindering his right to enjoy and dispose of his real property.
 
            The motion is unopposed.
 
            A “real property claim” is defined in relevant part as a
cause of action that affects title to or the right to possession of a specific
real property. (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.4.) And with respect to a real property
claim, “probable validity” means “is it more likely than not that the claimant
will obtain judgment against defendant on the claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
405.3.) To determine whether the complaint involves a real property claim, the
court considers the allegations of the complaint. (Urez Corp. v. Superior
Court (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 1141, 1149.) [“The issue is simply whether the
action as pleaded is one that affects title or possession of the subject
property.”] 
            
            Hall argues the initiation of the lawsuit by seller’s
attorney, encompassing all parties raises doubts regarding the substantive
foundation of the real property claim. Specifically, Hall contends subsequent
dismissals of all other parties, leaving him as the sole-countersuer,
underscore the insufficiency of evidentiary support. Similarly, Hall contends
seller’s inability to settle legal bills resulted in the dismissal of her
attorney and the case itself due to her failure to appear, which highlights
seller’s lack of commitment and capacity to pursue a legitimate claim.
Furthermore, Hall asserts his proactive choice to settle the counterclaim with
the seller signifies a lack of confidence in the strength of the real property
claim. Lastly, Hall argues that presence of the Lis Pendens impedes his right
to enjoy and dispose of his real property, and subjects him to unwarranted
financial and marketability challenges. 
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff cannot establish by preponderance
of the evidence the probable validity of a real property claim because the
Court dismissed the case in its entirety on November 12, 2020. 
 
            In light of the foregoing, the motion to expunge lis
pendens is GRANTED.  
            
 
Dated:  April 2, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org by 4 p.m. the day prior
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion
submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517. 