  Case Number:  21GDCV00585    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF CREDITORS ADJUSTMENT BUREAU INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL
FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (SET FOUR)I.        INTRODUCTION
          This is breach of
contract action arising from a written agreement between State Compensation
Insurance Fund (“Assignor” or “SCIF”) and Defendants Bedrock Group, Inc. a/k/a
Bedrock Group Inc. (“Bedrock”), Frontiers Group, Inc. a/k/a Frontiers Group
Inc. (“Frontiers”) (collectively, “Defendants”), wherein Assignor agreed to
provide workers compensation insurance to Defendants in exchange for payment of
premiums for the periods of 3/30/18-3/30/19 and 3/30/19-11/7/19. Plaintiff
Creditors Adjustment Bureau, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants and DOES 1
through 10, inclusive on April 27, 2021, alleging causes of action for (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Open Book Account; (3) Account Stated; and (4)
Reasonable Value. 
 
          Plaintiff alleges SCIF assigned its
rights to the agreement between SCIF and Defendants for payments of premiums.
(Compl., ¶¶1, 4, 11.) Defendants accepted workers compensation insurance
policies bearing Policy Nos. 9156407-18 (“First Policy”) and 9156407-19
(“Second Policy”) (collectively, “Policies”), which provided for payment of
premiums. (Id. at ¶12.) Defendants breached the First Policy by failing
to pay the premiums leaving a balance of $160,494.25. (Id. at ¶14.)
Defendants breached the Second Policy by failing to submit to and allow SCIF to
access the records of Defendants’ business operations and payroll for purposes
of conducting an audit, thus the estimated balance owed is $739.56. (Id.
at ¶15.) The interest rate from the Due Date on the Policies is ten (10 percent
per annum. (Id.)
 
          On June 22, 2021, Defendant Bedrock
filed an Answer. 
 
          On March 11, 2024, Defendant Bedrock’s
Counsel Peter Frederick Lindborg filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. The
motion was taken off calendar on May 25, 2024. 
 
          On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set
Four). On June 21, 2024, Defendant
Bedrock filed an opposition. No reply
has been filed. 
 
          The jury trial is set for December 3,
2024. 
 
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
Code
Civil Procedure Section 2030.300 governs motions to compel further responses to
interrogatories. It provides as follows:
“(a)
On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any
of the following apply:
(1)
An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
(2)
An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.
(3)
An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.”
Motions
must be made within 45 days of any response or supplemental response (Subdivision
(c)) and must be accompanied by a declaration demonstrating the parties met and
conferred to attempt informal resolution; they must also be accompanied by a
separate statement or concise outline. (Subdivision (b).) 
 
On the 45-day limit: Golf
& Pro Shop, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 127
 
A
responding party is under a statutory obligation to provide responses that are
“as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the
responding party permits.” (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.220, subd. (a).) Further, “If
only part of an interrogatory is objectionable, the remainder of the
interrogatory shall be answered,” and “the specific ground for the objection
shall be set forth clearly in the response.” (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.240,
subds. (a)-(b), italics added.) That is, to be code-compliant, a response
should state all available information available and, if there is additional
responsive information that is being withheld based on a privilege, it should
so state and identify the privilege under which information is being withheld.
Prefacing a substantive response with the words, “subject to and without
waiving” all objections is not helpful in terms of understanding whether
additional information is being withheld based on a privilege, and which
privilege is at issue.
           
III.     ANALYSIS
          On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff served its Fourth Set of
Special Interrogatories (“SROGs”) on Defendant Bedrock. (Frischer Decl., ¶2,
Ex. 1.) The parties engaged in meet and confer process pertaining to these
discovery requests, which included extensions for supplemental responses. (Id.
at ¶¶3-6, Exs. 2-5.) On February 5, 2024, Defendant Bedrock’s counsel indicated
he would be filing a motion to withdraw as counsel and Plaintiff granted a
final extension to provide supplemental responses. (Id. at ¶7, Ex. 6.) Plaintiff
avers Defendant Bedrock’s counsel failed to provide any supplemental responses
or respond to the final meet and confer efforts. (Id. at ¶8, Ex. 7.)
 
          Plaintiff now moves for an order compelling Defendant
Bedrock to provide further responses SROGs Nos. 60 through 210. The following
interrogatories seek information pertaining to the check number and amount paid
to Defendant Bedrock’s employees; Defendant Bedrock’s contractors’ license
numbers; duties and responsibilities of Defendant Bedrock’s contractors from
the time period of the Policies. Plaintiff asserts the information sought by
these requests are narrowly tailored to ascertain where Defendant Bedrock
disagrees with either the auditing or invoicing of the 2018 audited policy and
to obtain precise, relevant, and necessary information Defendant Bedrock relies
upon in support thereof. Furthermore, Plaintiff argues the discovery requested
will allow Assignor SCIF to proceed with the required audit of the Second
Policy.
 
In
response to these requests, Defendant Bedrock stated:
“Responding
Party objects to this Interrogatory on the grounds that it is overbroad, vague,
ambiguous, argumentative, is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence, and invades the privacy rights of third parties. In
particular, the matters at issue in this action have been the subject of an
ongoing audit which has been, and is continuing to be, conducted by Propounding
Party’s assignor since early 2020 and, during the course of the audit, the
scope and number of potential issues between the parties has been narrowed.
During the course of that audit, Responding party has produced voluminous
documents to Propounding Party’s assignor including, but not limited to, the
documents from which the information requested in this  interrogatory can be derived. As the answer
to this interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a
compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents of previously
sent by Responding Party to Propounding Party’s assignor including, but not
limited to Responding Party’s payroll register, and the burden or expense of
preparing or making such compilation, abstract, audit, or summary would be
substantially the same for the Propounding Party as for Responding Party,
Responding Party directs Propounding to the foregoing documents pursuant to the
provisions of CCP § 2030.230, which is incorporated herein by this reference.”
 
In
opposition, Defendant Bedrock asserts the present motion seeks an audit by
litigation. More specifically, Defendant Bedrock argues no good cause exists
for the present motion because Defendant Bedrock has already supplied SCIF with
information which responds to every single one of the discovery requests which
are the subject of the instant motion during the completed 2018 and 2019
audits. 
 
The
Court finds that supplemental responses are warranted. First, the requests at
issue are not overbroad, vague, and/or ambiguous because they are limited to
the time period of the Policies and narrowly tailored to information about
specifically named employees and contractors of Defendant Bedrock. Furthermore,
Defendant Bedrock makes no argument that it cannot provide an intelligible
response to such requests. In fact, Defendant Bedrock simply contends it has
provided the information requested to Assignor SCIF already. Moreover, the fact
that the information and/or documentation requested by Plaintiff is purportedly
available from Assignor SCIF does not relieve Defendant Bedrock from turning
the information over “if the information is less easily available from the
other source than it is from the party.” ([8:1023] Responding to
Interrogatories:, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 8F-5; see also Bunnell
v. Superior Court (California Life Ins. Co.) (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d
720, 723-724.) Eventhough Plaintiff does not assert the information is less
easily available from Assignor SCIF, the moving papers suggest that Assignor
SCIF does not have the information and/or documentation sought in these
requests as they keep asking Plaintiff for additional information and
documentation to complete the 2019 audit of the Second Policy. (Plf. Sep. Stmt.
at 11:22-12:1-9.) 
In
addition, objections for being “overbroad,” “burdensome,” or “oppressive” are
only valid when the responding party is asserting an undue burden based
on the “quantum of work required” to satisfy the production. (West Pico
Furniture Co. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) Defendant
Bedrock merely argues the documents are voluminous and an unnecessary expense. Finally,
the parties do not dispute initial premiums are based on an estimate of factors
and actual earned premiums are determined after the workers compensation policy
expires and an audit of the insured’s operation and payroll records is
completed. (Mot. at 12:15-19; Opp’n at 2:10-21.) As such, the checks paid to
Defendant Bedrock’s employees and contractors, and amount of those checks are
reasonable calculated to lead to admissible evidence pertaining to what
Defendant Bedrock’s actual earned premiums were for the Second Policy, which
Plaintiff argues Defendant Bedrock refuses to provide and SCIF claims it does
not have to complete the 2019 audit. (Mot. at 3:20-24; Plf. Sep. Stmt. at 11:22-12:1-9.)
 
Therefore,
Defendant Bedrock’s responses to SROG Nos. 60 through 210 are insufficient. 
 
 
 
Monetary
Sanctions
Code
Civil Procedure Section 2030.300, subdivision (d) provides for the issuance of
monetary sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further responses, unless the court finds the party who would
be subject to sanctions acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make sanctions unjust.
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel of record, Michael D. Frischer seeks $2,311.95 in sanctions
against Defendant Bedrock for (1) 3.5 hours reviewing Defendant Bedrock’s
responses, researching and drafting the detailed initial meet and confer,
subsequent emails, drafting the instant motion and separate statement; (2) 1.0
hour preparing and for appearance at the hearing at an hourly rate of $500.00;
and (3) filing fee for $61.95. (Frischer Decl., ¶¶9-11.) Counsel Frischer’s
request is reasonable based on his 30 years of litigation experience and
comparable rates set forth in  National
Association of Legal Fee Analysis. (Id.) Moreover, Defendant Bedrock did
not act with substantial justification by providing meritless objections to the
discovery requests at issue as discussed above. Further, Defendant Bedrock does
not argue any other circumstance to support the notion that imposing sanctions
would be unjust. Therefore, the Court awards Plaintiff sanction in the amount
of $2,311.95.
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment Bureau Inc.’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set Four).
 
Defendant Bedrock Group, Inc. is ordered to provide
verified supplemental responses to Special Interrogatories (Set Four) Nos. 60
through 210 within 30 days of this order. Defendant is further ordered to pay
sanctions in the amount of $2,311.95 within 30 days of this order.
 
          Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment Bureau
Inc. to give notice of this order.
          
Dated:  October 10, 2024
 
                                                     
                                                                             JARED D. MOSES  JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT                                                        [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF CREDITORS ADJUSTMENT BUREAU INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL
FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET FOUR)I.        INTRODUCTION          This is breach of contract action arising
from a written agreement between State Compensation Insurance Fund (“Assignor”
or “SCIF”) and Defendants Bedrock Group, Inc. a/k/a Bedrock Group Inc.
(“Bedrock”), Frontiers Group, Inc. a/k/a Frontiers Group Inc. (“Frontiers”)
(collectively, “Defendants”), wherein Assignor agreed to provide workers
compensation insurance to Defendants in exchange for payment of premiums for
the periods of 3/30/18-3/30/19 and 3/30/19-11/7/19. Plaintiff Creditors
Adjustment Bureau, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants and DOES 1 through 10,
inclusive on April 27, 2021, alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of
Contract; (2) Open Book Account; (3) Account Stated; and (4) Reasonable Value.            Plaintiff alleges SCIF assigned its
rights to the agreement between SCIF and Defendants for payments of premiums.
(Compl., ¶¶1, 4, 11.) Defendants accepted workers compensation insurance
policies bearing Policy Nos. 9156407-18 (“First Policy”) and 9156407-19
(“Second Policy”) (collectively, “Policies”), which provided for payment of
premiums. (Id. at ¶12.) Defendants breached the First Policy by failing
to pay the premiums leaving a balance of $160,494.25. (Id. at ¶14.)
Defendants breached the Second Policy by failing to submit to and allow SCIF to
access the records of Defendants’ business operations and payroll for purposes
of conducting an audit, thus the estimated balance owed is $739.56. (Id.
at ¶15.) The interest rate from the Due Date on the Policies is ten (10 percent
per annum. (Id.)           On June 22, 2021, Defendant Bedrock
filed an Answer.            On March 11, 2024, Defendant Bedrock’s
Counsel Peter Frederick Lindborg filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. The
motion was taken off calendar on May 25, 2024.            On April 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
Documents (Set Four). On June 21, 2024, Defendant
Bedrock filed an opposition. No reply
has been filed.            The jury trial is set for December 3,
2024.   II.      LEGAL
STANDARD          A party responding to requests for inspection must either
provide a statement of compliance, represent that it lacks the ability to
comply, or object. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210.)          - If a party responds with a statement of compliance, the
statement must indicate whether production will be allowed in whole or in part and
that all documents in the responding party’s possession, custody or control to
which no objection is being made will be included in the production. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.220.)          - If a party responds that a particular demand cannot be
complied with it must include a representation that a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry have been made and that the inability to comply is because
the item has never existed, has been lost, stolen, or misplaced, or has never
been in or is no longer in the responding party’s possession, custody, or
control; such response must also identify the name and address of any person or
entity known or believed to have possession, custody, or control of the item or
category of item.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.)          - If a response includes objections, a privilege log
identifying documents being withheld must be provided. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240.)          When a party propounding demands for inspection deems
responses to the responses to be incomplete or evasive, or deems objections to
be without merit, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
further responses. Such motion must set forth facts showing good cause for the
discovery, be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, and include a
separate statement. Such motion must also be made within 45 days of verified
responses or supplemental responses, or on or before any specific later date
the parties have agreed to in writing. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subds. (a)-(c).) III.     ANALYSIS          On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff served its Fourth Demand for
Identification, Production, Inspection and Copying of Documents and Other
Things (“Request for Production of Documents” or “RFPs”) on Defendant Bedrock.
(Frischer Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.) The parties engaged in meet and confer process
pertaining to these discovery requests, which included extensions for
supplemental responses. (Id. at ¶¶3-6, Exs. 2-5.) On February 5, 2024,
Defendant Bedrock’s counsel indicated he would be filing a motion to withdraw
as counsel and Plaintiff granted a final extension to provide supplemental
responses. (Id. at ¶7, Ex. 6.) Plaintiff avers Defendant Bedrock’s
counsel failed to provide any supplemental responses or respond to the final
meet and confer efforts. (Id. at ¶8, Ex. 7.)          Plaintiff now moves for an order compelling Defendant
Bedrock to provide further responses and to produce documents for Request for
Production of Documents (“RFP”) Nos. 57 through 190. The following requests
seek Defendant Bedrock’s employees timecards/payroll records and checks issued
to employees during the periods the Policies were in effective. Plaintiff
contends the requested information and documents are narrowly tailored to
ascertain where Defendant Bedrock disagrees with either the auditing or invoicing
of the 2018 audited policy and to obtain the documentation Defendant Bedrock
relies upon in support thereof. Furthermore, Plaintiff argues the discovery
requested will allow Assignor SCIF to proceed with the required audit of the
Second Policy.  In
response to these requests, Defendant Bedrock stated:“Responding
Party objects to this Demand on the grounds that it is overbroad, vague,
ambiguous, argumentative, is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence, purports to require the production of documents which
are reasonably available to the Propounding Party through other means which
would not subject Responding Party to unreasonable annoyance, oppression,
burden and expense. In particular, the matters at issue in this action have
been the subject of an ongoing audit which has been, and is continuing to be,
conducted by Propounding Party’s assignor since early 2020 and, during the
course of the audit, the scope and number of potential issues between the
parties has been narrowed. During the course of that audit, Responding Party
has produced voluminous documents to Propounding Party’s assignor including,
but not limited to, the documents described in this specific request. Thus, not
only are the documents requested [equally] available to Propounding Party,
requiring [Responding] party to produce them at this point is not only unduly
burdensome, but also exceeds the scope of discovery because the documents
requested have no bearing, directly or indirectly, on any of the issues in
dispute between the parties which required resolution before the finalization
of the audit and therefore, the request is not reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence.” In
opposition, Defendant Bedrock asserts the present motion seeks an audit by
litigation. More specifically, Defendant Bedrock argues no good cause exists
for the present motion because Defendant Bedrock has already supplied SCIF with
information which responds to every single one of the discovery requests which
are the subject of the instant motion during the 2018 and 2019 audits.  The
Court finds that supplemental responses are warranted. First, the requests at
issue are not overbroad, vague, and/or ambiguous because they are limited to
the time period of the Policies and narrowly tailored to information about
specifically named employees of Defendant Bedrock. Moreover, Defendant Bedrock
makes no argument that it cannot provide an intelligible response to such
requests. Next, the fact that the information and/or documentation requested by
Plaintiff is purportedly available from Assignor SCIF does not relieve
Defendant Bedrock from turning the information over “if the information is less
easily available from the other source than it is from the party.” ([8:1023]
Responding to Interrogatories:, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch.
8F-5; see also Bunnell v. Superior Court (California Life Ins. Co.)
(1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 720, 723-724.) Although Plaintiff does not assert the
information is less easily available from SCIF, the moving papers suggest that
Assignor SCIF does not have the information and/or documentation sought in
these requests as they keep asking Plaintiff for additional information and
documentation to complete the 2019 audit of the Second Policy. (Plf. Sep. Stmt.
at 12:12-28.) In addition, objections for being “overbroad,” “burdensome,” or
“oppressive” are only valid when the responding party is asserting an undue
burden based on the “quantum of work required” to satisfy the production. (West
Pico Furniture Co. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) Defendant
Bedrock merely contends the documents are voluminous. Lastly, the parties both
agree initial premiums are based on an estimate of factors and actual earned
premiums are determined after the workers compensation policy expires and an
audit of the insured’s operation and payroll records is completed. (Mot. at
12:15-19; Opp’n at 2:10-21.) As such, the time cards and payroll records
requested are reasonable calculated to lead to admissible evidence pertaining
to what Defendant Bedrock’s actual earned premiums were for the Second Policy,
which Plaintiff argues Defendant Bedrock refuses to provide and SCIF claims it
does not have to complete the 2019 audit. (Mot. at 3:20-24; Plf. Sep. Stmt. at
12:12-28.) Therefore,
Defendant Bedrock’s responses to and document production for RFP Nos. 57
through 190 are deficient.  Monetary
SanctionsCode
Civil Procedure Section 2031.310, subdivision (h) provides for the imposition
of monetary sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes
such a motion unless the court finds that the one subject to sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of sanctions unjust. Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel of record, Michael D. Frischer seeks $2,311.95 in sanctions
against Defendant Bedrock for (1) 3.5 hours reviewing Defendant Bedrock’s
responses, researching and drafting the detailed initial meet and confer,
subsequent emails, drafting the instant motion and separate statement; (2) 1.0
hour preparing and for appearance at the hearing at an hourly rate of $500.00;
and (3) filing fee for $61.95. (Frischer Decl., ¶¶9-11.) Counsel Frischer’s
request is reasonable based on his 30 years of litigation experience and
comparable rates set forth in  National
Association of Legal Fee Analysis. (Id.) Moreover, Defendant Bedrock did
not act with substantial justification by providing meritless objections to the
discovery requests at issue as discussed above. Further, Defendant Bedrock
argue any other circumstance to support the imposition of sanctions would be unjust.   However, the Court notes that Mr. Frischer included the
following identical paragraph in each of his declarations for the two motions
to compel on calendar for today:“I expended
in excess of three and half(3.5) hours reviewing defendant's  responses, researching
and drafting the detailed initial meet and confer correspondence as well  as the
subsequent emails, and in researching and drafting this motion and the separate
 statement. I anticipate  incurring no less than one (1) hour of time preparing
and for the  appearance at the hearing. The filing fee for this motion is
$61.95. Based upon the foregoing, it is  respectfully requested that the Court
enter an order pursuant to California Code of Civil  Procedure Section 2030.300,
2023.010, and 2023 .030 awarding plaintiff the sum of $2,311.95,  representing
the reasonable expenses which have been incurred in connection with filing this
 motion, necessitated solely by defendant's willful failure to properly respond
to plaintiffs legitimate  discovery.”The Court awarded sanctions in the amount
of $2,311.95 in the companion motion to compel further responses to special
interrogatories.  The Court believes that
there must be overlap in Mr. Frischer’s efforts and that imposing a second award
of $2,311.95, as requested, would amount to a windfall.  The Court, on its own motion in the
interests of judicial economy and convenience to the parties, re-calendared one
of the discovery motions so that both could be heard on the same day (10/10).  Therefore, there is no need to imposed
sanctions for time spent attending two hearings.  In addition,
the meet and confer efforts must have encompassed both motions.  Therefore, as to this motion, the Court awards
two hours at $500 per hour, plus costs of $61.95 for a total of $1,061.95.IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER           Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff
Creditors Adjustment Bureau Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Request for Production of Documents (Set Four).            Defendant Bedrock is ordered to
provide verified supplemental responses and production of documents to Request
for Production of Documents (Set Four) Nos. 57 through 190 within 30 days of
this order.            Defendant Bedrock is also ordered to
pay sanctions to Plaintiff in the amount of $1,061.95 within 30 days of this
order.            Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment Bureau
Inc. to give notice of this order.            Dated:  October 10, 2024                                                                                                                                               JARED D. MOSES    JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                    