 Case Number:  24STCV12687    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  76 The following
tentative ruling is issued pursuant to Rule of Court 3.1308 at 11:30 a.m. on November 6, 2024.  
Notice of intent
to appear is REQUIRED pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.1308(a)(1).  The Court does not desire oral argument on
the motion addressed herein.  
As required by
Rule 3.1308(a)(1), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL OTHER
PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 by 4:00 p.m. on November 6, 2024.
Notice to
Department 76 may be sent by email to smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically
at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court
3.1308, if notice of intention to appear is not given, oral argument will not
be permitted.            This is a legal malpractice action. 
            Defendants Greenberg Glusker Fields
Claman & Machtinger LLP, Fred A. Fenster, and Pierce H. O’Donnell move to
compel arbitration and stay this proceeding.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Greenberg
Glusker Fields Claman & Machtinger LLP, Fred A. Fenster, and Pierce H.
O’Donnell’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The case is stayed pending arbitration.
            A
status conference regarding arbitration proceedings is set for May 9,
2025 at 8:30 a.m.
ANALYSIS
Motion To Compel Arbitration
Discussion
            Defendants Greenberg Glusker Fields
Claman & Machtinger LLP, Fred A. Fenster, and Pierce H. O’Donnell move to
compel arbitration and stay this proceeding.
Existence
of Agreement To Arbitrate
            Under
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract. (Cable Connection, Inc. v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 1334, 1343; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.) A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement
to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving by a
preponderance of evidence any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356.) The court may weigh the evidence by
considering affidavits, declarations, documents and oral testimony. (Id. at 357.)
            Defendants submits an arbitration
agreement signed by Plaintiff on September 30, 2020 (Declaration of Lee A.
Dresie, ¶ 3; Exh. B.) Plaintiff does not dispute that he signed this agreement.
            Plaintiff alleges causes of action
for negligence (legal malpractice), breach of fiduciary duty and breach of
contract arising out of Defendants’ legal representation of Plaintiff in a
business dispute/handwritten settlement agreement between Plaintiff and his
stepson involving investment funds the two had created.
The Court
now examines the purported scope of the arbitration agreement, which  provides in pertinent part:
Arbitration:  
 
We
appreciate the opportunity to serve as your attorneys and look forward to a
harmonious relationship unmarred by disputes between us. In the event you
become dissatisfied for any reason with the fees charged or the services we
have performed, we encourage you to bring that to our attention immediately; we
will do the same if we perceive a problem with the representation. It is our
belief that most such problems can be resolved by good faith discussion between
the parties. Nevertheless, it is always possible that some dispute may arise
which cannot be resolved by discussion between us. We believe that such
disputes can be resolved more expeditiously and with less expense
to all concerned by binding arbitration than by court action.
 
Arbitration
is a process by which both parties to a dispute agree to submit the matter to a
judge or arbitrator who has expertise in the area and to abide by the
arbitrator's decision. In arbitration, there is no right to a trial by jury and
the arbitrator's legal and factual determinations are generally not subject to
appellate review. Rules of evidence and procedure are often less formal and
rigid than in a court trial. Arbitration usually results in a decision much
more quickly than proceedings in court, and the attorneys' fees and other costs
incurred by both sides are usually substantially less. 
 
By
signing this letter, you agree that, in the event of any dispute arising out
of or relating to this agreement, our relationship, or the services performed
(including but not limited to disputes regarding attorneys' fees or costs and those
alleging negligence, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud or any claim based
upon a statute), such dispute shall be resolved by submission to binding
arbitration in Los Angeles County, California, before a retired judge or
justice under the auspices of the Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services
("JAMS"). If the parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator, the
arbitrator will be determined pursuant to JAMS' normal procedures then in
effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if California law then provides that you
cannot agree to mandatory binding arbitration of disputes regarding fees and
costs prior to the dispute, that dispute, and only that dispute, will be
submitted to non-binding arbitration and trial de novo as may be required by
law. 
 
In any such
arbitration, the parties shall be entitled to take discovery in accordance
with the provisions of the California Code of Civil Procedure, but either
party may request that the arbitrator limit the amount or scope of such
discovery, and in determining whether to do so, the arbitrator shall balance
the need for the discovery against the parties' mutual desire to resolve
disputes expeditiously and inexpensively. 
 
The
prevailing party in any action, arbitration, or proceeding arising out of or to
enforce any provision of this Agreement, with the exception of a fee
arbitration or mediation under Business and Professions Code Sections
6200-6206, will be awarded reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in
that action, arbitration, or proceeding, or in the enforcement of any judgment
or award rendered.
(Declaration of Lee A. Dresie, Exh. B,
Pages 19 – 20 [bold emphasis in original, underlining added].)
The scope of the language
is broad enough to include all claims asserted by Plaintiff in the Complaint. The
Court need not address the Armendariz factors because nonwaivable
statutory civil rights in the workplace are not involved. (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 711-12),
            The Court
finds that an agreement exists whereby Plaintiff agreed to submit all of the
claims asserted against Defendants asserted in his Complaint to mandatory
arbitration. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate that the arbitration
agreement should not be enforced.
            Plaintiff
argues that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.
The doctrine of unconscionability
was summarized in Walnut Producers of
California v. Diamond Foods, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 634, 645-48 as
follows:

“ ‘To briefly recapitulate the principles of unconscionability, the doctrine
has “ ‘both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on
‘ “oppression” ’ or ‘ “surprise” ’ due to unequal bargaining  power, the
latter on ‘ “overly harsh” ’ … or ‘ “one-sided” ’ results.” [Citation.] The
procedural element of an unconscionable contract generally takes the form of a
contract of adhesion, “ ‘which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it.’ ” … [¶] Substantively unconscionable
terms may take various forms, but may generally be described as unfairly
one-sided.’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.)

“Under this approach, both the procedural and substantive elements must be met
before a contract or term will be deemed unconscionable. Both, however, need
not be present to the same degree. A
sliding scale is applied so that ‘the more substantively oppressive the
contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to
come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’
(Citations omitted.)


(Bold emphasis added.)
Procedural Unconscionability
“The procedural element of the
unconscionability analysis concerns the manner in which the contract was
negotiated and the circumstances of the parties at that time. [Citation.] The
element focuses on oppression or surprise. [Citation.] ‘Oppression arises from
an inequality of bargaining power that results in no real negotiation and an
absence of meaningful choice.’ [Citation.] Surprise is defined as ‘ “the extent
to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the
prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed
terms.” ’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.)

Plaintiffs claim the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it is an
adhesion contract. An adhesion contract is “a standardized contract … imposed
upon the subscribing party without an opportunity to negotiate the terms.”
(Citation omitted.) “The term signifies a standardized contract, which, imposed
and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the
subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.
[Citation.]” (Citation omitted.)

The California Supreme Court has consistently stated that “ ‘[t]he procedural
element of an unconscionable contract generally takes the form of a contract of
adhesion … .’ ” (Citations omitted.)

“Whether the challenged provision is within a contract of adhesion pertains to
the oppression aspect of procedural unconscionability. A contract of adhesion
is ‘ “ ‘ “imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength” ’ ”
’ and ‘ “ ‘ “relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere
to the contract or reject it.” ’ ” ’ (Citations omitted.) “[A]bsent unusual circumstances, use of a contract of adhesion
establishes a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability notwithstanding
the availability of market alternatives.” (Citation omitted.)
 
(Walnut
Producers of California v. Diamond Foods, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 634, 645-46 [bold emphasis
added].)
 
            Substantive
Unconscionability
“A provision is substantively
unconscionable if it ‘involves contract terms that are so one-sided as to
“shock the conscience,” or that impose harsh or oppressive terms.’ [Citation.]
The phrases ‘harsh,’ ‘oppressive,’ and ‘shock the conscience’ are not synonymous
with ‘unreasonable.’ Basing an unconscionability determination on the
reasonableness of a contract provision would inject an inappropriate level of
judicial subjectivity into the analysis.  ‘With a concept as nebulous as
“unconscionability” it is important that courts not be thrust in the
paternalistic role of intervening to change contractual terms that the parties
have agreed to merely because the court believes the terms are unreasonable.
The terms must shock the conscience.’ [Citations.]” (Citation omitted
(Walnut
Producers of California, supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at 647-48.)
            Plaintiff
argues that the Court should infer that the arbitration provision at issue in
this Engagement Agreement is in fact Defendants’ standard, adhesive arbitration
provision which is offered on a take it or leave it basis to all prospective
clients.           
Plaintiff argues that, while
Defendant O’Donnell explained some of the material terms of the fee agreement
to Plaintiff, he did not disclose the arbitration provision to Plaintiff, a lay
person, or explain its implications. (Rickel Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff argues that
Defendants’ failure to disclose the arbitration provision is demonstrated by,
amongst other things, the fact that Defendants did not require Plaintiff to put
his initials next to the arbitration provision.1  (Cf. Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 77, 89, as modified on denial of reh’g (Jan. 8, 2004) [finding
arbitration clause unconscionable where, among other reasons, plaintiff was
“not required to initial the arbitration clause”].)
            Plaintiff
argues that the placement and wording of the arbitration clause makes the
paragraph virtually impenetrable to a layperson. Plaintiff also refers to
another mention of arbitration elsewhere in the agreement, which Defendant
redacted out. Plaintiff submits an unredacted copy of the retainer agreement
which contains references to fee arbitration at Page 2 in the second paragraph,
which states in relevant part: “If we cannot agree on what constitutes a
reasonable fee, the dispute shall be resolved by arbitration.” There is also a
reference to fee arbitration at Page 3 in the “Net recovery” section, which
states in relevant part: “If we cannot agree as to the value of the non-cash,
the value shall be settled by arbitration.”
            Plaintiff
argues that these two single sentences buried in paragraphs would lull him into
believing that the five paragraphs under the separate section entitled
“Arbitration” “merely explains or encapsulates the two prior pronouncements in
the Agreement regarding arbitration. This argument is frivolous. The
Arbitration section was conspicuously labelled, and consisted of five separate
paragraphs, including one that was bold emphasized. Plaintiff’s claim that the
arbitration provision was hidden or a surprise is not credible.
Moreover, to accept Plaintiff’s
argument that two single sentences buried in earlier paragraphs excused him
from reading the five-paragraph Arbitration provision would render written
contract meaningless, because a person could always say that he was lulled into
not reading further in the contract after a mere earlier mention of a word.
            Instead the
following rule of law clearly applies to this case:
"Ordinarily, one who accepts or signs an instrument, which on its
face is a contract, is deemed to assent to all its terms, and cannot escape
liability on the ground that he has not read it. If he cannot read, he should
have it read or explained to him." (Citation omitted.) This is not only
the California but the general rule. (3 Corbin, Contracts (1960) § 607, pp.
668-669, fn. omitted ["One who signs an instrument when for some reason,
such as illiteracy or blindness, he can not read it, will be bound by its terms
in case the other party acts in good faith without trick or misrepresentation.
The signer should have had the instrument read to him."].)
(Randas v. YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles
(1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 158, 163.) 
[T]he law effectively presumes that
everyone who signs a contract has read it thoroughly, whether or not that is
true. A basic rule of contract law is, “ ‘in the absence of fraud,
overreaching or excusable neglect, that one who signs an instrument may not
avoid the impact of its terms on the ground that he failed to read the
instrument before signing it.’ ” (Citation omitted.) Moreover, courts
must also presume parties understood the agreements they sign, and that the
parties intended whatever the agreement objectively provides, whether or not
they subjectively did: “ ‘Where the parties have reduced their agreement to
writing, their mutual intention is to be determined, whenever possible, from
the language of the writing alone.’ … ‘[T]he parties’ expressed objective
intent, not their unexpressed subjective intent, governs.’ ” (Citation omitted.)

     (Roldan v.
Callahan & Blaine (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 87, 93 [bold emphasis added].)
            In this regard, whether or not
Defendants verbally explained arbitration to Plaintiff does not excuse
Plaintiff’s failure to read the written explanation of arbitration. Nor does
the failure to require that Plaintiff initial the arbitration clause render
this particular agreement procedurally unconscionable, because there is no
requirement that a party initial each provision in a retainer agreement in
order to be deemed to have agreed to the entirety of the agreement.
            Further,
the Court does not find to be credible any claim by Plaintiff that this was a
contract of adhesion, presented on a take it or leave it basis. This is not an
employer-employee situation where the employee was arguably under economic
pressure to accept the terms as a condition of earning a livelihood. Rather,
Plaintiff alleges in the Complaint that the underlying matter was a business
dispute involving a handwritten settlement agreement between Plaintiff and his
stepson involving investment funds the two had created. (Complaint,
¶ 8.) In the grand scheme of things, this a less urgent situation is hard to
imagine. Clearly, Plaintiff could have chosen to negotiate out or a different
arbitration clause or choose to retain different counsel if he did not
want an arbitration clause.
            Plaintiff
also argues that the provision at issue is fatally vague as to the rules that
would apply to the arbitration, stating only that “such dispute shall be
resolved by submission to binding arbitration in Los Angeles County,
California, before a retired judge or justice under the auspices of the
Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services (‘JAMS’).”  (Rickel Decl., Ex. A at pp. 4-5 [emphasis
added].) Plaintiff argues that the phrase “under the auspices” does not
indicate which rules should apply, and Defendants failed to attach a copy of
the arbitration rules.
            However:
 
[U]nder [CCP] section 1281.6[1],
the absence of a specified forum or set of rules in an arbitration clause does
not invalidate the agreement to arbitrate. Rather, in the absence of such
provisions, “the parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom
arbitration is sought may agree on a method of appointing an arbitrator
…”—including the forum and rules that will govern the arbitration—or, if the
parties cannot agree, “the court, on petition of a party to the arbitration
agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.” (§ 1281.6.)


(HM DG, Inc. v. Amini (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1100, 1110.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the by imposing certain terms and rules for arbitration (without
attaching those rules), the arbitration provision potentially eviscerates
substantive protections (including adequate discovery and limitations on
Claimant’s share of arbitration fees) sub silencio, by implication, without any
fair notice to the client in a consumer arbitration. This contradicts
Plaintiff’s argument that no rules are specified. Further, the argument goes to
substantive unconscionability because it pertains to the terms of the
arbitration, not the process in which the arbitration agreement was reached,
i.e., procedural unconscionability.
            Plaintiff
claims—without citation to any authority—that the failure to apply the Ethics
Standards, Standard 2(d), applicable to a consumer party contract, renders this
contract unconscionable. The Court rejects this argument as without any
precedential basis relative to the unconscionability doctrine.
            In short,
the Court finds that no procedural unconscionability exists. As such, the Court
need not, and does not, consider Plaintiff’ substantive unconscionability
arguments regarding the adequacy of discovery and award of attorneys’ fees in
arbitration:
A court should consider substantive
unconscionability only after procedural unconscionability has been established.
A “conclusion that a contract contains no element of procedural
unconscionability is tantamount to saying that, no matter how one-sided the
contract terms, a court will not disturb the contract because of its confidence
that the contract was negotiated or chosen freely, that the party subject to a
seemingly one-sided term is presumed to have obtained some advantage from
conceding the term or that, if one party negotiated poorly, it is not the
court's place to rectify these kinds of errors or asymmetries.” (Citation
omitted.)
     (Ramirez v.
Charter Communications, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal. 5th 478, 494.)
            As such,
Plaintiff has not met his burden of demonstrating the arbitration
agreement is unenforceable because it is unconscionable.
            The motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The case is stayed pending
arbitration.
            A
status conference regarding arbitration proceedings is set for May 9,
2025 at 8:30 a.m.


