 Case Number:  23STCV15564    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  76 The following
tentative ruling is issued pursuant to Rule of Court 3.1308 at 11:40 a.m. on November 6, 2024.  
Notice of intent
to appear is REQUIRED pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.1308(a)(1).  The Court does not desire oral argument on
the motion addressed herein.  
As required by
Rule 3.1308(a)(1), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL OTHER
PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 by 4:00 p.m. on November 6, 2024.
Notice to
Department 76 may be sent by email to smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically
at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court
3.1308, if notice of intention to appear is not given, oral argument will not
be permitted.Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant attorney Roe fraudulently induced them into changing the
terms of their fee relationship from hourly to a contingency, by
misrepresenting the hours of legal services he had performed, and the need for
additional fees for services which he did not actually perform. Without
Plaintiffs’ consent, Defendant Smythe allegedly agreed to share this contingent
fee when Smythe associated into the underlying case. Defendants also allegedly
settled the underlying case but held the funds hostage subject to an attorneys’
fees lien claim. 
This
lawsuit follows fee arbitration. 
            Defendant
Robert H. Roe moves for dismissal from this lawsuit for failure to serve the
summons and complaint within three years. However, Defendant Roe, an attorney
representing himself in pro per, passed away after filing this motion.  The motion was originally heard on August 20, 2024.  At the time of the hearing, the Court took the motion under submission.  Thereafter, on October 3, 2024, the Court issued an order setting a new hearing date of November 7, 2024, and directed the parties to file opposition and reply briefs pursuant to the timing requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure.  As of November 6, 2024, no further briefs were filed.
TENTATIVE RULING 
Defendant
Robert H. Roe’s motion to dismiss is GRANTED. Because the only other
Defendants Michell Smyth and Smyth Law Group were
dismissed with prejudice on April 3, 2024, the case is ordered dismissed with
prejudice.
ANALYSIS
Motion To Dismiss
Request
For Judicial Notice
            Defendant’s request that the Court
take judicial notice of the case information and register of actions from the
court’s online database is GRANTED per Evid. Code, § 452(d)(court documents).
Discussion
            Pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, §
583.210 and 583.250, Defendant Robert H. Roe
moves for dismissal from this lawsuit for failure to serve the summons and
complaint within three years.
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on October 2, 2020. On February 16, 2024, the Court granted
an order for service of the summons and complaint by publication—3 years, 4
months and 14 days after the Complaint was filed. However, Plaintiff never
filed a proof of publication.
(a) The summons and complaint shall be served upon a defendant
within three years after the action is commenced against the defendant. For the
purpose of this subdivision, an action is commenced at the time the complaint
is filed.
 
(b) Proof of service of the summons shall be filed within 60
days after the time the summons and complaint must be served upon a defendant.

(Civ. Proc. Code § 583.210.)
 
In computing the time within which service must be made
pursuant to this article, there shall be excluded the time during which any of
the following conditions existed:
 
(a) The defendant was not amenable to the
process of the court.
 
(b) The prosecution of the action or
proceedings in the action was stayed and the stay affected service.
 
(c) The validity of service was the
subject of litigation by the parties.
 
(d) Service, for any other reason, was
impossible, impracticable, or futile due to causes beyond the plaintiff’s
control. Failure to discover relevant facts or evidence is not a cause beyond
the plaintiff’s control for the purpose of this subdivision.
 
(Civ. Proc. Code § 583.240.)
 
(a) If service is not made in an action within the time
prescribed in this article:
 
(1) The action shall not be further prosecuted and no further
proceedings shall be held in the action.
 
(2) The action shall be dismissed by the court on its own
motion or on motion of any person interested in the action, whether named as a
party or not, after notice to the parties.
 
(b) The requirements of this article are mandatory and are
not subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as expressly provided by
statute.

     (Civ.
Proc. Code § 583.250 [bold emphasis added].)
            Here, none
of the conditions set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 582.240 apply to exclude any
time for the three-year period set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 583.210. Because Plaintiff did not serve Defendant
Robert H. Roe within 3 years of filing the Complaint, his dismissal is
mandatory.
            Although
Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that he discovered on July 22, 2024 that
Defendant Roe passed away on July 21, 2024 (Declaration of E. Patrick Morris, ¶
4), this date was after the motion was filed on April 9, 2024. As discussed
above, by the date the motion was filed, the 3-year period had already passed,
so Defendant’s Roe’s subsequent death does not change the analysis. There does
not appear to be any need for a “winding up” attorney or personal
representative to be appointed.
The motion to dismiss is GRANTED. Because
the only other Defendants Michell Smyth and Smyth Law
Group were dismissed with prejudice on April 3, 2024, the case is ordered
dismissed with prejudice.