 Case Number:  23STCV22469    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ROULA OGLII, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
COMMERCE HYUNDAI, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV22469
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING AS MOOT MOTIONS
  TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND FORM
  INTERROGATORIES; DENYING MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 30, 2024




 


 


 



 
On
December 26, 2023, Defendant Commerce Hyundai Inc dba Commerce Mitsubishi served
Plaintiff Roula Oglii aka Roula Aljabban with Request for Production (Set One),
Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One); and First Set of Requests
for Admission.  (Mayville Decl. ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff did not provide timely responses, and
Defendant agreed to extend the deadline to April 17, 2024.  (Mayville Decl. ¶¶ 4-12.)  Plaintiff still did not serve responses.  (Mayville Decl. ¶ 13.)
On
April 30, 2024, Defendant filed two motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses and
one motion to deem the RFAs admitted.  Defendant
also requests sanctions of $4,178.00 for its attorney fees and costs incurred in
bringing the motions.
E-FILING
DEFICIENCIES
Defendant
filed (1) a motion to compel responses to Request for Production (Set One); (2)
a motion to compel responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Special Interrogatories
(Set One); and (3) a motion to deem admitted the First Set of Requests for Admission.
Each
set of discovery should have been filed as a separate motion, with separate filing
fees and hearing reservations.  Despite being
scheduled as only three motions and three hearings, the total substance is that
of four motions.  This unfairly allows the
parties to take only three hearing reservations (instead of four) and results in
an inaccurate projection and accounting of the Court’s workload, inconveniencing
both the Court and other litigants. 
All
parties are ordered not to do this again and are warned that continued action of
this type may result in monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section
177.5.  For any future discovery motions,
the parties must file a separate motion for each set of discovery, or the Court
may strike or deny the motions for being improperly filed.
Defendant
is ORDERED to pay one additional filing fee within 10 days.
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Payment of Additional Filing Fee is scheduled for
June 12, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES
Where
a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the Court may make
an order compelling responses.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300; Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)   A party that fails to serve timely responses
waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection
of attorney work product.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).) 

In
its replies, Defendant states that it received responses to Request for Production
(Set One), Form Interrogatories (Set One), and Special Interrogatories (Set One)
on May 15, 2024.  Accordingly, the motions
to compel Plaintiff’s responses are DENIED AS MOOT.
Defendant
argues that the responses contain improper objections or are otherwise insufficient,
but those issues are properly raised in a motion to compel further responses, not
in reply to a motion to compel the initial responses.
MOTION TO DEEM RFAs ADMITTED
When
a party fails to timely respond to a request for admission, the propounding party
may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any
matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The court shall grant a motion to deem admitted
requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed
response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section
2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (c).)
Plaintiff
served responses on May 15, 2024, but Defendant argues that these responses are
not substantially compliant.  (Reply at pp.
2-3.)  For RFA Nos. 3, 4, 5, and 7, Plaintiff
responded, “Responding party does not have sufficient information to either admit
nor deny the matters stated in request for admission number [3, 4, 5, 7], and therefore
denies said request.”
When
a responding party lacks sufficient information, they “shall state in the answer
that a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has been
made, and that the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable
that party to admit the matter.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.220, subd. (c).)  Plaintiff’s
response is therefore not completely code-compliant.  “Although [the] proposed response may not have
actually complied with all statutory requirements, such actual compliance is not
required where the proposed response is facially a good-faith effort to respond
to RFAs in a manner that is substantially code-compliant.”  (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 762, 782.)  The Court finds that
to be the case here, and Plaintiff’s responses are substantially compliant.
Accordingly,
the motion to deem RFAs admitted is DENIED.
SANCTIONS
The
Court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery even where the requested discovery was provided to
the moving party after the motion was filed. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
Plaintiff’s
dilatory behavior and service of responses only when faced with Defendant’s motions
warrants sanctions.  The Court determines
that sanctions are appropriately imposed against counsel, not the client, because
no oppositions were filed and no explanation was provided for the failure to timely
respond to discovery.
Plaintiff’s
counsel is ORDERED to pay sanctions of $4,178.00 to Defendant within 30 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 30th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 