 Case Number:  23STCV00699    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CARL RINSCH, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
HASTENS BEDS, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV00699
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER; GRANTING
  MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 30, 2024



 
On
September 18, 2023, Plaintiff Carl Rinsch filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants Jacob Koo, Damon Capital LLC, Kristofer Eriksson, and others.
On
October 10, 2023, Defendants filed a demurrer and motion to strike.  Plaintiff did not file any oppositions.
Defendants’
request for judicial notice is denied as irrelevant because the final order is already
part of this case’s record.
DEMURRER
Defendants
demur to the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, eighth, and ninth causes of action.
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting
the alleged facts as true.
A.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege Fraud With Specificity
(Third, Fourth, Fifth Causes of Action).
The
FAC’s third cause of action is brought against all Defendants for intentional misrepresentation.  However, in the Complaint, it was brought against
Eriksson, not also Koo and Damon Capital. 
The amendment to “All Defendants” exceeds the scope of the Court’s leave
to amend.  The fourth cause of action is brought
against Eriksson for negligent misrepresentation.  The fifth cause of action is brought against all
Defendants for false promise.
“The
essential elements of a count for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation,
(2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.  [Citations.]  The essential elements of a count for negligent
misrepresentation are the same except that it does not require knowledge of falsity
but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.  [Citations.]”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
217, 230-231.)  Promissory fraud is a subspecies
of fraud and deceit.  (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 973-974.)
“Causes
of action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud and, therefore,
each element must be pleaded with specificity.” 
(Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1150, 1166.)  “‘This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were tendered.’ 
[Citation.]  A plaintiff’s burden in
asserting a fraud claim against a corporate employer is even greater.  In such a case, the plaintiff must ‘allege the
names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority
to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.’  [Citation.]” 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
Plaintiff
again alleges that Eriksson (an agent of Hastens and Damon Capital) and Koo (a de
facto representative of Hastens) falsely “represented to Mr. Rinsch that Hastens
would be able to deliver the products requested according to the customizations
that were agreed upon,” and falsely represented that Plaintiff would get a refund
if the products were not in conformity.  (FAC
¶¶ 56, 59, 66, 74, 88, 104, 108, 134-139, 152.) 
Plaintiff also alleges that the Hastens website contains a returns and refunds
policy.  (FAC ¶ 28.)  This does not allege any misrepresentation with
specificity.
The
demurrer to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action is sustained.
B.        Plaintiff Does Not Clearly Allege What
Property Was Converted (Sixth Cause of Action).
The
sixth cause of action is brought against all Defendants for conversion.
Conversion requires (1) plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession
of personal property, (2) defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with
plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. 
(Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
97, 119)
Plaintiff
alleges that Eriksson and Damon Capital wrongfully exercised control over his property.  (FAC ¶ 162.) 
There is no allegation about Koo’s involvement.  Plaintiff “has a right to possess the customized
mattresses and related accessories that he had already paid money for,” and Eriksson
and Damon Capital have prevented Plaintiff from having access to the customized
mattresses and related accessories and refused to return the payment he had already
made.  (FAC ¶¶ 163, 166.)
With
respect to the customized mattresses and related accessories, it is not clear what
property is the subject of this claim.  Plaintiff
received some, but not all, of the items that he purchased.  (FAC ¶¶ 98, 165., 169.)  Unlike the original complaint, the FAC now identifies
the dates and amounts of specific purchases of “mattresses and bedding accessories.”  (FAC ¶¶ 19, 99.)  However, Plaintiff alleges Defendants “have retained
control over two of the products purchased by Mr. Rinsch,” without specifically
identifying which two items are being held by Defendants.  (FAC ¶¶ 167.)
With
respect to the failure to return Plaintiff’s payment, Plaintiff cannot state a claim
for conversion of this money.  “Money cannot
be the subject of a cause of action for conversion unless there is a specific, identifiable
sum involved.”  (McKell v. Washington Mutual,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491.) 
“California cases permitting an action for conversion of money typically
involve those who have misappropriated, commingled, or misapplied specific funds
held for the benefit of others.”  (PCO,
Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 384, 396.)  That is not alleged
here.
C.        Plaintiff Does Not Properly Plead Promissory Estoppel (Eighth
Cause of Action).
The eighth cause of action is brought against all Defendants
for promissory estoppel.
“The elements of promissory estoppel are (1) a promise, (2) the promisor
should reasonably expect the promise to induce action or forbearance on the part
of the promisee or a third person, (3) the promise induces action or forbearance
by the promisee or a third person, and (4) injustice can be avoided only by enforcement
of the promise.”  (Newport Harbor Ventures,
LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 1207, 1225.)  “Promissory estoppel is ‘a doctrine which employs
equitable principles to satisfy the requirement that consideration must be given
in exchange for the promise sought to be enforced.’”  (Kajima/Ray Wilson v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transp. Authority (2000) 23 Cal.4th 305, 310.)
“Under this doctrine a promisor is bound when he should reasonably
expect a substantial change of position, either by act or forbearance, in reliance
on his promise, if injustice can be avoided only by its enforcement.  [Citation.] 
The purpose of this doctrine is to make a promise binding, under certain
circumstances, without consideration in the usual sense of something bargained for
and given in exchange.  If the promisee’s
performance was requested at the time the promisor made his promise and that performance
was bargained for, the doctrine is inapplicable.”  (Youngman v. Nevada Irr. Dist. (1969) 70
Cal.2d 240, 249.)
Plaintiff alleges that Eriksson, as a representative of Hastens, promised
that he would deliver customized mattresses and related accessories in exchange
for a payment of money according to the contract.  (Complaint ¶ 182.)  Plaintiff relied on the promises and paid money
according to the contract, and he was injured by not receiving the products or a
refund.  (Complaint ¶¶ 183, 187-195.)  There are insufficient allegations about Plaintiff’s
reliance on the promise, harm caused by that reliance, or injustice requiring enforcement
of the promise.  Instead, the FAC—like the
Complaint—alleges a standard breach of contract in which Plaintiff’s payment bargained-for
consideration.
The demurrer to the eighth cause of action is sustained.
D.        Plaintiff Does Not
Allege A Basis For Unjust Enrichment (Ninth Cause of Action).
The ninth cause of action is brought against all Defendants for unjust
enrichment.
“The
elements of an unjust enrichment claim are the ‘receipt of a benefit and [the] unjust
retention of the benefit at the expense of another.’  [Citation.]” 
(Peterson v. Cellco Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593.)  Unjust enrichment is not a cause of action, but
a court may construe a cause of action for unjust enrichment as a cause of action
for quasi-contract seeking restitution.  (Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 231.)  Although a plaintiff usually cannot bring an action
based on quasi-contract when there is an express contract covering the same matter,
restitution may be awarded when an express contract was procured by fraud or is
unenforceable.  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff
alleges that there was an express contract, Defendants received money in exchange
for products, Plaintiff did not receive the products, Defendants did not provide
a refund, and Defendants misappropriated the money.  (FAC ¶¶ 22, 197-209.)  This does not allege quasi-contract or a basis
for restitution.  Instead, there is an express
contract and no properly alleged fraud.  (See
FAC ¶¶ 10, 22, 42.)
The
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is sustained.
E.        Conclusion
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED.  Plaintiff did not
file an opposition and has not shown how he can amend the complaint to remedy the
deficiencies.  Accordingly, no leave to amend
is granted.
The
remaining causes of action (first, second, and seventh) are not brought against
Defendants Jacob Koo and Kristofer Eriksson, and Plaintiff has no surviving claims
against them.  Accordingly, the Court orders
Jacob Koo and Kristofer Eriksson DISMISSED.
The
still-pending seventh cause of action is brought against Damon Capital LLC.  Accordingly, Damon Capital LLC is ordered to file
an answer within 10 days.  (California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1320(j)(3).)
MOTION
TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
A.        The Request to Strike the Prayer For Punitive
Damages Is Granted.
Defendants
move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages.  (Motion at pp. 2-6.)  A plaintiff can recover punitive damages in tort
cases where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed
is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  [Citation.] 
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but
facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim. [Citation.]”  (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
159, 166, fn. omitted.)
The
Court concurrently sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the fraud causes of action.  There are no other specific facts showing oppression
or malice.  Instead, Plaintiff alleges only
a standard breach of contract, although framed as tort claims.
The
motion is granted for punitive damages.
B.        The Request to Strike the Prayer For Attorney
Fees Is Granted.
Defendants
move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney fees.  (Motion at p. 7.)  A party is entitled to attorney fees only when
specifically provided by statute or by agreement between the parties.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.)  Plaintiff does not allege a statutory or contractual
basis for attorney fees, nor can the Court find a basis for contractual attorney
fees in the FAC’s attachments.
The
motion is granted for attorney fees.
C.        Conclusion
The
motion to strike is GRANTED.  Plaintiff did
not file an opposition and has not shown how he can amend the complaint to remedy
the deficiencies.  Accordingly, no leave to
amend is granted.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 30th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 