 Case Number:  24BBCV00379    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 20,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00379

 



MP:  


 Octavia Mary Carmen Whyte (Plaintiff)




RP:  


 Nissan
  North America, Inc. (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Octavia Mary
Carmen Whyte (Plaintiff) brings this action against Nissan North America, Inc.
(Nissan) for Nissan’s alleged violation of the Song Beverly Act. Plaintiff
alleges that her 2020 Nissan Kick (the “Subject Vehicle”) was manufactured as
defective. 
 
Before the Court
is motion to compel Nissan’s further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for the
Production of Documents (RFPD) Set One Nos. 30 and 31. Nissan opposes the
motion and Defendant replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A motion
to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or production of
documents (“RFPD”) may be brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of
compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to
comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (C.C.P. §
2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
RFPD Nos. 30 & 31
 
Plaintiff’s RFPD request the following: 
 
·        
All documents, in the
form of a list or compilation, of other customer complaints in your
electronically stored information of database(s) that are substantially similar
to complaints made by plaintiffs with respect to the subject vehicle in other
2020 Nissan Kicks vehicles. (RFPD No. 30.) 
 
·        
All documents
that refer to, reflect, or relate to any field service action issued, or in the
process of being issued, in response to complaints experienced by plaintiff as
described in defendant’s warranty history/summary and within the line items of
the repair orders created at defendant’s authorized repair facility. (RFPD No.
31.) 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
A motion to compel further responses to a
request for production must include a meet and confer declaration consistent
with C.C.P. § 2016.040. (C.C.P. § 2031.310 (b)(2).) In turn, Section 2016.040
requires that the moving party have made “a reasonable and good faith attempt
at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (C.C.P. §
2016.040.) 
 
“A single letter, followed by a response
which refuses concessions, might in some instances be an adequate attempt at
informal resolution, especially when a legitimate discovery objective is
demonstrated. The time available before the motion filing deadline, and the
extent to which the responding party was complicit in the lapse of available
time, can also be relevant. An evaluation of whether, from the perspective of a
reasonable person in the position of the discovering party, additional effort
appeared likely to bear fruit, should also be considered” (Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 432.)
 
Upon review of the parties submissions, the
Court finds the meet and confer efforts of Plaintiff were insufficient. The
Court may deny a motion to compel discovery for lack of a reasonable and good
faith attempt to meet and confer. (Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1431, 1436-1439; Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 434-435.)
 
On
June 25, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a 19-page meet and confer letter
purportedly addressing perceived deficiencies in Nissan’s production. (Mot.
Exh. 7.) This letter requested response by July 2, 2024 and requested a 15-day
extension for Plaintiff’s deadline to file this motion. (Id.) The Court
notes that this letter appears to be devoid of any specific reference to
Nissan’s production/responses. Rather than brief the individual requests which
require further response, Plaintiff’s letter simply identifies types of
information which are typically in dispute in Song Beverly Cases. (Id.) 
 
Where
the letter does specifically address RFPD Nos. 30 and 31, it does so in the
most generic terms. For example, the letter states that these RFPD seek
information regarding vehicles of the same “make, module[sic], and year” as
Plaintiff’s 2022 Nissan Kicks. (Mot. Exh. 7 at p. 99.) Yet RFPD Nos. 30 and 31
contain no request for information about vehicles of the same make, model, or
year, instead requesting customer complaints which are “substantially similar”.
Limitations to vehicles of the same make, model, and year are often imposed on
such requests as RFPD Nos. 30 and 31 after the parties meet and confer to
narrow the issues, but there is no evidence the parties agreed to such
limitations here. 
 
Additionally,
Nissan states it has produced various documents which are responsive to this
request, including recall information and warranty claims. Despite this,
Plaintiff’s meet and confer letter, and to a large extent their motion, is
silent on the documents Nissan actually produced. 
 
Given
the foregoing, the Court does not construe sending the June 25, 2024 letter to
be evidence of a good faith attempt to meet and confer letter. Plaintiff’s
letter largely consists of generic arguments applicable to any Song-Beverly
action. This letter may be a good first step toward addressing discovery
issues, but it is far from a substantive effort to meet and confer. 
 
On
the other hand, Nissan had failed to present any evidence that it ever replied
to the June 25, 2024 letter. Nissan’s only showing of meet and confer on this
matter is a request for search terms. On August 9, 2024, Nissan’s counsel
reached out to Plaintiff’s counsel to request clarification on what documents
were sought via the provision of search terms. (Opp. Exh. B.) This request came
long after the June 25, 2024 letter and the requested July 2 reply deadline.
Further, a review of Exhibit B reveals that the request for search terms was
issued in reference to an entirely different Song-Beverly action. Nissan also
offers a handful of meet and confer correspondence related to a number of other
cases between their counsel and counsel for Plaintiffs. (Exhs. C-F.) Nothing in
Nissan’s declaration shows an effort to meet and confer with respect to the
case before this Court. 
 
While
the Court understands that counsel for the parties frequently work on a number
of Song-Beverly cases with similar issues, the fact remains that meet and
confer correspondence on other cases is entirely irrelevant to this motion.
Nissan’s inclusion of these correspondence only serves to obfuscate the record.
While this may not have been purposeful, the result is still increased
difficulty in the Court’s reviewing of this motion. 
 
In
short, the Court finds that neither side has engaged in a good faith effort to
meet and confer regarding discovery matters in this case. Plaintiff’s initial
meet and confer letter did not address any specific production deficiencies and
is not evidence of a good faith effort to reach an informal resolution without
involvement of the Court. Nissan in turn completely failed to respond to the
meet and confer letter and has instead presented the Court with a variety of
exhibits which are irrelevant to the determination of this motion. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses is DENIED without prejudice. The parties
are ordered to meet and confer to address the discovery concerns in this case.
In the Court’s experience such meet and confer efforts are usually sufficient
to resolve the concerns of both sides regarding discovery in Song-Beverly
cases. Should disagreement persist, Plaintiff is invited to refile their
motion. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Octavia Mary
Carmen Whyte’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests
for Production of Documents came on regularly for hearing on September 20, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER PRODUCTION IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
THE PARTIES ARE
ORDERED TO MEET AND CONFER WITHIN 30 DAYS REGARDING DISCOVERY COMPLIANCE. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: September
20, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles