 Case Number:  22STCV21262    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 20,
2024

MOTION
TO QUASH SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22STCV21262

 



MP:  


City of La Cañada Flintridge
  (Defendant/Cross-Complainant)




RP:  


Emma Amosh Mirzaian
  (Defendant/Cross-Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Wayneider Singh Anand (Plaintiff) brings this
action against the City of La Cañada Flintridge (Flintridge), Emma Amosh
Mirzaian (Mirzaian), and Edwin Baltazar (Baltazar) in connection with a
December 4, 2021 incident which claimed the life of Plaintiff’s wife. Plaintiff
alleges Flintridge failed to maintain safe conditions for a crosswalk located
at Foothill Boulevard and Union Street. Plaintiff alleges that because of this
failure, his wife was struck by a vehicle while crossing the street. Mirzaian
is alleged to be the driver of the vehicle and Baltazar the owner. 
 
Before
the Court is a motion made by Mirzaian to quash three subpoenas issued to her
medical providers. Mirzaian seeks to quash subpoenas that Flintridge issued to United Healthcare Services, Inc., Elliot Plotkin, DPM,
and Pacific Eye Institute. Flintridge opposes the motion to quash and Mirzaian
replies.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
(C.C.P.) § 1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a subpoena when
necessary.  C.C.P. 1987.1 states, “If a subpoena requires the attendance
of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a
court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the
court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”  
II.                
MERITS 
 
The
Court first notes that Flintridge has withdrawn their subpoenas issued to
United Healthcare Services, Inc. and Elliot Plotkin, DPM. As such, all that
remains to be resolved is the propriety of Flintridge’s subpoena issued to
Pacific Eye Institute. 
 
Pacific Eye Institute
 
Flintridge’s
subpoena to Pacific Eye Institute requests the following: 
 
Any and all records;
documents, medical reports, including doctor's entries, nurse's notes, progress
reports, x-ray reports, MRI reports, lab reports, physical therapy records,
case history, emergency records, diagnosis, prognosis, condition, admit and
discharge records from first date of treatment to the present. To include any
and all records from Pejman Bakhtiary, M.D.
 
(Mot.
Exh A, p. 28.) 
 
Mirzaian argues that the subpoena is impermissibly
violative of her right to privacy. Mirzaian further argues that she has not put
her medical history at issue in this litigation, nor has Flintridge shown that
facts regarding her health are relevant. 
 
The party asserting
the right of privacy, bears the initial burden of demonstrating (1) a “legally
protected privacy interest”; (2) an “objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances”; and (3) a “threatened intrusion that is
serious.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) If the
asserting party meets this standard, responding party must then show that the
requested documents are “directly relevant” to the litigation. (Tylo v.
Superior Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1387, citing Britt v.
Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 858-859.)
 
Here, Mirzaian has a
clear privacy interest in her personal medical records. Flintridge does not
dispute that this is the case. As such, Flintridge bears the burden of
demonstrating good cause to enforce the subpoena. 
 
In considering whether
good cause has been shown to enforce a subpoena subjected to a motion to quash,
the California Supreme Court in the recent case of Facebook, Inc. v.
Superior Court of San Diego County (2020) 10 Cal.5th 329, 345-346, provided
a list of seven factors to be considered: (1) Whether the party seeking
production has met its burden of showing a “plausible justification” for
obtaining the documents from a third party witness; (2) whether the material
sought is adequately described and not overly broad; (3) whether the material
is “reasonably available” to the person from which the records are sought and
not readily available to the person seeking production; (4) whether production
would violate the “confidentiality or privacy rights” of a third party; (5) the
timeliness of the request; (6) whether the time required to produce the
requested information would unreasonably delay trial; (7) whether production of
the requested information places an unreasonable burden on the third party.
 
The
most salient factor from Facebook in the resolution of this motion is
whether Flintridge has demonstrated a “plausible justification” for production.
As will be explained below, the Court believes that Flintridge has done so. 
 
In
support of its opposition, Flintridge submits the declaration of Dr. Alan Shabo
(Shabo) which attests to the issues with respect to Mirzaian’s eye health and
their relevance to this action. (See Oppo. Tab B, Exh A.) Shabo is an expert in
the field of ophthalmology and has practiced for 40 years. (Shabo Decl.
¶ 2.) Shabo bases his declaration on the review of medical records from
Dr. Pejman Bakhtiary, Dr. John Rezapour, Dr. Leon Partamian, the Traffic
Collision Report, Ms. Mirzaian's records from the DMV records, the deposition
of Sergeant Gregory Taylor, and the criminal court records. (Shabo Decl.
¶ 4.) 
 
Shabo’s
declaration as to Mirzaian’s eye health on the date of the incident is
primarily based on his review of the eye records from the office of Dr.  John Rezapour, where Mirzaian was seen on 2
occasions in 2019. (Shabo Decl. ¶ 12, Oppo. Tab B Exh G.) From review of
these records Shabo notes that Mirzaian suffered from the following: 
 
·        
nuclear sclerotic cataracts of a moderate degree, 
·        
dry eyes with epithelial surface erosions due to the
dryness, 
·        
excess skin of the upper eyelids on both eyes, 
·        
keratoconus with apical subepithelial scarring a 
·        
chorioretinal macular degeneration. 
 
Shabo
notes that the above conditions are usually progressive and were documented 2
years before the collision. (Id.) Shabo states that any of these
abnormalities alone or in combination would, to a reasonable degree of medical
probability, have caused visual blurring on December 4, 2021. (Shabo Decl.
¶ 14.) Shabo states that even with eyeglass correction, Mirzaian’s vision
was only 20/60 right eye and 20/50 left eye. (Id.) 
 
Based
on the foregoing analysis, Shabo states that it would be important to obtain
records up to 5 years before the 2019 eye examination to establish the degree
of progression at the time of the collision. (Id.) 
 
The
Court finds the declaration of Shabo and the medical records for Dr. John
Rezapour to be strong showings as to the relevance of Mirzaian’s medical
records in this case. Flintridge has presented clear analysis from a medical
expert that supports the idea that Mirzaian’s vision was compromised on the
date of the incident. At the very least, Flintridge has demonstrated that
Mirzaian’s records pertaining to her eye health are directly relevant to issues
of her proportional fault in causing the collision with decedent. 
 
The
Court notes that this subpoena was discussed in a September 6, 2024 Informal
Discovery Conference (IDC). While the Court made no official orders during the
IDC, it did clearly indicate to Mirzaian’s counsel that the declaration of
Shabo was persuasive in deciding the motion to quash. Given the Court’s
discussion with Mirzaian’s counsel, it is curious that the Shabo declaration is
entirely absent from Mirzaian’s reply. Instead, Mirzaian focuses on the showing
regarding the revocation of her license by the DMV. (See Tab B, Exh. C.)  Mirzaian argues at length that nothing in the
DMV records suggests that her license was revoked because her eyesight was
impaired. The Court finds these arguments are irrelevant as the statements of
Shabo are based on his analysis of medical records and not the investigation by
the DMV. The fact remains that Mirzaian has put forth no competing medical
testimony or other evidence to dispute the statements made by Shabo. 
 
Regardless,
the Court agrees that the subpoena as currently stated is overbroad, even with
Flintridge’s showing of good cause. Shabo states that five years prior to the
2019 exam would be sufficient to opine on Mirzaian’s eye health on the date of
the incident. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to quash is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Flintridge is
ordered to reissue its subpoena to Pacific Eye Care subject to the condition
that the records requested are from 2014 to the date of the incident. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Emma Amosh Mirzaian’s
Motion to Quash Subpoena came on regularly for
hearing on September 20, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO QUASH IS GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART. 
 
FLINTRIDGE
IS ORDERED TO REISSUE ITS SUBPOENA TO PACIFIC EYE CARE SUBJECT TO THE CONDITION
THAT THE RECORDS REQUESTED ARE FROM 2014 TO THE DATE OF THE INCIDENT. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, FLINTRIDGE TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 