 Case Number:  23BBCV01900    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 20,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01900

 



MP:  


Gary & Kathleen Pantaleo
  (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


Christopher Valentine & Christian
  Tolen Von Lahr (Defendants)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Gary & Kathleen
Pantaleo (Plaintiffs) bring this unlawful detainer action against Christopher
Valentine & Christian Tolen Von Lahr (Defendants). Plaintiffs seek
Defendants to vacate the home they rented from Plaintiffs located at 3048 N.
Keystone Street, Burbank, CA 91504, as well as damages due to unpaid rent. 
 
Before the Court are
two motions made by Plaintiffs to compel each Defendant to render further
responses to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories Set One. Defendants have filed
no opposition to these motions. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
On
April 3, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel served Special Interrogatories Set One on
Defendants via mail with proof of receipt. (Mot. Exh. 1.) Responses were due on
April 22, 2024. (Siebig Decl. ¶ 3.) On April 22, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel
sent a meet and confer letter agreeing to extend this due date to April 29,
2024. (Siebig Decl. Exh. 2.) Plaintiffs received no response to the Special
Interrogatories until July 29, 2024. (Siebig Decl. ¶ 8.) On July 29, 2024,
Defendants issued 229 pages of responses to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories,
largely consisting of objections. (Siebig Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
Plaintiffs
have filed no opposition to this motion, instead electing to file their
229-page list of objections with the Court. This filing shows that Plaintiffs
have indeed objected to each of the 68 Special Interrogatory requests as well
as most, if not all, of the definitions in the requests. The content of these
objections includes: 
 
·        
Objections to all definitions as “continuous inference from
the Plaintiffs”, arguing that each definition continues a “terminology
machination” in an attempt to obfuscate the evidence. 
·        
Objections that Defendants have already received the
responsive information in Plaintiff’s responses to Request for the Production
of Documents, without any aversion to which documents have been produced. 
·        
Objections to most requests that they require the
“extensive working knowledge” of an attorney. 
 
Defendants
also object to each Special Interrogatory which asks them to identify documents
upon which they base their contentions. These objections read as follows: 
 
PRC Property
Management, and specifically Gigi Baez, has sole responsibility for the
Plaintiffs’ records. She is an agent of the Plaintiff, and in fact, she is an
informed C.O.O., ... so the buck stops with here[sic]. The Plaintiff will have,
and can produce, any occupancy and maintenance records, and evidence, without
burden. Defendants cannot do this.
 
As a
preliminary matter, the Court finds Plaintiffs have demonstrated good cause
with respect to compelling further production. Each of Plaintiffs’
interrogatories specifically elicits Defendants’ contentions regarding the
unlawful detainer action, the condition of the premises, and the relevant
Covid-19 moratorium provisions. Each of these issues is integral to the
resolution of this unlawful detainer matter. 
 
Given
the showing of good cause, the burden necessarily shifts to Defendants to
justify their objections to each Special Interrogatory. By virtue of their
failure to file an opposition, Defendants have necessarily failed to uphold
their burden. Further, C.R.C. Rule 8.54 states "A failure to oppose a
motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion." Here, the
Court finds Defendants’ objections are without merit in the absence of any
authority supporting their position. Many of Defendants’ objections are without
any citation to law and without substantive reasoning. 
 
Sanctions 
 
As concerns motions to compel, the law only
requires sanctions in the event that a party unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response. (C.C.P. § 2033.290(d), C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(d).) As such, any monetary sanctions granted are within the
discretionary power of the Court as per C.C.P. § 2030.290. Additionally, it is
customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel, and
the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C. Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here,
Plaintiffs have submitted four motions to compel further responses while Defendants
have provided no opposition nor are the objections meritorious. As such, the
Court awards sanctions in the amount of $1,124.22 against each defendant (each
defendant to pay $562.11). This amount reflects three hours of attorney work in
preparing these motions at a rate of $350 per hour, plus $74.22 in filing fees.
(Siebig Decl. ¶ 14.).  The Court
finds that the motions are significantly similar such that imposing the sanctions
aware against each defendant for similar work would not be justified.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Gary & Kathleen
Pantaleo’s Motions to Compel Further Responses came
on regularly for hearing on September 20, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL CHRISTOPHER VALENTINE’S
FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES SET ONE IS GRANTED.  
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL CHRISTIAN TOLEN VON LAHR’S
FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES SET ONE IS GRANTED. 
 
FURTHER RESPONSES ARE DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,124.22
AGAINST DEFENDANTS, EACH TO PAY $562.11 INDIVIDUALLY. 
 
SANCTIONS TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 20, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 