 Case Number:  24NNCV00986    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 20,
2024

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV00986

 



MP:  


Radnet Management, Inc. (Defendant) 




RP:  


William Carr (Plaintiff) [No Response]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
William Carr
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Radnet Management, Inc. (Defendant).
Plaintiff alleges that he was injured by virtue of Defendant’s failure to
maintain an imaging table at a facility located at 10101 Riverside Drive,
Toluca Lake, California 91602. Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (FAC) states
causes of action for (1) General Negligence, (2) Premises Liability, and (3)
Professional Negligence. 
 
Defendant now demurs
to the causes of action for General Negligence and Premises Liability on
grounds that they fail to state sufficient facts. Plaintiff has rendered no
opposition to this demurrer. Plaintiff’s failure to oppose the demurrer can be
treated as an implied concession to the merits of the same. (Herzberg v.
County of Plumas (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1, 20.) 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The
grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from
judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A
demurrer assumes the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled
in the challenged pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p.
318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be
accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb
Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.)
But this does not include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.  (Blank, supra,
39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant
to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been
filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability
that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P.
§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds
the meet and confer requirements were met. (McCoy Decl. ¶ 3-10.) 
 
Facts 
 
Plaintiff
alleges he sustained serious injuries and incurred damages, in part, as direct
result of the negligence of Defendant in assisting, guiding and/or instructing
Plaintiff on and off a treatment bed which was negligently maintained and in
disrepair. (FAC, p. 4.) Plaintiff also alleges he sustained serious injuries
and incurred damages as direct result of the negligence of Defendant in
maintaining, inspecting, repairing, managing, supervising, controlling and/or
operating the premises, imaging table, stool, footsteps, furniture, etc.
located at 10101 Riverside Drive, Toluca Lake, CA 91602. (Id.) 
 
First COA - General Negligence - Sustained With Leave to
Amend 
 
The
Court finds Plaintiff’s first cause of action is subject to demurrer. In Bellamy
v. Appellate Department, the California Court of Appeal held that “a
plaintiff cannot, on the same facts, state causes of action for ordinary
negligence as well as professional negligence, as a defendant has only one duty
that can be measured by one standard of care under any given circumstances.”
(Bellamy v. Appellate Department (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 797, 804.)
Here, Plaintiff’s cause of action for General Negligence and his cause of
action for Professional Negligence are based on identical factual allegations.
The holding in Bellamy makes clear that Plaintiff must either state
additional facts in support of his general negligence claim or omit that claim
should he wish to maintain a claim for Professional Negligence. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to
amend. Leave to amend is granted in so far as Plaintiff can allege facts
separate from those in his Professional Negligence action. 
 
Second COA – Premises Liability – Sustained Without Leave
to Amend 
 
Defendant
argues that, similar to the cause of action for General Negligence, this cause
of action cannot be maintained alongside the Professional Negligence cause of
action. The Court finds this argument persuasive. Defendant relies upon the
holding in Flores v. Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital which found: 
 
[W]hether negligence
in maintaining hospital equipment or premises qualifies as professional
negligence depends on the nature of the relationship between the equipment or
premises in question and the provision of medical care to the plaintiff. A
hospital's negligent failure to maintain equipment that is necessary or
otherwise integrally related to the medical treatment and diagnosis of the
patient implicates a duty that the hospital owes to a patient by virtue of
being a health care provider. Thus, if the act or omission that led to the
plaintiff's injuries was negligence in the maintenance of equipment that, under
the prevailing standard of care, was reasonably required to treat or
accommodate a physical or mental condition of the patient, the plaintiff's
claim is one of professional negligence under section 340.5.
 
(Flores v.
Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital (2016) 63 Cal.4th 75, 88-89.) 
 
The
Court agrees with Defendant that the tenants of Flores are applicable to
this case. Flores makes clear that “[w]hen a doctor or other health care
professional makes a judgment to order that a hospital bed's rails be raised in
order to accommodate a patient's physical condition and the patient is injured
as a result of the negligent use or maintenance of the rails, the negligence
occurs in the rendering of professional services and therefore is professional
negligence for purposes of section 340.5, subdivision (2).” (Flores supra,
63 Cal.4th 75 at 89 [internal quotation marks omitted].) Having found the
above, the Flores court affirmed the trial Court’s sustaining the
demurrer without leave to amend. (Id.) 
 
The
Second District Court of Appeal concurred with the holding in Flores in Mitchell
v. Los Robles Regional Medical Center. In Mitchell, the court ruled
that the plaintiff’s allegation that she fell while attempting to mount an
examination table sounded in professional negligence and not premises
liability. (Mitchell v. Los Robles Regional Medical Center (2021) 71
Cal.App.5th 291, 297.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that he was injured by Defendant’s failure to maintain an
imaging table. Nothing is specifically alleged which would allow the Court to
determine that the use of the imaging table was anything other than “reasonably
required to treat or accommodate a physical or mental condition.” Nor does the
Court view it as possible that Plaintiff could allege additional facts that
would cure this deficiency. Plaintiff’s current allegations make clear that his
purpose in being on the imaging table was for medical treatment. Any
allegations that his presence on the imaging table was ancillary to his receipt
of professional medical assistance would be inconsistent and subject to the
sham pleading doctrine. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Radnet Management,
Inc.’s Demurrer came on regularly for hearing on September
20, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER
TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: September
20, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 