 Case Number:  24BBCV00309    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 20,
2024

MOTION FOR
SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00309

 



MP:  


GT Live LLC (Defendant) 




RP:  


Anat Group, Inc. (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Anat Group, Inc.
(Plaintiff) brings this action against GT Live LLC (Defendant). Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant entered into a contract whereby Defendant would lease
space from Plaintiff to operate a recreational cannabis production operation.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s improperly sold cannabis using Plaintiff’s
license, thereby accruing a large sum of unpaid taxes from those sales on
Plaintiff’s behalf. 
 
Before the Court is a motion for
sanctions brought by Defendant pursuant to C.C.P. § 128.7. Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint is frivolous such that no reasonable person
could have filed it. Defendant requests the Court issue an order striking the
Complaint, dismissing the action with prejudice, and awarding Defendant’s
counsel $11,685.00 in sanctions incurred from filing this motion. Plaintiff
opposes the motion. Defendant has rendered no reply. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P.
§ 128.7 states that a court may impose sanctions on a party or attorney that
presents a pleading, petition, motion, or other similar papers that does not
meet the following criteria:
 
(1)  
It is not being presented primarily for an improper
purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase
in the cost of litigation.
 
(2)  
The claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein
are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law.
 
(3)  
The allegations and other factual contentions have
evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have
evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or
discovery.
 
(4)  
The denials of factual contentions are warranted on the
evidence or, if specifically, so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of
information or belief.
 
(C.C.P.
§ 128.7(b)(1)-(4).)
 
Further,
under C.C.P. § 128.7, a court may impose sanctions if it concludes a pleading
was filed for an improper purpose or was indisputably without merit, either
legally or factually. (Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175,
189-190.) A claim is factually frivolous if it is "not well grounded in
fact" and is legally frivolous if it is "not warranted by existing
law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of
existing law." (Id.) In either case, to obtain sanctions, the
moving party must show the party's conduct in asserting the claim was
objectively unreasonable. (Id.) A claim is objectively unreasonable if
"any reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is totally and completely
without merit." (Id.) However, "section 128.7 sanctions should
be made with restraint and are not mandatory even if a claim is
frivolous." (Peake v. Underwood (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 448
[internal citations and quotation marks omitted].)
 
Under
C.C.P. § 128.7, a court "may issue sanctions, including . . . terminating
sanctions against a party for filing a complaint that is legally or factually
frivolous." (Kumar v. Ramsey (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1110, 1120.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Defendant
contends that the Complaint against them is frivolous to the point that
bringing the action against them is unreasonable. Defendant’s primary argument
is that the allegations of the Complaint in this matter are directly
contradictory to the allegations in a previous proceeding brought by Plaintiff.
To assess the veracity of these claims, the Court finds a summary of the
previous proceedings is necessary. 
 
Plaintiff
states that, in September 2023, they received a notice from the California
Department of Tax and Fee Administration (CDTFA). (Weiss Decl. ¶ 1.) Through
this notice, Plaintiff learned that it would need to file a lawsuit against the
CDTFA to dispute the collection of cannabis taxes allegedly accrued under
Plaintiff’s cannabis license. (Id.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that they
had less than 72 hours to file this suit. (Weiss Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff’s
counsel states that the Complaint filed in the action against the CDTFA was
based on his firm’s knowledge of the situation at the time and was designed to
place a hold on the CDTFA’s collection efforts. (Id.) 
 
On
October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Complaint against the CDFTA in Los
Angeles County Superior Court. (Wolfenzon Decl. Exh. A.) The CDFTA thereafter
filed a demurrer. (Wolfenzon Decl. Exh. B.) On January 2, 2024, Plaintiff
voluntarily dismissed the action against the CDFTA. (Wolfenzon Decl. ¶ 2;
Weiss Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff represents that they are currently going
through the CDTFA appeals process. (Weiss Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Defendant’s
position in bringing the instant motion is based on the contents of Plaintiff’s
Complaint against the CDFTA. Specifically, Defendant argues that the following
allegations in Plaintiff’s CDTFA Complaint render his current allegations
barred by judicial estoppel: 
 
In December 2020,
Weiss, Ted, and Maria met with Pelleg, ANAT's representative, in Hidden Hills,
California. During the meeting, ANAT entered into an agreement with Defendants whereby
GTL would operate out of ANAT's business location and distribute its cannabis
using ANAT's license, so long as Weiss, Ted, and Maria: (a) caused GTL to
properly report all cannabis sales it made to the City, CDTFA, and DCC; (b) pay
all taxes associated with the use of ANAT's license; and (c) pay any and all
license related expenses (the “Agreement”). 
 
Pursuant to the
Agreement, GTL began operating out of the Property and distributing cannabis
under ANAT's license beginning in January of 2021.
 
(Wolfenzon Decl. Exh.
A, ¶¶ 16-17 [emphasis added].) 
 
Defendant
argues that the above allegations are inconsistent with similar allegations of
the Complaint in this case which read as follows: 
 
In December 2020,
Weiss, Ted, and Maria met with Roy Pelleg ("Pelleg"), a
representative of AGI, in a house in Hidden Hills, California. During the
meeting, AGI entered into an oral agreement with Defendants whereby GTL
would lease a portion of the Property for an initial period of six months,
during which period GTL would operate independently of AGI and would operate
under its own cannabis distribution license (the "Lease
Agreement"). The parties agreed that GTL will pay the sum of $ 15,000 per
month for its space at the Property.
 
(Compl.
¶ 37.) 
 
Essentially
Defendant argues that Plaintiff should be estopped from alleging that Defendant
was to operate under its own cannabis license because Plaintiff previously
alleged that Defendant was to operate under Plaintiff’s license. 
 
Judicial
estoppel is an equitable doctrine that precludes a party from gaining an
advantage by asserting one position at an earlier tribunal or proceeding, and
then later seeking an advantage by taking a clearly inconsistent position at a
later tribunal or proceeding. (MW Erectors, Inc. v. Niederhauser Ornamental
& Metal Works Co., Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 412, 422.) A general demurrer
based on judicial estoppel may be properly sustained where the facts alleged or
judicially noticed show that the plaintiff is asserting a position inconsistent
with a position she previously asserted before a tribunal, and that the first
position was accepted by the first tribunal. (Swahn Group, Inc. v. Segal
(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 831, 843-844.)
 
Factors
supporting a determination that judicial estoppel should apply to bar a party
from making certain claims in a subsequent suit are: 
 
(1)  
the same party has taken two positions; 
(2)  
the positions were taken in judicial or quasi-judicial
administrative proceedings; 
(3)  
the party was successful in asserting the first position
(i.e., the tribunal adopted the position or accepted it as true); 
(4)  
the two positions are totally inconsistent; and 
(5)  
the first position was not taken as a result of ignorance,
fraud, or mistake. 
 
(International
Engine Parts, Inc. v. Feddersen & Co. (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 354, 352;
see Eng v. Brown (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 675, 701; see also Gottlieb v.
Kest (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 110, 132, 133 [these factors are neither
inflexible nor exhaustive, and the trial court's applicability of the doctrine
is highly discretionary, even where all five factors are present].)
 
The
Court finds Defendant’s argument with respect to judicial estoppel to be
unpersuasive. First, the Court finds that judicial estoppel on these grounds
generally requires factual findings which are insufficiently addressed in a
motion brought under C.C.P. § 128.7. Judicial estoppel is necessarily a
fact-based inquiry, requiring the Court to determine whether the arguments of
the parties are supported by substantial evidence. (Kelsey v. Waste
Management of Alameda County (1999) 76 Cal. App. 4th 590, 597.) Courts have
been loath to apply judicial estoppel even in the context of motions for
summary judgment because those motions concern the existence of triable facts
and not the validity of facts. (Id.) Here, the Court has been presented
with no facts upon which to determine whether Defendant was to operate under
their own cannabis license or operate under Plaintiff’s license. Without such a
factual determination, the Court cannot declare that Plaintiff was unreasonable
in bringing the current action.
 
Further,
the Court finds that the allegations made in the CDTFA matter were not adopted
by the prior tribunal as true. It appears that Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed
his Complaint before the CDTFA matter could proceed past the pleadings stage.
Nothing in the record supports that the court in the CDTFA matter accepted
Plaintiff’ allegations as to the contract to be true. Judicial estoppel
requires that the party to be estopped “‘was successful in  asserting the first position (i.e., the
tribunal adopted the position or accepted it as true).’” (Metabyte, Inc. v.
Technicolor S.A. (2023) 94 Cal. App. 5th 265, 282 citing Aguilar v.
Lerner (2004) 32 Cal.4th 974, 986).
 
Lastly,
nothing in the record indicates that Plaintiff’s bringing the instant action
was the result of intentional wrongdoing or attempt to gain unfair advantage.
(See Miller v. Bank of America, N.A. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 1, 10
[holding that judicial estoppel can apply to parties' contradictory positions
only in rare situations where litigants made an egregious attempt to manipulate
the legal system.].) Here, Plaintiff’s counsel has submitted a sworn
declaration that the CDTFA matter was only filed as a precautionary measure to
protect Plaintiff from allegedly improper collections. (Weiss Decl. ¶ 2.)
Plaintiff’s counsel further stated that it filed the CDTFA complaint without
full information due to the time constraints. (Id.) The inferences to be
drawn from these statements are that the alleged inconsistencies in Plaintiff’s
current Complaint are likely the result of his counsel operating with more
complete information. Defendant has presented no evidence to the contrary or
any other evidence which would suggest impropriety in bringing this action on
Plaintiff’s part. 
 
In
short, Defendant has failed to demonstrate many of the key elements required to
justify the application of judicial estoppel in this case. The Court does not
view the filing of this action to be frivolous, much less unreasonable to the
extent required to grant sanctions under C.C.P. § 128.7. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff’s Sanction Request 
 
Under
C.R.C. Rule 8.276(a)(3), the Court may impose sanctions on a party for filing a
frivolous motion. A motion is frivolous if any reasonable attorney would agree
the motion is totally devoid of merit. (See Workman v. Colichman (2019)
33 Cal.App.5th 1039, 1062.) A motion is totally devoid of merit if there are
"no unique issues, no facts that are not amenable to easy analysis in
terms of existing law, and no reasoned argument by [the movant] for an
extension of existing law." (Westphal v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1071, 1081.) We impose sanctions "sparingly"
and "to deter only the most egregious conduct." (In re Marriage of
Flaherty (1982) 31 Cal.3d 637, 651.)
 
The
Court declines Plaintiff’s request to grant sanctions. While the Court is
unpersuaded by Defendant’s reasoning, it does not follow that the motion was
entirely without merit. The Court does express concern that Defendant chose to
present their arguments in the context of a motion for sanctions under C.C.P. §
128.7. As discussed above, judicial estoppel at the pleading stage of
litigation is typically presented in the context of a demurrer and based on
judicially noticeable facts. Defendant’s choice to present these arguments in
the context of a dispositive motion seeking $11,685.00 may not have been
persuasive to the Court, but it was not egregious to the point that the motion
is entirely frivolous, This being said, this Court is not shy in awarding
sanctions where the basis for them exists. The Court admonishes Defendants and
cautions them to proceed appropriately.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
GT Live LLC’s Motion for
Sanctions came on regularly for hearing on September 20,
2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT GT
LIVE LLC TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 20, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 