 Case Number:  22STCV1311    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 20,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22STCV13111

 



MP:  


THC Orange County, LLC dba Kindred
  Hospital Los Angeles (Defendant)




RP:  


Anita Aslanyan,
  individually and as successor in interest to Razmik Aslanyan (Plaintiffs) [No
  Opposition]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Anita
Aslanyan (Anita), individually and as successor in interest to Razmik Aslanyan
(Decedent) (collectively Plaintiffs) bring this action against Providence St.
Joseph Health Center (Providence) and THC
Orange County, LLC dba Kindred Hospital Los Angeles (THC). Plaintiffs allege
that Providence and THC failed to properly care for Decedent, resulting in his
death. Plaintiffs state a singular cause of action for professional negligence.

 
Before
the Court are three motions to compel further discovery responses, each brought
by THC. THC moves to compel Plaintiff Anita’s further responses to THC’s Special
Interrogatories (SPROG) Set Two and Request for the Production of Documents
(RFPD) Set Two. THC also moves to compel Decedent’s further responses to RFPD
Set Two. Plaintiffs have rendered no opposition to these motions. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections.  (C.C.P. §¿2030.300(a).) The
responding party has the burden of justifying the objections thereto. (Coy
v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Request for Production 
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Decedent Special Interrogatories No. 13 and 14 
 
The
SPROG to which THC moves to compel further responses are produced below along
with Decedent’s initial response.  
 
·        
Please state with particularity all expenses you incurred
as a result of your alleged injuries which you attribute to Kindred Los Angeles
(SPROG No. 13.) 
 
o  
Objection. Plaintiff objects on the grounds that this
interrogatory is overly broad as to time and scope as to be an unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, and is oppressive. To comply with this request would
be an undue burden and expense on the Plaintiff. The request is calculated to
annoy and harass Plaintiff…. Without waiving said objection, Responding Party
responses: Medical expenses incurred at UCLA.
 
·        
Please identify the Kindred Los Angeles staff member you
allege did not raise the rails on your bed when the incident occurred. (SPROG
No. 14.) 
 
o  
Responding Party exercises the option to produce writings
and directs Propounding Party to the medical records of Kindred Hospital.
 
THC
argues that the above responses are evasive and incomplete pursuant to C.C.P. §
2030.300(a). THC argues that the answer of “Medical expenses incurred at UCLA”
is so vague as to be unresponsive to THC’s request for particular expenses. THC
also argues that despite Razmik referring THC to medical records for SPROG No.
14, no such records were ever produced or specifically identified. 
 
The
Court concurs that Decedent’s answer to SPROG No. 13 is evasive. Decedent’s
response fails to identify what these medical expenses are or to direct THC to
any specific documentation in which they are detailed. Further, by virtue of
his failure to oppose this motion, Decedent has inherently failed his burden to
justify his objections of overbreadth and undue burden. (See C.R.C. Rule 8.54
["A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of
the motion."].) 
 
The
Court also agrees that Decedent’s response to SPROG No. 14 is evasive. Decedent
does not direct THC’s attention to any specific document which would be
responsive to this request. Even if Decedent claims that this information is
entirely discoverable from documents held by THC, he must still identify said
responsive documents with particularity. Simply directing THC’s attention to
all medical records THC possesses is insufficient. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses to SPROG Nos. 13 and 14 is GRANTED. 
 
Anita RFPD Nos. 27, 28, 29, and 30 & Decedent RFPD Nos.
28, 29, and 30  
 
The
RFPD to which THC moves to compel further responses are produced below along
with Anita’s initial response.  
 
·        
Produce any and all writings identified in your response to
Form Interrogatories, Set Two, propounded by Kindred Los Angeles. (RFPD No.
27.) 
 
o  
Responding Party directs propounding party to the
productions in response to Request for Production of Documents, Set One.
 
·        
Produce any and all writings identified in your response to
Special interrogatories, Set Two, propounded by Kindred Los Angeles. (RFPD No.
28.) 
 
o  
Responding Party directs propounding party to the
productions in response to Request for Production of Documents, Set One.
 
·        
Produce all writings received by you, or anyone acting on
your behalf, to any medical professionals concerning decedent’s admission to
Kindred Los Angeles. (RFPD No. 29)
 
o  
The request as phrased is unintelligible.
 
·        
Please produce all writings evidencing Decedent’s Medicare
and/or Medi-Cal liens. (RFPD No. 30)
 
o  
After a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, Responding
Party is unable to produce said records, but believes that DHCS and MediCare
may have documents responsive to said request
 
The
Court notes that RFPD Nos. 28, 29, and 30 as to Decedent are identical to RFPD
Nos. 27, 28, and 29 as to Anita. The responses of both Decedent and Anita to
these RFPD are identical. 
 
As
concerns RFPD Nos. 27 and 28, THC argues that Plaintiffs have produced no
writings in response to either RFPD Set One or RFPD Set Two. (Mot. p. 2.) THC
represents that Plaintiffs produced no documents in response to discovery as of
yet, instead producing three videos. The Court agrees Plaintiffs’ response
directing THC to documents which have not been produced is insufficient.
 
Concerning
RFPD No. 29, Plaintiffs’ objection that the question is unintelligible may have
been valid, but the Court would be speculating as to in what manner. The
Plaintiff failed to file any opposition, and the Court declines to advocate
Plaintiff’s position in light of C.R.C. Rule 8.54 ["A failure to oppose a
motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion."].
 
As
concerns RFPD No. 30, the Court agrees with THC that this response is not code
compliant. With regard to document requests, a response expressing an inability
to comply shall state that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry was made to
locate the items, and the reason for an inability to comply, including that the
item never existed, was lost or stolen, was destroyed, or is not in
respondent's possession, along with the identity and address of anyone believed
to have the document. (C.C.P. §2031.230.) Here, Anita’s response is entirely
devoid of the reason for their inability to comply. 
 
Accordingly,
the motions to compel further responses to RFPD Set Two are GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
As concerns motions to
compel, the law only requires sanctions in the event that a party
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response. (C.C.P. §
2033.290(d), C.C.P. §¿2030.300(d).) As such, any monetary sanctions granted are
within the discretionary power of the Court as per C.C.P. § 2030.290.
Additionally, it is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a
motion to compel, and the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C. Rule
3.1348(a).)  
 
Here,
THC has submitted three motions to compel further responses while Plaintiffs
have provided no opposition. As such, the Court awards sanctions in the amount
of $1,255.00. This amount reflects five hours of attorney work at a rate of
$215 per hour, plus $180 in filing fees for the three motions. (Janssen Decl.
¶ 8.) Sanctions are granted as against Plaintiff, as Plaintiff’s counsel
was relieved prior to the filing of these motions. Given the similar nature of
the motions and the fact that they were unopposed, the Court finds this amount
is reasonable to compensate THC for bringing these motions.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
THC Orange County,
LLC dba Kindred Hospital Los Angeles’ Motions to Compel Further Responses came on regularly for hearing on September 20, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL ANITA ASLANYAN’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO
SPROG NOS. 13 AND 14 IS GRANTED.
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ANITA ASLANYAN’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO
RFPD NOS. 27-30 IS GRANTED. 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL RAZMIK ASLANYAN’S FURTHER RESPONSE TO
RFPD NOS. 28-30 IS GRANTED. 
 
FURTHER PRODUCTION TO OCCUR WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED AS AGAINST PLAINTIFF (SELF
REPRESENTED) IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,255.  SANCTIONS
PAYABLE WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT THC TO GIVE
NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 20, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 