 Case Number:  24NNCV01110    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 20,
2024

MOTION FOR
ATTORNEY FEES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV01110

 



MP:  


Joanne Urquilla (Defendant)




RP:  


Karen S. Darling (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Karen S. Darling
(Plaintiff) brings this action against the Estate of Desiree Marie Meguerditchian (Decedent) (hereinafter
the Estate), Hovig Meguerditchian (Hovig), individually and in his capacity as
administrator of Decedent’s estate, and Joanne Urquilla (Urquilla). 
 
Plaintiff alleges that she was an attorney for Foothill Law
Group (FLG) from 2017 to 2022. (Compl. ¶¶ 18, 35.) FLG was owned and
operated by Decedent until her death in 2022. (Compl. ¶ 19.) Plaintiff
alleges that around July 2021 FLG stopped paying her. (Compl. ¶ 28.)
Plaintiff states that she was not paid through March 2022, though she continued
to work for FLG and bill hours. (Compl. ¶¶ 29-35.) Plaintiff alleges that
Decedent was either not around or on medical leave during most of this time.
(Compl ¶ 31.) Plaintiff alleges she was eventually paid $32,000 in 2022
but maintains that she is owed ion excess of $250,000 for her billed hours.
(Compl. ¶¶ 39, 60.) Plaintiff brings claims against Decadent’s estate and
its administrator Hovig. 
Plaintiff has also included Urquilla, FLG’s administrator, as
a Defendant. Plaintiff alleges that she submitted her billed hours and time
sheets to Urquilla regularly. (Compl. ¶36.) Plaintiff alleges she notified
Urquilla that some invoices were incorrectly recorded as they listed the
handling attorney as Decedent. (Compl. ¶ 41.) Plaintiff alleges Urquilla input
these incorrect invoices regardless. (Compl. ¶ 42.) 
Plaintiff
previously submitted a creditor’s claim in the administration of Decedent’s
Estate which was denied. (Compl. ¶ 17.) Plaintiff alleges, among other
things, that Hovig purchased a home in Lake Havasu with funds from the FLG
account. (Compl. ¶ 50.)
 
On June 24,
2024, Urquilla filed an anti-SLAPP motion to strike Plaintiff’s Complaint. On July
26, 2024, before the anti-SLAPP motion could be heard, Plaintiff voluntarily
dismissed Urquilla from the case.  The
Court notes that a demurrer was also scheduled to be heard prior to the
anti-slapp.
 
Before the Court
is a motion for attorney fees pursuant to C.C.P. § 425.16(c).
Urquilla asserts that despite Plaintiff’s voluntary dismissal, she is entitled
to recover attorney fees as the prevailing party under this statute. Plaintiff
opposes the motion and Urquilla replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. § 425.16(c)
provides: 
 
(1)
Except as provided in paragraph (2), in any action subject to subdivision (b),
a prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike shall be entitled to
recover that defendant's attorney's fees and costs. If the court finds that a
special motion to strike is frivolous or is solely intended to cause
unnecessary delay, the court shall award costs and reasonable attorney's fees
to a plaintiff prevailing on the motion, pursuant to Section 128.5.
 
(2) A
defendant who prevails on a special motion to strike in an action subject to
paragraph (1) shall not be entitled to attorney's fees and costs if that cause
of action is brought pursuant to Section 11130, 11130.3, 54960, or 54960.1 of
the Government Code, or pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section
7923.100) of Part 4 of Division 10 of Title 1 of the Government Code. Nothing
in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent a prevailing defendant from
recovering attorney's fees and costs pursuant to Section 7923.115, 11130.5, or
54960.5 of the Government Code.
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The
Court notes that a demurrer was scheduled to be heard before the anti-slapp;
however, Plaintiff filed a dismissal as to this defendant.   Defendant believes that they are nonetheless
entitled to attorney’s fees under the filed anti-slapp motion; which was
complicated as a result of the demurrer.  
The Court will address the issue focusing on whether Defendant is
entitled to attorney’s fees as related to the filed anti-slapp.
 
Both
Plaintiff and Urquilla rely on the recent Second District Court of Appeal
decision in Ross v. Seyfarth Shaw LLP (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 722 (Ross).
Ross concerned an action for defamation in which the defendant, Seyfarth
Shaw, LLP, brought an anti-SLAPP motion to strike. (Ross, supra 96
Cal.App.5th at 731.) After the trial court had issued its tentative
ruling, indicating an intent to strike three of the eleven causes of action,
the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed her action entirely. (Id.) The
defendant thereafter sought attorney fees pursuant to C.C.P. § 425.16(c). (Id.)
The trial court granted the fee motion only in part, finding that the defendant
would have only partially prevailed on the anti-SLAPP motion. (Id.) 
 
The Ross
court noted that there is a split approach among the Courts of Appeal in
California as to how attorney fee motions pursuant to C.C.P. § 425.16(c) should
be evaluated in the event of voluntary dismissal. The two primary approaches on
this matter are embodied by the rulings of the Fourth District Court of Appeal
in Coltrain v. Shewalter (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 94 and the Second
District Court of Appeal in Moore v. Liu (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 745.

 
Where
a plaintiff dismisses his or her complaint while the defendant's special motion
to strike is pending, courts agree they retain jurisdiction to award fees and
costs. (Ross, supra at 732-733, citing Coltrain, supra 66
Cal.App.4th at 107; Liu, supra, 69 Cal.App.4th 752; Tourgeman v.
Nelson & Kennard (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1447, 1456.) The Ross court
explained that the rationale of permitting these awards was to prevent
last-minute dismissal by a plaintiff which would inherently undermine the
anti-SLAPP statute’s deterrent effect. (Ross, supra at 733.) Despite
agreeing that a fee motion is proper in cases of voluntary dismissal, the Coltrain
and Liu courts employed separate methodology to analyze whether a
moving party could recover. These determinations in large part turn on whether
a moving part can be categorized as a “prevailing party” under the statute. 
 
The Coltrain
approach to determination of a “prevailing party” turns largely on whether
the party which filed the anti-SLAPP motion “realized its objectives in the
litigation” (Coltrain supra, at 107.) “Since the defendant's goal is to
make the plaintiff go away with its tail between its legs, ordinarily the
prevailing party will be the defendant.” (Id.) Under Coltrain,
where a plaintiff voluntarily dismisses the action after an anti-SLAPP suit had
been filed, such dismissal gives rise to a presumption that the moving party
prevailed. (Id.) However, the plaintiff may show “it actually dismissed
because it had substantially achieved its goals through a settlement or other
means, because the defendant was insolvent, or for other reasons unrelated to
the probability of success on the merits.” (Id.) 
 
In
contrast to Coltrain, the Liu court focused on the merits of the
underlying anti-SLAPP motion. “In the Liu court's view, a determination
of whether a defendant would have prevailed on its special motion to strike
using the ordinary anti-SLAPP statute analysis is an essential predicate to an
award of fees and costs under subdivision (c)(1).” (Ross, supra
at 733 citing Liu, supra at 752.) The Liu approach
requires the consideration of the merits of the anti-SLAPP motion to determine
whether a defendant is a “prevailing defendant” within the meaning of the
statute, the same as if the complaint had not been dismissed. (Liu supra,
at 752.) 
 
The Ross
court did not opine as to which approach was more appropriate, instead
stating that the plaintiff in that case would have been a prevailing defendant
under either standard. (Ross supra, at 733.) As such, the Court in this
case must choose whether to apply the standard of Coltrain or Liu.
“Where there is more than one appellate court decision, and such appellate
decisions are in conflict the superior court can and must make a choice between
the conflicting decisions” (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962)
57 Cal.2d 450, 456, [citations and quotation marks omitted].) In practice, “…a
superior court ordinarily will follow an appellate opinion emanating from its
own district even though it is not bound to do so.” (McCallum v.
McCallum (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 308, 315.)
 
Here,
the Court finds the approach in Liu to be the most appropriate in
resolving the instant motion for attorney fees. This is not only because it is
the approach adopted by the Second District, the reviewing district for the Los
Angeles Superior Court, but also because its rationale is most persuasive to
the Court. In the Court’s view, the analysis of the anti-SLAPP motion appears
necessary to determine whether attorney fees may be recovered. This Court
believes it makes sense to award attorney fees under the anti-SLAPP statute
where a plaintiff’s dismissal may have been based in whole or in part on the
merits of the underlying anti-SLAPP motion. Having established Liu as
the appropriate framework, the Court turns to an analysis of Urquilla’s
anti-SLAPP motion. 
 
“A cause of action is
subject to a special motion to strike if the defendant shows that the cause of
action arises from an act in furtherance of the defendant’s constitutional
right of petition or free speech in connection with a public issue and the plaintiff
fails to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim.”  (Digerati
Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873,
883 [citations omitted].) Accordingly, whether the allegations against Urquilla
arose out of protected speech is a threshold determination as to whether her
anti-SLAPP motion was meritorious. 
 
“An ‘act in
furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the United
States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue’ is defined
by statute to include ‘(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before
a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.’ 
If the defendant shows that the cause of action arises from a statement described
in clause (1) or (2) of
section 425.16, subdivision (e), the defendant is not
required to separately demonstrate that the statement was made in connection
with a ‘public issue.’”  (Id. [citations omitted].)
 
“A cause of action is
one ‘arising from’ protected activity within the meaning of section
425.16, subdivision (b)(1) only if the defendant's
act on which the cause of action is based was an act in furtherance of the
defendant's constitutional right of petition or free speech in connection with
a public issue. In deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied,
‘the court shall consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’ Whether the
‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied depends on the ‘gravamen or principal
thrust’ of the claim. A cause of action does not arise from protected activity
for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute if the protected activity is merely incidental
to the cause of action.”  (Id. at 883-884 [citations omitted].) 
 
Urquilla’s primary
argument that this action arises from protected speech is that the activity complained
of by Plaintiff arises from the probate action bearing Los
Angeles Superior Court case number 22STPB0697. Urquilla argues that because the
administration of Decedent’s estate was fully encompassed by this probate
action, any actions of Urquilla necessarily constitute a
“written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a…judicial body.” (Id. at 883.) 
 
The
Court finds this argument unpersuasive. The Court does not dispute that
Plaintiff’s involvement in the probate matter is in some way relevant to the
instant litigation, but it finds that the probate matter has little relevance
to Urquilla’s actions as complained of by Plaintiff. 
 
Urquilla
is only named as a Defendant to Plaintiff’s cause of action for Quantum Meruit,
Fraud, Constructive Fraud, and Conspiracy. The Complaint alleges the following
as regards Urquilla:
 
1.     
For most of the period relevant to this action, the
administrator at FLG was Defendant Joanne Martinez. She was responsible for
answering phones and administrative tasks in the office including billing and
collections from the clients. (Compl. ¶ 20.)
 
2.     
Plaintiff continued to consistently bill her hours and
submit her timesheets to Defendant Joanne Martinez at FLG. Clients consistently
continued to be billed and they consistently paid their bills to FLG based upon
the time Plaintiff had worked. (Compl. ¶ 30.) 
 
3.     
However, for Plaintiff, Defendant Joanne Martinez’s tasks
were limited to the occasional filing of a document with the court and
inputting Plaintiff’s timesheets into the billing software. (Compl. ¶ 33.)
 
4.     
On a regular basis, Plaintiff provided her handwritten
timesheets to Defendant Joanne Martinez. She would input the time to the
appropriate client in the firm’s billing software, CLIO. (Compl. ¶ 36.) 
 
5.     
Thereafter, an invoice would be created and sent to the
client indicating the hours billed, the services, date of services and the
attorney who billed for said services. Emails between Plaintiff and Defendant
Joanne Martinez exist which confirmed this arrangement and clearly indicate
that Plaintiff worked for FLG, the amount of my compensation and the above
arrangement for inputting my time and billing the client. (Compl. ¶ 37.) 
 
6.     
Plaintiff informed Defendant Joanne Martinez that a week of
timesheets she had provided to Defendant Joanne Martinez was inaccurate, that
the wrong clients had been indicated on the timesheet. As such, Plaintiff told
Defendant Joanne Martinez not to input those hours in CLIO. (Compl. ¶ 41.)

 
7.     
Defendant Joanne Martinez inputted them into CLIO, billed
the clients, and received the compensation from the clients. The CLIO invoices
indicated fraudulently indicated that the billing attorney was Decedent.
(Compl. ¶ 42.) 
 
In
analyzing whether Urquilla’s actions arise from protected speech, the Court
must analyze the “gravamen or principal thrust” of Plaintiff’s allegations
against Urquilla. (Digerati, supra 194 Cal.App.4th at 883.) It is clear from the above allegations
that Plaintiff’s Complaint against Urquilla focuses on her role as
administrator for FLG. Plaintiff appears to allege that Urquilla was implicit
in the entering of erroneous time entries, resulting in Plaintiff being
deprived of wages she was due. At no point does the Complaint allege that
Urquilla was anything more than an employee of FLG. On their face, Plaintiff’s
allegations against Urquilla have nothing to do with the probate of Decedent’s
estate. Nor has Urquilla presented the Court with any evidence that she was a
party to the probate action or otherwise involved. 
Further,
even if Urquilla in some way involved with the probate matter, such involvement
would have little effect on if her activity arose from protected speech. The
activity complained of by Plaintiff concerns actions which occurred far in
advance of the probate matter. That a probate matter arose after the fact
concerning some of the same parties and issues does not mean that Urquilla’s
alleged fraud arises from protected speech. 
The
Court finds that much of Urquilla’s argument conflates her position with the
position of Decedent and her estate. Urquilla’s anti-SLAPP motion concerned the
allegations leveled at Urquilla, not her former employer or her estate. As
such, it is incumbent upon Urquilla to show that the allegations against her
arise from protected speech. She cannot merely assert that because she was
employed by Decedent and Decedent’s estate is in probate that any claim against
her arises from protected speech. 
In Defendant’s reply brief
there is the argument that this case was frivolous and brought for a wrongful
purpose, to wit, to pressure other litigants. 
The Cout need not address that issue. 
This is not to say that Plaintiff’s action against Urquilla was
meritorious; the Court has formed no opinion in this regard. Such a
determination is beyond the scope of the motion currently in front of the
Court. Plaintiff’s allegations against Urquilla may have been cause for a
demurrer (indeed Urquilla did file one) or even a Motion for Sanctions on
grounds of being frivolous pursuant to C.C.P. § 128.7.
However, the purportedly frivolous nature of Plaintiff’s allegations against
Urquilla is entirely irrelevant to a determination of whether Urquilla’s
activity arose from protected speech. 
 
In short, the Court finds that Urquilla’s anti-SLAPP motion
failed to demonstrate that her actions arose from protected speech. As such,
Urquilla has not demonstrated that she is a “prevailing party” within the
meaning of C.C.P § 425.16(c). Having failed to demonstrate prevailing status,
Urquilla is not entitled to recover attorney fees under the statute.  
 
Accordingly, the motion for attorney fees is DENIED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Joanne Urquilla’s Motion for Attorney Fees came
on regularly for hearing on September 20, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES IS DENIED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE.  
 
THE CASE
MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE SCHEDULED FOR SEPTEMBER 20, 2024 IS CONTINUED TO NOVEMBER
1, 2024. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 20, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 