 Case Number:  23PSCV02376    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Sandra Anguiano Sencion’s Motion to Vacate
Entry of Default Judgment
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Sandra Anguiano Sencion’s Motion to Vacate
Entry of Default Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant Anguiano Sencion is ordered to file an
answer in ten (10) days.
BACKGROUND
This
is a personal injury action arising from a motor vehicle collision. In April
2022, Defendant Sandra Anguiano Sencion was operating a vehicle on Rosemead
Boulevard in El Monte when Anguiano Sencion collided with Plaintiff Phuong Anh
Ngoc Nguyen’s vehicle.
On
August 4, 2023, Nguyen filed a complaint against Anguiano Sencion and Does
1-25, alleging causes of action for (1) motor vehicle negligence and (2)
general negligence. On November 2, 2023, Nguyen’s process server served Anguiano
Sencion with substitute service in El Monte.
On
March 15, 2024, the Court entered default against Anguiano Sencion after Anguiano
Sencion failed to timely file an answer. On March 19, 2024, Anguiano Sencion
filed an answer.
On
May 2, 2024, Anguiano Sencion filed the present motion. A hearing on the
present motion and case management conference are set for June 12, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Anguiano
Sencion seeks to set aside the entry of default on the grounds of mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS Anguiano Sencion’s motion.
Legal Standard
Whenever
an application for relief from default judgment is made no more than six months
after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by the moving
party’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect, the court may vacate any (1) resulting default
entered by the clerk against the moving party or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against the moving party, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the moving party’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd.
(b).) “The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is jurisdictional
and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after that period has
elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36,
42 (Manson).) That “six-month period runs from entry of default, not
entry of judgment.” (Id.)
Courts
liberally grant motions to vacate default judgments when relief is promptly
sought and the opposing party is not prejudiced as the law strongly favors
resolution on the merits. (Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc. (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 13, 28.) Courts only require “slight evidence” to support vacating
a default and resolve all doubts in favor of the party seeking relief. (Ibid.)
However, “[t]he only occasion for the application of section 473 is where a
party is unexpectedly placed in a situation to his injury without fault or
negligence of his own and against which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded.” (Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206, quoting Elms
v. Elms (1946) 72 Cal.App.2d 508, 513.)
Discussion
In
this case, Anguiano Sencion’s motion is timely as it was filed only forty-eight
days after the entry of default. In a declaration, Anguiano Sencion’s counsel states
the entry of default was a result of counsel’s neglect. Counsel apparently
neglected to contact Anguiano Sencion from the time the Complaint was filed
until March 15, 2024, and, as a result, was unaware Anguiano Sencion had been
served. (Cai Decl., ¶ 3-7.) Counsel also admits they failed to properly monitor
the Court’s docket to determine if Anguiano Sencion had been served. (Cai
Decl., ¶ 6.)
Accordingly,
based on the above representations, the Court finds the entry of default was a
result of counsel’s neglect and GRANTS Anguiano Sencion’s motion.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Anguiano Sencion’s motion to set aside
default is GRANTED.  Defendant Anguiano Sencion is ordered to file
an answer in ten (10) days.