  Case Number:  20STCV10499    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV10499




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Approval
  of Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Ernesto G. Martinez, Jr. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition for approval of compromise for
a person with a disability filed on September 3, 2024 by
Petitioner Ernesto G. Martinez, Jr. (Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant Kimberly
Martinez, age 33. The Court
denies the petition without prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
Petitioner requests $166,666 in attorney fees which represents
33.33% of the gross settlement. Petitioner’s attorney must provide a
declaration in attachment 13a explaining a basis for the request and discussing
the factors in California Rules of Court, rule 7.955(b).
 
Petitioner must also complete and file a proposed order
(MC-351). 
 
Next, Petitioner proposes to deposit the
entire net settlement proceeds ($315,196.41) into a SNT for the benefit of
Claimant.¿An SNT is used to receive the settlement funds in these situations so
that plaintiff does not lose benefits eligibility for Medi-Cal, SSI, and other
benefits.  Historically, a person receiving Medi-Cal or SSI benefits could
have only up to $2,000 in non-exempt assets, and any additional non-exempt
assets over $2,000 would cause the loss of benefits eligibility under the
relevant federal and state law.  Funds held in a valid SNT, however, are
exempt assets that do not count toward the $2,000 asset limit for purposes of
calculating benefits eligibility.  On January 1, 2024, the Medi-Cal asset
qualification limit was eliminated and there is no longer a means test for
Medi-Cal. The asset qualification for other benefits, such as SSI, did not
change and therefore there might remain a reason for creation and funding of a
SNT to maintain other benefits.¿To the extent that Petitioner continues to
pursue the creation and funding of a SNT, Petitioner must correct the following
defects pertaining to the proposed trust instrument:¿ 
 
·       When seeking
approval of a special needs trust (SNT), notice of the hearing and service of
the petition must be made upon three state agencies including the Dept. of
Mental Health, Dept. of Developmental Services, and Dept. of Health Care
Services.  (Probate Code sections 3602(f), 3611(c).). The agencies require
15 days’ notice by mail. Here, there is no such proof of service indicating
service upon the state agencies and service is incomplete. 
·      
The
proposed SNT instrument should contain the following terms traditionally
required by LASC rule 4.116(b):
o  
(b)(2) Any purchase of a personal residence
for a beneficiary may be made only if authorized by the court pursuant to the
rules applicable to conservatorships and guardianships. (See Prob. Code, §
2571);
 
o  
(b)(3) Any sale of a personal residence of the
beneficiary may be made only if authorized by the court pursuant to the rules
applicable to conservatorships and guardianships. (Prob. Code, § 2540(b).) Such
sales must be returned to court for confirmation. (See Prob. Code, § 10300 et
seq.); and
 
o  
(b)(4) The trustee may not borrow money, lend
money, give security, lease, convey, or exchange any property of the estate
without prior authorization of the court. (Prob. Code, § 2550.)
·       Normally, bond
must be required of a trustee unless the trustee is a corporate
fiduciary.  (California Rules of Court, Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code
section 2320.)  The proposed trustee does not meet the definition, and
therefore the Court requires bond. Petitioner did not calculate
bond.  A proper bond calculation based
upon the assets to be funded into the trust, plus anticipated annual income
from investments, plus an additional amount required for the costs of any
recovery on the bond, would be $358,000. If the petition is approved, the Court
will require a $358,000 bond submitted by trustee to this department.   
 
The Court makes the following findings pursuant to
Probate Code section 3604(b):
 

The SNT beneficiary has a
     disability which substantially impairs the individual’s ability to provide
     for her own care or custody and constitutes a substantial handicap;
The SNT beneficiary is likely to
     have special needs that will not be met without the trust; 
The money to be paid to the trust
     does not exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to meet the
     SNT beneficiary’s special needs.

 
The following deficiencies are present in
the Proposed Order (MC-351):¿ 
 
As stated before, no proposed order was
filed. The discussion below addresses requirements that will apply to an
order when submitted, which should occur when an amended petition is filed with
a corrected trust instrument as discussed above.  
General trust orders should be made
(e.g., approval of creation and funding of the trust, appointment of trustee,
etc.)
Trust terms should be included in the
order.
The required Probate Code 3604(b) findings
should be made in order.
The order should provide for the
satisfaction of any state Medi-Cal liens (Order p. 3, sec. 8b(3)).
The order should provide for court
jurisdiction over the trust. 
The order should state that the Court
requires the filing of a Notice of Commencement of Proceedings for a Court
Supervised Trust on LASC Form PRO 044 in the Probate division of this court
within 60 days.
The order should state that the
trustee’s first accounting is due filed in the Probate case within a year, and
an actual 14-month calendar due date should be stated.  
The order should also include an OSC
in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse in approximately 60 days to
ensure the funding of the settlement, submission of bond, and the filing of
LASC Form PRO 044 to open a trust supervision action in probate.
The proposed order should state bond.    
 
To the extent a SNT is no longer
requested, Petitioner must correct the above deficiencies regarding the
petition.¿ 
¿ 
Accordingly, the Court continues
the hearing to November 22, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring
Street Courthouse. A revised petition must be filed and served by October 31,
2024.¿ 
¿ 
Petitioner
shall give notice and file a proof of service of such.¿ 
¿ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 