 Case Number:  23STCV13689    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV13689




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Jocelyn
  Montoya
(2)  
  Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Idalia
  Hernandez




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Fernando Lopez Rojas 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Fernando Lopez Rojas (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiffs
Jocelyn Montoya and Idalia Hernandez’s (“Plaintiffs”) depositions. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Delmas A. Woods, Defendant’s counsel, contains
sufficient facts showing that counsel attempted to schedule Plaintiffs’
depositions in good faith. Therefore, the meet and confer requirement is met.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant sets forth the discovery history in this case, showing that
Defendant has attempted to set Plaintiffs’ depositions multiple times since September
2023. (Woods Decl. ¶ 6.) Because Plaintiffs did not respond to requests for
discovery, the depositions were taken off-calendar. Once Plaintiffs provided
discovery, on May 7, 2024, Defendant noticed Plaintiffs’ depositions for July
10, 2024. (Id. ¶ 10.) After Plaintiffs failed to confirm the day before,
Defendant took the depositions off-calendar. (Id. ¶ 11.) Afterward,
Defendant asked Plaintiffs for alternative dates but received no response.
Defendant then noticed the depositions for August 8, 2024. On August 7, 2024,
Plaintiffs’ counsel stated the depositions needed to be rescheduled. On
September 12, 2024, Defendant asked to reset the depositions, but received no
response. 
 
Therefore, because it does not appear that Plaintiffs have timely
objected to any of the depositions, and have failed to proceed with them, the
motions to compel are granted. 
 
Defendant requests $1,870 in monetary sanctions against each Plaintiff
and counsel of record, representing a $190 hourly rate and the $65 filing fee. (Woods
Decl. ¶ 22.) The Court finds that sanctions are warranted but the amount
requested is excessive given the type of motion, lack of opposition, and the
fact counsel can appear at the hearing remotely. Therefore, the Court grants
monetary sanctions in the amount of $445 (2 hours of attorney time plus the
filing fee), against each Plaintiff. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motions to compel Plaintiffs’ depositions are GRANTED. Plaintiff Jocelyn
Montoya shall appear for deposition within 10 days. Plaintiff Idalia Hernandez
shall appear for deposition within 20 days.
 
The Court further grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $445 against Plaintiff Jocelyn Montoya and her counsel of
record, jointly and severally, and for $445 against Plaintiff Idalia Hernandez
and her counsel of record, jointly and severally. Said monetary sanctions shall
be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of this order. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 