 Case Number:  23STCV02032    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV02032




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiff
  Rosa Soriano 




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendants
  Antonio F. Urrea and Estella Urrea



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Rosa Soriano (“Plaintiff”) moves to continue trial and all
related dates and to reopen discovery. Defendants Antonio F. Urrea and Estella
Urrea (“Defendants”) oppose. No reply has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on January
31, 2023, and alleges negligence and premises liability based on a fall. Trial
was initially set for July 30, 2024. 
 
            Defendants’ answer was filed on August
28, 2023. 
 
            On June 13, 2024, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related dates to October 1,
2024. 
 
            On September 16, 2024, at the final
status conference, pursuant to oral stipulation, the Court continued trial to
October 14, 2024. The discovery/motion cut-off was closed, and the pre-trial
motion cut-off remained in effect. (Min. Order, 9/16/24.) 
 
            On September 30, 2024, trial was
continued to November 13, 2024. The discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off
dates remain associated with the October 14, 2024 trial date. (Min. Order,
9/30/24.) 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
 “Continuances are
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring a
continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A trial court has broad discretion in considering
a request for a trial continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial,
whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the
request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under
the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The
party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once
the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)   The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2)   The unavailability of a party because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3)   The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4)   The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
(5)   The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)   A party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or
(7)   A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include:
 
(1)   The proximity of the trial date;
(2)   Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3)   The length of the continuance
requested;
(4)   The availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5)   The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)   If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7)   The court’s calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8)   Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;
(9)   Whether all parties have stipulated to
a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
In determining whether to reopen
discovery, the court must consider the necessity of and reasons for the
additional discovery, the diligence or lack thereof by the party seeking to
reopen discovery in attempting to complete discovery prior to the cutoff,
whether permitting the discovery will prevent the case from going forward on
the trial date or will otherwise prejudice any party, and any past continuances
of the trial date.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff asks the Court to reopen discovery and continue trial for 60
days to December 16, 2024. Plaintiff would like to depose Defendants and
complete a site inspection of the area where Plaintiff allegedly slipped and
fell. Plaintiff’s counsel also states he will be engaged in a trial on October
14, 2024, and the parties plan to mediate. 
 
In opposition, Defendants argues Plaintiff was dilatory in completing
discovery. Defendant further argues that the necessity and reasons for the
discovery is low.
 
Plaintiff has not filed a reply, but in the motion argues that the
email exchanges show that Plaintiff believed the parties would work together to
complete the depositions. However, the evidence set forth by Plaintiff shows
that counsel did not attempt to schedule the depositions until June 2024, when
trial was set for July 30, 2024 at the time. (Vaziri Decl. ¶ 10.) On June 11,
2024, the parties then stipulated to a three-month continuance of trial and
related dates. (Id. ¶ 15.) During this period, Plaintiff did not serve
deposition notices or move to compel. However, on July 17, 2024, Plaintiff
offered July 26, 2024 as a deposition date in response to Defendants’ counsel’s
assertion that he was booked throughout August, but available in the second
half of July. (Id., Exh, G.) Plaintiff’s counsel never heard back, and
on August 14, 2024, requested dates for the depositions and to conduct a site
inspection. (Id. ¶ 20.) Plaintiff’s counsel then followed up with an email
on August 23, 2024, asking Defendants to confirm a site inspection on September
5, 2024. Defendants stated they were unavailable. Plaintiff emailed again on
September 3, 2024, September 12, 2024, and September 19, 2024, asking for dates
for depositions and the inspection. (Id. ¶ 23-26.) On September 19,
2024, Defendants advised Plaintiff that the discovery cut-off had passed. 
 
While the history above shows that Plaintiff attempted to schedule
dates with Defendant, Plaintiff does not adequately explain why she did not
attempt to schedule the depositions earlier, before June 2024, when Defendants
first appeared in this case on August 28, 2023. Given the three-month
continuance that was granted in June 2024, Plaintiff could have filed motions
to compel the depositions. Additionally, Plaintiff does not state when her
inspection expert was first retained, or why she waited until August 14, 2024
to request the site inspection. (See Vaziri Decl. ¶ 20.) Therefore, the Court
has considered the factors set forth in section 2024.050 and finds that Plaintiff
provides insufficient good cause to reopen discovery. 
 
Furthermore, since Plaintiff’s counsel sought to also continue trial due
to a trial commitment, finding that the trial has since been continued to
November 2024, that argument appears moot. Additionally, Plaintiff provides
insufficient information on the alleged mediation between the parties.
Therefore, since the remaining reason to continue trial is to complete
discovery, and the request to reopen discovery has been denied, the Court finds
no good cause to continue trial.  
 
Accordingly,
the Court denies the motion to continue trial and all related dates.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to continue trial and all related
dates.
 
Plaintiff shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 