 Case Number:  22STCV33496    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV33496




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Approval
  of Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Enma Amarilis Tereth 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition for approval of compromise for
a person with a disability filed on September 16, 2024 by
Petitioner Enma Amarilis Tereth (Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant Andrew
Flores, age 22. The Court denies
the petition without prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
As an initial matter, the Court observes
that no guardian ad litem (“GAL”) has been appointed. Additionally, while
Petitioner represents in item 1 that she is a conservator for Claimant, no
order or further proof of a conservatorship has been attached to the petition. Moreover,
item 2f states there is no conservator of the estate. Petitioner must attach an
order showing she has authority to compromise on Claimant’s behalf, or seek to
be appointed GAL, before the Court will approve the petition. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 372, subd. (a)(3).) 
 
For future reference, the Court
notes the following defects in the petition. 
 
Petitioner requests $24,000 in
attorney fees which represents 40% of the gross settlement. 
The attorney declaration in
attachment 13a does not sufficiently support the amount requested. Counsel
should also provide an English copy of the fee agreement in attachment
17a. 
 
Claimant has signed item 21, but
also did not mark 2e. These are contradictory. Petitioner must review these
selections. 
 
In attachment 18b(9), Petitioner
proposes to deposit the net settlement funds “in the Lawyer’s Trust Account of
Petitioner's counsel Alliance For Students Rights, pending the creation, court
approval, and execution of a spend-down plan.” 
 
However, Petitioner must explain
further why the other methods of disposition under item 18b are insufficient to
meet Claimant’s needs. 
 
For example, the Court notes that historically, a person receiving
Medi-Cal or SSI benefits could have only up to $2,000 in non-exempt assets, and
any additional non-exempt assets over $2,000 would cause the loss of benefits
eligibility under the relevant federal and state law.  On January 1, 2024, the Medi-Cal asset
qualification limit was eliminated and there is no longer a means test for
Medi-Cal. (The asset qualification for other benefits, like SSI, did not
change.) To the extent that the plan proposed by counsel is the best option to
meet Claimant’s needs, the plan must be submitted with the amended petition.
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 