 Case Number:  23STCV16554    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  73 06/12/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding
 
FEAR OF GOD, LLC, et al. v. ART CITY CENTER LLC,
et al. (23STCV16554)
 
Counsel for Plaintiffs/opposing party:
 John Cha (Raines Feldman Littrell LLP.)
Counsel for Defendant Art City Center
LLC/moving party: Daniel Zohar (Zohar Law Firm, P.C.)
 
Demurrer to SECOND amended complaint (filed by Defendant Art City Center LLC on 04/25/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The demurrer
is OVERRULED as to the first and second causes of action. 
 
The demurrer
is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend as to the third cause of action.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 14, 2023, Plaintiffs Fear of
God, LLC and FOG Essentials, LLC (collectively “Plaintiffs” or “Tenants”) filed
this action against Defendants Art City Center, LLC (“Art City” or “Landlord”),
Phillip Ruhl (“Ruhl”), and CBRE Brokerage Service (“CBRE”).
 
On February 26, 2024, the Court
sustained Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint with
leave to amend. 
 
On March 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging the following causes of action: (1)
declaratory relief, (2) rescission and (3) negligent misrepresentation. 
 
The SAC
alleges the following. Plaintiffs
are tenants to a lease (the “Lease”) for a commercial property located at 1360
E. 6th Street, Los Angeles (the “Premises”). Prior to the Lease, the Premises
was used for many years as a warehouse. However, Defendants marketed the
Premises as suitable for conversion to an office space. Plaintiffs’ intent and
plan, which was communicated to Defendant Art City and its broker, Phillip
Ruhl, verbally and in writing, was to create a multi-use space, including a
retail showroom, general office, flex office, creative studio, marketing,
content production, light manufacturing, light distribution, entertainment and
media related space, and its corporate headquarters (“Intended Use”). Of
particular concern to Plaintiff during Lease negotiations was the availability
of electrical power and its capacity for the Premises such that Plaintiff could
properly operate its business in accordance with the Intended Use. Plaintiff
was repeatedly assured, both verbally and in writing, by both Defendants and
Defendants’ Broker that the Premises has “enough power” for the Plaintiffs’
Intended Use. However, after the Lease was executed, Plaintiff alleges Defendants
have failed to provide Plaintiffs with the full power that was promised and that
is needed to use the premises for Plaintiffs’ Intended Use. 
 
On April 25, 2024, Defendant Art City filed a
Demurrer to the SAC, arguing:
·      
The first cause of action for declaratory relief
fails because there is no actual, ripe controversy. 
o   The facts
alleged in the FAC are controverted by the attached Lease, which contains an
integration clause and clearly provides that: a) Art City has no obligation to
provide power to the Premises; b) Plaintiffs accepted responsibility to
coordinate with LADWP regarding their infrastructure capacity and available
fault current, as well as inspect field conditions by a State licensed
electrical contractor prior to adding any increase in power load from that used
by the previous tenant; c) Plaintiffs must provide detailed architectural and
engineering plans to Art City before Art City is obligated to install the HVAC
system; d) to delay the Lease Commencement Date, Plaintiffs must actually and
substantially be delayed in making their improvements because of the failure to
install HVAC; and e) in order to toll the Lease Commencement Date, Plaintiffs
must give notice of this delay, provide a factual explanation of how the delay
was caused, and give Art City an opportunity to cure – none of which Plaintiffs
are alleged to have done.
o   This cause of
action is also uncertain because it is unclear what the alleged dispute is.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).)
·      
The second cause of action for rescission
is uncertain and fails to state a claim
o   The alleged
mutual mistake of fact concerns a unilateral error in judgment on the part of
Plaintiffs regarding whether the property would have enough power for the
facility that they had yet to design, much less, construct. Rescission for
mutual mistake of fact must concern a present or past, objective fact at the
time of contracting.
o   Plaintiffs
fail to adequately allege fraud upon which they can base their claim for
rescission.
·      
The third cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation fails to state a claim
o   Negligent misrepresentation
only applies to past or existing facts. The purported fraud concerned a future
condition – whether the property would have sufficient power once the
yet-to-be-designed facility was operational.
o   The claim
does not meet the heightened pleading standards for fraud. For example, the FAC
fails to provide specific details how or why Defendants alleged statements were
untrue at the time they were made and how Plaintiffs reasonably relied on such
statements despite the clear language of the lease.
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue:
·       The allegations of the SAC are sufficient to support each and every cause
of action alleged
·       The first cause of action for declaratory relief does not fail. The SAC sufficiently alleges two concrete disputes with the
requisite specificity under Code Civ. Proc. §1060: (1) does the Lease require Art
City to provide the Premises for Plaintiffs’ Intended Use (SAC ¶¶24-25, 28-29,
47-48, 51), and (2) has the Lease Commencement Date occurred such that Plaintiff
is obligated to pay rent (SAC, ¶¶36-42, 51).
·       The second
cause of action for rescission does not fail. Either Art City was operating
under a mistaken belief, or it made intentional misrepresentations about the
available power. The SAC specifically identifies concrete, pre-Lease statements
(both verbally and in writing) that Art City made describing the then-existing
state of affairs.
·       The third cause of action for negligent misrepresentation does not fail. Defendants
made misrepresentations to Plaintiffs about the specific amount of power, Defendants
knew its representations were not true because the calculations were made by
its electricians and they knew the HVAC would use most of the available power. 
 
In reply, Art City maintains that the demurrer
should be sustained because Plaintiffs fail to allege facts sufficient to state
a cause of action. 
 
II. DISCUSSION 
 
A.     Legal Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be apparent on the face
of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone,
and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th
at p. 747.) 
 
B.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating he sent
Plaintiffs’ counsel a letter outlining the alleged deficiencies in the SAC. (Zohar
Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.) The parties subsequently met and conferred telephonically
regarding the alleged deficiencies. (Ibid.) The Court finds the moving
party has satisfied its meet and confer obligation. 
 
A.     First Cause
of Action: Declaratory Relief
 
Art City argues the first cause of
action for declaratory relief fails because there is no actual, ripe
controversy and it is uncertain. 
 
Any party claiming rights under a contract or under a
written instrument other than a will or trust, or with respect to property, may
bring an action for a declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect
to the other.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.) 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party
would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a
proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.”  (Jolley
v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks
and brackets omitted.) 
 
A
cause of action for declaratory relief should not be used as a second cause of
action for the determination of identical issues raised in another cause of
action.  (General of America Insurance
Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.)  “The availability of
another form of relief that is adequate will usually justify refusal to grant
declaratory relief.”  (California Insurance Guarantee Association v.
Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624).  Further, “there is
no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are involved.”  (Osseous
Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho
Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366, quotation marks omitted.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff is
requesting a judicial declaration “so
that Tenant may ascertain its rights under the Lease with respect to the
Premises including (a) whether Landlord has an obligation to provide the Premises
to Tenant such that Tenant can operate its Intended Use; (b) whether the Lease
Commencement Date has occurred, and if so, why; and (c) whether Landlord is
entitled to draw rent from Tenant’s letter of credit, and if so, when that
entitlement began.” (SAC, ¶ 51.)
 
Art City argues the SAC is vague as to how much electrical power
was promised or needed. However, the
SAC alleges that Plaintiffs contend that Art City has an obligation to provide
the electrical power for Plaintiffs’ intended use of the premises as stated in
the Power Availability Assessment Letter. (SAC, ¶ 16.) Before
executing the Lease, in a May 5, 2022, email, Art City’s Broker, presented Plaintiffs
with an October 31, 2019, “Power Availability Assessment” letter. The Power
Availability Assessment letter was prepared and signed by Adi Ben-Shahar, CEO,
of E-lectric, Inc., who Tenant is informed and believes at all relevant times
from 2019 to the present acted as Landlord’s electrician with respect to the
Premises. The Power Availability Assessment letter identifies the “available
power” for “new tenant” use, and states that, in the aggregate, the available
power to the Premises is 487,680 watts and the maximum allowable loads per
existing service at 80% of capacity is 390,144 watts. (Ibid.) In or
around July of 2022, Landlord’s Broker, expressly represented to Tenant that
the amount of available power stated in the Power Availability Assessment
letter was, based on the Landlord’s electrician’s analysis, the amount of
electrical power available at the Premises for Tenant’s use, and would be
sufficient for Tenant’s Intended Use. (SAC, ¶ 18.) In or about January 18, 2023
(nearly five months after the Lease was executed), notwithstanding Landlord’s
prior representations that the full 487,680 watts (and 80% capacity) would be
available to Tenant and “more than enough power for your office and retail
operation,” Landlord informed Tenant for the first time that Landlord will be
using substantially all of the 487,680 watts (and 80% capacity) for the HVAC
system alone. (SAC, ¶ 28.) Thus, the Court finds Plaintiffs have specified the
amount of power they were promised and needed to use the premises.
 
Art City also argues there is no actual, ripe controversy because the
Lease provides that Plaintiffs are obligated to contract with LADWP for
services and the Landlord is not required to provide a specific amount of
electricity. However, while Plaintiffs agreed to contract with LAWDP for the
purchase of power service and to coordinate with LAWDP concerning the
installation of new loads, Plaintiffs allege Art City frustrated Plaintiffs’
ability to obtain the power needed for their contractually-bargained-for use of
the Premises by both indicating the installation of an HVAC system that will
divert available power from Plaintiffs and allegedly taking action to preclude
LAWDP from delivering additional power to the Premises to meet Plaintiffs’
needs. Given these allegations in the SAC, Plaintiffs have met their burden of
setting forth facts establishing an actual controversy.
 
Art City asserts the conditions precedent to invoking the tolling
of the Lease Commencement Date have not been alleged, therefore, an actual,
justiciable controversy has not been presented to the Court. However, the SAC
alleges that pursuant to the Lease, Landlord’s delivery obligations have two
deadlines, one for all of the “Building Items” and another for the installation
of the HVAC units. With regard to the Building Items, Landlord is to
substantially complete them within 5 months from the effective date of January
24, 2023. The Lease provides that if the Building Items are not substantially
completed by the Building Items Delivery Date, the Lease Commencement Date is
extended on a day-for-day basis for each day beyond August 1, 2023 that Tenant
is actually delayed in completing its Tenant improvements. As regards the HVAC,
the Lease, Exhibit E, paragraph 1.3(b) says that Landlord’s failure to install
the HVAC in the time frame stated (8 months after the effective date of January
24, 2023), means that the Lease Commencement Date has not occurred. Tenant
contends that the Lease Commencement Date has not occurred because Landlord has
failed to provide the Building Items, including the exterior walls, exterior
windows and doors, roof, floors, interiors, stairs, railings and ramps,
restrooms, the building core and shell, plumbing, and security, along with the
HVAC system, in the time frames and manner required by the Lease. (SAC 37-40.)
Based on these allegations, the Court finds Plaintiffs have alleged the requirements
in order to extend the Commencement Date. 
 
Defendants also
argue that Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is uncertain pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f). In applying the stringent
standard for demurrers filed on this ground, the Court finds that the complaint
is not “so incomprehensible” that Defendants cannot respond, especially given
the extensive analysis they have argued against the pleading. “Where the
complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.” (Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (2011) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 fn.2.) Accordingly,
the demurrer is overruled on this basis. 
 
The Court finds the allegations sufficient to state a claim for
declaratory relief. Accordingly, the demurrer to the first cause of action is
overruled. 
 
B.     Second Cause
of Action: Rescission
 
Civil Code
section 1689 describes circumstances justifying rescission of a contract: 
 
“(b) A party
to a contract may rescind the contract in the following cases: 
(1)
If the consent of the party rescinding, or of any party jointly contracting
with him, was given by mistake, or obtained through duress, menace, fraud, or
undue influence, exercised by or with the connivance of the party as to whom he
rescinds, or of any other party to the contract jointly interested with such
party. 
(2)
If the consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party fails, in whole
or in part, through the fault of the party as to whom he rescinds. 
(3)
If the consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party becomes
entirely void from any cause. 
(4)
If the consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party, before it is
rendered to him, fails in a material respect from any cause. 
(5)
If the contract is unlawful for causes which do not appear in its terms or
conditions, and the parties are not equally at fault. 
(6)
If the public interest will be prejudiced by permitting the contract to stand. 
(7)
[Cross-references.]” 
 
(Civ. Code, §
1689.) 
 
“[I]t is said
that a breach of a contractual right in a trivial or inappreciable respect will
not justify rescission of the agreement by the party entitled to the benefit in
question, [though] a default in performance will not be tolerated if it is so
dominant or pervasive as in any real or substantial measure to frustrate the
purpose of the undertaking.” (Medico-Dental Bldg. Co. of Los Angeles v.
Horton & Converse (1942) 21 Cal.2d 411, 433.) A party to a contract may
rescind only if there is a material breach, although a slight breach at
the outset may justify termination if it indicates future difficulty in
obtaining performance. (Pennel v. Pond Union School Dist. (1973) 29
Cal.App.3d 832.) 
 
a.     Rescission on
grounds of Mutual Mistake
 
“[R]escission
for a mistake of fact must relate to present or past facts. There is no ground
for rescission based on a mistake regarding future events.” (Rescission Cause
of Action (CA), Practical Law Standard Clauses w-021-3666, citing Paramount
Petroleum Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 245.) In
addition, a mistake of fact must be about an “objective, existing fact” not an
“error in judgment.” (Hedging Concepts, Inc. v. First Alliance Mortgage Co.
(1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1421, as modified on denial of reh'g (Feb. 22,
1996).)
 
The Court had
previously found there were no foundation allegations as to what the parties
believed about Plaintiff’s intended use of the premises and what level of power
it needs or requires for its operations. (Court’s 02/26/24 Minute Order, p. 2.)
As a basis for a mutual mistake, the cause of action is silent as to what was
or is needed by Plaintiff. (Ibid.)
 
The SAC
alleges Plaintiffs had communicated their intended use to Defendants and the
parties understood Plaintiffs’ intended use. (SAC, ¶¶ 11-12.) The SAC also
alleges that Defendants had told Plaintiffs the full 487,680 watts (and 80%
maximum allowable load of 390,144 watts) would be sufficient for Plaintiffs’
intended use of the premises, and that amount would be available for
Plaintiffs. (SAC ¶¶16-19, 21-22). The Court finds these allegations sufficient
to state a mistake of fact as to the electrical power the parties believed
would be available and needed by Plaintiff. 
 
Defendants
also argue there are no grounds for rescission as the alleged mistake is based
on opinions on a future event as the facility plans had not yet been designed.
However, as the SAC alleges, Plaintiffs contend the parties knew what the
premises were intended to be used for and Defendants pre-lease statements attested
to the specific amount of electrical power presently available for use on the
premises. The Court finds these allegations sufficient and overrules the
demurrer to the cause of action for rescission based on mutual mistake. 
 
b.     Rescission on
grounds of Fraud
 
A pleading
seeking rescission based on fraud must allege not only “the facts constituting
the fraud,” but also “[e]very element of the cause of action for fraud must be
alleged in the proper manner (i.e., factually and specifically).” (See Hall
v. Department of Adoptions (1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 898, 904.)
 
The Court had
previously found Plaintiff failed to allege Defendants had knowledge of falsity
or intent to deceive Plaintiffs. (Court’s 02/26/24 Minute Order, p. 2.)
 
Plaintiffs allege
Art City’s had knowledge of falsity because the amount of power that was
presented to Plaintiffs as being available in the “Power Availability
Assessment” letter was calculated by Art City’s electrician. (SAC, ¶ 16) Plaintiffs
contend Art City knew or should have known that it would be using substantially
all of the available wattage for the HVAC, and therefore, the electrical power
was not available for Plaintiffs’ Intended Use. (SAC, ¶ 27). 
 
However, the
Court does not find Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged Defendants had an
intent to deceive. Plaintiffs do not allege how Art City would have known it
would be using the available wattage for the HVAC and thus, intended to deceive
Plaintiffs. The Court does not find the SAC’s allegations of rescission based
on fraud sufficient. 
 
A demurrer
can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action.  (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) Since the Court finds the allegations sufficient to state a claim for rescission based
on mutual mistake, the Court does not sustain the entire second cause of
action.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause of action is
overruled.
 
C.     Third Cause
of Action: Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements
of a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation are: (1) the defendant
must have made a representation as to a past or existing material fact; (2) the
representation must have been untrue; (3) regardless of the defendant’s actual
belief, the defendant must have made the representation without any reasonable
ground for believing it to be true; (4) the representation must have been made
with the intent to induce the plaintiff to rely on it; (5) the plaintiff must
have been unaware of the falsity of the representation and must have acted in
justifiable reliance on the truth of the representation; and (6) as a result of
reliance on the truth of the representation, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage. (Continental Airlines, Inc. v. McDonnell Douglas Corp. (1989)
216 Cal.App.3d 388, 402 (reh’g denied and opinion modified on Jan. 5, 1990).) 
As discussed above, Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged that Defendants
“had no reasonable grounds for believing the representation was true when they
made it.” Plaintiffs do not allege how Art City would have known it would be
using the available wattage for the HVAC and thus, intended to deceive
Plaintiffs. 
Thus, the
demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action with leave to
amend. 
III. DISPOSITION 
 
The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first and second causes of action. 
 
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend as to the third cause of
action.