  Case Number:  24STCV04445    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 20, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC v.
Vanessa Navarro, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV04445            
 
(1)   MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
(2)   MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2) Plaintiff Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 11/18/24.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/22/24: Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for injunctive relief. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants are offering immigration consulting services out of compliance with
the California Immigration Consultant Act. 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to Requests for Production and Form Interrogatories propounded to Defendant
Vanessa Navarro, and for sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Requests for Production propounded on Defendant Vanessa Navarro is
GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories propounded on Defendant
Vanessa Navarro is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to Requests for Production and Form Interrogatories propounded to Defendant
Vanessa Navarro. 
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party to whom an inspection
demand or an interrogatory is directed fails to respond, a party making the
request may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.290(b) [interrogatories]; 2031.300(b) [requests for production].) A party
who fails to provide timely responses waives any objection, including one based
on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(a); 2031.300(a).)
For a motion to compel initial responses, no meet and confer is required. All
that must be shown is that discovery requests were properly served on the
opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response has
been served. (Leach v. Sup. Ct.
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.) 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
served requests for production and form interrogatories on Defendant Navarro by
mail on March 6, 2024. (Declaration of Sebastian M. Medvei ISO Mots. ¶ 4; Exh.
1.) To date, no responses have been received. (Id ¶ 5.) Plaintiff
is therefore entitled to an order compelling responses to the discovery
requests.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff also requests sanctions
in the amount of $3,992.15 against Defendant on each motion for failing to
respond to the requests. 
 
            Failing to respond or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) Under
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
            Sanctions
are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories
or requests for production against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.290(c); 2030.300(d); 2031.300 (c); 2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are
not mandatory if the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id.)
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subdivision (a) states: “The
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Plaintiff requests $3,992.15 in
sanctions against Defendant on each motion based on 2 hours actually incurred
at $750 per hour, plus an additional 3 anticipated hours, plus $78.80 in filing
fees. (Medvei Decl. ¶ 6.) This fee request is unreasonably inflated on its
face. It should not take five hours to prepare these straightforward, unopposed
motions to compel initial responses. The
Court therefore exercises its discretion to deny this request as unreasonably
inflated. (Chavez
v. City of Los Angeles
(2010) 47 Cal. 4th 970, 989-991.) 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production propounded on
Defendant Vanessa Navarro is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories propounded on Defendant
Vanessa Navarro is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 20,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 