 Case Number:  23LBCV00974    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Jesus and Diana Renteria filed this action against
Defendants, Pinner Construction Co., Inc.., et al. on 6/06/23.  Plaintiffs’ operative complaint is their
First Amended Complaint, which they filed before any pleading challenge was
heard, on 6/09/23.  The FAC includes
causes of action for general negligence, premises liability, and loss of consortium.  The FAC alleges the defendants, and each of them,
provided negligent drawings, plans, specifications, safety instructions, and
designs for Plaintiff to use in constructing a building.  As a result, the building Plaintiff was
working on collapsed, causing him to sustain grave injuries.  His wife sues for loss of consortium.  
 
Plaintiffs have added numerous doe defendants to the action, including
CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc., which it named as Doe One on 9/07/23.  Many defendants have pending cross-complaints
against the other defendants.  
 
2.    
Demurrer
(City of Long Beach)

Legal Standard

A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares Counsel met and conferred extensively, but
were unable to come to agreement concerning the issues presented by way of the
demurrer.  The demurrer will therefore be
heard on its merits.  
 

Scope of Demurrer

The City demurs to the first cause of action for general negligence
only.  It does not demur to the second
cause of action for premises liability, which is pled on a dangerous condition
of public property theory, or the third cause of action for loss of consortium.  
 

Law Governing Liability
     Against a Public Entity

Gov Code §815 makes clear that all
causes of action against a public entity must be grounded in statute.  Additionally, claims against public entities
must be pleaded with specificity.  Ramsey
v. City of Lake Elsinore (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1530, 1541-42.  
 

Parties’ Positions

The City argues Plaintiff has not pled which statute he bases his claim
for liability on.  Plaintiff argues he
has adequately set forth a claim pursuant to Gov Code §815.2.  The City, in reply, argues Plaintiff’s
opposition fails to show how his FAC can survive demurrer, and the demurrer
should be sustained.  
 

Gove Code §815.2

Gov Code §815.2 provides:
(a) A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act
or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his
employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given
rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal representative.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by statute, a public entity is not
liable for an injury resulting from an act or omission of an employee of the
public entity where the employee is immune from liability.  
 
Plaintiff argues, in opposition to the
demurrer, that he does not have to identify the specific employee whose
negligence caused his injuries in order to allege vicarious liability pursuant
to §815.2.  Plaintiff cites to C.A. v.
William S. Hat Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872 to
support this position.  
 
Defendant, in reply, contends Plaintiff’s
argument fails for two reasons.  First, Defendant
contends the complaint does not identify Gov Code §815.2 as the statutory basis
for the claims against the City, and therefore does not satisfy the requirements
of §815 and Ramsey.  The Court tends to
agree.  The FAC does not make clear that
§815.2 forms the basis of the claim.  See
also Searcy v. Hemet Unified School District (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802,
holding that the statute that forms the basis of liability must be pled in the
operative complaint.
 
Second, Defendant argues Plaintiff
does not set forth any facts in the FAC making clear that he is pleading his
claim based on vicarious liability.  In
C.A., the plaintiff clearly alleged that the school district was vicariously
liable for its employees’ negligent hiring, training, supervision, and/or
retention of an unfit teacher.  Defendant
argues no such facts are present here, and the FAC appears to be pled as one
for direct, rather than vicarious liability. 
Defendant focuses on the fact that the FAC alleges that “Defendants” engaged
in the subject acts, not that any public employee engaged in the acts.  Defendant is, again, technically
correct.  Plaintiff has alleged that “Defendants”
engaged in the acts.  While it is clear the
entity defendants could have only acted through their employees, because of the
requirement that the complaint be pleaded with specificity, the Court will
require Plaintiff to amend the FAC to clarify the allegations.
 

Conclusion

The City’s demurrer to the first
cause of action for general negligence in the FAC is sustained with leave to
amend.  Plaintiff must file a Second Amended
Complaint clarifying his allegations against the City and their statutory basis
within twenty days.  Defendant must file
a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.
 
3.     Demurrer
(CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc.)
a.    
Initial
Note
This demurrer was filed by Defendants, CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc. and
Jacobs Solutions, Inc.  On 9/07/23,
Plaintiffs dismissed Jacobs as a defendant in the action, and therefore the demurrer
remains pending as to CH2M only.
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares Counsel met and conferred prior to the filing
of the demurrer, but were unable to resolve the dispute.  The demurrer is therefore ripe for determination
at this time.
 
c.    
Parties’
Positions
CH2M demurs to the FAC, contending it lacks any specific facts to show
it, as opposed to the other myriad defendants, is liable for Plaintiff’s
injuries.  Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer, arguing the FAC is sufficient to meet the relaxed pleading standard in
a negligence action, and also arguing Defendant has failed to respond to
discovery, which would be necessary if Defendant wanted Plaintiff to plead with
more specificity.  
 
d.    
Law
Governing Pleading Negligence Against a Private Entity Defendant
Pursuant to Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
527, a plaintiff can plead negligence against a defendant in general
terms.  While the plaintiff cannot simply
allege “the defendant’s negligence caused the plaintiff injury,” substantial
detail is not required.  Id.  In this case, Plaintiff alleges the various
defendants negligently provided the subject drawings, plans, specifications, safety
instructions, and designs (negligence cause of action) and owned, maintained,
managed, and/or operated the subject premises (premises liability cause of
action).  At the pleading stage, this is sufficient.  The parties can resolve issues relating to
the specifics of the claims through discovery. 
The demurrer is overruled.  
 
4.    
Conclusion
The City’s demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.  CH2M’s demurrer is overruled.  Plaintiff must file a Second Amended
Complaint within twenty days.  Any defendant
who wishes to file a responsive pleading to the SAC may do so within the statutory
time thereafter.  Any defendant who answered
the FAC but does not timely respond to the SAC will have its answer to the FAC
deemed its answer to the SAC.   
 
5.     OSC
and CMC
The parties are reminded that there
is an OSC re: proof of service and Case Management Conference on calendar
concurrently with the hearing on the above demurrers.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the OSC, CMC, and hearing on the demurrers.