  Case Number:  22LBCV00165    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiffs,
Michael Schutz and Nicole Schutz, Trustees of the Michael & Nicole Schutz
Family Trust Dated July 21, 2004 and ALI J LLC filed this action against
Defendants, WNDM Properties, LLC, QNDM Distribution, LLC, John Barrett, Jr.,
Mark A. Bruno, and Kelly Marie Dooley for unlawful detainer.  They filed their original complaint on
4/12/22, but once possession was no longer in issue, the case was converted to
a civil action, and they filed their FAC for unpaid rent on 8/05/22.  
 
Cross-complaints
are pending amongst the defendants, and the moving defendants also have a
cross-complaint pending against Luis Castro and Charnel James, neither of whom
would otherwise be parties to the action. 

 
2.    
Motion
for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint
a.    
Parties’ Positions
The two entity defendants and
Dooley move for leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiffs, pursuant to
which they seek to assert claims for breach of contract, promissory estoppel,
fraudulent misrepresentation, unjust enrichment, violation of unfair
competition law, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  Defendants contend Plaintiffs made
representations that caused Plaintiffs to invest substantial sums in the premises,
then breached their promises by filing the UD complaint.   
 
Plaintiffs oppose the motion,
arguing (a) there is no showing of lack of bad faith with the moving papers, and
(b) the facts of the case show bad faith. 
  
 
Defendants, in reply, contend the
facts set forth in the opposition show delay, but do not show bad faith.  They therefore contend leave to file the
cross-complaint is compulsory.  
 
b.    
Law Governing Leave to File a Compulsory
Cross-Complaint
CCP §426.30 defines a
cross-complaint as “compulsory” if it is pled against the plaintiff and
includes claims related to the subject matter of the complaint.  Defendants’ proposed cross-complaint clearly
meets this test, and Plaintiffs concede as much in opposition to the motion.  CCP §426.50 makes clear that the Court MUST
grant a motion for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint unless it finds
the moving party is acting in bad faith. 

 
c.    
Initial Note
Defendants originally filed their cross-complaint
on 9/01/23.  They did so without leave of
court, which was improper.  Plaintiffs therefore
filed a motion to strike the unauthorized complaint, which is set for hearing
on 2/22/24.  Defendants then filed this
motion for leave to file the cross-complaint on 1/02/24.  
 
d.    
Analysis
Findings of bad faith based on
substantial evidence are required to justify denial of a motion for leave to
file a cross-complaint.  See Silver
Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.  Plaintiffs made a detailed showing of delay,
but did not make any showing at all of bad faith.  The motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint is therefore granted.  
 
The Court notes, however, that
trial is scheduled to go forward on 3/25/24. 
The Court wishes to hear from the parties, at the time of the hearing,
concerning whether trial will be going forward on 3/25/24 or not.  The Court notes that there is a demurrer to
one of the other cross-complaints in the action scheduled for hearing on
5/09/24.  It is possible that the action could
be bifurcated to permit trial on the main complaint to go forward as scheduled,
with trial on the cross-complaint(s) going forward at a later date.  No party has, to date, requested bifurcation.  If the parties do not appear at the hearing
(submit on the tentative), the Court will leave the 3/25/24 trial date
scheduled and will assume the parties will be prepared to go to trial on the
complaint and all pending cross-complaints, including this one, at that time.
 
Defendants are ordered to file a
separate copy of their cross-complaint within ten days.  
 
The 2/22/24 hearing on Plaintiffs’
motion to strike is taken off calendar as moot in light of this ruling.  
 
Moving Defendants
are ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative,
the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   