 Case Number:  22LBCV00356    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Suzanne Yorgason filed
this action against Defendant, Ken Lamphear for elder abuse, fraud, and related
claims arising out of a real estate transaction.  The crux of the complaint is that Lamphear
fraudulently induced Plaintiff to sell her home, worth approximately $850,000,
to him for $250,000 plus the agreement that Plaintiff’s sister could retain a
life estate in the property.    
 
            The case
proceeded to jury trial, and the jury ultimately returned a verdict in the amount
of $1,659,456 (compensatory) plus $3,000,000 (punitive).  On 12/15/23, the Court heard Defendant’s unopposed
motion for a new trial.  The Court
granted the motion in part, reducing the punitive damages award from $3 million
to $939,669.  
 
2.     Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees
a.     Parties’ Positions
Plaintiff seeks an attorneys’ fees award in the amount of $1,659,805.  Defendant opposes the motion, arguing (a) all
fees billed by Justin Torres should be disallowed because Torres is a disbarred
attorney, and (b) no lodestar multiplier should be awarded.  Plaintiff, in reply, concedes Torres’s fees
should not be awarded, but argues the requested multiplier is appropriate.  Thus, the sole issue before the Court is whether
it should award a lodestar multiplier on top of the actual fees incurred.  
 
b.     Fees Not in Dispute
The amount of fees not in dispute is $487,172.  Those fees are billed at rates ranging from $350/hour
to $650/hour.  Notably, the vast majority
of the fees were billed at the rate of $650/hour (662.2 hours, vs.
approximately 115 total hours by all other attorneys).  
 
c.    
Law
Governing Lodestar Multipliers
The unadorned lodestar reflects the basic fee for comparable legal
services in the community. It may be adjusted based on various factors,
including:
•      
the
novelty and difficulty of the questions involved;
•      
the
skill displayed in presenting them;
•      
the
extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded other employment by the
attorneys;
•      
the
contingent nature of the fee award (except as mitigated by the client's
agreement to pay some portion of the fee regardless of the outcome);
•      
the
success achieved (including all positive results from litigation—i.e., changes
in company policy, dollar value of settlement benefits); and
•           in class actions, the
rate of acceptance of the benefit offered to class members (measures one aspect
of overall success—i.e., the degree to which the settlement benefits were of
interest to class members).   Serrano v. Priest (“Serrano III”) (1977) 20 Cal.3d
25, 49.  
 
The purpose of a fee enhancement is “primarily to compensate the
attorney for the prevailing party at a rate reflecting the risk of nonpayment
in contingency cases as a class.”  Ketchum
v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1138.  The
aim is to compensate attorneys for their services at fair market value as an
inducement to accept such matters. (“Fair market value” typically includes a
premium for the risk of nonpayment or delay in payment of attorney fees.)   Id. at 1138, 104 CR2d at 389.  The party seeking the fee enhancement bears
the burden of proof.  Id.  
 
The court must not consider extraordinary skill and the other Serrano
factors to the extent these are already included within the lodestar. Id. at
1139.  In particular, extraordinary skill
and the difficulty of the question involved are usually already encompassed in
the lodestar.  “A trial court should
award a multiplier for exceptional representation only when the quality of
representation far exceeds the quality of representation that would have been
provided by an attorney of comparable skill and experience billing at the
hourly rate used in the lodestar calculation. Otherwise, the fee award will
result in unfair double counting and be unreasonable.” Id.  
 
d.     Analysis
Plaintiff argues a lodestar multiplier of 2.2 is appropriate in this case
because (a) the fee was contingent and therefore the risk of nonpayment was
high, and (b) Counsel’s skill justifies a multiplier.  The Court finds Counsel’s skill is adequately
represented by the relatively high billing rate of $650/hour on the vast
majority of the work performed.  Thus,
the sole remaining issue is whether a multiplier is appropriate because the fee
was contingent.
Defendant argues a multiplier is not necessary despite the contingent
fee because (a) Plaintiff has already paid $207,623.50 of the bill, meaning the
fees were not entirely contingent, (b) a favorable judgment was virtually
certain where Plaintiff was elderly and disabled, and (c) collection has never
been at issue because Defendant is wealthy. 

 
Notably, in Sonoma v. Thompson (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 978, the
Court of Appeals held the fact that a fee is only partially contingent does not
preclude awarding a multiplier.  Thus,
the fact that about half of the fees at issue have already been paid does not
preclude a multiplier.  Notably, however,
the multiplier in that case was 1.4, not the 2.2 sought in this case.  
 
The Court finds Defendant’s argument that a favorable judgment was
virtually certain to be of questionable good faith in light of Defendant’s
vigorous defense of the case.  Additionally,
with respect to collection, Plaintiff provides evidence in the reply that
Defendant has threatened bankruptcy, such that collection has never been
certain.  Plaintiff also correctly notes
that much of Defendant’s wealth is in real estate, which will make collection
more difficult.  
 
On balance, the Court is inclined to award a modest fee
multiplier.  Again, the Court will not
award a multiplier based on the skill of the attorneys working on the case, as
that skill is reflected in the billing rate itself.  The Court will award a 1.3 multiplier.  The Court thereafter awards a total of
$633,323.60 (the agreed-upon lodestar of $487,172 x 1.3).  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 

 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative,
the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   