 Case Number:  23LBCV00744    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Digital Planet Studio,
Inc. and Irfan Merchant filed this action for breach of contract and related
claims against Defendants, Thunder Studios, Inc., Roderic M. David, Rolando
Nichols, Candela Rebot, and Leslie Sorrentino. 
The action is complicated, but the crux of the action is that Plaintiffs
entered into a partly written, partly oral, and partly implied by conduct agreement
with Thunder, pursuant to which Digital would move to Thunder and Thunder would
ultimately acquire Digital’s Mobile Motion Mocap (“MMM”) unit.  On 2/15/21, Thunder and Digital entered into
a written MOU, the terms of which are set forth at ¶10 of the complaint.  Ultimately, Digital alleges Thunder breached
the agreement by not paying for services rendered, keeping all rights to the content
produced, never buying Digital’s assets, and instead converting the assets for
its own use, and failing to enter into a long-term employment contract with
Digital’s principal, Merchant.  
 
Ultimately, in August of 2021,
Defendants locked Merchant out of the offices, refusing to return his personal
property to him, and told him his services were no longer needed.  Plaintiffs allege Defendants never intended
to comply with the parties’ agreements, and instead merely intended to steal
their business, their employees, and their trade secret information.  
 
The complaint includes causes of action
for:
·        
Breach of Oral, Implied-in-fact, and written
contracts (Thunder);
·        
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing (All Defendants);
·        
Intentional Misrepresentation (Thunder and
David);
·        
Concealment (Thunder and David);
·        
False Promise (Thunder and David);
·        
Negligent Misrepresentation (Thunder and David);
·        
Conversion (Thunder, David, and Rebot);
·        
Trespass to Chattels (Thunder and David);
·        
Intentional Interference with Contracts
(Thunder, David, Nichols, and Sorrentino);
·        
Breach of Fiduciary Duty to Use Reasonable Care
(Thunder and David);
·        
Breach of Fiduciary Duty of Loyalty (Thunder and
David);
·        
Breach of Fiduciary Duty of Confidentiality
(Thunder and David);
·        
Misappropriation of Trade Secrets (Thunder and
David).
 

Demurrer to Complaint
     (Thunder Studios, Inc.)

a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
The Court continued the hearing to require
the parties to meet and confer.  The details
of the meet and confer attempts will be discussed below, to the extent they are
relevant to this ruling.  The Court finds
the parties satisfied the meet and confer requirement, and will rule on the demurrers
on their merits at this time.
c.     First
Cause of Action, Breach of Contract
Defendant demurs to the breach of
contract cause of action, contending (a) Defendant cannot meaningfully
ascertain the terms of any purported contract running between the parties, (b)
Defendant cannot ascertain whether any such contract is written, oral, or implied
in conduct, (c) any alleged contract violates the statute of frauds, and (d)
any agreement set forth in the complaint is merely an “agreement to agree” and
not an actual agreement.
 
The parties, during meet and
confer, agreed that Plaintiffs could clarify the terms of the contract(s),
whether there are multiple contracts, how they were breached, etc.  Notably, Defendant expressly indicates that
it does not agree the claims could be properly pled, but concedes Plaintiffs
could attempt to do so.  The Court, therefore,
will focus on the unresolved issues, which are whether the agreements are
barred by the statute of frauds and whether they set forth nothing more than an
“agreement to agree.”
 
i.             
Statute of Frauds
Defendant’s first argument is that
the parties’ agreement is barred by the statute of frauds.  Defendant notes that the complaint alleges
the term of the MOU and NDA is alleged to have been two years from the commencement
date, with a one-year option.  Specifically,
at ¶10 the complaint alleges the parties entered into, “orally and by conduct
with the written terms drafted and accepted by Thunder and Mr. David partly as
follows”; Plaintiff then goes on to allege that the parties’ agreement had a
two-year term with a one-year renewal option. 

 
Pursuant to Civil Code §1624(a)(1),
an agreement that, by its terms, cannot be performed within a year is invalid
unless the contract is in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged or
the party’s agent.  
Plaintiffs argue (a) the contract
could have been performed within one year, and (b) the agreement was executed,
such that the statute of frauds does not apply.
 
Plaintiffs’ first argument is that,
pursuant to Foley v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 653, 673, the
parties’ agreement could have been performed within one year, and therefore the
statute of frauds is not implicated.  Specifically,
Plaintiffs contend either party could have acted in a manner that caused the
contract to terminate during the course of its first year, which is sufficient
to overcome the statute of frauds bar.  In
Foley, the Court considered whether an employment contract for a term in excess
of a year that only permits termination of the contract in the event of “good cause”
is outside the statute of frauds because the employee could be discharged for
cause, the employee could retire, die, or voluntarily leave employment, or
there could be general layoffs that affect the employee.  
 
Defendant argues Foley is not on
point because the parties’ relationship in this case was not an employment
relationship.  Plaintiffs allege, with
respect to termination of the contract, “Either Party may terminate the
Relationship and this MOU for cause upon thirty (30) days’ notice of breach to
the other party.  During such notice
period, the party alleged o be in breach will have the opportunity to cure such
breach.”  
 
Defendant fails to cite any case
contrary to Foley.  The Court finds the
analysis of Foley, which is a CA Supreme Court case, to be controlling.  Plaintiffs allege the express terms of the parties’
agreement permit either of them to declare a breach and terminate the agreement,
which could occur within the first year of the contract’s term.  The demurrer on the ground that the oral
contract is barred by the statute of frauds is therefore overruled.  The Court declines to consider the parole
evidence argument, as doing so is not necessary to a resolution of the merits
of the pleading challenge.
 
ii.            
Agreement to Agree
Defendant’s next argument is that
Plaintiffs have pled nothing more than an unenforceable “agreement to agree.”  Defendant notes that ¶10 of the complaint,
which alleges the terms of the parties’ MOU, includes, under the “SCOPE” section,
a statement that “Following the acceptance and commencement of this MOU, the
parties intend to negotiate a deeper integration of the relationship via an
Asset Purchase Agreement (APA), Employment Agreement for Irfan Merchant and a
SAFE (Simple Agreement for Equity) that will require the parties to enter into
a formal Agreement (the “Agreement”) encompassing these extra components.  It is intended that DPS will sell its assets
to Thunder for a to be agreed valuation sum via an APA for equity in Thunder via
a SAFE connected to a long-term employment contract between Thunder and Irfan
Merchant.”
 
At most, this clause would bar
Plaintiffs from alleging any breach of any APA, Employment Agreement, or SAFE
agreement, but it would not bar Plaintiffs from alleging a breach of the terms
of the MOU itself.  As noted above,
Plaintiffs will be amending their complaint to clarify whether there are
multiple agreements alleged to have been breached, and to set forth each
purported agreement in a separate cause of action for clarity.  The Court will defer ruling on this issue
until Plaintiffs file their amended complaint. 
The Court asks Plaintiffs to clearly plead, in the amended complaint,
the existence of each contract allegedly running between the parties, the terms
of such contract, and how such contract was breached.
 
d.     Second
Cause of Action, Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Defendant’s arguments concerning
the second cause of action parallel its arguments concerning the first cause of
action.  The demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend to permit Plaintiffs to clarify the allegations as detailed
above.  
 
e.     Tenth,
Eleventh, and Twelfth Causes of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
Defendant argues no fiduciary duty
was created because no contract was alleged. 
This argument, therefore, also rises and falls with the above ruling on
the breach of contract cause of action.  Plaintiffs
must clarify their contractual allegations as discussed above.
 
f.      Fourth
Cause of Action, Concealment
Defendant argues Plaintiffs’ fourth
cause of action for concealment fails to state a cause of action because
Plaintiffs failed to allege Defendant had any duty to disclose.  This argument, once again, is premised on the
contention that the parties had no contractual relationship; it therefore also
rises and falls with the arguments directed at the breach of contract cause of
action, which must be amended as discussed above.
 
g.     Ninth
Cause of Action, Intentional Interference with an At-Will Employment Agreement 
Defendant demurs to the ninth cause
of action, contending Plaintiffs have not pled any independently wrongful act
that would cause Defendant to incur liability for soliciting Plaintiffs’
at-will employees, as required by Reeves v. Hanlon, 33 Cal.4th 1140,
1152-1153.  In opposition, Plaintiffs
contend Defendant’s breach of its contractual agreement with Plaintiffs
constitutes the independently wrongful conduct. 
In reply, Defendant contends the cause of action fails because Plaintiffs
have not pled any breach.  This argument,
therefore, also rises and falls with the breach of contract cause of action,
which must be amended as discussed above.
 
h.     Fifth
Cause of Action, False Promise
Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action for
false promise alleges Defendant made the promises identified in ¶¶10 and 14
without any intent to perform.  Defendant
demurs, arguing (a) the allegations are not made with sufficient specificity,
and (b) the allegations amount to nothing more than a promise to enter into a
contract, and therefore cannot form the basis of a fraud claim.
 
The Court has reviewed ¶10 and
agrees that it lacks specificity.  As set
forth above, ¶10 alleges the parties entered into the MOU orally and by conduct
but then goes on to allege the terms were written and were drafted and accepted
by Defendant.  Plaintiff must clarify.  Were the terms oral?  Were they implied by conduct?  Were they written?  If they were oral, who stated them?  When? 
By what means?  ¶14 suffers from
the same defects.  The demurrer is
sustained with leave to amend on the ground that it lacks specificity.  To the extent the demurrer is based on the “promise
to enter into a contract” argument, Plaintiffs must clarify as discussed above.
 

Demurrer to
     Complaint (Defendant, Rodric M. David)


Second Cause of Action,
     Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Fourth
     Cause of Action, Concealment, and Tenth, Eleventh, and Twelfth Causes of Action,
     Breach of Fiduciary Duty

David is not sued on the first
cause of action for breach of contract.  He
is, however, sued on various theories related to the contract.  David demurs to the second, fourth, tenth,
eleventh, and twelfth causes of action, making the same arguments discussed
above in connection with Thunder’s demurrer; those arguments are sustained and
overruled as set forth fully above.  
 
David also argues the causes of
action pled against him fail because, as a non-party to the contract, Plaintiff
has not pled the existence of any duty running between Plaintiff and him.  Plaintiff, in opposition, cites extensive
authority governing the general relationship between entities and their
officers.  However, nothing in that
authority changes the fact that David is not alleged to have been a party to
the contract(s) that form the basis of this action.  Pursuant to Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood
Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1033, a non-party to an
agreement cannot commit a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, which arises when a party to the agreement acts in bad faith in
connection with the agreement.  The demurrer
to the second cause of action is therefore sustained without leave to amend.
 
While Defendant, in the demurrer,
lumps the fourth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth causes of action in with the
second cause of action, Defendant does not meaningfully articulate how these
claims are barred as against David (separate and apart from the arguments made
by Thunder).  Plaintiffs muddy the waters
in this regard, because they argue, at page 11, line 23 of their opposition to the
demurrer that they allege, at pages 14:1-2, 15:20-21, and 16:12-13, that David
was alleged to have been Plaintiffs’ business partner and joint venturer, which
would create a fiduciary relationship. 
Page 14:1-2 alleges “Defendants’ conduct was a substantial factor in
causing plaintiffs’ harm and damages.” 
15:20-21 and 16:12-13 contain the exact same allegations.
 
Plaintiffs must omit David from
their second cause of action in the amended complaint.  If they wish to pursue their other fiduciary
duty-based causes of action against David, they must clarify the relationship
between them and David that gives rise to a fiduciary duty in the amended
complaint.
 

Ninth Cause of Action,
     Intentional Interference with At-Will Employment Agreement

David’s demurrer to this cause of
action is the same as Thunder’s demurrer, and the Court adopts its analysis,
above, in full.  
 

Seventh Cause of
     Action, Conversion

Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action
is pled against Thunder and David.  Notably,
Thunder did NOT demur to the seventh cause of action.  This cause of action alleges Defendants
converted Plaintiff’s property by taking possession of his property, failing to
permit him to access his property, and refusing to return his property upon
demand.  
 
Defendant argues the cause of
action is subject to demurrer because Plaintiff’s complaint admits “Thunder”
possesses his property, not David.  Additionally,
Defendant argues the cause of action is preempted by the CUTSA (California
Uniform Trade Secrets Act).  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition, argues he
alleges David directed Thunder to convert his property, and therefore David is
liable for the conversion personally.  Plaintiff
argues there is no preemption of the claim. 

 
The first issue is whether David
can be held liable for conversion if he is not personally alleged to have taken
the property or to currently possess the property (and where, as here, the
entity defendant, Thunder, is expressly alleged to have possession of the
property).  Neither party cites authority
directly on point.  Plaintiffs rely on
general authority holding that principals are liable for their own torts
committed on behalf of their entities. 
Defendant relies on the general law re: conversion holding that someone
is liable for conversion if and only if the person wrongfully takes and retains
the subject property.  The Court will not
further research this issue in light of the parties’ failure to brief the
specific issue – whether a principal can be liable for conversion if the
principal does not personally take or retain the goods.  If Plaintiffs re-plead this claim against
David, and if David challenges it, the parties must meet and confer and brief
this specific issue in connection with any pleading challenge.
 
The bigger issue is whether the
conversion claim is preempted by the CUTSA.  David argues the property Plaintiffs allege
was converted is the same as the property that is the subject of Plaintiffs’ misappropriation
of trade secrets cause of action, and therefore David concludes the claim is
preempted by CUTSA.  Plaintiffs, in
opposition to the demurrer, concede their claims relating to intangible
property are likely preempted and offer to remove those allegations.  Defendant, in reply, focuses only on the intangible
property claims in this regard.  Plaintiffs
must amend their complaint accordingly.  
 

False Promise

The demurrer to the false promise cause
of action is sustained with leave to amend for the reasons set forth above in
connection with Thunder’s demurrer.  To
the extent David also demurs on the ground that he is not personally liable for
fraud because any misrepresentation he made was on behalf of Thunder, his
argument fails.  As set forth in the opposition
papers, an individual defendant is personally liable for his own tortious
conduct, even if that conduct is done on behalf of the principal.  See Frances T. v. Village Green Owners Assn (1986)
42 Cal.3d 490, 505.  Note that this cause
of action is distinct from the conversion cause of action, because Plaintiffs
allege David personally committed all elements of the tort.  Thus, the demurrer on this additional ground
is overruled.
 

Thirteenth Cause of Action,
     Misappropriation of Trade Secrets

Plaintiffs’ thirteenth cause of
action is pled against Thunder and David. 
Thunder does not demur to this cause of action.  David demurs, arguing Plaintiffs have not
pled with sufficient specificity what it is that Defendants took that is
subject to trade secret protection.  David
relies on Diodes, Inc. v. Franzen (1968) 260 Cal.App.2d 244, 250, which held
that the complaint must allege the existence of subject matter capable of
protection as a trade secret, and must allege specific facts so showing.  
 
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the
demurrer, argues Diodes is no longer good law, and instead the specifics of the
claim can be determined through discovery. 
Plaintiffs argue CCP §2019.210, which was enacted in 1984, supercedes
Diodes.  Plaintiffs cite Advanced Modular
Sputtering, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 826,
833-834 in support of their position.  Even
the portion of Advanced Modular that Plaintiffs cite, however, supports
Defendant’s position, not Plaintiffs’ position. 
The Court therein held that §2019.210 “codifies Diodes,” and that it requires
the complainant to describe the subject matter of the trade secret with particularity
before commencing discovery.  Plaintiffs
appear to take the position that there is now some sort of pre-discovery identification
of the specifics of the trade secrets that should occur.  A reasonable reading of the statute and case
law, however, is that the plaintiff remains obligated to specify the trade
secret having been misappropriated at the pleading stage, as doing so is a necessary
prerequisite to the right to litigate and conduct discovery.  
 
The demurrer is therefore sustained
with leave to amend.
 

Eighth Cause of Action,
     Trespass to Chattels

While David demurs to the eighth
cause of action, it is only mentioned in the introduction and the conclusion of
the points and authorities.  David makes
no argument in his points and authorities showing the cause of action is
deficiently pled.  The demurrer is
therefore overruled.
 

Demurrer to
     Complaint (Defendants, Rolando Nichols, Candela Rebot, and Leslie Sorrentino)


Second Cause of Action,
     Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing

Defendants correctly note that they
are not alleged to have been parties to any contract.  Their demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend for the reasons set forth above.
 

Conversion

The analysis set forth above in
connection with David’s demurrer to the conversion cause of action applies equally
to these demurring individual defendants. 

 

Intentional Interference

The analysis above re: intentional
interference applies equally to these individual demurring defendants.
 

Conclusion

Plaintiffs must file an amended
complaint, in response to the above ruling, within twenty days.  Plaintiffs may add a claim for quantum
meruit, as requested in opposition to the demurrers, to their amended
complaint.  The parties must meet and
confer in good faith before Defendants file any pleading challenges to the
FAC.  Defendants must file their responsive
pleadings within the statutory time after they are served with the FAC.
 

CMC 

The parties are reminded that there
is a Case Management Conference on calendar concurrently with the hearing on
the demurrer.  The Court asks the parties
to make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the
demurrer.  
 