 Case Number:  24STCP01355    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  82 Alan Gilmer v. City of Los Angeles, et al.
Case No. 24STCP01355
 
NOTICE
 
The court provides notice of the
following provisions of the Court Security General Order and orders the parties
to comply with these orders:
 
“Under no circumstances shall
any law enforcement officer bring a firearm or deadly or dangerous weapon into
a Los Angeles County courthouse if the officer is entering the courthouse as a
private litigant in a private action unless written permission to do so has
first been obtained from the Presiding Judge or Supervising Judge of the
affected courthouse to bring such a weapon into the courthouse.”  (Court
Security General Order, ¶ I.C.)  
 
“Violation of this Order may
result in the imposition of sanctions in amounts of up to $1,500 per violation
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 177.5 and/or prosecution for
criminal violations.”  (Court Security General Order, ¶ V.)
 
The court authorizes remote
appearances for all hearings and the trial in this matter as necessary to
comply with these orders.  
 
 
[Tentative] Order Denying
Motion to Augment Record
 
Petitioner Alan Gilmer
(“Petitioner”), an officer with the Los Angeles Police Department the “LAPD”),  filed this petition for writ of mandate
challenging his demotion from Detective III to Detective I.  Now, Petitioner seeks to augment the
administrative record with the following documents: (1) LAPD Department Manual
section 3/762.92, “Temporary Assignments;” (2) LAPD Department Manual section
3/814, “Work Equity Complaint;” (3) A declaration by Lieutenant II Robert
Binder; and (3) A declaration by Detective III Ernesto Mendoza.  
 
“As a general rule, a hearing on a
writ of administrative mandamus is conducted solely on the record of the
proceeding before the administrative agency.”  (Richardson v. City and
County of San Francisco (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 671, 702.)  There is an exception:
 
Where the court finds that there is
relevant evidence that, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, could not have
been produced or that was improperly excluded at the hearing before respondent,
it may enter judgment as provided in subdivision (f) remanding the case to be
reconsidered in the light of that evidence; or, in cases in which the court is
authorized by law to exercise its independent judgment on the evidence, the
court may admit the evidence at the hearing on the writ without remanding the
case.  
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (e).)  The court rules as follows:
 
            1.         LAPD Department Manual section
3/762.92 – DENIED.  Petitioner does not
demonstrate that he could not have introduced this manual.  Nor does Petitioner demonstrate that he
attempted to introduce this section and that the Board improperly excluded it
at the hearing.
 
            2.         LAPD Department Manual section 3/914 –
DENIED.  Petitioner does not demonstrate
that he could not have introduced this manual. 
Nor does Petitioner demonstrate that he attempted to introduce this
section and that the Board improperly excluded it at the hearing.
 
            3.         Declaration of Robert Binder –
DENIED.  Petitioner represented that this
declaration was submitted to the Board. 
If so, this declaration should already be part of the administrative
record.
 
            4.         Declaration of Ernesto Mendoza –
DENIED.  Petitioner represented that this
declaration was submitted to the Board. 
If so, this declaration should already be part of the administrative
record.
 
            The court’s
clerk shall provide notice.  