  Case Number:  24STCP00741    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  82 Beta Pi Sigma Sorority, Inc.                                    Case No. 24STCP00741
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
January 22, 2025
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
  Ida F. Cochrane, et al.                                       Judge: Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Petition for
Writ of Mandate
            
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Beta Pi Sigma Sorority, Inc. (“BPS”)
is a non-profit sorority, and this petition for writ of mandate concerns a
dispute over who controls BPS.  Every two
years, there is a national convention—hosted by a local chapter—at which the
national leadership is elected.  Under
the BPS’s Constitution and Bylaws, the responsibility for hosting the national
convention and selecting the venue rotates based upon Greek alphabetical order.  The national convention in 2023 was supposed
to be hosted by the Epsilon Chapter, which is based in Los Angeles,
California.  The budget for the event was
$19,000, and the Epsilon Chapter asked the National President to approve a
Sheraton Hotel that would cost $26,000. 
The National President refused, and the Epsilon Chapter refused to host
the convention at a nearby Sheraton Hotel that was within the budget.  The National President then reassigned the
hosting duties to a different chapter; the convention was held in Las Vegas,
Nevada; and a new slate of officers was elected.  The Epsilon Chapter held its own virtual
national convention and elected a different slate of officers.  Now, there is a dispute over which slate is
the rightful officers of BPS.  This
petition was filed in the name of BPS by members of the Epsilon Chapter.  Respondents are members of the national
organization and officers who were elected at the convention in Las Vegas,
Nevada.  
 
            Because this dispute involves the
governance of a private voluntary organization, Petitioner must satisfy a high
burden.  First, Petitioner must establish
a clear violation of the BPS’s Constitution or Bylaws.  If so, Petitioner must establish that
judicial intervention is supported by balancing the interest in protecting the
Epsilon Chapter’s rights against the infringement on the BPS’s autonomy and the
burdens of judicial intervention. 
Petitioner does not satisfy this high standard, so the court declines to
“intrud[e] upon the internal affairs of a voluntary private association.”  (California Trial Lawyers Ass’n v.
Superior Court (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 575, 579.)  The court denies the petition for writ of
mandate.  
 
BACKGROUND 
 
A.        The Governance Structure of BPS
 
BPS
is a California non-profit corporation that is registered with the California
Secretary of State.  (Petitioner’s Separate
Appendix of Evidence (“PAE”) Exh. 2.)  BPS’s Constitution and Bylaws, Article II
states:
 
The purpose of
this Sorority is to stimulate civic, educational, and cultural interests in its
members by promoting tangible projects for the betterment of the community or
communities wherein this Sorority might exist, by endowing scholarships to
worthy students to further their education in the business and professional
world.  This Sorority is non-profit in
nature and does not contemplate pecuniary gain or profit to the members
thereof.
 
(PAE
Exh. 1 at 13.)
 
BPS
has a National Board of Directors (the “National Board”), which is the governing
body of BPS “with respect to policy and procedures.”  (PAE Exh. 1 at 21.)[1]  Among other duties, the National Board has
responsibility for the supervision of the various chapters of BPS.  (Id. at 21-22.)  The National Board consists of the “Supreme
Basileus” and Board members, who are elected at the National Convention of BPS,
which is held biennially in odd-numbered years. 
(Id. at 24-25, 27.)  
 
National
Officers of BPS are also elected at the National Convention.  (PAE Exh. 1 at 29.)  Articles XX and XXI of BPS’s Constitution and
Bylaws define National Elective Officer positions, including the Supreme
Basileus, three Anti-Basileus, National Financial Grammateus, National Tamias, Regional
Director, and National Recording Grammateus. 
(Id. at 29-45.)  Among
other duties, the Supreme Basileus “[s]hall authenticate by her signature, when
necessary, all the acts, orders and proceedings of the body, declaring its will
and in all things obeying its commands.” 
(Id. at 31.)  As relevant
to this petition, the Regional Director “[s]hall visit or communicate with all
Chapters or National Committees for the purpose of coordinating or interpreting
policy and procedure under the direction of the National Board of Directors and
the Supreme Basileus.”  (Id. at 38.)
 
The
Constitution and Bylaws also provide for various types of committees, including
the National Executive Committee:
 
The National Executive
Committee (consisting of the Chairman of the Board, Supreme Basileus, and all
National elected officers) shall be responsible for all matters relating to the
Chapters, individual members, suspension and expulsions of members. Matters
that cannot be resolved by the Executive Committee shall be referred to the
Board of Directors for a final decision or appeal.
 
(PAE
Exh. 1 at 46-47; RAE Exh. A at 47-48.)
 
B.        The Dispute Over the National Convention

 
BPS’s
Constitution and Bylaws (Subsection III, Article XVI, Section 4) state that the
host chapter for the National Convention and Annual Meeting shall be assigned
in “Greek Alphabetical Order.”  (PAE Exh.
1 at 27.)  For 2023, pursuant to the
National Rotation Schedule, the host chapter for 2023 National Convention was
Epsilon Chapter.  (Pet. ¶ 16; Answer
(“Ans.”) ¶ 16; PAE Exh. 3.)
 
Since
2019, Marguerite Turner has been the Baselius (or President) of the Epsilon Chapter,
which is based in Los Angeles.  (Turner
Decl. ¶ 3.)  The Epsilon Chapter decided
to host the August 2023 National Convention in Los Angeles.  (PAE Exh. 20, Turner Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.)  A special committee was formed to coordinate
with the Epsilon Chapter and the budget was set at $19,000.  (Hamilton Decl. ¶ 2.) 
 
On
November 21, 2022, Turner sent an email to members of the National Board with
“three bids for hotels” to host the 2023 National Convention.  (RAE Exh. D.) 
All three bids were over $19,000. 
(See ibid.; see also Hamilton Decl. ¶ 2.)  The Torrance Marriott Redondo Beach’s proposed
budget was $43,920.  (RAE Exh. D.)  The Double Tree by Hilton Torrance’s proposed
budget was $43,760.  (Ibid.)  The quote from the Four Points by Sheraton,
Los Angeles Westside (the “Sheraton Westside”) was $26,000.  (Ibid.)  The Epsilon Chapter selected the Sheraton
Westside.  (Hutchinson Decl. ¶ 11.)      
 
Respondent
Gwendolyn Hutchinson, BPS’s Supreme Basileus (the “National President”), raised
concerns because the proposal was over-budget and refused to approve the
contract with the Sheraton Westside.  (Turner
Decl. ¶ 5; see also RAE Exh. D-I.)  Respondent
Cecilia Hamilton obtained a quote from the Four Points by Sheraton, Los Angeles
International Airport (the “Sheraton LAX”) that was within budget.  (Hamilton Decl. ¶ 3; see also RAE Exhs. D
& E.)  However, Turner declined the
proposal.  (Hamilton Decl. ¶ 3.)  
 
The
National Board met with the Epsilon Chapter to discuss the bids and attempt to
resolve the impasse.  (Hamilton Decl. ¶ 4.)  Eventually, a special committee of the
National Board rejected the Epsilon Chapter’s proposal because the hotel bid
from Four Points by Sheraton in Culver City exceeded the budget of $19,000.  (Hamilton Decl. ¶¶ 4-6; see also RAE
Exhs. D-I.)
 
On
February 4, 2023, the Epsilon Chapter voted on this issue but it is unclear
whether the Epsilon Chapter voted against “host[ing] the 2023 Annual Convention
in Las Vegas, Nevada,” or whether the Epsilon Chapter voted against “hosting
the Beta Pi Sigma Sorority, Inc. 2023 Annual Convention” altogether.  (See RAE Exh. J; see also Washington Decl. ¶
5; Reply Darton Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.)  On
February 8, 2023, Hutchinson received an email from Dale Washington stating
that the Epsilon Chapter had decided not to host the 2023 Annual
Convention.  (See Hutchinson Decl. ¶ 20;
RAE Exh. L.)  Thereafter, Hutchinson
approached the next chapter in the rotation (Zeta chapter), which declined to
host the National Convention.  Subsequently,
the next chapter in the rotation (Eta chapter) “accepted the responsibility and
reviewed the existing proposals and selected the Suncoast in Las Vegas, NV for the
site of the National Convention.” 
(Hutchinson Decl. ¶ 21; RAE Exh. N, O.) 

 
An
emergency meeting with BPS’s National Board of Directors was scheduled for
February 7, 2023, via Zoom, to discuss Hutchinson’s refusal to approve the contract
with the Sheraton Westside for the August 2023 National Convention.  (PAE Exh. 20, Turner Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)  Hutchinson did not appear for the Zoom call.  (Id. ¶ 9.)  After the meeting, Hurd executed the Sheraton
Westside’s contract without Hutchinson’s approval.  (Hutchison Decl. ¶ 19.)  Respondents contend that there was no quorum
at this emergency meeting; Hurd was not authorized to sign the contract with
Four Points; and Hurd was subsequently removed as chairperson of the National
Board and as a member of BPS as a result of her misconduct.  (Hutchinson Decl. ¶¶ 18-19, 26-29 and Exh. U; Stallings
Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) 
 
On
or about July 20, 2023, at Hurd’s instruction, the Channel Law Group, LLP,
issued a letter to Hutchinson and other “selected members” of BPS stating, in
part: “[T]he upcoming convention in Las Vegas, NV between August 7-16, 2023 is
not authorized and/or sanctioned by Beta Pi Sigma. . . . Any attempts to amend
Beta Pi Sigma’s By Laws, Constitution, etc. will be deemed invalid and any
election of officers will be deemed void.” (PAE Exh. 21; Hurd ¶ 12, Exh. A.)  However, neither Hurd nor BPS filed a lawsuit
to enjoin this upcoming convention. 
 
Two
different National Conventions were held in August 2023. According to
Petitioner, “[t]he National Convention was eventually approved and it was
conducted virtually from August 9-11, 2023” (hereafter, the “Virtual
Convention”).  (PAE Exh. 21; see also Hurd
Decl. ¶ 13.)  Hurd declares that “[o]n
August 12, 2023, the new board and officers were duly elected.  Cassandra Ray was elected Chairman of BPS’s
National Board of Directors.  Pamela
Tiller was elected Supreme Baselius, Pamela Tiller as Secretary and Inil
Swann-Cook as Treasurer.”  (Id. ¶
14.)  According to Respondents, the
National Convention was held in person in Las Vegas on August 9 through August
12, 2023 (the “Las Vegas Convention”), and Terri Stallings was elected Supreme
Basileus and Ida F. Cochrane was elected chairperson of the National Board.  (Hutchinson Decl. ¶¶ 41-43; Mahoney Decl. ¶¶
25-28.)  Petitioner acknowledges that the
National Board and National Officers elected at the Las Vegas Convention currently
have control of BPS’s bank accounts, website, and archives.  (Opening Brief (“OB”) 8; see PAE Exh.
21 and 22.)  The California Secretary of
State’s Statement of Information for BPS lists officers that were elected at
the Las Vegas Convention, including Terri Stallings, not the officers elected
at the Virtual Convention.  (PAE Exh. 2; see
also PAE Exh. 23, McLurkin Decl. ¶ 8.) 

 
In or about October 2023, Cassandra Ray,
who was elected the National Board Chairman at the Virtual Convention,
instructed counsel to file a complaint against the “rogue element of BPS” with
the California Department of Justice. On October 16, 2023, the Attorney
General’s office responded that “[t]he Attorney General does not review matters
involving internal labor disputes, contested elections, disagreements between
directors and members over policy and procedures, and most legal actions
between charities and third parties regarding contracts or torts.” (PAE Exh. 22;
Ray Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B.)  This action
followed.
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
            Petitioner
ask the court to take judicial notice of Exhibits 1 through 25.  Respondent asks the court to take judicial
notice of Exhibits A through AJ.  The
court takes judicial notice of Petitioner’s Exhibits 1 and 3, and Respondent’s
Exhibits A and B, because these documents are the Constitution and Bylaws at
issue.  Therefore, judicial notice is
appropriate under Evidence Code section 452(h). 
The court takes judicial notice of Petitioner’s Exhibit 2 under Evidence
Code section 452(c).
 
            The
remaining exhibits are not suitable for judicial notice because they are
evidence in this case.  However, neither
side disputes the authenticity or admissibility of these exhibits for purposes
of deciding this petition.  Therefore,
the court shall consider the remaining exhibits as evidence in deciding this
petition for writ of mandate.  
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
The petition for
writ of mandate is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1085.  There
are two essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: (1) a clear, present, and
ministerial duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and
beneficial right on the part of the petitioner to the performance of that duty.
(California Ass’n for Health Services at
Home v. Department of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696,
704.)  Generally, mandamus is available “when the action being
compelled or corrected is ministerial.”  (AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.)  
 
Nevertheless, special common law rules govern disputes within private
voluntary organizations. 
 
The courts play only a very limited
role in adjudicating disputes concerning the affairs of private clubs and
associations. . . .  The standard for any
court intervention in cases concerning a private association’s affairs is
therefore quite high. Courts will accept jurisdiction over a private voluntary
association only where the association abused its discretion by unreasonably
construing a plain and unambiguous provision of its bylaws.  
 
(Hee Shen Cemetery & Benevolent
Assn. v. Yeong Wo Assn. (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 231, 239.)  Significantly, the petitioner “bears the
burden of proof in a mandate proceeding brought under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1085.”  (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. State Personnel Bd.
(1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        The Court Need Not Resolve Whether
Petitioner Has Standing 
 
            Respondents
first argue that Petitioners lack standing, because this petition was filed in
the name of “Beta Pi Sigma Sorority, Inc.,” which is not controlled by the
Epsilon Chapter and the officers elected at the Virtual Convention.  Instead, the California Secretary of State’s
Statement of Information for BPS lists officers that were elected at the Las
Vegas Convention, including Terri Stallings, Teresina Mahoney, and Ida Cochrane,
who are Respondents.  (PAE Exh. 2; see
also PAE Exh. 23; McLurkin Decl. ¶ 8; OB 12:20-26.)  The court need not resolve this issue in
order to rule on the petition.   
            
            


 
B.        The Court Declines To Intervene in this
Dispute  
 
            Because this dispute involves the
governance of a private voluntary organization, Petitioner must satisfy a high burden:
 
[W]hen a
private voluntary organization plainly contravenes the terms of its bylaws, the
issues of whether and to what extent judicial relief will be available depend
on balancing (1) the interest in protecting the aggrieved party's rights
against (2) the infringement on the organization’s autonomy and the burdens on
the courts that will result from judicial attempts to settle such internal
disputes. 
 
(California Dental Ass’n v. American Dental Ass’n
(1979) 23 Cal.3d 346, 350; see also California Trial Lawyers Ass’n v.
Superior Court (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 575, 579.)  However, the court only reaches this
balancing test if the petitioner proves that “the association abused its discretion by unreasonably
construing a plain and unambiguous provision of its bylaws.”  (Hee Shen Cemetery & Benevolent Assn.
v. Yeong Wo Assn. (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 231, 239.)  The Court of Appeal recently summarized the
rationale for these common law rules, as follows:
 
The
courts play only a very limited role in adjudicating disputes concerning the
affairs of private clubs and associations. “In many disputes in which such
rights and duties are at issue ... the courts may decline to exercise
jurisdiction. Their determination not to intervene reflects their judgment that
the resulting burdens on the judiciary outweigh the interests of the parties at
stake. One concern in such cases is that judicial attempts to construe ritual
or obscure rules and laws of private organizations may lead the courts into
what Professor Chafee called the ‘dismal swamp.’ ” (California
Dental, supra, 23 Cal.3d at p. 353,
152 Cal.Rptr. 546, 590 P.2d 401….) Our Supreme Court highlighted another
concern: “preserving the autonomy of such organizations.” (Ibid., ….) It observed that courts “must guard against
unduly interfering” in a private association's “autonomy by substituting
judicial judgment for that of the [association] in an area where the competence
of the court does not equal that of the” association. (California Dental, at p. 354, 152 Cal.Rptr. 546, 590
P.2d 401.)
 
(Hee Shen Cemetery &
Benevolent Assn., supra, 100 Cal.App.5th at 239.)
 
Respondent argues that these authorities govern the court’s
review of the petition for writ of mandate. 
In the reply brief, Petitioner does not challenge Respondent’s arguments
on this issue.  (Sehulster
Tunnels/Pre-Con v. Traylor Brothers, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328, 1345,
fn. 16 [failure to address point is “equivalent to a concession”].)  Nor does Petitioner develop an argument that
BPS’s organization as a non-profit corporation, rather than an unincorporated
association, is material to this case.  (See
Pet. ¶ 4; see also PAE Exh. 2 [Statement of Information].)  Therefore, the court relies on these
authorities as the standard of review.  
 
            


 
1.         Petitioner does not establish a clear
violation of the Constitution/Bylaws
 
            Petitioner argues that once
the Epsilon Chapter was designated to host the 2023 Annual Convention, the
National President had no authority to change the chapter/venue.  Petitioner does not demonstrate that
Hutchinson’s decision plainly contradicted the Constitution or Bylaws.  As an initial matter, there is genuine
confusion over whether the Epsilon Chapter voluntarily abdicated its role as
host.  The minutes of the meeting of
February 4, 2023, suggest that the Epsilon Chapter took two votes.  (See RAE Exh. J.)  The first question was: “Will Epsilon chapter
host the 2023 Annual Convention in the Las Vegas, Nevada area,” and the answer
was “nay” by six votes (against two “yes” votes and one abstention).  (See ibid.)  Then, a second motion was brough to the floor
“for Epsilon Chapter to decline hosting the Beta Pi Sigma Sorority Inc. 2023
Annual Convention,” and that motion passed with six “yes” votes (against two
“not to decline” votes and one abstention). 
This record suggests that Hutchinson had authority to move the hosting
responsibility to the next chapter.
 
            Even if the Epsilon
Chapter only declined to host the 2023 Annual Convention in Las Vegas, Nevada
and still intended to host the convention in Los Angeles, Petitioner still does
not demonstrate a plain violation of the Constitution and Bylaws.  In fact, they are ambiguous with respect to
who has final authority to decide the location of the National Convention and
to execute any hotel contract.  Subsection III,
Article XVI, Section 4 states that the host chapter for the National Convention
and Annual Meeting shall be assigned in “Greek Alphabetical Order,” and that
the convention shall be held “at a location selected by the host Chapter.”  (PAE Exh. 1 at 27.)  However, the Constitution and Bylaws were
interpreted at the 2019 National Convention to vest authority in the Supreme
Basileus to execute contracts related to the National Convention.  (RAE Exh. B; Hutchinson Decl. ¶ 4; see also PAE
Exh. 1 at 31 [the Supreme Basileus “[s]hall authenticate by her
signature, when necessary, all the acts, orders and proceedings of the body”].)  This suggests that the local chapter’s
selection of the venue is not absolute, and that the National President retains
veto power for good cause. 
 
            In this case, the record contains
sufficient good cause for the National President’s refusal to approve the
Sheraton Westside for the 2023 Annual Convention.  The budget for the 2023 Annual Convention was
$19,000, and the Sheraton Westside would cost $26,000.  Respondents also advance evidence that Ceclia
Hamilton located a venue in Los Angeles—at the Sheraton LAX—that was within the
budget, but the Epsilon Chapter’s president declined to hold the convention at
that venue.  (Hamilton Decl. ¶ 3; see
also RAE Exhs. D & E.)  Under these
circumstances, Petitioner does not establish that the National President’s
refusal to sign the contract with Sheraton Westside was a clear violation of
the Constitution or Bylaws.
 
Petitioner
argues: “The National Board met on February 7, 2023 and ruled that Epsilon
chapter was rightfully the host chapter” and that “[o]nce this determination
was made by the National Board, the then National President had no further
recourse under BPS’s Constitution.”  (OB
12:8-10.)  Petitioner does not show that
a quorum was established at the emergency meeting of February 7, 2023, or that
Hutchinson’s decision not to execute the Four Points contract was superseded by
the National Board.  The Bylaws state
that a quorum for a meeting of the National Board shall be two-thirds of its
membership.  (PAE Exh. 1 at 23.)  Petitioner has not cited any minutes from the
meeting showing that a quorum was established. 
More important, because Petitioner has not produced minutes of the emergency
meeting, it is unclear if the members present even voted to supersede Hutchinson’s
decision not to execute the Sheraton Westside contract.  Indeed, Petitioner’s declarants only state
that “the National Board of Directors confirmed that Epsilon chapter was indeed
the proper chapter to host the 2023 National Convention,” not that the National
Board voted to execute the hotel contract. 
(PAE Decl. Exh. 21; Hurd Decl. ¶ 10.)
 
The
Epsilon Chapter also failed to exhaust its remedies under the Bylaws after Hutchinson
refused to execute the Sheraton Westside contract and then assigned the hosting
duties to a different chapter.  BPS’s
Constitution and Bylaws state that the National Executive Committee is “responsible
for all matters relating to the Chapters.” 
(PAE Exh. 1 at 46-47; RAE Exh. A at 47-48.)  Further, “[m]atters that cannot be resolved
by the Executive Committee shall be referred to the Board of Directors for a
final decision or appeal.”  (Ibid.)  Even though it was aware of Hutchinson’s
actions, the Epsilon Chapter did not file a grievance with the National
Executive Committee or the National Board. 
Because Epsilon chapter did not exhaust these remedies, Petitioner has
not shown that Respondents plainly violated the Constitution and the Bylaws
when Hutchinson reassigned the hosting duties. 

 
            Instead, Petitioner argues that “the
National Regional Director is the person responsible for handling these
disputes” and that the Regional Director at the time, Rhonda Jordan-Thomas, helped
set up the February 7, 2023, emergency meeting.  (OB 7.) 
Among
other duties, the Regional Director “[s]hall visit or communicate
with all Chapters or National Committees for the purpose of coordinating or
interpreting policy and procedure under the direction of the National
Board of Directors and the Supreme Basileus.”  (PAE Exh. 1 at 38 [emphasis added].)  The Constitution and Bylaws do not state that
the Regional Director has authority to adjudicate such disputes.  
 
            Based on the foregoing, Petitioner
has not shown that the BPS “abused its discretion by unreasonably construing a
plain and unambiguous provision of its bylaws” when it refused to execute
the Sheraton Westside contract (which was approximately 35 percent overbudget)
and reassigned the hosting duties (after the Epsilon Chapter refused to move
the Annual Convention to a nearby hotel that was within budget).  Accordingly, Petitioner does not establish
that the court should intervene in this dispute.  
 
                        2.         The balance of interests does not
support judicial intervention 
 
            Even if Petitioner had established
that there was a clear violation the BPS’s Constitution or Bylaws, the balance
of interests does not support judicial intervention.  This petition
concerns an election that occurred in August 2023, and BPS’s Constitution and
Bylaws require a new National Convention to be held in 2025.  (PAE Exh. 1 at 24-25, 27.)  Thus, a new election will be held in
approximately seven months.  By contrast,
court intervention would unduly infringe on BPS’s autonomy and disrupt its
operations within these final months.  The
court also finds that the burdens on the courts of attempting to settle this
internal dispute are high.  For these
reasons, the balancing of interests weighs in favor of non-intervention.  The court need not resolve the dispute over
whether the Virtual Convention was permissible under the Constitution or
whether the petition has the “backing” of the sorority.  (OB 13:16, 14:8-17.)
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition for writ of mandate is
denied.
 
            2.         The parties shall meet-and-confer and
lodge a proposed judgment.
 
            3.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED 
 
 
Dated: January 22,
2025                                             ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


