  Case Number:  22SMCV00063    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Cienega
Ventures LLC v. 730 N. La Cienega, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV00063
MOTION:                  Motion
to Consolidate
HEARING DATE:   5/22/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
The trial court is authorized to consolidate pending
“actions involving a common question of law or fact…,” so as to “avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.” (CCP § 1048(a).) The decision to consolidate
pending actions is a matter wholly committed to the trial court’s discretion. (Nat’l
Elec. Supply Co. v. Mt. Diablo Unified Sch. Dist. (1960) 187
Cal.App.2d 418, 421.) LASC Local Rule 3.3(g)(1) further directs that
consolidation cannot occur until “[a] motion to consolidate two or more cases
[is] noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different
departments, have been related into a single department, or if the cases were
already assigned to that department.”  
 
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a)(1), a notice
of motion to consolidate must: (A) List all named parties in each case, the
names of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys
of record; (B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated,
with the lowest numbered case shown first; and (C) Be filed in each case sought
to be consolidated. (2) The motion to consolidate: (A) Is deemed a single
motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but
memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in
the lowest numbered case; (B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all
non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and (C)
Must have a proof of service filed as part of the motion. Under Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.350(b), “[u]nless otherwise provided in the order granting the
motion to consolidate, the lowest numbered case in the consolidated case in the
lead case.” 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Cienega Ventures, LLC
moves to consolidate for all purposes case nos. 22SMCV00063 and 23SMCV05806.
Plaintiff contends that the cases involve common factual issues and
substantially the same evidence and witnesses. Plaintiff argues that
consolidation would prevent waste from repetitive trials and would prevent a
risk of inconsistent judgments.
 
The Court will not consolidate the
actions for all purposes. Plaintiff cites one common factual/legal issue
between the cases, that Defendants’ liability in the fraudulent transfer action
(23SMCV05806) is dependent on 730 N. La Cienega LLC’s liability in the breach
of lease action (22SMCV00063). The subject debt in the fraudulent transfer
action is the anticipated judgment from the breach of lease action. Plaintiff
insists that this creates a factual and legal connection between the cases
which requires consolidation, since one case is dependent on the other.
However, this is not a persuasive reason to try the actions together,
especially on this procedural record. The cases are at very different stages.
The breach action has a rapidly approaching trial date in September 2024. The
fraudulent transfer action was only recently filed in December 2023, and has no
trial date set. There has been very little opportunity for discovery in the
fraudulent transfer action. Defendants appropriately claim prejudice if they
were forced to go to trial in the fraudulent transfer action in September. As
such, consolidation for all purposes would undoubtably delay the upcoming trial.
Consolidation would therefore increase the costs on the parties and burden on
the court through delaying the resolution of the breach of lease action. 
 
The Court finds that the best
course of action would be to try the breach of lease action as scheduled, which
may completely resolve the fraudulent transfer action either through judgment
or settlement. Accordingly, the motion to consolidate is DENIED.