 Case Number:  23SMCV02845    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Morgan, v. Camras 
CASE NO.:                23SMCV02845
MOTION:                     Demurrer to the Second Amended
Cross-Complaint  
HEARING DATE:   5/21/2024
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore
Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations
omitted.) 
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(b).)
The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
 
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Breach of Lease
Defendant argues that the second amended cross-complaint (SACC)
fails to: (1) attach a copy of the Lease on which its cause of
action for breach of contract is based; or (2) sufficiently allege the terms
and conditions of the Lease.
“The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are:
‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance,
(3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall
Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171,
1178.) “A written contract may be pleaded by its terms—set out verbatim in the
complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated
therein by reference—or by its legal effect.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) “In order to plead
a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its
relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of
the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal
conclusions.’ ”  (Id.)
Here, the
SACC alleges that in 2000, Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendant entered into a
verbal rental agreement pursuant to which Cross-Complainant agreed to
rent the upstairs southern guest room in the property to Cross-Defendant on a
month-to-month basis. (SACC at 7.) Cross-Defendant agreed to pay for ½ of the
monthly utility bills (water, gas, and electric) due and payable each and every
month. (Id.) On January 1, 2020, and continuing to the present, Cross-Defendant
breached the Rental Agreement by failing and refusing to pay the monthly rent
and his half-share of the utility bills. (SACC at 8.) Cross-Defendant allegedly
owes $15,405 for his share of the utility bills. (Id.) The SACC alleges that Cross-Complainant
has performed all obligations required of him under the rental agreement. (Id.
At 9.) The SACC alleges a verbal lease agreement. As such, Cross-Complaint cannot
attach the written terms of the agreement.
Cross-Defendant
notes that prior pleadings admit that there was a written lease. “‘Generally,
after an amended pleading has been filed, courts will disregard the original
pleading. However, an exception to this rule is found ... where an amended
complaint attempts to avoid defects set forth in a prior complaint by ignoring
them. The court may examine the prior complaint to ascertain whether the
amended complaint is merely a sham.’ Moreover, any inconsistencies with prior
pleadings must be explained; if the pleader fails to do so, the court may
disregard the inconsistent allegations. [Citation.] Accordingly, a court is
‘not bound to accept as true allegations contrary to factual allegations in
former pleading in the same case.’ [Citation.]” (Larson v. UHS of Rancho
Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 336, 343.) Where an amended complaint
omits harmful allegations without explanation, the Court may take judicial
notice of the prior pleadings and disregard any inconsistent allegations in the
amended pleading.  (Hahn, supra,
147 Cal.App.4th at 751.)  The sham
pleading doctrine is not intended to prevent honest complainants from
correcting erroneous allegations or to prevent correction of ambiguous
facts.  (Ibid.)  Instead, it is intended to enable courts “
‘to prevent an abuse of process.’ ” (Amid v. Hawthorne Community Medical
Group, Inc. (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1383, 1390–1391.)
The prior
cross-complaints alleged that the operative lease agreement was a January 1,
2015, written lease agreement. (CC, Ex. A; FACC, Ex. A.) Pursuant to that
agreement, Cross-Complainant rented the upstairs southern guest room in the
Property to Cross-Defendant on a month-to-month basis, for five hundred dollars
per month and one-half of the monthly utility bills (water, gas, and electric).
(Id.) Under the sham pleading doctrine, these allegations would control absent
adequate explanation from Cross-Complainant. In opposition, Cross-Complainant
cites to paragraph 17, which states that Cross-Defendant demanded a written
lease from Plaintiff in order to purchase a gun. Cross-Complainant does not
explain why this reason would invalidate or effect the written lease in any way.
Therefore, Cross-Complainant cannot rely on the 2000 oral lease, and must
attach the written contract.
Accordingly,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Ejectment
 
Generally, the elements of ejectment are
ownership disclosing a right to possession, the defendant’s possession, and a
withholding of the possession from the plaintiff. (Baugh v. Consumers
Associates, Limited (1966) 241 Cal.App.2d 672, 675.) Under
the common law of ejectment, a demand for payment of
rent is an essential prerequisite of terminating a lease and regaining a right
to possess the premises. (Budaef v. Huber (1961) 194
Cal.App.2d 12, 17 [collecting cases].) The cited caselaw stood “for the proposition that a demand
for the exact sum due is a condition precedent to a forfeiture by the landlord,
absent a contrary provision in the lease, or a waiver of demand by the tenant.”
(Id.) 
 
The SACC only alleges that Cross-Complainant
gave notice to Cross-Defendant “demanding that he vacate the Property so that
Cross-complainant can, once again, use and enjoy the Property.” (SACC at para. 28.)  This does not allege that Cross-Complainant
demanded the outstanding rents. Thus, the SACC fails to allege that there has
been a forfeiture of the lease by Cross-Complainant, which would have entitled Cross-Complainant
to possession. Cross-Complainant must therefore allege facts supporting a
demand. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer
is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend.
 
Fraud
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud must be pled with specificity. (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity
demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and
by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of
America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) 

 
The SACC alleges that on September 1, 2009, Cross-Defendant
introduced Ric St. John to Cross-Complainant, who desired to rent a room at the
Property. (SACC para. 12.) Cross-Defendant “represented that Ric St. John was
honest, reputable, clean, and would pay the agreed rent and would otherwise be
a good tenant. Cross-defendant SCOTT MORGAN did not disclose any history by Ric
St. John of destruction of property, criminal activity, identity theft, or
violence.” (Id., at 13.) 
 
Cross-Complainant
relied on the representations of Cross-defendant Scott Morgan and believed them
to be true. (Id., at 14.) The SACC alleges that these representations were
false because Ric St. John was actually a dishonest person, engaged in identity
theft, had a history of destruction of property, and was a career con-artist. (Id.,
at 15.) Soon after moving in, Ric St. John stopped paying any rent or utility
bills, routinely engaged in illegal conduct on the property, and was destructive
with the Property, among other things. (Id.) If Cross-Complainant had known the
truth regarding St. John’s history of dishonest behavior, he would have never
been allowed to step foot on the Property or be a tenant. (Id., at 16.) Cross-Complainant
is afraid of coming to the property because of St. John’s harassing behavior. (Id.,
at 17.) Cross-complainant has been damaged in the estimated amount of
$1,000,000 representing lost rent, physical damage to the Property and
diminution in value to the property. (Id., at 18.) 
 
            The SACC fails to allege Cross-Defendant’s
knowledge of falsity. The SACC only alleges that St. John was dishonest
person, a criminal, etc., but not that Cross-Defendant knew such things about
St. John. Further, the SACC fails to allege Cross-Defendant’s intent to induce
reliance on the representations, that is, that Cross-Defendant intended
Cross-Complainant to rely on the representations to induce him into renting the
property to St. John. Without these essential elements, the SACC fails to state
a claim for fraud.
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Financial
Elder Abuse
 
A plaintiff claiming elder abuse must
allege (1) she is an elder adult and (2) a defendant took, secreted,
appropriated, or retained her real or personal property, or assisted another to
do so, (3) to a wrongful use, with an intent to defraud, or by undue influence.
(Wel. & Inst. Code § 15610.30 (a); Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 174.) For the purposes of the abuse statute, an
elder means any person residing in this state, 65 years of age or older.” (Wel.
& Inst. Code § 15610.27.) “[A] wrongful use is defined as taking,
secreting, appropriating, or retaining property in bad faith. Bad faith occurs
where the person or entity knew or should have known that the elder had the
right to have the property transferred or made readily available to the elder
or to his or her representative. [Citation.]” (Teselle v. McLoughlin
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 174.)  
The SACC alleges that by ousting Cross-Complainant
from the Property and squatting in the Property against Cross-Complainant’s
will, Cross-Defendant took or retained an elder’s property for a wrongful use,
with the intent to defraud or by undue influence. (SACC at 34.) The wrongful
use and fraud is premised on the prior causes of action for breach of the lease
and fraud. If Cross-Defendant has no right to possess the property, or
defrauded Cross-Complainant, then the elder abuse cause of action would be
well-pled. However, the SACC does not establish a breach of the lease or fraud.
Instead, Cross-Defendant has an apparent lease right to possess the Property.
Thus, the conclusion that Cross-Defendant is retaining the Property for a
wrongful use, intent to defraud or by undue influence is unsupported by the
specific facts alleged.
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. The
Court is not in receipt of a motion to strike although an opposition to the
motion was filed. However, the motion would be moot upon granting leave to
amend.