  Case Number:  22VECV02263    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  W BRIAN WHITAKER v. DAELIN, INC.
 
demurrer to the first amended complaint  
 
Date of Hearing:        November 2, 2023                            Trial Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV02263
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant Daelin Inc.  
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Brian Whitaker
Meet
and Confer:      Yes. (Choi Decl. ¶¶2-3.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from alleged violations of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act (“Unruh”) and the California Disabled Persons Act (“DPA”).  Plaintiff Brian Whitaker is a quadriplegic who
uses a wheelchair for mobility and is an ADA tester. As an ADA tester,
Plaintiff has filed thousands of similar lawsuits, and alleges in the year
preceding this complaint alone, he filed approximately 627 lawsuits.   
 
On October 7, 2022, Plaintiff went with the intention of visiting
Defendant Daelin, Inc.’s restaurant, 8oz Poke located at 15030 Ventura Blvd.,
Sherman Oaks, California. During his visit, Plaintiff observed here was not
enough toe clearance under § 306 the indoor and outdoor dining surfaces in
violation of §306 as well as the coat hook being too in violation of §308 and the
plumbing underneath the sink is not wrapped properly to protect against burning
contact in violation of §606. 
 
Plaintiff filed their operative, verified complaint on May 11,
2023 alleging two causes of action: (1) violation of the Unruh Act and (2)
violation of the DPA. Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief, treble actual damages,
and a statutory minimum of $4000 (under Unruh) or $1000 (under the DPA) for
each alleged violation of each Act.   
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Daelin, Inc.’s Demurrer to the
First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Daelin, Inc. demurs to the first and second causes of
action on the grounds the claims fail to plead sufficient facts to state a
cause of action under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e).
 
First Cause of Action
 
Defendant first demurs to the first cause of action on the grounds
Plaintiff fails to allege how his disability is affected by the purported
violations and moreover, fails to allege he actually encountered the issues
alleged. 
 
A disabled plaintiff has standing to bring a claim under the UCRA
and/or the DPA where he “can show he … actually presented himself … to a
business or public place with the intent of purchasing its products or
utilizing its services … and was actually denied equal access on a particular
occasion.”  (Reycraft v. Lee (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1211, 1224 (Reycraft).)
 
The court finds Whitaker's allegations are sufficient to allege a
concrete and particularized injury. Addressing these arguments in reverse order,
Plaintiff alleges Defendant failed to comply with ADA Standards as it relates
to wheelchair users like the Plaintiff including not providing enough toe
clearance under the indoor and outdoor dining surfaces. The court agrees
Plaintiff has failed to allege a personal encounter with the restroom
violations; however, a demurrer cannot lie to a portion of a cause of action. (See
PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682-83.)
Moreover, the court finds Plaintiff’s allegations are not so conclusory as he
has alleged his disability and the purported violation in Defendant’s
restaurant prevented Plaintiff from eating or drinking at the table without
difficulty. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action is
OVERRULED. 
 
Second Cause of Action 
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of action on the grounds
Plaintiff has failed to properly plead a violation of the CDPA. 
 
First, Defendant contends Plaintiff conflates the Unruh Act with
the California Disabled Persons Act. The court disagrees. Both Unruh and the
CDPA require a “violation” of the ADA. CDPA encompasses Civil Code Sections 54
et seq., including Section 54(c), which provides “A violation of the right of
an individual under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (Public Law
101-336) also constitutes a violation of this section.”
 
Defendant also contends Plaintiff only addresses the elements of
Unruh rather than CDPA. However, the elements are the same and met as noted
above. 
 
Lastly, Defendant contends paragraph 47 is conclusory. The court
disagrees. For the purposes of a demurrer, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a
violation of the CDPA by violating the ADA. Plaintiff has alleged the ADA was
violated when Defendant failed to provide enough toe clearance under the indoor
and outdoor dining surfaces.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action is
OVERRULED. 
 