  Case Number:  22STCV26169    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
15, 2023                                         
 
CASE NAME:           Laura Pensamiento, et al. v. Ford Motor
Company
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV26169

 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Ford Motor Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Laura Pensamiento and
Marcelo Fleitas
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Summary
Adjudication of Plaintiff’s Second and Third Causes of Action.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On August 12, 2022, Plaintiffs Laura Pensamiento and
Marcelo Fleitas (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendant Ford Motor
Company (“Defendant.”) The complaint alleged 3 causes of action: (1) Breach of
Implied Warranty of Merchantability under Song-Beverly Act, (2) Breach of
Express Warranty under Song-Beverly Act, and (3) Fraudulent Concealment. The
complaint alleges that Plaintiffs leased the Subject Vehicle, a Ford F-150.
With the lease, Plaintiffs received written warranties, both express and implied.
However, the Subject Vehicle had defects and nonconformities. Plaintiffs
delivered the Subject Vehicle to a repair facility and notified Defendants of
the defects. After representing that the Subject Vehicle would be repaired,
Defendant failed to properly conform Subject Vehicle to the applicable
warranties as defects still existed.  
 
On September 14, 2022, Defendant Ford Motor Company filed
an Answer.  
 
On April 21, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion for Summary
Judgment, which the court DENIED on September 13, 2023. 
 
On September 28, 2023, Defendant filed the instant Motion
for Summary Adjudication. Plaintiffs filed an opposition on December 1, 2023.
Defendant filed a reply on December 8, 2023.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires
the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare
Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant or
cross-defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met
his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the defendant or
cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or
cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment
should be granted.”  (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Defendant contends it is entitled to summary adjudication of
the Second and Third Causes of Action because it offered to repurchase or
replace the subject vehicle, there are no facts of a fiduciary relationship
with Plaintiff, and no facts that Defendant intended to defraud Plaintiffs.
 
“A party shall not move for summary judgment based on issues
asserted in a prior motion for summary adjudication and denied by the court
unless that party establishes, to the satisfaction of the court, newly discovered facts or circumstances or a
change of law supporting the issues reasserted in the summary judgment
motion.” (CCP § 437c(f)(2)(emphasis added); see also Bagley v. TRW, Inc. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1092, 1097 (Bagley).) 
 
Here, Defendant makes the same arguments it did at the prior
MSJ hearing. There is no newly discovered facts or circumstances or a change in
law warranting bringing this motion again. It appears Defendant simply wishes
the court to address the other two arguments previously denied due to counsel’s
failure to seek summary adjudication as an alternative to summary judgment.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Defendant’s Motion for
Summary Adjudication in its entirety.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              December 15, 2023                 __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 