  Case Number:  20STCV42444    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant Ikenna Mmeje’s Motion to
Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED. His demurrer is rendered moot.
Defendant Ikenna Mmeje’s Motion
for Sanctions is DENIED.
Defendant Lynette Scherer’s
Demurrer and Motion to Strike are SUSTAINED, without leave to amend. The motion
to strike is moot.
Defendants to give notice.
 
I.      
MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
“When
the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he must state that fact
in the complaint, or the affidavit if the action is commenced by affidavit, and
such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and
when his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended
accordingly.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 474.) 
 
The
criteria for a motion to quash under Code of Civil Procedure § 474 was
discussed in A.N. v. County of Los
Angeles:
First,
section 474 includes an implicit requirement that a plaintiff may not
“unreasonably delay” his or her filing of a Doe amendment after learning a
defendant's identity. Second, a defendant named in an action by a Doe amendment
under section 474 may challenge the amendment by way of an evidence-based
motion, which argues that the plaintiff “unreasonable delayed” his or her
filing of the challenged amendment. Third, “unreasonable delay” . . . includes
a prejudice element, which requires a showing by the defendant that he or she
would suffer prejudice from plaintiff's delay in filing the Doe amendment. 
(A.N. v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1058, 1066–67.)
This
element of “prejudice” does not apply when the Doe defendant is added after the statute of limitations has
already run. (See Woo v. Superior Court
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 169, 177.)
Defendant
Ikenna Mmeje (Mmeje) moves to quash the service of summons made against him
based on his belated addition as Doe Defendant No. 2 on September 19, 2023.
Mmeje contends that given Plaintiff Gergis Ghobrial’s (Plaintiff) March 4, 2020
termination (4AC ¶ 25), and the applicable three-year limitations period on
statutory claims (Code Civ. Proc. § 338, subd. (a)), the two-year period applicable
to claims for intentional infliction of emotional distress (Code Civ. Proc. §
335.1), and the one year time in which to bring a civil action after filing an
administrative complaint with the Department of Fair Employment and Housing
(DFEH). (Gov. Code § 12965, subd. (c)(1)(C).) Mmeje argues that Plaintiff knew
of his role in the alleged discrimination because he is listed among those
“hospital administrators or physician supervisors who aided, conspired or
colluded in the unlawful harassment, discrimination, and retaliation of
Plaintiff” in Plaintiff’s verified October 30, 2020 administrative charge. (4AC
Exh. A.)
Plaintiff
in opposition does not address his allegation against Mmeje in the
administrative charge. Plaintiff instead argues that prior discovery responses
indicated his belief that Mmeje, as the recipient of some of Plaintiff’s
workplace complaints, was “neutral or helpful during the harassment.”
(Opposition at p. 2.) Plaintiff instead argues that he only learned of Mmeje’s
role in the alleged wrongdoing during the September 13, 2023 deposition of
Glenn Koh, wherein Koh testified that Mmeje had informed him that Plaintiff
wished to be taken off a schedule dated November 30, 2019, and Koh further
stated that, while Mmeje never suggested that Plaintiff be terminated, he had
expressed concerns about Plaintiff being a “team player.” (Opposition Exh. 1.)  
Plaintiff’s
argument is unpersuasive. From the first iteration of the complaint, Mmeje (the
COO of Defendant Long Beach Memorial Medical Center) was listed as one of the
final persons to whom Plaintiff made his complaints before his termination.
(Complaint ¶¶ 47–49.) Plaintiff accordingly suspected Mmeje’s involvement from
the outset of this case, going so far as to list him among the individual
wrongdoers in his DFEH complaint. Plaintiff offers no explanation for his
inclusion in the DFEH charge, or the delay that followed, to the point of
extending beyond all applicable limitations period. Mmeje’s addition to this
case therefore comes too late.
The
motion to quash is therefore GRANTED. Mmeje’s demurrer is thus rendered MOOT.
II.               
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS
(b) By presenting to the court, whether
by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading, petition,
written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or unrepresented
party is certifying that to the best of the person's knowledge, information,
and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of
the following conditions are met:
 
(1) It is not being presented primarily
for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or
needless increase in the cost of litigation.
 
(2) The claims, defenses, and other
legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law.
 
(3) The allegations and other factual
contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are
likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further
investigation or discovery.
 
(4) The denials of factual contentions
are warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably
based on a lack of information or belief.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b).)
Mmeje
seeks terminating sanctions and monetary sanctions in the amount of $37,335.00
against Plaintiff for the defective addition of Mmeje as a Defendant. This
motion incorporates the arguments made in the motion to quash, as well as those
in the demurrer concerning the inadequacy of the allegations of harassment and
intentional infliction of emotional distress made against Mmeje, as well as the
procedural defect in his addition as a defendant without leave of court.
(Motion at pp. 11–12.)
No sanctions are appropriate. “After the responsive pleadings
are filed an amendment to a complaint,
including an amendment to add a
defendant, requires leave of court.”
(Woo v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 169, 175.) However, this
procedural defect is susceptible to cure by obtaining leave to amend. Plaintiff’s
failure to allege facts concerning Mmeje in the 4AC is likewise capable of
cure, and the fact that the factual allegations may ultimately prove inadequate
is no basis for the sanctions that Defendant seeks. Likewise, Plaintiff’s
claimed reliance on recent deposition testimony as a means of adding Mmeje to
the case, while unconvincing, furnished a nonfrivolous basis for amending the
complaint, even if such relief is unavailable. Defendant’s contention that the
amendment is intended to harass is unsupported.
The motion is DENIED.
III.            
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311:
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we
give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its
parts in their context.” (Id. at
p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Defendant Lynette Scherer (Defendant) demurrers to the third
and fifth causes of action for FEHA harassment and intentional infliction of
emotional distress alleged against her, as well as the second cause of action
for retaliation under Labor Code § 1102.5, a claim which was added against her
after this court’s order of October 9, 2023, sustaining Scherer’s demurrer to
the third and fifth causes of action with leave to amend.
 
An
individual supervisor may be personally liable for FEHA harassment that they
engage in. (See
Fiol v. Doellstedt (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1331.) And a claim for
intentional infliction of emotional distress requires extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant. (See Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc.
v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228,
1259.) To be actionable, the sexual harassment complained of must be
“sufficiently pervasive so as to alter the conditions of employment and create
an abusive working environment.” (Guthrey v. State of California (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 1108, 1122.) “Outrageous conduct” is an element of an IIED claim,
and the conduct alleged must be “so extreme as to exceed all bounds of decency
in a civilized community. ( Ibid.) The defendant's conduct must be directed to
the plaintiff, but malicious or evil purpose is not essential to liability.” (So
v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 671.)
Plaintiff’s previous complaint attempted to plead harassment
and IIED against Defendant based on her November 6, 2019 transmitting of
“fabricated and detrimental employment records concerning the professional
performance and conduct of Dr. Ghobrial to several personnel of LBMMC and MHS,
including Nurse Thomas.” (TAC ¶ 64.) This court determined that these
allegations did not allege outrageous conduct or severe and pervasive
harassment, as the alleged conduct constituted personnel management activity,
and Plaintiff had specifically stated that he was unaware of the communications
during his time working with Scherer. 
 
The operative 4AC omits any specific mention of this
November 6, 2019 transmission. Instead, Plaintiff alleges that Scherer
“spread[] false accusations related to Dr. Ghobrial’s foreign origin,” the
nature of the accusations being unspecified, and “falsely claimed that Dr.
Ghobrial could not integrate well with the rest of the ACSMG team.” (4AC ¶ 33.)
It is alleged these statements “were used to justify Dr. Ghobrial’s
termination.” (4AC ¶ 33.) The 4AC finally includes an allegation that Scherer
“refus[ed] [Plaintiff’s] access to necessary robotic technology for gallbladder
surgery and coerc[ed] the use of subpar laparoscopic equipment.” (4AC ¶ 64.) 
 
Plaintiff once more has failed to allege that Scherer
engaged in harassment or outrageous conduct, and indeed has attempted to
rectify the defects of the prior pleading by making them less specific. As with
the prior allegations, Plaintiff does not allege that he was ever aware of
Scherer’s “false accusations related to [his] foreign origin,” does not specify
what these accusations consisted of, or when or how frequently they took place.
The addition of an allegation of obstructed access to robotic surgery technology
adds little of magnitude to either claim, and in any event would constitute
personnel management activity for which such liability would not lie. (See Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996)
46 Cal.App.4th 55, 64–65.)  The demurrer
is properly SUSTAINED to the third and fifth causes of action, without leave to
amend.
 
Plaintiff’s retaliation claim is also infirm. Plaintiff
previously attempted to hold Scherer liable for retaliation under the first
cause of action for Health & Safety Code § 1278.5, to which Scherer’s first
demurrer was sustained without leave to amend, as no individual liability is
available under that statute. Plaintiff did not attempt to plead retaliation
against Scherer in the TAC, but now attempts to plead retaliation under Labor
Code § 1102.5 against Scherer individually. 
 
To plead a prima facie case of retaliation under Labor Code
§ 1102.5, “a plaintiff
must show (1) she engaged in a protected activity, (2) her employer subjected
her to an adverse employment action, and (3) there is a causal link between the
two.” (Patten v.
Grant Joint Union High School Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378.)
 
Plaintiff
does not plead a causal relation between any action taken by Scherer
individually and his own complaints of workplace wrongdoing. Plaintiff does not
allege that any of his workplace complaints were directed to Scherer or that
Scherer even knew of the complaints. The closest any allegation comes on this
point is paragraph 89, in which it is stated that defendants, including
Scherer, “took adverse employment actions against Plaintiff , as alleged
herein, in retaliation for . . . Plaintiff’s complaints.” (4AC ¶ 89.) This is
an ill-pleaded legal conclusion. Plaintiff in opposition argues that he may
plead Scherer’s knowledge on information and belief. (Opposition at p. 3.) But
Plaintiff pleads no such knowledge, whether on information and belief or otherwise.[1]
 
This is
Plaintiff’s third attempt to plead claims against Scherer in her personal
capacity, the third demurrer to such attempts, and the second attempt to plead
retaliation specifically. The demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Scherer’s
motion to strike is directed to the second cause of action for retaliation,
based on arguments that it was added to the complaint without leave of court
following this court’s sustaining of the demurrer to the TAC on November 27,
2023. The motion is rendered moot by the ruling sustaining the demurrer.
 
 
  
 


