 Case Number:  23STCV21084    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LADREA JOHNSON, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DINGWELL LAW, APC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV21084
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER AND
  MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Date: 
  January 4, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Dingwell Law, APC
(“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff 
 
The Court has considered the moving, opposition
and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises
out of an employment relationship.  Plaintiff’s
complaint (the “Complaint”) alleges: (1) race discrimination in violation of
the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”); (2) harassment on the basis of
race in violation of FEHA; (3) religious discrimination in violation of FEHA;
(4) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (5) failure to prevent race
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in violation of FEHA; and (6)
wrongful termination in violation of public policy. 
 
In relevant part, the Complaint alleges:
Plaintiff, who is Black and a Jehovah’s Witness, worked as a paralegal for
Moving Defendant from December 7, 2020 through December 11, 2022.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 14, 33, 44.)  Kelly L. Dingwell (“Dingwell”) was
Plaintiff’s immediate supervisor during her employment.  (Complaint ¶ 16.)  
 
One to three months after beginning her
employment, after making a minor error, Plaintiff was demoted from performing
paralegal duties to performing legal assistant duties, and was not permitted to
resume paralegal duties until approximately October 2022.  (Complaint ¶¶ 21, 25.)  Alexis Angel (“Angel”), a legal assistant,
was assigned to perform Plaintiff’s paralegal duties after Plaintiff’s
demotion.  (Complaint ¶ 24.)  
 
Throughout her employment, Plaintiff noticed that
she received less favorable treatment than Angel, who is Mexican.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 28,
31-32.)  For example, Angel was assigned
eight-hour shifts while Plaintiff worked five-hour shifts.  (See Complaint ¶ 28.)  After Dingwell sought input from Plaintiff
and Angel for pictures to display in the office, Dingwell decided to exhibit
the images of white and Latina women that she and Angel selected, to the exclusion
of the image of a Black woman that Plaintiff recommended.  (Complaint ¶ 32.) 
 
At some point, Dingwell asked Plaintiff to
complete a calendar that included holidays. 
(Complaint ¶ 33.)  Dingwell
insisted that Plaintiff complete the task after Plaintiff voiced her concern
about the task due to her religious beliefs. 
(Id.)
 
During Plaintiff’s employment, Dingwell made
disparaging comments in order to demean or ridicule her, which impacted
Plaintiff’s experience in the workplace. 
(See Complaint ¶¶ 29-31.)
 
In December 2022, Plaintiff was reprimanded for
an error made by Angel.  (Complaint ¶
37.)  When Plaintiff attempted to address
her concerns with Dingwell on or about December 11, 2022, Dingwell terminated
Plaintiff’s employment.  (Complaint
¶ 39.)  
 
Moving Defendant filed a demurrer (the
“Demurrer”) to each cause of action on the grounds that Complaint fails to
state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.  Moving Defendant also filed a motion to strike
(the “Motion”) portions of the Complaint. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Moving
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice filed in support of its reply papers is
DENIED. 
 
DEMURRER
Meet and Confer
The meet and confer requirement has been met for the Demurrer and Motion.

 
Legal Standard
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations and affords them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts. 
(Shea Homes Limited Partnership v.
County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the complaint
must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts
pleaded.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  A demurrer will be sustained without leave to
amend if there exists no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 
First and Third Causes of Action: FEHA Discrimination
It is an unlawful
employment practice for an employer to refuse to hire or employ a person, to
discharge a person from employment, or to discriminate against the person in
compensation or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment on the basis of
race or religious creed.  (See
Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (a).)  
 
To establish a
claim for discrimination in violation of FEHA, the plaintiff must generally
prove that: (1) he or she was a member of a protected class; (2) he or she was
qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing competently in
the position he or she held; (3) he or she suffered an adverse employment
action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available job; and (4)
some other circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive.  (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)  


The Court finds that the Complaint sufficiently
alleges discrimination on the basis of race. 
The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was subjected to differential
treatment that favored her non-Black colleagues, and that this treatment led to
her demotion and termination.  In
contrast, the Court finds that the Complaint does not allege sufficient facts
to allege discrimination on the basis of religion.  While the Complaint alleges that Dingwell
urged Plaintiff to complete a task after Plaintiff communicated that the task
raised a religious conflict, there are no allegations that Plaintiff
experienced an adverse employment action due to this interaction.  Furthermore, the Complaint does not identify the
FEHA provision that governs failure to accommodate religious beliefs as the
basis for the claim.[1]
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the
Demurrer to the first cause of action and SUSTAINS the Demurrer to the third
cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Harassment on the Basis of Race
Employers may not harass an employee
because of race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry,
physical¿disability, mental¿disability, medical condition, genetic information,
marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual
orientation, or military and veteran status. 
(Gov. Code § 12940,¿subd. (j)(1).)  The elements of a cause of action for
harassment under FEHA are: (1) the plaintiff belongs to a protected group; (2) the
plaintiff was subjected to harassment; (3) the harassment complained of was
based on the plaintiff’s membership in the protected group; (4) the harassment
complained of was sufficiently pervasive so as to alter the conditions of
employment and create an abusive working environment; and (5)¿respondeat¿superior.  (Jones v. Department of Corrections &
Rehabilitation¿(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1377.)  The court looks to the totality of the
circumstances to determine that a hostile work environment existed.  (Etter
v. Veriflo Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 457, 466.) A court looks at: (1) the
frequency of harassment; (2) the severity of harassment; (3) whether the
conduct was threatening, humiliating, or merely an offensive utterance; and (4)
did the harassment interfere with a plaintiff’s work performance.  (Id.)  
 
The Court finds
that the Complaint lacks allegations that provide a clear nexus between the
vaguely identified harassing comments made by Dingwell and a discriminatory
motive.  The Court therefore SUSTAINS the
Demurrer to the second cause of action with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Retaliation
The elements of a cause of action for a FEHA
retaliation claim are: (1) the employee's engagement in a protected activity;
(2) retaliatory animus on the part of the employer; (3) an adverse action by
the employer; (4) a causal link between the retaliatory animus and the adverse
action; (5) damages; and (6) causation. 
(Brown v. Los Angeles Unified School District (2021) 60
Cal.App.5th 1092, 1105.)
 
            As alleged, the FEHA
retaliation claim is based on Plaintiff’s demotion and later termination.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 102-103.)  The Court finds that the Complaint does not
sufficiently allege Plaintiff’s participation in a protected activity.  The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff’s
demotion was based on performance, and there are no allegations that link the
demotion to any complaints Plaintiff raised about her treatment in the
workplace.  Further, the Complaint does
not specify that the concerns Plaintiff articulated before her termination implicated
the categories of workplace conduct proscribed by FEHA.  The Court therefore SUSTAINS the Demurrer to
the fourth cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. 
  
Fifth
Cause of Action: Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment under FEHA
 It is an unlawful employment
practice for an employer, labor organization, employment agency, apprenticeship
training program, or any training program leading to employment, to fail to
take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment
from occurring.  (Gov. Code § 12940, subd.
(k).)  To establish this claim, a
plaintiff must establish the defendant’s legal duty of care, breach of duty,
legal causation, and damages to the plaintiff.  (See Trujillo v. North County
Transit District (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 286-87.)
 
            In light of the Court’s ruling on
the first cause of action, the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the fifth cause
of action.  
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Wrongful Termination
The elements of a claim for wrongful
discharge in violation of public policy are: (1) an employer-employee
relationship, (2) the employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the
termination was substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and
(4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm. 
(Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical Center (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234-35.)  A discharge
is actionable as against public policy if it violates a policy that is: (1)
delineated in either constitutional or statutory provisions; (2) public in the
sense that it inures to the benefit of the public rather than serving merely
the interests of the individual; (3) well-established at the time of discharge;
and (4) substantial and fundamental. (Id. at 1238-39.)
 
            The Complaint does
not allege facts that link Plaintiff’s ultimate termination to any unlawful
conduct under FEHA.  The Court therefore
SUSTAINS the Demurrer to the sixth cause of action with 20 days leave to amend.

 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Legal Standard
Under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 436, a motion to strike either: (1) strikes any
irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strikes
any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.)
 
Punitive Damages
Under Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (a), a plaintiff may recover punitive
damages in an action for breach of an obligation not arising from contract when
the plaintiff proves by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. 
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) 
Malice is conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff, or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with
a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
Despicable conduct is conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,
wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by
ordinary decent people.  (Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co.
(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 306, 331.)  Oppression is defined as despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person’s rights. 
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)  
 
To state a
prima facie claim for punitive damages, the plaintiff must both allege the
elements set forth in Civil Code section 3294 and include specific allegations
showing that the defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or
malicious.  (See Today’s IV, Inc. v.
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.)  Punitive
damages may not be pleaded generally.  (Id.)  In order to
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate
facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.  (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1255.)  In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.  (Id.)  
 
The Court incorporates the
analysis of the Complaint set forth with respect to the Demurrer and finds that
the viably alleged claims—which involve Plaintiff’s alleged discriminatory
demotion—do not include sufficient facts that state a claim for punitive
damages.  The Court therefore GRANTS the
Motion with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the
instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar. 
 
 
  Dated
this 4th day of January 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 


