 Case Number:  24SMCP00171    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 1, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCP00171




MOTION


Motion to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Petitioner Wasser, Cooper & Mandles P.C.




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Petitioner Wasser, Cooperman &
Mandles P.C. (“Petitioner”) moves to compel Respondent Shazeen Shah (“Respondent”)
to arbitration regarding a dispute over legal fees incurred in connection with
Petitioner’s provision of legal services to Respondent in the matter, “Marriage
of Shah/Aschinger.”  (Verified Petition
at ¶ 1; Ex. A.)  The petition is
unopposed.  
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION – LEGAL STANDARDS
 
            “[T]he advantages of arbitration
include a presumptively less costly, more expeditious manner of resolving
disputes.  It follows a party to a valid
arbitration agreement has a contractual right to have its dispute with another
party to the contract resolved quickly and inexpensively.”  (Henry v. Alcove Investment, Inc.
(1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 94, 99–100 [cleaned up].) 
Thus, “on petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see also 
EFund
Capital Partners v. Pless (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1311, 1320 [the language
in section 1281.2 compelling arbitration is mandatory].) The right to compel
arbitration exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a
party’s conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where
a pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds.
(a)-(c).)    
 
            “On a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court must first determine whether an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists. 
Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.  The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the
respondent's signature.”  (Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-544 [cleaned
up].)  The party seeking to compel arbitration must also “plead and prove a
prior demand for arbitration and a refusal to arbitrate under the
agreement.”  (Mansouri v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640-641.) 

 
            And while the moving party on a
motion to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, [a] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842 [cleaned
up]; see also Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 [“The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability”].)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
            As a threshold matter, “[a] petition
to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel specific
performance of a contract.”  (Frog
Creek Partners, LLC v. Vance Brown, Inc. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 515, 532.)  As such, a court’s personal jurisdiction over
the respondent requires compliance with the same service rules that apply for
service of a summons and complaint in any other lawsuit.  (Frey & Hogan Corp. v. Superior Court (1936)
5 Cal.2d. 401, 403-404.)
 
            Moreover, due process requires that
a respondent be given written notice of the moving and supporting papers at
least sixteen court days before the hearing. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1005, subd. (b).) 

 
            Here, Petitioner filed a proof of
service indicating that on August 29, 2024, Respondent was personally served
with the Verified Petition, and the Notice of Motion and Motion to Compel
Binding Arbitration.
 
            Substantively, Petitioner has
attached a letter of engagement, signed by Respondent, which indicates, in
relevant part:
 
12.  We each agree that in the event of any
dispute concerning or arising out of or related to, a claimed breach of this
letter agreement, our engagement, and/or the professional services rendered by
our firm, or your failure to pay for professional services and other expenses
specified, or any other disagreement of any nature, type or description
regardless of the facts or legal theories which may be involved, such dispute
shall be resolved by confidential binding arbitration. 
 
Any such dispute shall be
submitted to confidential binding arbitration in Los Angeles, California before
one arbitrator to be mutually selected. The arbitrator must be a retired
California State or Federal Court judge located in the Los Angeles offices of
either ADR Services, Signature Resolution or JAMS, with not less than five (5)
years of experience as a family law judge. Arbitration proceedings may be
commenced by either of us by giving the other written notice thereof and the
proceedings shall be governed by California Code of Civil Procedure section
1281, et seg. and the ADR Services, Inc./Signature Resolution/JAMS Arbitration
Rules. Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 1283.1(b), the
parties agree that depositions may be taken and other discovery conducted in
such arbitration proceeding as set forth in the California Civil Procedure
1283.05, the provisions of which are hereby incorporated. The rules of evidence
will be applied in such arbitration proceedings. The arbitrator’s award in any
such proceeding shall be final and binding, and a judgment upon such award may
be enforced by any court of competent jurisdiction.
 
Should you elect to have any
fee dispute arbitrated pursuant to non-binding arbitration under statutory or
case law, then such non-binding arbitration shall determine only the issue of
the amount of fees properly chargeable to you. Any other claims or disputes
between us, including claims for professional negligence, shall remain subject
to confidential binding arbitration pursuant to this agreement. 
 
13. YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU
HAVE HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT WITH INDEPENDENT COUNSEL CONCERNING THE
EXECUTION OF THIS AGREEMENT AND THE TERMS OF REPRESENTATION, ESPECIALLY THE
PROVISIONS RELATING TO BINDING ARBITRATION SET FORTH IN PARAGRAPH 18, ABOVE,
AND HAVE EITHER ENGAGED IN SUCH CONSULTATION OR HAVE VOLUNTARILY RELINQUISHED
THAT RIGHT. PLEASE PUT YOUR INITIALS ON THE LINE AT THE END OF THIS PARAGRAPH
19 INDICATING THAT YOU UNDERSTAND THE CONTENTS OF THIS PARAGRAPH.
 
(Ex.
A to Verified Petition.)
 
            Paragraph 13 is separately digitally
initialed by Petitioner, and the entire engagement letter was signed by Petitioner
on 12/19/2020.  (Ibid.)
 
            Petitioner also indicates it sent
Schrier a Notice of Client’s Right to Fee Arbitration, to which Respondent did
not respond.  (Verified Petition at ¶¶
3-4 and Ex. B.)  
 
            As such, Petitioner has met its
burden of demonstrating that a valid, binding agreement to arbitrate exists,
and a demand for arbitration was made and rejected.  Respondent has not opposed.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court grants
the Petition to Compel Arbitration.  Further,
Petitioner shall lodge a proposed Order with the selected arbitrator on or
before October 8, 2024.  
 
Further, on the Court’s
own motion, the Court vacates the Case Management Conference set for January
23, 2025 as moot, and sets a Status Conference re Arbitration on April 30, 2025
at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  The
parties shall file a Joint Status Report regarding the arbitration no later
than 5 court days before the Status Conference. 

 
Petitioner shall provide
notice of the Court’s order and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
 
DATED: 
October 1, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 