 Case Number:  23SMCV02544    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02544




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Michael Schiffman




OPPOSING PARTY


none
   



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Declaration
     of Julia E. Murray, Esq.
Appendix
     of Exhibits
Declaration
     of John R. Morris
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Plaintiffs’ Notice of
     Non-Opposition


 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 6, 2023, Plaintiffs Enrique Enriquez and Colleen Enriquez,
individually and on behalf of the Estate of their Deceased Mother, Esther
Gonzalez (“Plaintiffs”) filed suit alleging three causes of action: (1)
negligence against Defendant Specialty Surgical Center of Wilshire; (2)
negligence against Defendant Sherman Shlomo Elpas, M.D.; and (3) negligence
against Defendant Michael Schiffman, M.D.
 
Defendant Michael Schiffman, M.D. (“Schiffman” or “Defendant”) now
moves for summary judgment.  Plaintiffs
have filed a notice of non-opposition.
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION

 
1.     PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE
 
“Civil Code section 1714,
subdivision (a) establishes the general duty of each person to exercise, in his
or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of others.  When applied to medical professionals, this
duty of care imposes a duty to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other
members of his profession commonly possess and exercise.”  (Flores
v. Liu (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 278, 290 [cleaned up].)  To prevail on a claim for negligence against
a medical professional, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: (1) a medical
professional had a duty to use the skill, prudence and diligence that members
of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3)
an injury that resulted from the breach of that duty; and (4) actual loss or
damage resulting from the breach of that duty. 
(Banerian v. O’Malley (1974)
42 Cal.App.3d 604, 612.)  
 
“[T]he legal standard of care
required by doctors is the standard of practice required by their own
profession.  The courts require only that
physicians and surgeons exercise in diagnosis and treatment that reasonable
degree of skill, knowledge, and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by
members of the medical profession under similar circumstances.  Thus, liability is not found, and the label of
malpractice is not placed upon a physician's actions, unless some deviation by
the physician from the standard of care that his peers consider appropriate in
the situation under review is proven.” (Burgess
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1081 [cleaned up].) 
 
Expert testimony is generally
the only admissible and relevant evidence on whether a medical professional has
breached the standard of care.  (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399,
410 [“ ‘The standard of care against which the acts of a physician are to be
measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents
the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony
(citations), unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is
within the common knowledge of the layman’ ”].) 
As the Court of Appeal has held, in reversing summary judgments for
medical professionals:  “The standard of
care against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter
peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a
malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony.  California courts have incorporated the
expert evidence requirement into their standard for summary judgment in medical
malpractice cases. When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his
motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community
standard of care, defendant is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.”  (Hanson
v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 606-607 [cleaned up].)  Further, a plaintiff “is entitled to all
favorable inferences that may reasonably be derived from” an expert’s
declaration which must be liberally construed. 
(See Fernandez v. Alexander (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 770, 782.)   
 
a.     Defendant’s Evidence           
 
Defendant relies on the
Declaration of John R. Morris, M.D. (“Morris”), who is a California licensed
and board certified orthopedic surgeon with an additional
qualification/certification in Hand Surgery, who completed his residency at the
LAC/USC Medical Center.  (Morris Decl. ¶
2.)  
 
Morris reviewed the following
in order to craft his declaration and form his opinions: (1) Summons and
Complaint filed by Plaintiffs in this matter; (2) Plaintiffs’ Responses to
Special Interrogatories; (3) Records for Specialty Surgical Center for subject
surgery; (4) Discharge summary from Cedars Sinai Medical Center; and (5) the
Autopsy report from the L.A. County Coroner. 
(Morris Decl. ¶ 4.)   Morris declares:
 
7. Based on my review of the medical records,
discovery responses, as well as my education, training, and experience, it is
my opinion that Dr. Schiffman’s care and treatment of Esther Gonzales was all
within the standard of care for the following reasons: 
 
(a) The carpal tunnel release surgery was
indicated based on the subjective complaints of the plaintiff and the objective
findings on examination and testing.
 
(b) Dr. Schiffman appropriately had Mrs.
Gonzales undergo a preoperative examination with Dr. Lin. She was cleared for
surgery by Dr. Lin. Dr. Schiffman requiring this preoperative examination was
appropriate and complied within the standard of care. 
 
(c) Dr. Schiffman noted in his
preoperative notes which are contained in the Surgical Center chart all of
plaintiff’s co-morbidities and prior surgeries. Dr. Schiffman appropriately
provided the patient’s prior history before surgery. 
 
(d) Dr. Schiffman had an assistant surgeon
and Dr. Elspas as the anesthesiologist. As the surgeon and performing the
operation Dr. Schiffman is entitled to rely on the anesthesiologist to monitor
the patient during surgery including her vital signs, including temperature,
blood pressure, respiration oxygen saturation and general status. Dr. Schiffman
acted within the standard of care by operating and relying on Dr. Elspas to
inform of any changes in conditions or problems. 
 
(e) The surgical center records indicate
that at the end of the surgery when Dr. Schiffman closed he was no apprised of
any problems with the patient’s condition by Dr. Eslsas (sic) or anyone else.
It is within the standard of care for the surgeon such as Dr. Schiffman to
leave the operating theater after he has completed his surgery and to leave the
patient such as Mrs. Gonzales in the care of the anesthesiologist and the PACU
nurses. 
 
(f) When Dr. Schiffman ended his procedure
and had been informed the patient was stable he doesn’t have a duty to continue
monitoring the patient – that duty lies with the anesthesiologist and the PACU
staff. His actions were within the standard of care. 
 
8. It is also my opinion, and for all the reasons
stated above, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, that the injuries
complained of by plaintiff were not the result of anything Dr. Schiffman did or
failed to do for the following reasons: 
 
(a) As Dr. Schiffman was not negligent for
all of the reasons stated above, therefore he is not the cause of Mrs.
Gonzales’ death or the damages claimed by the plaintiffs. 
 
(b) According to the surgical center
records, the patient went into distress after surgery and on her way to the
PACU. Dr. Schiffman had not (sic) duty to monitor the patient’s vitals in the
OR during surgery and none after he is informed the patient was stable and
being taken to the PACU.  Therefore he
would not be a substantial factor or even contributing cause to any injuries
that occurred to Mrs. Gonzales on her way to or in the PACU.
 
(Morris
Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)
 
Defendant’s evidence is
sufficient to meet Defendant’s initial burdens of persuasion and production of
evidence to show that Plaintiffs will be unable to establish that Defendant breached
the standard of care with respect to the treatment and care of the decedent, or
that Defendant’s breach of the standard of care caused or contributed to the
decedent’s claimed injuries.  Thus, Defendant
has shifted the burden of production to Plaintiffs to raise triable issues of
material fact.
 
b.     Plaintiffs’ Evidence  
 
Plaintiffs
have filed a notice of non-opposition in lieu of an opposition.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, having found Defendant met his initial burdens of
production and persuasion, the Court grants Defendant’s unopposed motion for
summary judgment.  The Court will enter
the proposed Order and Judgment.   
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice the notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  October 1, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 