 Case Number:  23STCV25775    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
Tentative Ruling
 



BRIEANNA NORWOOD 
  
         vs.
 
DR. PHIL SHOW, et al.


 Case
  No.:   23STCV25775
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: April 3, 2024




 
                        
The
Court GRANTS Joel R. Glover’s pro hac vice application. 
 
            Brief Background
 
Brienna
Norwood filed a complaint in the Los Angeles County Superior Court, Central
District, on October 20, 2021. Joel Glover is a licensed attorney in good
standing in the State of Texas. Mr. Glover wishes to be associated with Ford,
Walker, Haggerty & Behar as counsel of record for defendants DR. PHIL
McGRAW, CBS MEDIA VENTURES and JUSTIN ARLUCK (collectively, “Defendants”) and,
therefore, the instant application has become necessary. Defendants have
retained Joel Glover to appear in this action pending before this Court.
 
            Party’s Request
 
Joel
R. Glover, an attorney licensed in the State of Texas, by and through the
attorneys for defendants DR. PHIL MCGRAW, an individual (sued herein as PHIL
CALVIN MCGRAW), CBS MEDIA VENTURES (sued and served herein as Doe 1) and JUSTIN
ARLUCK in the above-entitled matter, move this court for an order permitting
him to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this matter.
 
Legal Standard
 
Any
attorney licensed to practice before the bar of any United States court or the
highest court in any state , and who has been retained to appear in a
particular cause pending a court of this State, but who is not a licensee of
the California State Bar may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State
by submitting his or her written application and mailing notice to all
interested parties, as well as notice and a $50.00 application fee to the State
Bar Association in San Francisco.  Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 (a), (c), (e). 
An applicant may neither reside nor work in California and may not
perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in
the State.  Id. at Rule 9.40 (a). 
 
Discussion 
 
Mr.
Joel R. Glover submits a verified application for admission pro hac vice
accompanied by proof of notice thereof and a proposed order there
granting.  The application satisfies each
of the requirements under California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 and will be
granted.
 
Mr.
Joel R. Glover is an attorney barred in the State of Texas and the State of New
York.  As to each court, he is a member
in good standing and is not currently suspended or disbarred.  Mr. Joel R. Glover states his residential and
office addresses in his application.
 
Mr.
Joel R. Glover’s application includes proof of service thereof on all parties,
as well as on the State bar of California in San Francisco (via United States
mail and the State Bar’s application portal with the required $50.00
payment).  Mr. Joel R. Glover attests
that he neither resides nor works in California, nor does he have regular or
substantial activities in the state.
 
The
foregoing inclusions satisfy each of the requirements under California Rules of
Court, Rule 9.40.  The application will
be granted.
 
            
 
 
 
 
Dated:  April 3, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517. 
 