  Case Number:  21STCV17965    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  T 21STCV17965 ESTATE OF DAVID  N. GLASER, ... VS NOJAN TOOMARI, D.O. Rulings on motions in limine are  applicable to all counsel, parties, and their witnesses equally on both  sides.  Counsel are ordered to assure  that their parties and witnesses strictly abide by the court's rulings on the  motions in limines.  Failure to do so may  result in monetary sanctions, contempt of court and/or mistrial. TENTATIVE RULINGS: MOTIONS IN  LIMINE PLAINTIFFS' MOTIONS IN LIMINE 1.           Grant. there shall be no comment,  reference, suggestion, innuendo, etc., to the status of (former) defendant  Tarzana Medical Center, LLC, dba Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center  as a party in this action during trial. 2.           Grant. there shall be no  apportionment of fault (civil code 1431) in the absence of the evidentiary predicate that defendant Tarzana Medical  Center, LLC, dba Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center or any other  third party was negligent.3.           The court will hear argument (as to  information that plaintiffs' decedent went swimming at some time prior to the surgery at issue  in this action on the basis that any causal and evidentiary basis for comment  or criticism is not relevant to the issues at trial because there has been, and  will not be an evidentiary foundation that the patient's swimming caused or  contributed to the infection that resulted in decedent's death by sepsis.)4.  The court will hear argument.5.  The court will hear argument.



6.  Grant.  DEFENDANTS' MOTIONS IN LIMINE 1.           Deny (re evidence of decedent's  future gifts to plaintiffs). 2.           Grant. There shall be no mention of  the details of the decedent's funeral services. 3.           Grant. No expert witness may testify  regarding their own personal preference. 4.           The  court will hear argument as to testimony of hearsay statements by plaintiffs  and lay witnesses related to  criticisms of treatment or medical decisions by the defendants. 5.           Grant.  There shall be no mention of plaintiffs'  purported loss of inheritance. 6.           Grant.  There shall be no reference to  the words "Valentine's Day." 7.            Grant.  There shall  be no reference or testimony about grief, sadness, etc. of non-party  witnesses. 8 .           The court will hear argument testimony regarding evidence of decedent's character. 9.           Deny.  A reasonable number of photos of decedent may  be used.  They shall be disclosed and  in the exhibit books prior to  trial.  The court will hear objections to  specific photos. 10.         Deny in a vacuum and  premature (re limiting expert witness  testimony to opinions expressed at deposition). 11.         Grant. However, if a witness stays in  the courtroom after their testimony and listens to other testimony, that witness cannot be recalled  or called on rebuttal. 12.         Grant.   There shall be no mention by either side as to other lawsuits,  settlements, California medical board  actions/complaints (either the existence or the absence of). 13.         Grant to preclude reference to MICRA  limitations on non-economic damages and allowance of periodic payments before the jury. 14.         Grant.   There shall be no reference by anyone about plaintiff's counsel's  relationship, if at all, to the decedent. 15.         Grant except as it may be necessary to  explain the reference "wife" in other testimony or  records.  16.          Grant.  Non-designated witnesses  may not provide expert testimony.