 Case Number:  23VECV02622    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  T 23VECV02622 NEELAM ALLAUDIN
BHAMANI, et... vs QUANTA FINANCE
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Quanta Finance, LLC and 1 Sharpe
Opportunity Intermediate Trust’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
OVERRULED as to the first, third, and fourth causes of action and SUSTAINED WITH
20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the second cause of action.  Leave to amend is limited to curing the
pleading defects in the second cause of action and not to add new causes of
action.
Defendants Quanta Finance, LLC
and 1 Sharpe Opportunity Intermediate Trust’s Request for Judicial Notice is
GRANTED but not as to hearsay or facts in dispute.
Introduction 
Defendants Quanta Finance, LLC
(QFLLC) and 1 Sharpe Opportunity Intermediate Trust (1SOIT) (collectively
Defendants) demurred to Plaintiffs Neelam Bhamani (Neelam ), Hussain Bhamani
(Hussain), and EMS Solutions, LLC (EMS) (collectively Plaintiffs) First Amended
Complaint (FAC).  Defendants demurrer
placed into issue the first cause of action (COA) for accounting, second COA
for negligent misrepresentation, third COA for violation of the Unlawful
Competition Law (UCL), and the fourth COA for usury.
Discussion  
Under the first COA, Defendants
argued that the claim failed to specify which of the two loans requires an
accounting.  However, the allegations in
the FAC expressly pled that Plaintiffs obtained the payoff amount on the
“Subject Property” and alleged that the payoff amount was in excess of what was
actually owed.  (FAC pars. 36-37.)  As defined in the FAC, “Subject Property” is
in reference to the property located at 4232 Rosario Road.  (FAC pars. 1, 3, 24-33.)  Defendants’ argument that the COA is uncertain
is unpersuasive because Defendants’ argument is based upon an incomplete
reading of the allegations.  
Defendants then argued that
Plaintiffs failed to allege facts showing that it is impracticable or too
complicated to determine the amount owed. 
However, Defendants’ argument merely places Plaintiffs’ characterization
of the amount owed into issue, which for demurrer purposes is deemed true.  Facts required to determine whether
calculating the amount owed to be impracticable requires a review of facts
beyond the four corners of the FAC and requires calculations to be made based
upon amounts paid, whether Plaintiffs defaulted, and interest
calculations.  For purposes of a
demurrer, Plaintiffs’ claim of impracticality is deemed true and cannot be the
basis to sustain the demurrer.  The
argument is unpersuasive.
Defendants lastly argued that
Plaintiffs’ overpayment should be alleged/claimed/folded into the damages
element under a breach of contract COA or fraud COA, as reviewed in Fleet v.
Bank of America N.A. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1414 (Fleet).  However, the instant action is
distinguishable from the claims made in Fleet. 
The instant action did not allege any breach of contract or fraud claim
relevant to the overpayment (specifically as to the Rosario Property), as was
the case in Fleet.  The negligent misrepresentation
COA in this action only alleged a false written representation to forbear on
the foreclosure proceedings on the 230 Arno Way Property.  (FAC pars. 26-27, 41-43.)  For this distinction, the Fleet opinion is
inapplicable to the accounting claim alleged in this action.  The argument is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the first COA is
OVERRULED.
As to the second COA for
negligent misrepresentation, Defendants argued that there is insufficient fact
pleading as to a misrepresentation because Plaintiffs alleged that they paid
off the two loans related to the Arno Property and Rosario Property.  (FAC par. 37.)  However, the argument is a narrow reading of
the factual allegations or a mischaracterization of the allegations.  Plaintiffs do not allege that “both” loans
were paid off but only alleged that they paid the Rosario Loan “under protest
and reserve[ed] their rights” to contest the payoff amount as being in excess
of what is actually owed.  Further, the
misrepresentation at issue is linked to the representation that Defendants
would forbear foreclosure on the Arno Property Loan.  (FAC pars. 26-27.)  Based upon the mischaracterization of the
allegations, Defendants' first argument is unpersuasive.
Defendants then argued that the
misrepresentation as to the forbearance failed to plead specific facts alleging
by whom, to whom, and by what means the alleged representation was made.  However, as reviewed above, the
representation was written and made to Hussain. 
(FAC par. 43.)  The FAC is lacking
in specific facts to show the names of the persons who made the
misrepresentations at QLF, their authority to speak for the corporation, and
when the representations were made.  For
these pleading defects only, the demurrer arguments are persuasive.
The demurrer to the second COA is
SUSTAINED.
The third COA for UCL violation
is asserted to be insufficiently pled because Plaintiffs lack standing.  Defendants argued that licensure violations
are enforced by the California Commissioner of Corporations or the Attorney
General.  (Fin. Code, secs. 22712,
22713.)  However, the claim alleged is
for UCL and under the unlawful prong, the UCL claim borrows the grounds for a
claim from other statutes.  Even if the
licensure statutes do not include a private right of action, private actions
can be brought under the UCL.  (Stop
Youth Addiction, Inc. v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1998) 17 Cal.4th 553,
565-566.)  Defendants further argued that
broker-arranged loans are permitted under Civil Code section 1916.1.  Defendants’ defense under Civil Code section
1916.1 is not a proper grounds to sustain a demurrer because it would require a
review of facts outside the four corners of the pleading (i.e., Defendants’
broker status.)  The arguments are not
persuasive.  
Defendants then argued Plaintiffs
do not have standing because they did not suffer actual injury.  But the argument is baseless because
Plaintiffs expressly alleged an overpayment in the payoff amount.  On this overpayment, Plaintiffs sufficiently
alleged actual injury.  The argument is
unpersuasive.  The court finds that these
arguments, looking outside of the allegations of the complaint, border on
frivolous and exemplify a fundamental misunderstanding (or disregard) of the
law on demurrers.
Defendants argued that there are
insufficient facts to support the alleged overpayment and specificity as to
Plaintiffs’ payoff demands.  However, the
allegation of overpayment is an ultimate fact and facts to determine where the
overpayment was incurred (whether it be in a wrongfully alleged default or
excessive interest) is an issue better resolved outside the pleading
stage.  Defendants argument as to the
timing of payoff demands is a defense to the claim and not proper for review at
this pleading stage.  
The demurrer to the third COA for
UCL violations is OVERRULED.
As to the fourth COA for usury,
Defendants argued that the FAC is unclear as to which loan included usurious
interest.  The argument is based upon an
incomplete reading of the allegations. 
Plaintiffs expressly alleged that the loan at issue is the Rosario Loan,
the “Subject Property.”  (FAC par.
62.)  The argument is without merit.
Defendants argued that Plaintiffs
failed to allege facts showing that the interest rate was usurious at the time
the loan was made.  However, Defendants’
argument is a defense to the action.  The
claim alleged is actually a claim in equity to either reform or rescind a
contract or the interest provision.  The
contract at issue is the loan on the Rosario Property and the allegation is
that the interest provision is void or voidable due to usury.  
Defendants argued that the
interest rates at issue were triggered by Plaintiffs’ default and thus default
penalties.  However, the argument that
the overpayment was actually penalties due to Plaintiffs’ default disputes the
veracity of the allegations and is improper for the demurrer stage.  At this stage, Plaintiffs’ allegations that
the loan included usurious interest rates are deemed true and the issue as to
the interest being a penalty for default is an issue to be resolved later in
the litigation.
Defendants argued that
broker-arranged loans or “business purpose loans” are permitted under Civil
Code section 1916.1.  Defendants further
argued that they have exempt status from the Constitutional interest rates.  However, as reviewed above, the argument
and/or defense is improper to sustain a demurrer because they require review of
facts outside the four corners of the pleading. 
The argument is not persuasive.
The demurrer to the fourth COA is
OVERRULED.
DEFENSE COUNSEL PLEASE
NOTE:
The court finds that these
arguments, e.g., continually contesting the truth of allegations or referring
to facts outside of the allegations of the complaint, borders on frivolous and
exemplifies a fundamental misunderstanding (or disregard) of the law on
demurrers. The demurrer also continually raises its affirmative (factual)
defenses which is inappropriate for a demurrer.
As the law is well settled,
the court accepts the facts pleaded as true for the purposes of the demurrer
and does not refer to facts outside the face of the complaint. If it is a
misunderstanding that causes counsel to repeatedly refer to non-judicially
noticeable facts or contests the truth of facts, the court hopes that the issue
is now clarified for future court filings. 
If it is based on disregard, then counsel are wise to please discontinue
that practice as it is a waste of judicial and legal resources.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.