Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 20STCP04290
Plaintiff's Name: David Seyde
Defendant's Name: Brian Kennedy, Drake Kennedy, Regency Outdoor Advertising, Inc., Skyline Outdoor Media LLC, NTGS Acquisition, LLC
People-Names: David Seyde, Brian Kennedy, Drake Kennedy, Robby S. Naoufal
Company-Names: Regency Outdoor Advertising, Inc., Skyline Outdoor Media LLC, NTGS Acquisition, LLC, Porter 24, LLC
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: April 1, 2017, October 22, 2018, December 27, 2020, January 25, 2021, February 5, 2021, November 1, 2024, November 8, 2024
Events: Settlement Agreement, Asset Purchase Agreement, Sale of the Assets, Due Diligence, Mediation
Money: $12,500 per month, sale price of the Assets
Intentions: NTGS Acquisition, LLC wants to purchase a portion of the Assets, Brian and Drake want to settle between themselves and circumvent the receivership
Facts: David Seyde has a contract with Brian and Drake to sell certain assets, including the Luxe Asset, which is part of the sale of assets contemplated by the BTS
Disputes: Seyde alleges that Brian and Drake breached their obligations under the BTS, and that NTGS Acquisition, LLC enabled this breach
Acts: Seyde filed a motion for summary judgment or in the alternative motion for summary adjudication, Brian and Drake filed a cross-complaint, and NTGS Acquisition, LLC filed a motion to compel further responses to requests for admission and interrogatories
Agreements: BTS (Binding Term Sheet), Settlement Agreement, Asset Purchase Agreement
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP), Evidence Code
Case Citations: Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co., Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co., Dollinger DeAnza Associates v. Chicago Title Ins. Co., Stueve Bros. Farms, LLC v. Berger Kahn
Statutes: CCP § 437c, CCP § 2030.300, CCP § 2033.220, CCP § 452(c), CCP § 452(d)
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Receiver
Significant Statements:
* The Court finds that NTGS Acquisition, LLC did not intentionally interfere with the contractual relationship between Seyde and Brian and Drake.
* The Court finds that NTGS Acquisition, LLC did not aid and abet Brian and Drake's breach of fiduciary duty.
* The Court finds that Seyde properly denied the requests for admission and did not need to provide further responses.
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The Court has considered the motions for summary judgment or in the alternative motion for summary adjudication filed by NTGS Acquisition, LLC, and the motions to compel further responses to requests for admission and interrogatories filed by Brian Kennedy. The Court has also considered the oppositions filed by David Seyde.

The Court finds that NTGS Acquisition, LLC did not intentionally interfere with the contractual relationship between Seyde and Brian and Drake. The Court also finds that NTGS Acquisition, LLC did not aid and abet Brian and Drake's breach of fiduciary duty.

The Court further finds that Seyde properly denied the requests for admission and did not need to provide further responses. The Court denies the motions to compel further responses and grants NTGS Acquisition, LLC's motion for summary judgment or in the alternative motion for summary adjudication.

The Court exercises its discretion to decline to impose the monetary sanctions requested by both parties. The moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.