  Case Number:  20STCP04290    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DAVID SEYDE, an
  individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BRIAN KENNEDY, an individual, DRAKE
KENNEDY, an individual; REGENCY
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING, INC., a
California corporation; SKYLINE
OUTDOOR MEDIA LLC, a California
limited liability company; NTGS
ACQUISITION, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company; and DOES 14-100, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.      
 
 
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION.
                         


 


     
  CASE NO.:  20STCP04290
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE
  ALTERNATIVE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF
ISSUES BY DEFENDANT NTGS
ACQUISITION, LLC
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM
  INTERROGATORY NO. 17.1
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
  FOR ADMISSION, SET ONE, NUMBERS 1, 9, 8, 12, AND 13
 
Date: November 15, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
            This action was filed in December
2020.  On March 16, 2023, Plaintiff David
Seyde (“Seyde”) filed the operative Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”) alleging
six causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4)
fraud; (5) intentional interference with contractual relations; and (6) aiding
and abetting breach of fiduciary duty.  The
fifth and sixth causes of action are asserted only against NTGS Acquisition,
LLC (“NTGS”).
 
            On July 1, 2022, Regency Outdoor
Advertising, Inc. (“Regency”) and Brian Kennedy (“Brian”)[1] filed
a cross-complaint against Seyde and his company, Porter 24, LLC, asserting nine
claims: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing; (3) misappropriation of trade secrets; (4) common law
right of publicity; (5) statutory misappropriation of name and likeness; (6)
trademark infringement; (7) intentional interference with prospective economic
relations; (8) unfair business practices; and (9) unjust enrichment. 
 
            On or about August 12, 2024, NTGS
filed a Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative Motion for Summary
Adjudication (the “MSJ”), seeking an order granting summary judgment as to the
5AC in its entirety on the basis that the causes of action alleged by Seyde against
NTGS lacks merit.  In the alternative,
NTGS moves for summary adjudication of the causes of action for intentional
interference with contractual relations as well as for aiding and abetting
breach of fiduciary duty.  Seyde filed an
opposition to the MSJ on November 1, 2024, and NTGS filed a reply on November
8, 2024.
 
            On August 15, 2024, Brian filed a
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admission, Set One, Numbers 1,
9, 8, 12 and 13 (“RFAs Motion”) and a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1 (“FIs Motion”).  On
November 1, 2024, Seyde filed his opposition to the RFAs Motion and to the FIs
Motion.  No reply has been filed.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
In
his opposition to the MSJ, Seyde requests judicial notice of documents in the
related matter, Kennedy, et. al v. Kennedy, et. al., Case Number 18STCP02617
filed in the Los Angeles Superior Court. 
The Court takes judicial notice
of the records’ existence, but not of the truth of the assertions made within.  (Evid. Code, § 452(c), (d); Herrera v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
NTGS
objects to portions of the declarations of Robby S. Naoufal and Seyde submitted
in support of Seyde’s opposition to the MSJ. 
The Court declines to rule on the objections as the matters objected to
are not material to the Court’s disposition of this motion.  The objections, however, are preserved. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c(q) [“In granting or denying a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections to evidence
that it deems material to its disposition of the motion. Objections to evidence
that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall be preserved for
appellate review.”].)
 
As
to NTGS’s objections to Seyde’s Request for Judicial Notice, the Court takes
judicial notice only of the existence of the referenced records, but not as to
the truth of the assertions made therein.
 
DISCUSSION
Motion for Summary
Judgment
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  CCP Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge
to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the
defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 


 
Relevant Factual Background
On
April 1, 2017, Brian, Drake Kennedy (“Drake”), Stephanie Kennedy and Seyde (on behalf
of themselves and all relevant entities in which they had an ownership
interest) settled a prior lawsuit through mediation and memorialized the terms
in a confidential settlement agreement entitled “Binding Term Sheet” (“BTS”), in
which the parties agreed to sell the assets then owned by Regency and its
affiliates (the “Regency Companies”), and all real properties jointly owned by Drake
and Brian.  (NTGS’s Separate Statement of
Undisputed Facts in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment [“SSUF”] 3.)  Pursuant to the terms of the BTS, Seyde was
to receive a percentage of the sale price for certain of the Regency Companies’
assets and to be paid $12,500 per month until the assets were sold.  (SSUF 4.) 
On October 22, 2018, Drake filed an action in the Los Angeles Superior Court,
which resulted in the appointment of a receiver for the limited purpose of
selling the assets of the Regency Companies (the “Assets”) pursuant to the
terms of the BTS.  (SSUF 5.)
 
In
2020, NTGS became involved in the potential purchase of the Assets through the receivership
process, during which NTGS conducted due diligence, including reviewing
documents related to the receivership action and the history between Drake,
Brian and the Regency Companies.  During
this process, NTGS became aware of the obligations owed to Seyde under the BTS,
including the receivership order requiring the sale of the assets to be
consistent with the terms of the BTS, and the requirement to pay Seyde his
compensation under the BTS.  (Seyde’s
Additional Material Facts in Response to NTGS’S Separate Statement [“AMF”]
22-25.)
 
 On December 27, 2020, Brian and NTGS entered
into an Asset Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which NTGS agreed to purchase a
portion of the assets at issue.  (AMF
30-31.)  On January 25, 2021, Brian and Drake
filed under seal a Joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement (the “Settlement
Agreement”), which the court approved the same day.  (SSUF 8.) 
The Settlement Agreement completed the restructuring of the sale
process, providing Drake with his share of the purchase price, seven specified real
property assets, and various cash distributions, while making no provision for payment
of Seyde’s interests under the BTS.  (AMF
47.)  On February 5, 2021, Seyde learned
through a public announcement that a sale of the Assets to NTGS had closed,
even though no public court order had approved such a sale.  (AMF 49.)
 
Seyde
now contends that through Drake and Brian’s Settlement Agreement, he has been
completely deprived of his contractually guaranteed share of the sale proceeds
under the BTS, and that to date, Seyde has not received any funds from the sale
proceeds arising from the BTS that he was to be paid at closing.  As to NTGS, Seyde asserts that NTGS’s conduct
enabled the settlement between Brian and Drake, which was intended to circumvent
the receivership – and thus the obligation to pay Seyde under the BTS.   On that basis, Seyde asserts, as against
NTGS, causes of action for intentional interference with contractual relations
and aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty are valid.
 
Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations
            “The elements which a plaintiff must
plead to state the cause of action for intentional interference with
contractual relations are (1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third
party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant’s intentional
acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship;
(4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5)
resulting damage.”  (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co.
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 55, as modified (Sept. 23, 1998) (quoting Pacific Gas
& Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126).) 
 
            Here, Seyde fails to provide any
evidence to support the third element of intentional interference with
contractual relations – NTGS’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship. 
NTGS served special interrogatories, form interrogatories and requests
for production of documents on Seyde, asking for facts to support Seyde’s
specific allegations against NTGS.  Seyde
served responses that neither establish a basis for liability as against NTGS
nor point to evidence necessary to establish Seyde’s claims against NTGS.  (SSUF 24, 51, 78, 20. 47, 74.)   Seyde
mainly asserts that NTGS played a pivotal role in financing and closing the
sale of the Assets, despite possessing knowledge that doing so would result in
breaches of the BTS, and that NTGS’s agreement to purchase a portion of the
Assets was crucial to Brian and Drake’s settling between themselves and circumventing
the receivership.  (AMF 22-34.)  No agreement executed by NTGS, however, makes
reference to Seyde, or to agreements between NTGS and any party to the BTS to
interfere with performance of the BTS.  (SSUF
14, 15, 41, 42, 68, 69.)  To the
contrary, NTGS received express written assurances from Brian’s counsel that
any liabilities or payments owed, including those to Seyde, would be the
responsibility of Brian.  (SSUF 13, 14;
Richheimer Decl., ¶¶ 12-14, 16-18; Exh. KC-S-2; Exh. KC-B.)  
 
Thus,
while NTGS may have had knowledge or awareness of Brian’s obligations to Seyde
under the BTS during NTGS’s conduct of due diligence, there is no evidence of a
triable issue of material fact on the issue of whether NTGS intentionally prevented
Brian’s performance under the BTS.  NTGS
was not a party to the Settlement Agreement.  Merely financing a portion of the sale of the
Assets does not amount to inducing the breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship between Seyde and Brian.  (Dollinger
DeAnza Associates v. Chicago Title Ins. Co. (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1132,
1144–1145 (“Thus, a party ‘cannot avoid summary judgment by asserting facts
based on mere speculation and conjecture, but instead must produce admissible
evidence raising a triable issue of fact.’”) (internal citation omitted).  In other words, based on the evidence
submitted, no reasonable juror could conclude that NTGS did anything to induce Brian
and Drake to evade their obligations to Seyde under the BTS.   
 
The
Court thus finds there is no evidence to support NTGS’s wrongful interference
claim.   Accordingly, NTGS’s motion for
summary judgment as to the fifth cause of action for intentional interference
with contractual relations is GRANTED.
            
Aiding and
Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty
The
elements of a claim for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty are: (1)
a third party’s breach of fiduciary duties owed to plaintiff; (2) defendant’s
actual knowledge of that breach of fiduciary duties; (3) substantial assistance
or encouragement by defendant to the third party’s
breach; and (4)
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing harm to plaintiff.  (Nasrawi
v. Buck
Consultants LLC
(2014) 231 Cal. App. 4th 328, 343.)  
 
            Seyde contends that the evidence
suggests that Brian breached his fiduciary duties by structuring a sale that
circumvented the BTS and by failing to ensure that Seyde received his rightful
share of the proceeds as stipulated in the BTS. 
In support of his claim against NTGS, Seyde points out that NTGS
conducted extensive due diligence, reviewing documents related to
the receivership
action and the history between the parties. 
(AMF 22.)  Seyde further contends
that NTGS was directly involved in negotiating the terms of the Asset Purchase
Agreement,
including explicit
discussions about liabilities owed to Seyde. (AMF 22-25; Naoufal Decl. ¶¶ 10-
11; AOE Exs.
23-24.)  
 
Seyde
presents no evidence, however, that NTGS knew or should have known that
agreeing to provide partial financing for Brian’s purchase of the Assets and/or
entering into the Asset Purchase Agreement would undermine Brian’s fiduciary obligations
under the BTS.  To the contrary, the
record demonstrates that (1) NTGS was a third party buyer of the billboard assets
and participated in an arms-length transaction to buy the Assets [SSUF 12, 39,
66]; (2) NTGS was given assurances that any liabilities attached to the Assets including
any payment obligations owed would stay with Brian [SSUF Nos. 13, 14;
Richheimer Decl., ¶¶ 12-14, 16-18; Exh. KC-S-2; Exh. KC-B.)  (Stueve Bros. Farms, LLC v. Berger Kahn (2013)
222 Cal.App.4th 303, 324.) “[A]iding-abetting focuses on whether a defendant
knowingly gave ‘substantial assistance’ to someone who performed wrongful
conduct, not on whether the defendant agreed to join the wrongful conduct.” ’ ”].)  Thus, mere agreement by NTGS to purchase a
portion of the Assets does not equate to assistance to a purported wrongful
conduct by Brian. 
 
The
Court finds there is no evidence to establish that NTGS provided assistance or
encouragement to aid in Brian’s breach, which Seyde purports to have occurred.  Accordingly, Seyde’s cause of action asserted
against NTGS for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty fails as a
matter of law.  Therefore, NTGS’s MSJ as
to this cause of action is GRANTED.
 
Based
on the foregoing, NTGS’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
RFAs Motion and
FIs Motion
A
motion to compel further responses may be brought based on responses to
requests for admission (“RFAs”) that: (1) provide evasive or incomplete
answers; or (2) make unmeritorious or overly-generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290(a).)  
 
A
motion to compel further responses to form or specially prepared
interrogatories may be brought if the responses contain: (1) answers that are
evasive or incomplete; (2) an unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise
of an option to produce documents in lieu of a substantive response; or (3)
unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(a).) 

 
Motions
to compel further responses must always be accompanied by a meet-and
confer-declaration (per Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040) demonstrating a
“reasonable and good faith attempt an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”  (Id.,
§§ 2030.300(b), 2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).) 
They must also be accompanied by a separate statement containing the
requests and the responses, verbatim, as well as reasons why a further response
is warranted.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a).)  The separate statement must
also be complete in itself; no extrinsic materials may be incorporated by
reference.  (Id., rule 3.1345(c).)
 
Here,
based on the declarations of Allyssa J. Rose in support of the motions to compel
further responses, the Court finds that the meet and confer requirements have
been met.
 
In
February 2024, Brian served RFAs upon Seyde, containing 13 requests.  (Declaration of Allyssa Rose ISO RFAs Motion
[“Rose RFAs Decl.”], ¶4, Ex. R-3.)  On
March 26, 2024, Seyde served objection-only responses.  (Id., ¶5, Exs. R-5, R-6.)  On July 2, 2024, Seyde’s counsel provided
supplemental responses.  (Id. at
¶8, Ex. R-8.)  Kennedy’s counsel sent a
meet and confer letter on August 2, 2024, explaining that Seyde’s responses to RFA
Nos. 1, 8, 9, 12, and 13 were deficient. 
(Id. at ¶10, Ex. R-11.)  On
August 9, 2024, Seyde’s counsel responded, stating that they refused to
supplement the responses to these Requests any further, standing firmly on
their position that the responses were complete.  (Id. at ¶11, Ex. R-12.)  Brian
now files the RFAs Motion, asking the Court to compel Seyde to respond, in
full, to RFA Nos. 1, 8, 9, 12, and 13.
 
In
February 2024, Brian also served upon Seyde Form Interrogatories-General, Nos.
1 and 17.1, which correlates with the RFAs.  (Declaration of Allyssa Rose ISO FIs Motion [“Rose
FIs Decl.”], ¶4, Exs. R-3, R-4.)  On
March 26, 2024, Seyde served objection-only responses.  (Id., ¶5, Exs. R-5, R-6.)  On July 2, 2024, Seyde’s counsel provided
supplemental responses.  (Id. at
¶9, Exs. R-9, R-10.) Brian’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter on August 2,
2024, explaining why Seyde’s responses to FI No. 17.1 was deficient.  (Id. at ¶10, Ex. R-11.)  On August 9, 2024, Seyde’s counsel responded,
refusing to supplement the responses any further.  (Id. at ¶11, Ex. R-12.)  Brian
now files the FIs Motion, asking the Court to compel Seyde to respond, in full,
to FI No. 17.1 as it relates to Seyde’s unqualified admissions to RFA Nos. 1 and
4 through 8.  
 
In the RFAs
Motion, Brian contends that the RFAs have been tailored specifically to the
matters of this litigation and to seek Seyde’s admissions regarding his
obligations under the BTS that Seyde alleges were breached.  More specifically, the RFAs at issue pertain
to Seyde’s purported failure to perform his obligation of delivering the Luxe
Asset to be sold as part of the sale of assets contemplated by the BTS.  
 
In his
opposition, Seyde asserts that he has properly denied the requests in the RFAs
at issue and that no further response is necessary.  Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 essentially asks
for an explanation as to why any RFA was not admitted.  Seyde contends that in his response, he explained
the basis for his denials, with specific facts and supporting documents.  As such, Seyde asserts that he has fully
complied with the Code of Civil Procedure, sections 2030.210, and that no
further response is required. 
 
As reflected in
the BTS, Seyde agreed to relinquish his rights in the Luxe asset to be sold as
part of the sale of assets contemplated by that agreement.  (Delaration of Robby S. Naoufal ISO Opposition
to RFAs Motion [“Naoufal RFAs Decl.”], Ex. A at Ex. A § 2(A) [“DS [David
Seyde], individually and through his Edge entities, to relinquish
all rights to or claims with respect to the Luxe upon closing of such sale.”]
(emphasis added).)  
 
RFA No. 1 seeks
an admission that “under the TERM SHEET [BTS], YOU [Seyde] agreed,
on behalf of EDGE, to deliver the LUXE ASSET to be
sold as part of the sale of assets subject to
the TERMS SHEET [BTS].”  (Naoufal RFAs Decl., Ex. F at no. 1.)  Similarly, RFA No. 9 asks Seyde to admit that
he “failed to deliver” the Luxe; and RFA No. 13 asks Seyde to admit that he
“cannot deliver” the Luxe.  (Id., at
nos. 9 and 13.)  The Court agrees with
Seyde that RFA Nos. 1, 9 and 13 are vague and ambiguous with respect to the
meaning of “deliver,” particularly because the BTS makes no reference to any
party being required to “deliver” the Luxe. 
RFA No. 12 similarly seeks an admission that Seyde cannot comply with
the BTS.  On this basis, Seyde’s denials in
RFA Nos. 1, 9, 12 and 13 are proper, since under the terms of the BTS, he was required
to “relinquish” his claims to the Luxe, whereas the RFAs seek admissions to
“deliver” the Luxe.  
 
            As
for RFA No. 8, the request seeks an admission regarding compensation related to
the Luxe from April 1, 2017 through January 31, 2021.  Plaintiff contends that he never received
compensation after July 2020 and on that basis, he denied the request, stating
thus: “Deny as to any period after July 2020.” 
(Naoufal RFAs Decl., Ex. F at no. 8.) 
Seyde’s response also clarified that Plaintiff did not receive
compensation after July 2020.   The Court
finds that the denial is justified.  (CCP,
§ 2033.220 (requiring that the answer shall “[d]eny so much of the matter
involved in the request as is untrue.”).
 
The
Court, therefore, finds that with respect to the RFAs at issue, Seyde properly
denied the requests.  A motion to compel
further responses cannot compel the admission of matters already denied.  (Holguin v. Superior Court (1972) 22
Cal.App.3d 812, 821.)  Brian cannot force
Seyde to admit that which he denies in this lawsuit.  
 
In
Seyde’s response to the corresponding Form Interrogatory 17.1, Seyde stated, for
each of the RFAs: (a) the number of the request; (b) the facts on which he
based his denial; (c) the identity and information of the individuals with
knowledge of those facts; and (d) the records (including Bates-stamped document
citations) that support his responses, including a detailed showing that he
fully complied with his obligations with respect to the Luxe and did everything
possible to preserve its value throughout the sale process.  (Naoufal FIs Decl. Ex. D at 17.1.)
 
In
sum, the Court finds that there is no basis to compel further responses to the
RFAs and FIs at issue.  Accordingly, the
RFAs Motion and the FIs Motion are DENIED. 
The Court exercises its discretion to decline to impose the monetary
sanctions requested by both parties. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 15th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






