 Case Number:  21STCV24488    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KYLE MADISON, an
  individual, and as
assignee of Marjan Madison, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MICHAEL THEODORE; MICHAEL
THEODORE, TRUSTEE OF THE
MICHAEL THEODORE REVOCABLE 
TRUST dated July 21, 2008; CASA
THEODORE, LLC; CASA THEODORE, INC.;
  CECELIA FUNK, ROSALIND
FUNK, CHARLES FUNK, and DOES 1
through 50, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.        
 
                       


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV24488
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
 
 
Date: November 15, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
KYLE MADISON (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None

 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers.  No opposition has been
filed.  Any opposition was required to
have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises out of a dispute over the
enforcement of a money judgment. The currently operative fourth amended
complaint (the “4AC”) alleges: (1) statutory voidable transfers; and (2) common
law voidable transfers.
 
            On October 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion to Continue Trial (the “Motion”).  The Motion is unopposed.
 
DISCUSSION
            Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides
that the court has the power to “amend and control its process and orders so as
to make them conform to law and justice.”  “[T]he power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.)  A trial court has wide latitude in the matter
of calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.  (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49
Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)
 
A
party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial, whether contested or
uncontested or stipulated by the parties, must make the request for a
continuance by a noticed motion or ex parte application, with supporting
declarations.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(b).)  The party must make the
motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for
the continuance is discovered.  (Ibid.)
Each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits according to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c).  The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  Good cause may be present where a party has
not been unable “to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts” or there has been a “significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c)(6)-(7).)
 
California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be
analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is
present.  A court considers factors such
as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance,
extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance
requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice
that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay; (7) the court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on
other pending trials; (8) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9) whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and (11) any other fact
or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(d).)
 
Plaintiff
asks that the Court continue the trial of this matter, now set for January 27,
2025, for six months, to July 15, 2025, and that all discovery, motion cut-off,
and dates related to trial date will be based on the new trial date.  The trial date has previously been continued four
times.
 
The
Motion is made on the grounds that Plaintiff has been unable to obtain
essential evidence despite diligent efforts (Rule 3.1332(c)(6)); that discovery
will not be completed sufficiently before the existing trial date (Rule
3.1332(c)(6)); that this case has taken longer than usual to prepare for trial
(Rule 3.1332(d)(l l)); and that the interests of justice are best served by a
continuance (Rule 3.1332(d)(10)).  The
Motions is supported by Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration showing that Plaintiff
has been unable to obtain essential evidence he needs for trial despite
diligent efforts, and, as a result, he has been unable to complete discovery
sufficiently before the existing trial date. 

 
 The current trial date is just two months away
and Plaintiff is seeking a short continuance of six months.  This case was filed on July 2, 2021, so there
is no issue yet with the five-year rule for bringing cases to trial.  The Court cautions the parties that it expects
cooperation in discovery and that the case will be ready for trial on the date it
will be setting through this order.  
 
In
light of these facts, Plaintiff’s Motion is GRANTED.  Trial in this matter, currently scheduled for
January 27, 2025, is continued to July 28, 2025.  The Final Status Conference, currently
scheduled for January 14, 2025, is continued to July 14, 2025.  All pre-trial deadlines and briefing
schedules are continued in accordance with the new dates.
 
            
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 15th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 