 Case Number:  22STCV15220    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue.
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776.
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff alleges that she was terminated
due to her race, her perceived disability, and for violating policies that were
never articulated to Plaintiff.
Defendant Southern California
Permanente Medical Group moves to compel the deposition of Plaintiff and
requests the imposition of sanctions.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Southern California
Permanente Medical Group’s motion to
compel Plaintiff’s deposition is GRANTED. The deposition is to occur within 10
days.
Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff and her
counsel is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,584.15, jointly and severally. Sanctions
are to be paid to Defendant’s counsel within 10 days.
ANALYSIS
Motions To Compel  Deposition
Discussion
Defendant Southern California
Permanente Medical Group moves to compel the deposition of Plaintiff. 
            The Court
exercises its discretion to consider the untimely opposition.
CCP §
2025.450 provides in pertinent part as follows:
 
(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails . . . to proceed with it, . . . the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, . . .
 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following:
 
(1) The motion shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.
 
(2) The motion shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the
deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.
 
. . .
 
(g)
 
(1) If a motion under subdivision
(a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition
and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.
. . .
 
(h) If that party or
party-affiliated deponent then fails to obey an order compelling attendance,
testimony, and production, the court may make those orders that are just,
including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against that
party deponent or against the party with whom the deponent is affiliated. In
lieu of, or in addition to, this sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against that
deponent or against the party with whom that party deponent is affiliated, and
in favor of any party who, in person or by attorney, attended in the
expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken pursuant to that
order. 
. . .

     (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 2025.450.)
            Civ.
Proc. Code, § 2025.280(a) provides:
(a) The service of a
deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or
an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to
testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing for inspection and copying.

(Civ. Proc. Code, § 2025.280(a)[bold emphasis added].)
Defendant
is entitled to an order compelling Plaintiff to appear for her deposition. Plaintiff has twice cancelled the continued session of
her noticed deposition the day before. (Declaration of  Bethany A. Vasquez, ¶¶ 13, 18.) Defendant’s
counsel requested alternative dates, but Plaintiff’s counsel never provided
such. (Vasquez Decl.,  ¶¶ 14, 15.)
Defendant’s counsel inquired about the non-appearance. (Vasquez Decl., ¶¶ 19,
20.)  Plaintiff characterizes this as
Defendant agreeing to voluntarily take the deposition off-calendar and, Defendant
could have left the deposition on calendar. While Defendant’s counsel could
have done this, there is no obligation to incur the costs of obtaining a
certificate of non-appearance.
Plaintiff’s counsel takes the position that he has no
obligation to schedule his own client’s deposition and Defendant’s counsel should
simply set a deposition date and not cancel it if Plaintiff’s counsel cannot
attend. However, if Plaintiff’s counsel is not going to make any effort to
provide alternative dates for his client to be deposed upon request by Defendant's counsel, Defendant is entitled
to an order compelling Plaintiff’s deposition.
The motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is GRANTED. The
deposition is to occur within 10 days. 
Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff and her
counsel is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,584.15, jointly and severally (3.5
hours at $435/hour plus $61.65 in filing fees.) Sanctions are to be paid to Defendant’s
counsel within 10 days.