  Case Number:  21STCV14986    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  76 Plaintiffs allege that there were
various defects with the 2016 Kia Optima they leased, including a defective 2.4L
Theta II engine.
            The Court
entered judgment in favor of Defendant Kia Motors America, Inc.
            Plaintiffs
move to tax Defendant’s memorandum of costs.
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiffs Angel Meza and Teresa
Meza’s  motion to tax costs is DENIED in its
entirety. 
ANALYSIS:
Discussion
Plaintiffs move to tax Defendant’s
memorandum of costs.
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant may
not recover costs under Civ. Proc. Code, § 998 because it was not made in good
faith, and thus was not valid.  Plaintiffs also argue that the
Song-Beverly Act, Civil Code, § 1794(d) only gives a prevailing buyer the right
to recover attorney’s fees and expenses, but not prevailing defendants.  
            Neither of
these arguments is meritorious. The Court entered judgment in favor of Defendant
Kia Motors America, Inc. Therefore, Defendant is the prevailing party under Civ. Proc.
Code, § 1032(a)(4)(a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover
any relief against that defendant). A prevailing party is entitled as a matter
of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding, except as otherwise expressly
provided by statute. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 1032(b)).  Nothing in the Song-Beverly Act places a limitation on the general costs statutes, and nothing in CCP § 998 modifies the categories of costs otherwise available to a prevailing party.
            Plaintiffs
do not cite any statute which expressly precludes Defendant from recovering the
costs set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 1033.5 as the prevailing party.  Defendant is not seeking to recover attorney’s fees, nor “expenses”
which go beyond those in § 1033.5, as the courts have construed that term for
purposes of Civ. Code, § 1794(d). “Examining
the language of the statute (citation omitted), it is clear the Legislature
intended the word "expenses" to cover items not included in the
detailed statutory definition of "costs.’” (Jensen v. BMW of N. Am., Inc.
(1995) 35 Cal. App. 4th 112, 137.)
            Nor is Defendant seeking to recover
costs or expert witness fees, as provided for in Civ. Proc. Code, § 998(c)(1), which
applies when plaintiff does not accept an offer and plaintiff fails to obtain a
more favorable judgment or award. That is, § 998(c)(1) applies even if plaintiff
did obtain an award, but it was less than the § 998 offer.
            Here, Plaintiffs recovered nothing,
so Defendant is the “prevailing party” under Civ. Proc. Code, § 1032(a)(4). The
memorandum of costs seeks to recover filing and motion fees in the amount of
$2,715.83 and deposition costs in the amount of $2,777.25. These costs are allowable
pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 1033.5(a)(1) and (3).
            Plaintiffs
simply argue that Defendant has not substantiated these costs with
documentation. The Court finds that Defendant has sufficiently explained these
costs in the Memorandum of Costs Worksheet and attachments thereto. Plaintiffs’
argument is not persuasive.
            As such,
the motion to tax costs is DENIED in its entirety.
 