

 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 13, 2022, Plaintiff State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company (“Plaintiff) filed the Complaint alleging damages arising
from an automobile collision against Defendants Zoila Yolanda Delcid; Aldo F.
Medina Sr., and Does I through V. 
 
On June 18, 2024, Defendants Zoila Yolanda Delcid and Aldo
F. Medina Sr.’s counsel filed the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. 
 
As of July 11, 2024, no opposition has been filed. 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
Counsel Amy J. Mullen, Esq. seeks to be relieved as
Defendants Zoila Yolanda Delcid and Aldo F. Medina Sr.’s counsel. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
None. 
 
REPLY
 
None.
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel
A.        Legal Standard 
            Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362
(Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to
be directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general
terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client
relationship why a motion under CCP § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under CCP § 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3) service of the
notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who have
appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on
the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-053)).
 
B.
       Discussion 
 
            Here, Counsel has not complied with
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362. Counsel states that she attached Amy Mullen,
Esq.’s declaration to the motion, but such purported declaration is missing. 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            In all, Counsel’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel as Counsel for Defendants is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
The Moving party is
ordered to give notice of this Court’s Ruling and to attach a copy of the
Court's Tentative Ruling, as exhibit “A” to said notice.
 