

 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
On June 8, 2023, Plaintiffs Benito Morales and Lisa Morales
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Austra
Motors, Inc., Lentegrity, LLC, Hudson Insurance Company, and Does 1 through 40,
inclusive, asserting causes of action for (1) violation of Consumers Legal
Remedies Act (Civil Code § 1750 et seq), (2) violation of California Business
and Professions Code § 17200, et seq., unlawful acts or practices; (3)
violation of Civil Code §1632, (4) claim against surety, and (5) violation of
Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1281.97 and 1281.99.  
 
On November 15, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s unopposed Motion to
Compel Arbitration. The Court ordered Plaintiffs, Defendant
Austra Motors, Inc., and Defendant Lentegrity, LLC, to arbitrate their dispute
with the American Arbitration Association. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.98, the Court also ordered Defendants to pay all American
Arbitration Association arbitration fees they are obligated to pay upon
arbitration.
The Court stayed the case pending
binding arbitration to the entire action. (Minute Order 11/15/23.) 
 
On May 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant Motion to Lift Stay. No opposition has been filed by Defendants as
of July 11, 2024. Any opposition was
required to have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the
hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
ANALYSIS  
 
Under section 3 of the Federal
Arbitration Act, an action referring the parties to arbitration may be stayed
so long as no party is in default. (9 U.S.C., § 3.) 
 
Here, arbitration under the parties’
agreement is to be conducted pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act, set forth
at 9 U.S.C. section 1, et. seq. The Declaration of Heydari cites Exhibit 3 in
support of this; however, Exhibit 3 does not support this as it is a letter
from the American Arbitration Association (“the AAA”). Notwithstanding, the
Court finds that arbitration is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act per the
Retail Installment Sales Contract attached as Exhibit 2 (at pages 5-6) of the Declaration
of Sadr in support of Plaintiffs’ motion to compel arbitration. 
 
Further, the Court finds that Defendants
are now in default with respect to the arbitration proceedings. Despite the
Court’s November 15, 2023 order that Defendants make initial payments in
accordance with the rules of the AAA, they have yet to do so. (Heydari Decl.,
¶¶3-7; Exs. 1-3.) Around March 11, 2024, the AAA sent notice that it was
closing the case due to non-payment of fees. (Id. at ¶7.)  
 
Based on Defendant’s default with respect to the arbitration proceeding,
the Court finds it appropriate to reinstate this action. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiffs
Benito Morales and Lisa Morales’ Motion
to Lift Stay and Reopen Case is GRANTED.
 
Trial
to be reset at today’s hearing.
 
The Moving party is ordered to give notice of this
Court’s Ruling and to attach a copy of the Court's Tentative Ruling, as exhibit
“A” to said notice.
 
 