 Case Number:  23STCV17236    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  31 Orders After Alternative Writ of
Mandate
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
15, 2024                                              TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Haig Barsegian
v. Scan Health Plan
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV17236
 





















 
MOTION
FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Scan Health Plan
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Haig
Barsegian
 
            
           On March 6, 2024, the Court of
Appeal for the Second Appellate District issued an Alternative Writ of
Mandate.  The Court of Appeal commanded
that the court “vacate that portion of [this] order of December 21, 2023
denying the motion for trial preference and thereafter make a new and different
order referring the motion for trial preference to the neutral
arbitrator.”  The court intends to follow
the commandment of the Court of Appeal. 
The court  modifies Section I of
this Order as written below.  The court
leaves unchanged Section II.  
 
I.  MOTION FOR
TRIAL PREFERENCE
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion for trial preference is referred to the neutral arbitrator.
 
II.  MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
INTRODUCTION
            On
July 24, 2023, Plaintiff, Haig Barsegian, filed a complaint against Defendant,
Scan Health Plan, alleging causes of action for: (1) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; (2) disability discrimination: failure to
accommodate in violation of Government Code section 12940(m); (3) disability
discrimination: retaliation – failure to accommodate in violation of Government
Code section 12940(m)(2); (4) disability discrimination – failure to engage in
interactive process – Government Code section 12940(n); (5) retaliation in
violation of Government Code section 12940(h); (6) failure to prevent
discrimination and retaliation in violation of Government Code section
12940(k); and (7) Labor Code section 1102.5.
            On August 24, 2023, Defendant filed
this motion to compel arbitration and stay the proceedings. 
            The motion to compel arbitration,
along with Plaintiff’s motion for trial preference, were heard on December 5,
2023.  The Court issued a tentative
ruling granting Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.  After oral argument, the Court took this
matter under submission to consider whether the Federal Arbitration Act
preempts a litigant’s right for trial preference.
            The Court now rules as follows.
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including
a presumption in favor of arbitrability.  (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 971-72.)  Under both the FAA
and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract.  (Winter v. Window Fashions
Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of
a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the party
opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there should be no
enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to
reach a final determination on the issue.  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)  The Court is empowered by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement
to do so.   
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 states that: 
 
The court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
  
(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or  
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.  
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to
a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of
the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. For
purposes of this section, a pending court action or special proceeding includes
an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to arbitrate after the
petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or before the date of the
hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be applicable to an
agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional negligence of a health
care provider made pursuant to Section 1295. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  
 
            The party
petitioning to compel arbitration under written arbitration agreement bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, and party opposing petition must meet the same
evidentiary burden to prove any facts necessary to its defense. The trial court
acts as the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Provencio v. WMA
Securities, Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
moves to compel arbitration and stay the proceedings in this matter.  In opposition, Plaintiff argues the arbitration
agreement is illegal, unconscionable and he should be allowed to rescind the contract.[1]  Defendant responds
that the FAA preempts application of Section 36, the contract is not illegal or
unconscionable, and Plaintiff cannot rescind the contract. The Court begins
with the underlying fundamentals and moves on to address the parties’ arguments.  
            
A.  The Fundamentals 
 
1. Existence
of Arbitration Agreement
            Plaintiff was employed with
Defendant as a Mental Health Specialist from on or about December 2, 2013 to
April 4, 2022.  (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 6.)  On December 19, 2019, Plaintiff signed an
Arbitration Agreement wherein he agreed to arbitrate any claims that arose out
of his employment with Defendant.  (Rodriguez
Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. A.)  The Agreement is
between Plaintiff and SCAN Group, its affiliates, and The SCAN Foundation  (Id.)  Defendant SCAN Health Plan is a wholly owned
subsidiary and an affiliate of SCAN Group and is therefore also a party to the
Arbitration Agreement.  (Id., ¶
12.)  Pursuant to the Arbitration
Agreement, Plaintiff and Defendant agreed to “binding individual arbitration.”  (Id., Exh. C.) Specifically, Plaintiff
and Defendant voluntarily agreed that: 
I and SCAN Group, its affiliates, and The SCAN Foundation (“the
Company”) agree to utilize binding individual arbitration to resolve all
disputes that might arise out of or be related in any way to my employment by
the Company. Such disputes include, but are not limited to, claims I might
bring against the Company for wrongful termination, discrimination, harassment,
retaliation, breach of contract, wage and hour violations, and torts such as
invasion of privacy, assault and battery, or defamation. Such disputes also
include claims that the Company might bring against me such as, for example,
theft of money or trade secrets, breach of a confidentiality agreement, or
breach of a contract. I and the Company each specifically waive our respective
rights to bring such claims against the other in a court of law and to have a
trial by jury. 
(Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. A.) 
            As
such, Defendant has shown that a valid agreement to arbitrate exists. Plaintiff
does not present any arguments to the contrary.
2. Federal Arbitration Act
            The FAA applies
to contracts that involve interstate commerce.  (9 U.S.C. §§ 1, 2.) Because arbitration
is a matter of contract, the FAA also applies if it is so stated in
the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8
LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355 (“[T]he presence of interstate
commerce is not the only manner under which the FAA may apply. …
[T]he parties may also voluntarily elect to have the FAA govern
enforcement of the Agreement”].) 
            The FAA governs written arbitration agreements in the
employment context.  (Circuit City Stores, Inc. v. Adams (2001) 532
U.S. 105, 109, 113.)  The FAA provides, “A written provision in any . . .
contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a
controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction, or the
refusal to perform the whole or any part thereof . . . shall be valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of any contract.”  (9 U.S.C. § 2.)
            Here,
the Arbitration Agreement states that “any arbitration proceeding under this
agreement shall proceed under and be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act,
in conformity with the procedures of the California Arbitration Act . . .”  (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. A.) 
            As
such, the FAA applies to this matter. 
            B.  FAA Preemption
            Plaintiff
argues the motion to compel should be denied because Plaintiff has a
nonwaivable, statutory right to a trial preference under Section 36.[2]  The statute states, that if a preference
motion is granted, “the court shall set the matter for trial not
more than 120 days from that date.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 36, subd. (f).) Naturally,
the statutory provision providing for an expedited trial conflicts
directly with the agreed upon forum for disposition of the case – arbitration.  Given this conflict, Defendant argues the FAA
preempts application of Section 36 as applied in this case.  Plaintiff does not address the preemption
argument.  
            Defendant
is correct, the FAA preempts application of Section 36 as applied here. 
            “The Supremacy Clause of
the United States Constitution declares federal law to be ‘the supreme law of
the land,’ and thereby empowers Congress to enact statutes that displace—in the
vernacular, to preempt—‘contrary’ state laws.”  (Gallo v. Wood Ranch USA, Inc.
(2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 621, 635 (Gallo), citations omitted.)  “Federal statutes can preempt state law in
several ways.  Congress can expressly preempt state law by using explicit “statutory
language” to “define ... the extent to which its enactment[ ] pre-empt[s] state
law.” (English v. General Electric Co. (1990) 496 U.S. 72,
78-79.)  Congress can also preempt state
law by implication, and courts have identified three
mechanisms for such implied preemption; those mechanisms are known as “conflict
preemption,” “obstacle preemption,” and “field preemption.” (Ibid.)
            This
case falls within the category of obstacle preemption. “Even if a state law
does not single out arbitration agreements for outright prohibition or
disfavored treatment, it still will be preempted by the FAA if it “stand[s] as
an obstacle to the accomplishment of the FAA's objectives”; thus, the fact that
a state law is generally applicable does not shield it from preemption. (Concepcion, supra, 563 U.S. at
p. 343, 131 S.Ct. 1740; Lamps Plus, Inc. v. Varela
(2019) ––– U.S. ––––, 139 S.Ct. 1407, 1418, 203 L.Ed.2d 636 (Lamps Plus) [“The general applicability of [a state law
does] not save it from preemption under the FAA” if the rule “ ‘interferes with
fundamental attributes of arbitration.’ ”].)” (Gallo, supra, at p. 640.) 
 
To the extent Section 36 presents an
implied obstacle to arbitration, the FAA preempts its application.  (See AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 343 (Concepcion)
[“States cannot require a procedure that is inconsistent with the FAA, even if
it is desirable for unrelated reasons”]; see also Preston v. Ferrer
(2008) 552 U.S. 346, 356 [Labor Code section giving Labor Commissioner
exclusive original jurisdiction over certain disputes “conflict[ed] with the
FAA’s dispute resolution regime” by “grant[ing] the Labor Commissioner
exclusive jurisdiction to decide an issue that the parties agree to
arbitrate”]; Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th
1109, 1124 (Sonic) [holding, in light of Concepcion, that FAA preempted a state law rule
categorically prohibiting waiver of a “Berman hearing” (i.e., “a dispute
resolution forum established by the Legislature to assist employees in
recovering wages owed”) in a predispute arbitration agreement].); Nitro-Lift Technologies, L. L. C. v. Howard (2012)
568 U.S. 17, 21-22 [under the supremacy clause of the United States
Constitution (art. VI, cl. 2), the FAA requires any conflicting state law to
give way].). 
 
            Because application of Section 36
requires a trial to be set, it stands
as an obstacle to arbitration.  Indeed, application
of Section 36 would foreclose arbitration entirely.  The FAA preempts Section 36 as applied here. 
 
C.
 Illegality  
 
            Perhaps
recognizing the merit of Defendant’s preemption argument, Plaintiff attacks the
legality of the contract.  As the High
Court noted in Concepcion, “the final phrase of § 2 [of the FAA],
however, permits arbitration agreements to be declared unenforceable ‘upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.’  This saving clause permits agreements to
arbitrate to be invalidated by ‘generally applicable contract defenses, such as
fraud, duress, or unconscionability,’ but not by defenses that apply only to
arbitration or that derive their meaning from the fact that an agreement to
arbitrate is at issue.”  (Concepcion,
supra, 563 U.S. at p. 339.)  Thus, under the FAA, state courts may
“decline to enforce arbitration clauses on the basis of generally applicable contract defenses,
such as fraud, duress or unconscionability.”  (Erickson
v. Aetna Health Plans of California, Inc. (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 646,
650-651 [cleaned up].) 

 
Plaintiff begins by invoking the contractual
defense of illegality.  Plaintiff argues
the contract is illegal and void because Section 36 is an unwaivable statutory
right.  Plaintiff’s argument leaps over
the essential factual predicate to complete his argument – that the arbitration
agreement required Plaintiff to waive his right to bring a preference
motion.  It did not.  And, indeed, Plaintiff brought a preference
motion.  Moreover, Defendant does not argue
that the arbitration agreement precludes Plaintiff from filing a preference
motion.  There is no language in the arbitration
agreement requiring Plaintiff to waive his right to bring a preference
motion.  In short, Plaintiff’s argument
that the contract is illegal, void, and unenforceable because Plaintiff had an
unwaivable right to a trial preference is without merit.  Plaintiff fails to identify anything illegal
about the terms of the contract.[3]
D. Unconscionability   
                Next Plaintiff raises the contractual defense
of unconscionability.  In
general, the doctrine of unconscionability refers to “an absence of
meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with contract
terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.”  (Sonic,
supra, 57 Cal.4th at p. 1133 [cleaned up].)  In other words, the doctrine consists of
procedural and substantive components, “the former focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly
harsh or one-sided results.” (Ibid.) 
 
            If
unconscionable, the arbitration agreement is not a valid contract and therefore
is unenforceable.  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.
114.)  Although both components of unconscionability must be present to
invalidate an arbitration agreement, they need not be present in the same
degree.  (Id.)  “ ‘Essentially
a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural
process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the
greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.  In other words, the more substantively
unconscionable the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come
to the conclusion that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.’ ”  (Ibid.) 
 
i. Procedural Unconscionability 
 
            Procedural unconscionability has to
do with matters relating to freedom of assent. (Kinney v. United Healthcare
Servs. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.)  The procedural element focuses on two factors:
oppression and surprise.  (Id.)  “Oppression” arises from an inequality of
bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and an absence of
meaningful choice.  (Id.)  “Surprise” involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the printed form
drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms. (Id.)  
            A
“contract of adhesion” creates some amount of procedural unconscionability –
the term signifies a standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the
party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only
the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.  (Neal v. State Farm Ins. Cos. (1961)
188 Cal.App.2d 690, 694.)  In addition, a
lack of effort to highlight the presence of an arbitration provision, such as
through bold lettering, larger font, or capitalization, has been found to
indicate procedural unconscionability.  (See
Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238.)  However,
when there is no other indication of oppression other than the adhesive aspect
of an agreement, the degree of procedural unconscionability is low.  (Serpa v. California Surety Investigations,
Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.)   
            “[T]he
fact that the arbitration agreement is an adhesion contract does not render it
automatically unenforceable as unconscionable.  Courts have consistently held that the
requirement to enter into an arbitration agreement is not a bar to its
enforcement.”  (Serafin v. Balco
Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 179 (Serafin); see
also Concepcion, supra, at pp. 346-47 [“the times in which
consumer contracts were anything other than adhesive are long past”].) 
 
1.      Contract of Adhesion 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the
agreement was drafted without input by Plaintiff, was presented on a take it or
leave it basis, there is no evidence that the person issuing the
arbitration agreement to Plaintiff was even qualified to explain the company’s
arbitration provision, and Plaintiff had a limited
time to review the agreement.  
 
            However,
as explained above, the fact that it is an adhesion contract does not render it
automatically unenforceable as unconscionable.  Further, the requirement to enter into an
arbitration agreement is not a bar to the agreement’s enforcement.  (Serafin,
supra, 235 Cal.App.4th at p. 179.)  As such, the Court finds that there was a low degree of
procedural unconscionability.
 
                        2.
 Provision of Applicable Arbitration
Rules 
 
            Plaintiff
argues he was not given the arbitration rules.
 
            “The
failure to attach a copy of the arbitration rules could be a factor supporting
a finding of procedural unconscionability where the failure would result in
surprise to the party opposing arbitration.”  (Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 676, 690.)  In Lane, the Court concluded, “The
failure to attach a copy of the arbitration rules could be a factor supporting
a finding of procedural unconscionability where the failure would result in
surprise to the party opposing arbitration.”  (Id.)  The Lane Court ultimately determined
that “the failure to attach a copy of the AAA rules did not render the
agreement procedurally unconscionable. There could be no surprise, as the
arbitration rules referenced in the agreement were easily accessible to the
parties—the AAA rules are available on the Internet.”  (Id. at p. 691.)   
 
            Ultimately,
determining whether an agreement is unconscionable requires evaluating “the
totality of the agreement’s substantive terms as well as the circumstances of
its formation to determine whether the overall bargain was unreasonably
one-sided.”  (Sonic, supra,
57 Cal.4th at p. 1146.)   
 
            Plaintiff has not stated he was
surprised, and thus, this only provides a minimal showing of procedural
unconscionability. 
 
            ii.
Substantive Unconscionability                   
 
            Assessing
substantive unconscionability, courts generally focus on the terms of the
agreement and look for terms that are overly harsh or one-sided such that they shock
the conscience. (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1267, 1281 (Nyulassy); see also Sanchez v. Valencia
Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 910-911 (clarifying various definitions—e.g.,
“shocks the conscience,” “unduly oppressive,” “unreasonable favorable” mean
same thing).)  The “paramount
consideration” is mutuality of the obligation to arbitrate.  (Nyulassy, 120 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1281,
1287.)  
            “Substantively unconscionable
terms may take various forms, but may generally be described as unfairly
one-sided. One such form, as in Armendariz, is the arbitration agreement’s
lack of a modicum of bilaterality, wherein the employee’s claims against the
employer, but not the employer’s claims against the employee, are subject to
arbitration. [Citation.] Another kind of substantively unconscionable provision
occurs when the party imposing arbitration mandates a post-arbitration
proceeding, either judicial or arbitral, wholly or largely to its benefit at
the expense of the party on which the arbitration is imposed. [Citation.] In
determining unconscionability, our inquiry is into whether a contract provision
was unconscionable at the time it was made. [Citation.]”  (Sonic, supra, 57 Cal.4th
at pp. 1133-34 [cleaned up].)  “To state
it simply: it is substantively unconscionable to require a consumer to give up
the right to utilize the judicial system, while imposing arbitral forum fees
that are prohibitively high.”  (Id. at
pp. 1144-45.)
            Here,
Plaintiff does not point to any terms of the agreement that are “overly harsh”,
“one-sided”, or that “shocks the conscience.” 
Plaintiff does not demonstrate a lack of mutuality as in Armendariz
“wherein the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the
employer’s claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration.”  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th
at p. 119.)  Nor is this a case where
Defendant, as the party imposing arbitration, is requiring a post-arbitration
proceeding, wholly or largely to Defendant’s benefit at Plaintiff’s expense.  (Little v. Auto Steigler, Inc.
29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071-72 (Little).)  Instead, Plaintiff argues that Section 36 is an
unwaivable, substantive, statutory right and it would be “unconscionable” to
deprive him of that right.  As discussed
above, Plaintiff’s argument is factually flawed.  Plaintiff did not waive his right to bring a
preference motion.  Nothing in the
agreement prevents him from pursuing a preference motion.  He can and he did.  Plaintiff fails to point to any terms in the
agreement that are substantively unconscionable.[4]

 
            As such, Plaintiff has not shown any
substantive unconscionability.  Because
both substantive and procedural components of unconscionability need to be
present, Plaintiff has not shown the contract was unconscionable. 
 
E.  Rescission 
 
            Plaintiff
argues for rescission pursuant to Civil Code section 1689(b).  Section 1689(b) states: 
 
(1) If the
consent of the party rescinding, or of any party jointly contracting with him,
was given by mistake, or obtained through duress, menace, fraud, or undue
influence, exercised by or with the connivance of the party as to whom he rescinds,
or of any other party to the contract jointly interested with such party. 
(2) If the
consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party fails, in whole or in
part, through the fault of the party as to whom he rescinds. 
(3) If the
consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party becomes entirely void
from any cause. 
(4) If the
consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party, before it is rendered
to him, fails in a material respect from any cause. 
(5) If the
contract is unlawful for causes which do not appear in its terms or conditions,
and the parties are not equally at fault. 
(6) If the
public interest will be prejudiced by permitting the contract to stand. 
 
            Plaintiff argues he can rescind the
arbitration agreement under Civil Code section 1689 if he shows that public
interest will be prejudiced by permitting the contract to stand.  Plaintiff argues enforcing this
arbitration agreement will violate the public interest.  Plaintiff also argues that the consideration
is illusory.
 
            However, Plaintiff fails to identify
portions or specifics in the agreement that limit Plaintiff’s ability to seek
an expedited arbitration hearing.  Or to
bring a preference motion. Moreover, Plaintiff fails to show that the consideration
was illusory or that the public interest will be prejudiced by permitting the
contract to stand.
 
F.  Stay
 
            Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.4 provides: 
 
If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State
or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in
an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in
which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to
such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration
is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as
the court specifies. 
 
            Here, the Court will order
this action to arbitration.  Thus,
Defendant’s motion to stay the action pending arbitration is
granted.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Based on
the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for trial preference is referred to the
neutral arbitrator.  Defendant’s motion
to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  The action is stayed as to all parties
pending the arbitration.  The Court sets a Status Conference re: Arbitration
Status in nine months: August 15, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.  
 
 
Dated:   March 15, 2024                                 




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
 
 


