 Case Number:  23STCV08736    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
15, 2024                                  TRIAL
DATE:   Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Sasan Najibi, M.D. v. Providence Valley
Service Community Ministry Board, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08736
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Providence Health System-Southern
California, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Sasan Najibi, M.D.
 
 
I.          FACTUAL
AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
Sasan Najibi, M.D. (“Plaintiff” or “Dr. Najibi”) was a vascular surgeon who was
a health care worker, health care practitioner, physician, and member of the
medical staff at Providence Health System-Southern California, Providence
Health & Services, and Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center (collectively,
“Providence”).  While employed at
Providence, Dr. Najibi served as the chair of the patient optimization
committee.  The committee initiated ongoing
investigations into patient safety issues.  As alleged, Dr. Najibi identified patient care
and safety issues, reported the issues, and tried to fix them.  However, Dr. Najibi’s patient advocacy was
met with resistance by Providence and the Providence Valley Service Areas
Community Ministry Board (the “Board”), culminating in the suspension of Dr. Najibi’s
medical staff privileges.
 
            On April 19,
2023, Plaintiff initiated this action against Defendants Providence Health
System – Southern California, Providence Health & Services, Providence
Saint Joseph Medical Center, and Providence Valley Service Area Community
Ministry Board.  On September 11, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendants for
(1) Violation of Health & Safety Code §1278.5, (2) Violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code § 510 et seq., and § 2056 et seq., (3) Tortious Interference with
Economic Relations, (4) Tortious Interference with Contractual Relations, and
(5) Wrongful Termination of Hospital Privileges. 
 
            On October 11,
2023, Defendants filed this demurrer to the entire FAC.  
            
On February 22, 2024, Plaintiff
dismissed the Fifth Cause of Action for Wrongful Termination of Hospital
Privileges.
 
On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition.
 
On March 8, 2024, Defendants
replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].)  Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give
effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent
general or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America
v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.)   
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
A.    
Judicial Notice
 
Defendants filed requests for
judicial notice.  Defendants request
judicial notice of three documents: 
 
1.     
Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate (CCP § 1085) and
Complaint for Injunctive Relief filed by Plaintiff on April 18, 2023 and styled
as Sasan Najibi, M.D. v. Providence Valley Service Area Community
Ministry Board, et al., bearing case number 23STCP01247 (Request for
Judicial Notice (RJN) 1);
2.     
Ruling on Demurrer to First Amended Petition filed by
the Court on February 5, 2024 in the action styled as Sasan Najibi, M.D. v.
Providence Valley Service Area Community Ministry Board, et al., bearing
case number 23STCP01247 (“Petition”) (RJN 2);
3.     
Request for Dismissal filed by Plaintiff on March 5,
2024 in the Petition (RJN 3).
 
The requests are GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
 
B.    
Meet and Confer 
 
Defense counsel has complied with
the meet and confer requirement.  (See Declaration of Franjo M. Dolenac, ¶¶
2, 3.)
 
C.    
Analysis
 
Defendants advance the following
arguments: (1) the First Cause of Action is insufficiently plead; (2) the
Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action are barred by the exhaustion of
remedies doctrine; (3) the Second Cause of Action for Violation of Business and
Professions Code sections 510 and 2056 are not cognizable causes of action; and
(4) the Third and Fourth Causes of Action are insufficiently plead.  The court addresses each in turn.
 
1.     
First Cause of Action for Violation of Health and
Safety Code Section 1278.5
 
“Section 1278.5, the health care
facility whistleblower statute, was adopted in 1999 and amended in 2007. As
currently in effect, it declares “the public policy of the State of California
to encourage patients, nurses, members of the medical staff, and other
health care workers to notify government entities of suspected unsafe patient
care and conditions.” (Id., subd. (a), italics added.) To this end, the
statute provides that “[n]o health care facility shall discriminate or
retaliate, in any manner, against any patient, employee, member of
the medical staff, or any other health care worker ... because that person
has ... [¶] ... [p]resented a grievance, complaint, or report to the
facility, to an entity or agency responsible for accrediting or evaluating
the facility, or the medical staff of the facility, or to any other
governmental entity.” (Id., subd. (b)(1)(A), italics added.)6
As applicable to a member of the medical staff, “discriminatory treatment”
includes “any unfavorable changes in ... the ... privileges of [such]
member....” (Id., subd. (d)(2).).” (Fahlen v. Sutter Cent. Valley
Hospitals (2014) 58 Cal.4th 655, 667 (Fahlen) (emphasis in original).)
 
To state a statutory retaliation
claim, a plaintiff must allege that: (1) he engaged in a protected activity;
(2) a health facility subjected him to “discriminatory or retaliatory
treatment” as defined by the statute; and (3) a causal link between his
protected activity and the discriminatory or retaliatory treatment. (St.
Myers v. Dignity Health (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 301, 314.)
 
Defendants argue the allegations are
insufficient to show (1) that Plaintiff engaged in a protected activity and (2)
that Plaintiff demonstrates a causal link between the activity and the
suspension of his clinical privileges.  
 
A review of the allegations does
not support Defendants’ contentions. Section 1278.5 protects two types of
activity: (1) the presentation of a “grievance, complaint, or report” to a
health facility, its medical staff, its accrediting entity, or a governmental
agency; or (2) initiation, participation, or cooperation in an investigation or
proceeding “carried out by an entity or agency responsible for accrediting or
evaluating the facility or its medical staff, or a governmental agency.”  (Health & Saf. Code, § 1278.5, subd.
(b)(1).)  Section 1278.5 further
provides: “There shall be a rebuttable presumption that discriminatory action
was taken by the health facility, or by the entity that owns or operates that
health facility, or that owns or operates any other health facility, in
retaliation against an employee, member of the medical staff, or any other
health care worker of the facility, if responsible staff at the facility or the
entity that owns or operates the facility had knowledge of the actions,
participation, or cooperation of the person responsible for any acts described
in paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), and the discriminatory action occurs
within 120 days of the filing of the grievance or complaint by the employee,
member of the medical staff or any other health care worker of the facility.”  (Health & Saf. Code, § 1278.5, subd.
(d)(1).)  
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges he “identified,
reported, disclosed, and attempted to correct/eliminate certain suspected
unsafe and substandard conditions and services at PROVIDENCE that were a threat
to patient care and safety, including, but not limited to, the numerous patient
safety issues outlined above (“PATIENT SAFETY ISSUES”). Plaintiff consistently
reported and disclosed the PATIENT SAFETY ISSUES to Defendants and their
employees, agents and independent contractors in myriad ways for many years…”
(FAC, ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff adequately pleads having
engaged in a protected activity.  
 
Defendants argue this general
allegation should be overlooked because it is an improper legal
conclusion.  The court disagrees.  To whom Plaintiff reported patient safety
issues is a factual assertion that as alleged is accepted as true at the
pleading stage.  Defendants argue that
the court should focus on the more specific allegation that Plaintiff “initiated,
participated and/or cooperated in the INVESTIGATIONS primarily through the
optimization of patient care committee” (FAC, ¶ 8) which purportedly shows
Plaintiff reported the patient safety issues to the medical staff only.  The committee is neither the body which
suspended Plaintiff’s hospital privileges nor the hospital itself.  However, when construed together, Plaintiff
alleges having reported patient safety issues to medical staff and to
Defendants.  Defendants seek to improperly
impose a heightened pleading requirement. (See Dem., p. 20:1-15.)  Plaintiff may have to identify the specific
reports he made to Defendants at a later stage in this litigation, but for the
purposes of a demurrer, the FAC sufficiently alleges a protected activity.  Having so found, the court further finds that
the FAC sufficiently alleges a causal link. 
As discussed, Plaintiff alleges having reported the patient safety
issues to Defendants.  This act of
reporting is both a protected activity within the meaning of Section 1278.5 and
supports the inference that Defendants knew of Plaintiff’s protected
activity.  Plaintiff further alleges his hospital
privileges were suspended thereafter. 
The First Cause of Action is sufficiently plead.
 
2.     
Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies
 
In Westlake Community Hospital
v. Superior Court (1976) 17 Cal.3d 465, 476–477 (Westlake ), our
Supreme Court stated, “[T]he exhaustion of remedies doctrine fully applies to
actions seeking damages for an allegedly wrongful termination of or exclusion
from membership in a private association.”  Westlake announced the rule as follows,
“[W]e conclude initially that before a doctor may initiate litigation
challenging the propriety of a hospital’s denial or withdrawal of privileges,
he [or she] must exhaust the available internal remedies afforded by the
hospital.” (Id. at p. 469; accord Eight Unnamed Physicians v. Medical
Executive Com. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 503, 511.)  Generally, a physician must exhaust private
internal remedies before he may institute a tort action for damages. (Westlake,
supra, 17 Cal.3d at p. 469; Nesson v. Northern Inyo County Local Hosp.
Dist. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 65, 84; Payne v. Anaheim Memorial Medical
Center, Inc. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 729, 737.) In addition, an aggrieved
doctor must first set aside the quasi-judicial decision in a mandate action
before initiating litigation. (Ibid.; Shahinian v. Cedars–Sinai
Medical Center (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 987, 1003.) An exhaustion of remedies
requirement serves to eliminate or mitigate damages. (Westlake, supra,
17 Cal.3d at p. 476; Nesson v. Northern Inyo County Local Hosp. Dist.,
supra, 204 Cal.App.4th at p. 85.)  But
exhaustion of internal remedies doctrine does not apply if the remedy is
futile, inadequate or is insufficient. (Mooney v. Bartenders Union Local No.
284 (1957) 48 Cal.2d 841, 844; Payne v. Anaheim Memorial Medical Center,
Inc., supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at p. 740.)
 
Defendants attack the Second Cause
of Action (Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 510 et seq., and § 2056 et seq.),
Third Cause of Action (Tortious Interference with Economic Relations), and Fourth
Cause of Action (Tortious Interference with Contractual Relations) for failure
to exhaust administrative remedies.  As
alleged, Plaintiff has not exhausted his administrative remedies.  (See FAC, ¶¶ 41, 51.)[1]  Indeed, Plaintiff requested a peer review
hearing to challenge the suspension of Plaintiff’s clinical privileges, which
is pending.  (See RJN 1.)  Nor has Plaintiff obtained a writ of mandate before
pressing these claims in this forum. 
(See RJN 2.)  
 
            Both
parties cite Fahlen.  If Westlake
states the general rule, Fahlen states a narrow exception.  The Fahlen Court stated the exception
as follows: “We conclude that a hospital staff physician who claims a hospital
decision to restrict or terminate his staff privileges was an act in
retaliation for his or her whistleblowing in furtherance of patient care and
safety need not seek and obtain a mandamus petition to overturn the decision
before filing a civil action under section 1278.5.” Fahlen, supra, 58 Cal.4th at 687.  
 
            Plaintiff tries to expand the
exception beyond section 1278.5 to include other statutory and common law
claims.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants retaliated
against him for engaging in whistleblower activity by suspending his privileges
following a hospital proceeding.  Using
the Fahlen retaliation gateway, Plaintiff argues tort claims predicated
upon the whistleblower activity are not subject to the exhaustion doctrine.  But the California High Court was careful not
to expand its decision beyond section 1278.5.  
 
A review of Fahlen’s
procedural posture confirms the point.  In
addition to his section 1278.5 claim, Fahlen brought causes of action for tortious
interference with contract, intentional interference with prospective advantage
and for violations of Business and Professions Code sections 510 and 2056
(virtually the same causes of action at issue here.)  The Court of Appeal applied Westlake’s
rule to these causes of action and barred them. 
While the California Supreme Court addressed the narrow question related
to section 1278.5, the California High Court left in tact and unchanged the Court
of Appeal’s decision barring the common law and Business and Profession Code causes
of action.  There is nothing in Fahlen
which expressly disagrees or otherwise challenges the Court of Appeal’s opinion
in Fahlen v. Sutter Central Valley Hospitals (2012) 145 Cal.Rptr.3d 491,
concerning common law tort claims, including claims predicated on Business and
Professions Code sections 510 and 2056.  Fahlen,
145 Cal.Rptr.3d 491 is still good law.[2]  And is directly on point to the present
issue.  The Second, Third, and Fourth
Causes of Action are therefore barred.  Having
so concluded, the court does not address Defendants’ additional grounds for
demurrer as to these causes of action. 
 
 IV.      CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer to the First Cause of Action
is OVERRULED.
 
The demurrer to the Second, Third,
and Fourth Causes of Action is SUSTAINED. 
Leave to amend is DENIED.
 
Defendants are ordered to serve and
file their Answer within 10 days of this order.
 
Defendant to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   March 15, 2024                                  




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of the Superior
  Court¿ 




 
 
 
            


