 Case Number:  21VECV00692    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  T 21VECV00692 Akhoundzadeh v  Khatibi [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendants AEK Global Investments, LLC,  Ebrahim Khatibi, Aliasghar Khatibi, Ali Sepehr, and Shokrieh Mohammadzadeh’s  Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs is DENIED.    Cross-Complainants Melica Khatibi  and Faezeh Afchehe’s request for sanctions is addressed in the concurrently  heard Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs filed by Cross-Defendants Shabnam  Akhoundzadeh and Karen Dr LLC. Introduction  Cross-Defendants AEK Global  Investments, LLC, Ebrahim Khatibi, Aliasghar Khatibi, Ali Sepehr, and Shokrieh  Mohammadzadeh (collectively, Cross-Defendants) moved for their expenses,  including attorneys’ fees and costs, pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section  128.5 [all subsequent statutory citations are to the Code of Civil Procedure,  unless otherwise noted] in the amount of $5,894.00 against Cross-Complainants  Melica Khatibi and Faezeh Afchehe (collectively, Cross-Complainants) and  Attorney Michael Kwasigroch, jointly and severally.  Cross-Defendants asserted that  Cross-Complainants’ motion for leave to file the proposed fourth amended  cross-complaint (4AXC Motion) filed on September 20, 2023 and denied by the  Court on December 6, 2023 was in bad faith and frivolous.   On February 13, 2024,  Cross-Complainants and Richard Khatibi filed a Consolidated Opposition through  Mr. Kwasigroch.  The Consolidated  Opposition was filed one court day late but it was considered by the Court.  In Kwasigroch’s Consolidated Opposition,  Cross-Complainants requested $4,950.00 in fees and costs to be levied against  Attorneys Shelly Shafron and Luke Jackson, jointly and severally, and  $10,000.00 against their law firms.  The  Court reviewed and ruled upon Cross-Complainants requested fees and costs in  the concurrently heard Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs filed by  Cross-Defendants Shabnam Akhoundzadeh and Karen Dr LLC.  To avoid confusion as to the amounts being  levied and unnecessary duplication, the Court did not address/rule upon  Cross-Complainants’ request for fees again. Cross-Defendants’ reply was due  February 16, 2024 but none was filed. Discussion   The statute requires the moving  party to serve the actual motion 21 days prior to filing it so that the  challenged action or tactic can be withdrawn or appropriately corrected (Safe  Harbor Provision). (Sec. 128.5(f)(1)(B).)   Cross-Defendants argued that the Safe Harbor Provision is inapplicable  because the instant motion is based upon subdivisions (a) and (c) and not  subdivision (f).  Cross-Defendants argued  that there are separate procedures to follow between subdivisions (a) and (c),  on the one hand, and subdivision (f), on the other hand.  (Changsha Metro Group Co., Ltd. v. Peng  Xufeng (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 1, 8 and 23 (Changsha).)  However, Cross-Defendants misconstrued the  opinion of Changsha.  The Changsha Court  expressly considered reading the three subdivisions as separate  requirements.  However, interpreting the  subdivisions separately failed “because an order under subdivision (a) is a  prerequisite to an order under subdivision (f). (Sec. 128.5 subd. (f)(1).)  Because of that interdependence, the subdivisions  cannot be separated and treated as though they apply to separate actions.”  (Changsha, supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at p.  11.)  The Changsha Court then reviewed  the legislative history and “conclude[d] that the Legislature meant for the  safe harbor provision to apply as much as possible.”  [Italics added.]  (Id. at p. 18.)  The Court then applied section 128.5 to  section 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP statute).   Because of the expedited/shortened hearing schedule (i.e., the  Anti-SLAPP hearing must be held 30 days after filing of the motion and the  opposition to the Anti-SLAPP must be filed 9 court days prior to the hearing –  sec. 425.16(f) and sec. 1005(b)), the Changsha Court found that the opposing  party would necessarily have to file the 128.5 Motion almost immediately after  receiving the Anti-SLAPP motion while risking that the defendant will withdraw  or correct the Anti-SLAPP motion during the Safe Harbor period.  The Court found this to be impractical.  (Id at pp. 19-23.)  It was upon these specific facts that the  Court did not apply the Safe Harbor Provision.  In the instant action, the motion  at issue is not an Anti-SLAPP motion but a 4AXC Motion that did not have a  statutorily required expedited hearing schedule.  The procedural stance of the 4AXC Motion  showed that Cross-Defendants had enough time to comply with the Safe Harbor  Provision.  On September 20, 2023,  Cross-Complainants filed their 4AXC Motion, which was set to be heard on  December 12, 2023.  At an October 4, 2023  hearing on a separate  motion, the Court  advanced the December 12, 2023 hearing date to December 6, 2023.  The 4AXC Motion was denied by the Court.  Based upon the new hearing date, 77 calendar  days elapsed between the filing of the 4AXC Motion and the new hearing  date.  Within the 77 calendar days,  Cross-Defendants had sufficient time to comply with the 21 day Safe Harbor  Provision and sufficient time to comply with the 16 court day notice  requirement per section 1005(b) (i.e., the delay in the hearing is  approximately 40 calendar days).  These  dates also showed that Cross-Defendants had approximately 26 calendar days  between a section 128.5 hearing and their deadline to file an opposition to the  4AXC Motion, in the event Cross-Complainants chose not to withdraw/correct the  4AXC Motion.  Because the 4AXC Motion did  not have a shortened hearing schedule, like the Anti-SLAPP motion considered in  Changsha, the Court finds the Changsha case to be distinguishable from the  instant case and finds that Cross-Defendants misconstrued the Changsha opinion.   Further, section 128.5(c) permits  the request for fees in “responding papers” and “requires an opportunity to be  heard.”  In the instant action,  Cross-Defendants did not properly request section 128.5 fees in the opposition  to the 4AXC Motion and did not afford Cross-Complainants an opportunity to be  heard at the 4AXC Motion hearing.   Cross-Defendants’ Opposition to the 4AXC Motion only cited to section  128.5 in the caption.  The caption did  not identify an amount being requested and did not identify against whom the  fees/costs are being requested from.  The  caption only asserted a “preservation” or “reservation” of a right to recover  fees/costs.  Further, the Points and  Authorities did not reference section 128.5 and did not present any argument in  support of a request for fees/costs.  The  Opposition was insufficient in providing notice and opportunity to be heard on  section 128.5 fees/costs. For these defects, the Court finds that  Cross-Defendants failed to comply with the procedures set forth in section 128.5(c).   Cross-Defendants argued  compliance with the Safe Harbor Provision based upon a letter sent to  Cross-Complainants setting forth legal authority, argument, and a warning that  the instant section 128.5 Motion would be filed.  The instant motion was not attached to the  letter.  It is noted that  Cross-Defendants failed to present any legal authority to support their  contention that a letter without proper service of the actual motion is  sufficient to comply with the Safe Harbor Provision.  The Court finds that the warning letter  without attaching the actual motion and proper proof of service is insufficient  to comply with the Safe Harbor Provision because the Safe Harbor Provision  expressly requires the motion to be served 21 days prior to its filing.  (Section 128.5(f)(1)(B):  “a notice of motion shall be served as  provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the  court, unless 21 days after service of the motion”.)   It should be noted that the Safe  Harbor Provision in 128.5(f)(1)(B) was substantially lifted from 128.7’s safe  harbor provision and case law interpreted the 128.7 safe harbor provision to  require service of the actual motion and specifically requiring the notice of  the motion to include the scheduled hearing date.  (See Martorana v. Marlin & Saltzman  (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 685, 699.) Because Cross-Defendants failed  to comply with the Safe Harbor Provision and failed to comply with the  procedures stated in section 128.5(c), the Court does not find the motion for  fees under section 128.5 to be persuasive. Cross-Defendants’ motion for fees  and costs is DENIED.   __________________________________________________[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendants Shabnam Akhoundzadeh and
Karen Dr LLC’s Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs is DENIED.  

Cross-Complainants Melica
Khatibi, Faezeh Afchehe, and Richard Khatibi, through Fahim Farivar, Request
for Joinder to the Opposition filed by Cross-Complainants Melica Khatibi and
Faezeh Afchehe, through Michael Kwasigroch, is GRANTED.  

Cross-Complainants Melica Khatibi
and Faezeh Afchehe’s request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of
$4,950.00 and levied against Cross-Defendants, their Attorneys Shelly Shafron,
Luke Jackson and their respective law firms, jointly and severally.  

Introduction 

Cross-Defendants Shabnam
Akhoundzadeh and Karen Dr LLC (collectively, Cross-Defendants) moved for their
expenses, including attorneys’ fees and costs, pursuant Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.5 in the amount of $14,001.00 against Cross-Complainants Melica
Khatibi and Faezeh Afchehe (collectively, Cross-Complainants) and Attorney
Michael Kwasigroch, jointly and severally. 
Cross-Defendants asserted that Cross-Complainants’ motion for leave to
file the proposed fourth amended cross-complaint (4AXC Motion) filed on
September 20, 2023 and denied by the Court on December 6, 2023 was in bad faith
and frivolous.

On February 13, 2024,
Cross-Complainants and Richard Khatibi filed a Consolidated Opposition through
Mr. Kwasigroch.  The Consolidated
Opposition was filed one court day late but it was considered by the Court.  On February 16, 2024, Cross-Complainants,
through Attorney Fahim Farivar, filed a request for joinder to the February 13,
2024 Kwasigroch Opposition.  In
Kwasigroch’s Consolidated Opposition, Cross-Complainants requested $4,950.00 in
fees and costs to be levied against Attorneys Shelly Shafron and Luke Jackson,
jointly and severally, and $10,000.00 against their law firms.  

Cross-Defendants filed their
reply on February 20, 2024 – one court day late.  The Court considered the reply despite its
untimeliness.

Discussion  

The statute requires the moving
party to serve the actual motion 21 days prior to filing it so that the
challenged action or tactic can be withdrawn or appropriately corrected (Safe
Harbor Provision). (Sec. 128.5(f)(1)(B).) 
Cross-Defendants argued that the Safe Harbor Provision is inapplicable
because the instant motion is based upon subdivisions (a) and (c) and not
subdivision (f).  Cross-Defendants argued
that there are separate procedures to follow between subdivisions (a) and (c),
on the one hand, and subdivision (f), on the other hand.  (Changsha Metro Group Co., Ltd. v. Peng
Xufeng (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 1, 8 and 23 (Changsha).)  However, Cross-Defendants misconstrued the
opinion of Changsha.  The Changsha Court
expressly considered reading the three subdivisions as separate
requirements.  However, interpreting the
subdivisions separately failed “because an order under subdivision (a) is a
prerequisite to an order under subdivision (f). (Sec. 128.5 subd. (f)(1).)  Because of that interdependence, the subdivisions
cannot be separated and treated as though they apply to separate actions.”  (Changsha, supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at p.
11.)  The Changsha Court then reviewed
the legislative history and “conclude[d] that the Legislature meant for the
safe harbor provision to apply as much as possible.”  [Italics added.]  (Id. at p. 18.)  The Court then applied section 128.5 to
section 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP statute). 
Because of the expedited/shortened hearing schedule (i.e., the
Anti-SLAPP hearing must be held 30 days after filing of the motion and the
opposition to the Anti-SLAPP must be filed 9 court days prior to the hearing –
sec. 425.16(f) and sec. 1005(b)), the Changsha Court found that the opposing
party would necessarily have to file the 128.5 Motion almost immediately after
receiving the Anti-SLAPP motion while risking that the defendant will withdraw
or correct the Anti-SLAPP motion during the Safe Harbor period.  The Court found this to be impractical.  (Id at pp. 19-23.)  It was upon these specific facts that the
Court did not apply the Safe Harbor Provision. 

In the instant action, the motion
at issue is not an Anti-SLAPP motion but a 4AXC Motion that did not have a
statutorily required expedited hearing schedule.  The procedural stance of the 4AXC Motion
showed that Cross-Defendants had enough time to comply with the Safe Harbor
Provision.  On September 20, 2023,
Cross-Complainants filed their 4AXC Motion, which was set to be heard on
December 12, 2023.  At an October 4, 2023
hearing on a separate  motion, the Court
advanced the December 12, 2023 hearing date to December 6, 2023.  The 4AXC Motion was denied by the Court.  Based upon the new hearing date, 77 calendar
days elapsed between the filing of the 4AXC Motion and the new hearing
date.  Within the 77 calendar days,
Cross-Defendants had sufficient time to comply with the 21 day Safe Harbor
Provision and sufficient time to comply with the 16 court day notice
requirement per section 1005(b) (i.e., the delay in the hearing is
approximately 40 calendar days).  These
dates also showed that Cross-Defendants had approximately 26 calendar days
between a section 128.5 hearing and their deadline to file an opposition to the
4AXC Motion, in the event Cross-Complainants chose not to withdraw/correct the
4AXC Motion.  Because the 4AXC Motion did
not have a shortened hearing schedule, like the Anti-SLAPP motion considered in
Changsha, the Court finds the Changsha case to be distinguishable from the
instant case and finds that Cross-Defendants misconstrued the Changsha opinion.  

Further, section 128.5(c) permits
the request for fees in “responding papers” and “requires an opportunity to be
heard.”  In the instant action,
Cross-Defendants did not properly request section 128.5 fees in the opposition
to the 4AXC Motion and did not afford Cross-Complainants an opportunity to be
heard at the 4AXC Motion hearing. 
Cross-Defendants’ Opposition to the 4AXC Motion only cited to section
128.5 in the caption.  The caption did
not identify an amount being requested and did not identify against whom the
fees/costs are being requested from.  The
caption only asserted a “preservation” or “reservation” of a right to recover
fees/costs.  Further, the Points and
Authorities did not reference section 128.5 and did not present any argument in
support of a request for fees/costs.  The
Opposition was insufficient in providing notice and opportunity to be heard on
section 128.5 fees/costs. For these defects, the Court finds that
Cross-Defendants failed to comply with the procedures set forth in section 128.5(c).  

Cross-Defendants argued
compliance with the Safe Harbor Provision based upon a letter sent to
Cross-Complainants setting forth legal authority, argument, and a warning that
the instant section 128.5 Motion would be filed.  The instant motion was not attached to the
letter.  It is noted that
Cross-Defendants failed to present any legal authority to support their
contention that a letter without proper service of the actual motion is
sufficient to comply with the Safe Harbor Provision.  The Court finds that the warning letter
without attaching the actual motion and proper proof of service is insufficient
to comply with the Safe Harbor Provision because the Safe Harbor Provision
expressly requires the motion to be served 21 days prior to its filing.  (Section 128.5(f)(1)(B):  “a notice of motion shall be served as
provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the
court, unless 21 days after service of the motion”.)  

It should be noted that the Safe
Harbor Provision in 128.5(f)(1)(B) was substantially lifted from 128.7’s safe
harbor provision.  And case law
interpreted the 128.7 safe harbor provision to require service of the actual
motion and specifically requiring the notice of the motion to include the
scheduled hearing date.  (See Martorana
v. Marlin & Saltzman (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 685, 699.)

Because Cross-Defendants failed
to comply with the Safe Harbor Provision and failed to comply with the
procedures stated in section 128.5(c), the Court does not find the motion for
fees under section 128.5 to be persuasive.

Cross-Defendants’ motion for fees
and costs is DENIED.  

Pursuant to section
128.5(f)(1)(C), the Court is authorized to award reasonable expenses and fees
incurred by the prevailing party in presenting or opposing the motion, if
warranted.  Absent exceptional
circumstances, the law firm is held jointly responsible for the
violations.  Pursuant to section
128.5(g), a motion for sanctions brought for an improper purpose shall itself
be subject to a motion for sanctions. 
Mr. Kwasigroch charged $495.00/hour and expended 10 hours to oppose, to
review the reply, and to appear at the hearing (i.e., $4,950.00).  Mr. Kwasigroch did not present any facts to
support the request for $10,000.00 against the law firms.  Without any supportive facts for the
$10,000.00 in fees, the Court denies Cross-Complainants’ request for
$10,000.00.  The Court finds
Cross-Complainants to be the prevailing parties on the motion and an award of
fees to be warranted.  The Court finds the
amount of $4,950.00 to be reasonable, especially in light of the fact that
Cross-Complainants addressed two motions. 


Per section 128.5(f)(1)(C),
Cross-Complainants’ request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $4,950.00
and levied against Cross-Defendants, their Attorneys Shelly Shafron, Luke
Jackson and their respective law firms, jointly and severally.  

IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.