 Case Number:  23VECV02684    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV02684 GEORGE FRANCO
vs MARIA HOGAN AKA MARIA BOWERS
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Maria Hogan’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is OVERRULED. 
Introduction 
Defendant Maria Hogan (Defendant)
demurred to Plaintiff George Franco’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  The demurrer placed into issue the first
cause of action (COA) for tortious breach of warranty of habitability, the second
COA for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, the third COA for
negligence, and the fourth COA for nuisance.
Discussion  
Defendant argued that the first
and second COAs are contract claims. 
Defendant asserted that Plaintiff is required to plead whether the
contract is written, oral, or implied and either attach the contract or plead the
terms verbatim.  The implied covenants of
habitability and quiet enjoyment are implied in residential leases.  The habitability COA can either be based upon
contract or tort.  “Whether an action is
based on contract or tort depends upon the nature of the right sued upon, not
the form of the pleading or relief demanded. If based on breach of promise it
is contractual; if based on breach of a noncontractual duty it is tortious....
If unclear the action will be considered based on contract rather than tort....
[¶] In the final analysis we look to the pleading to determine the nature of
plaintiff's claim.”  [Internal citations
omitted.] (Fairchild v. Park (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 919, 925.)  Plaintiff alleged multiple substandard
conditions at the property that are not breaches of any express promises in the
lease because Plaintiff cited to multiple statutory grounds for the
claims.  (Compl. par. 11.)  Because the claims are not based upon express
promises found in the lease, the habitability action is based upon tort and not
contract. Defendant’s argument as to a requirement to plead that the contract
is oral, written, or implied and as to a requirement to attach the lease/plead
the terms is unavailing.  
The quiet enjoyment COA is
implied in leases and “gives rise to an action in contract.”  (Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th
873, 896-897 (Ginsberg).)  However,
Ginsberg does not expressly opine that the quiet enjoyment COA has the same
pleading requirements as a COA for breach of contract or that pleading quiet
enjoyment requires compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10(g).  In that the quiet enjoyment
claim is implied in leases, it is inferred that the lease will not contain an
express term that requires the landlord to ensure quiet enjoyment.  Attaching the lease and/or pleading the terms
verbatim is of little consequence at this pleading stage.  Plaintiff sufficiently pled a landlord-tenant
relationship (Compl. pars. 1-5) in order to place Defendant on notice of the
claims alleged against her.  Defendant’s
legal authority does not expressly support her contention.
Defendant’s demurrer to the first
and second COA is OVERRULED.  
Defendant argued that all four
COAs are uncertain because Plaintiff failed to allege specific dates of the
tenancy and breaches so as to comply with statute of limitations (SOL).  However, Defendant failed to present any
legal authority to support their contention that dates are a pleading element
of each of the four COAs and Plaintiff must plead compliance with the relevant
SOLs at the pleading stage.  “[S]pecific
dates and details . . . are properly addressed during discovery, not on
demurrer.”  (People v. Highland Fed. Sav.
& Loan (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 1692, 1716.) 
Without legal authority to support their contention as to dates and the
SOL, the demurrer is not persuasive.  
The demurrer as to uncertainty
against all four COAs is OVERRULED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.