  Case Number:  20STCV16533    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  T 20STCV16533 Sabbag v Hart
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Montia Sabbag’s Motion for
Reconsideration is DENIED.
Plaintiff Montia Sabbag’s
Motion to Vacate or Set Aside the Court’s June 22, 2023 Order to Dismiss the
Action is DENIED.  
Introduction 
Plaintiff Montia Sabbag
(Plaintiff) moved for reconsideration of the Court’s dismissal of the action on
June 22, 2023.  Alternatively, Plaintiff
to vacate/set aside the Court’s June 22, 2023 Dismissal of the action.
Discussion
The motion failed to attach a
proof of service.  However, Defendant
filed an opposition addressing the merits of the motion.  Despite the failure to submit a proof of
service, the Court consider the motion because Defendant addressed the merits
of the motion.
The motion cited to a declaration
from Attorney Andrew Williams but failed to file the declaration.  Without Mr. Williams’ declaration, there is
no admissible evidence to support the motion. 
The failure to submit evidence to support the motion is grounds to deny
the motion.
The motion’s points and
authorities is also lacking because there is no citation to legal
authority.  There is also no application
of facts to law.  A judge in a civil case
is not “'obligated to seek out theories [a party] might have advanced, or to
articulate for him that which … [a party] has left unspoken.'”  (Mesecher v. County of San Diego (1992) 9
Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686.  “Contentions are
waived when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations
to authority.”  (Moulton Niguel Water
Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.)  Because the memorandum of points and
authorities is lacking, Plaintiff’s contentions are considered to be waived.
The Court noted that the Notice
cited to Code of Civil Procedure section 473 . 
To the extent the motion is grounded on the mandatory provision of
section 473(b), the motion is unpersuasive for lack of an affidavit from
Attorney Williams.  
The Court does not consider the
motion to be grounded on the discretionary provision of section 473(b) because
Plaintiff made no reference to her own mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.  
Because the caption of the motion
referenced a reconsideration motion, it would appear that Plaintiff is moving
under Code of Civil Procedure, sec. 1008. 
To the extent the Court could consider a motion for reconsideration, the
motion is unpersuasive.  A
reconsideration motion is required to be filed within 10 days of service of
notice of entry of the order.  The Court
file reflects that the clerk served the order dismissing the action by mail on
June 22, 2023.  The jurisdictional time
limit on a motion for reconsideration expired on July 7, 2023 (i.e., 10 days
plus 5 days for mailing).  The instant
motion being filed on December 22, 2023 is untimely.

For the
above defects, the motion for reconsideration and the motion to set
aside/vacate the dismissal are DENIED.  
 
 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Kevin Hart’s Motion to Strike and
the Request to Set an OSC re: Sanctions are DENIED.  
Introduction 
Defendant Kevin Hart (Defendant)
moved to strike Plaintiff Montia Sabbag’s (Plaintiff) motion for
reconsideration filed on December 22, 2023. 

An opposition was due on February
9, 2024 but none was filed.
Discussion  
Defendant’s legal authority for
the motion to strike is Code of Civil Procedure sections 435 and 436.  The Court is authorized to strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading or strike any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court.  (Italics
added.)  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 436(a)
and (b).)  Pleading is defined as a
demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 435(a)(2).)  Nothing in this statute authorizes the Court
to strike a motion, let alone a motion for reconsideration.  Because the statutes forming the basis for
the requested relief is improper, Defendant’s motion to strike is unpersuasive.
The Court noted that Defendant’s
motion then attacked the merits of Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration.  Arguments against the merits of Plaintiff’s
motion for reconsideration are not proper for a motion to strike.  Defendant’s substantive arguments against
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration are addressed in Defendant’s opposition
to Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration. 

The motion to strike is
DENIED.  
Defendant’s request for an OSC re
sanctions per Code of Civil Procedure sections 128.5 and 128.7 are not properly
raised by way of a motion to strike because Defendant failed to comply with the
procedural requirements for the sanctions. 
Because Defendant failed to comply with the procedural requirements of
the two statutes, the request for an OSC re sanctions are not persuasive.
The request for an OSC re
Sanctions is DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE. 