 Case Number:  22STCV22172    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  39 Rigoberto Vasquez
v. City of Los Angeles
Case No.
22STCV22172
Motion for
Discovery of Peace Officer Personnel Documents
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Rigoberto
Vasquez (“Plaintiff”), a Sergeant with the Los Angeles Police Department (the
“LAPD”), filed this action against the City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”), asserting
a single cause of action for retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5.  Plaintiff alleges that LAPD Captain Johnny
Smith used a racial epithet in reference to LAPD Captain German Hurtado and his
family, which facilitated an internal affairs investigation.  Because Plaintiff allegedly witnessed the
comment, he was interviewed, following which Captain Smith allegedly retaliated
against him.  This action followed, and
Plaintiff seeks certain discovery from the City of Los Angeles pursuant to Pitchess
v. Superior Court (1974) 11 Cal.3d 531 and its progeny.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Penal Code section 832.7 provides
that peace officer personnel records are confidential and are not to be
disclosed in a civil proceeding except per Evidence Code section 1043.  (Pen. Code, § 832.7.)  Evidence Code section 1043 sets forth a
two-step procedure for disclosure of peace officer personnel records.  The party seeking disclosure must file a
motion that identifies the peace officer, the agency in possession of the
records, a description of the records, who is seeking the records, and the time
and place of the hearing.  (Evid. Code, §
1043 subd. (b)(1).)  The moving party
must advance a declaration showing good cause for disclosure of the records,
setting forth the materiality of the records, and stating upon reasonable
belief that the governmental agency has the requested documents.  (Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b)(3).)  The moving party need only show “a plausible
scenario of officer misconduct . . . that might or could have occurred.  Such a scenario is plausible because it
presents an assertion of specific police misconduct that is both internally
consistent and supports the defense proposed to the charges.”  (Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35
Cal.4th 1011, 1026.)  This is a
“relatively low threshold for discovery . . . .”  (City of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Court
(1989) 49 Cal.3d 74, 83.)  The moving
party must give notice of the motion to the parties and to the governmental
agency with custody of the records. 
(Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (a).)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Plaintiff has satisfied the
standard for the Court to conduct an in camera review of the following documents:

 
1.         The
contents of any LAPD internal investigation of Captain Hurtado’s complaint that
Captain Smith used a racial epithet; 
 
2.         The
contents of any LAPD internal investigation of Plaintiff’s complaint that
Captain Smith retaliated against him for cooperating in the LAPD internal
investigation of Captain Hurtado’s complaint; 
 
3.         Any
prior complaints, and the contents of any LAPD internal investigation, of
Captain Smith relating to use of racial epithehts or allegations of racial
discrimination; and 
 
4.         Any
prior complaints, and the contents of any LAPD internal investigation, of
Captain Smith relating to allegations of retaliation.  
 
The Court finds that the remaining requests by Plaintiff are
overbroad and/or would include privileged materials (e.g., counsel’s work
product, etc.).  The remaining requested
documents also do not relate to the allegations in this case, which are limited
to racial discrimination/harassment and retaliation.  (See People v. Hustead (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 410, 418.)  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s motion is granted in part
and denied in part.
 
            2.         The Court orders an in camera review of
the document categories contained in this order.
 
            3.         The in camera review shall occur on
___________, _____ at ___ a.m./p.m.  The
Court orders Defendant’s counsel and the custodian of records to appear
in-person.
 
            4.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 