 Case Number:  23STCV07201    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  39 Mario Cazares v.
TGB Promotions, LLC, et al.
Case No.
23STCV07201
Demurrer by
Defendant Tom Brown
 
            Plaintiff
Mario Cazares (“Plaintiff”), who is a professional boxer, filed this action
against TGB Promotions, LLC (“TGB Promotions”) and Tom Brown (“Brown”) (collectively,
“Defendants”), among others.  In the
operative second amended complaint, Plaintiff asserts the following causes of
action: 
 
1.  Specific
performance for breach of contract – Both defendants
2.  Breach of contract
– TGB Promotions 
3.  Violation of the
Professional Boxing Safety Law, 15 U.S.C. § 6307e(b) – Both defendants 
4.  Violation of the
Professional Boxing Safety Law, 15 U.S.C. § 6304(4) – Both defendants 
5.  Conspiracy to
violate the Professional Boxing Safety Law – Both defendants 
6.  Unfair business
practices – Both defendants 
7.  Promissory
estoppel – Both defendants 
8.  Declaratory relief
– TGB Promotions 
9.  Negligence – TGB
Promotions 
10.  Negligence – Both
defendants 
 
Now, Brown demurs to the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, and tenth causes of action.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        First Cause of Action – Sustained
without Leave to Amend 
 
            Plaintiff’s
first cause of action is for specific performance for breach of contract.  Plaintiff alleges that he signed a contract
with TGB Promotions, which afforded him two boxing matches against Osvary David
Morrell Jr.  There is no breach of
contract claim against Brown, and he is not a party to the contract.  Rather, the contract is between Plaintiff and
TGB Promotions, and Brown signed on behalf of TGB Promotions.  Therefore, there is no basis to seek a remedy
of specific performance against Brown. 
The Court need not address Brown’s remaining arguments that this case is
not suitable for specific performance because Osvary is not a party to the
contract, and the Court has no jurisdiction over him.  The demurrer to the first cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend.  
 
            B.        Third Cause of Action – Sustained with
Leave to Amend 
 
            Plaintiff’s
third cause of action is for violation of the Professional Boxing Safety Law,
15 U.S.C. § 6307e(b), which creates certain disclosure obligations for a
“promoter.”  The term “promoter” means
“the person primarily responsible for organizing, promoting, and producing a
professional boxing match.”  (15 U.S.C. §
6301(9).)  The second amended complaint
contains no allegations against Tom with respect to the third cause of action.  Plaintiff does not allege that Brown—as
opposed to TGB Promotions—was the promoter or that he violated the law in any
respect.  To the contrary, Plaintiff
alleges that TGB Promotions was the promoter. 
Simply, the second amended complaint contains insufficient facts
discussing Brown’s role.  Therefore, the
Court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend.        
 
            C.        Fourth Cause of Action – Sustained with
Leave to Amend 
 
            Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action is
for violation of the Professional Boxing Safety Law, 15 U.S.C. § 6304(4).  This statute states that “[n]o person may
arrange, promote, organize, produce, or fight in a professional boxing match”
without meeting a series of requirements, including a health insurance
requirement.  Plaintiff alleges that Brown
failed to provide him with health insurance. 
Again, the second amended complaint does not allege that Brown—as
opposed to TGB Promotions—arranged, promoted, organized, or produced the boxing
match in Minneapolis, Minnesota.  Simply,
the second amended complaint contains insufficient facts discussing Brown’s
role.  Therefore, the demurrer is
sustained with leave to amend.  
 
            D.        Fifth Cause of Action – Sustained without
Leave to Amend 
 
            Plaintiff’s
fifth cause of action is for conspiracy to violate the Professional Boxing
Safety Law.  Conspiracy is a theory of
liability, not a cause of action.  (See Favila
v. Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 189, 206.)  Putting that aside, Brown cannot conspire
with TGB Promotions, which is his company. 
Therefore, the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend.
 
            E.         Sixth Cause of Action – Sustained with
Leave to Amend 
 
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action
is for unfair business practices.  Plaintiff
must allege a claim under Business and Professions Code section 17200 “with
reasonable particularity . . . .”  (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)  Plaintiff makes only  vague allegations against Brown, which do not
state with particularity the bases for Plaintiff’s claims against Defendants.  (See Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 114.) 
Therefore, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is sustained with
leave to amend.  
 
            F.          Seventh Cause of Action – Sustained
without Leave to Amend
 
            Plaintiff’s
seventh cause of action is for promissory estoppel.  “The elements of promissory estoppel are (1)
a clear promise, (2) reliance, (3) substantial detriment, and (4) damages  . . . .” 
(Toscano v. Greene Music (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 685, 692.)  Plaintiff fails to allege any promise in this
case except the written contract between Plaintiff and TGB Promotions.  Indeed, Plaintiff concedes that he “never met
or spoke with Tom Brown” and was never presented “with any letterhead, email,
or any identifying document from TGB [Promotions].”  (Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 39.)  Therefore, the demurrer to the seventh cause
of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
 
            g.         Tenth Cause of Action – Sustained
without Leave to Amend 
 
            Plaintiff’s
tenth cause of action is for negligence. 
This cause of action is nothing more than a claim for breach of
contract.  Therefore, the demurrer to the
tenth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Tom Brown’s demurrer to the first,
fifth, seventh, and tenth causes of action is sustained without leave to
amend.  
 
            2.         Tom Brown’s demurrer to the third,
fourth, and sixth causes of action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
            3.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall file a third
amended complaint thirty (30) days after the Court rules on TGB Promotions’
demurrer.
 
            4.         Counsel for Tom Brown shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 
 