 Case Number:  23STCV10684    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  73 05/23/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
MCGAUSA LLC v. MICHELLE LIU (23STCV10684)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant/moving party:  Daniel
Goodkin (Goodkin Law Group, APC) 
Counsel for
Defendant/Cross-Complainant/opposing party: 
Cheryl Turner (Turner & Associates)
 
demurrer TO FIRST AMENDED CROSS-complaint
(filed 3/15/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint’s first,
second and third causes of action are OVERRULED.
 
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint’s fourth
cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
Cross-Defendant’s motion
to strike is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 11, 2023, Plaintiff McGausa LLC (“McGausa) filed this action
against Defendant Michelle Liu (“Liu”). This action arises from a landlord and
commercial tenant dispute. 
 
On
March 8, 2024, Liu filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) against
McGausa alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of lease covenants; (2) breach of covenant restricting transfer; (3) nuisance;
and (4) harassment.
 
The FACC alleges that McGausa, tenant, entered into a lease
agreement with Liu, the owner of the subject property. According to the FACC,
McGausa breached the lease by: (1) failing to pay rent when due; (2) failing to
pay the rent increases; (3) by using the premises to operate a cigar lounge and
renting the space out for parties instead of using it as a community workspace;
(4) subletting the premises without Liu’s consent; and (5) failing to pay the
increase in insurance premiums. (FACC, ¶¶ 10-16.) The FACC alleges that Liu sustained damages as a result
of these breaches. (FACC, ¶ 16.)
 
On March 15, 2024, McGausa filed the instant demurrer and motion
to strike, arguing the FACC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action for each of its causes of action. McGausa also moves to strike
portions of the FACC’s damages. Liu filed an opposition. McGausa filed a reply.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Timeliness of
Opposition
 
As an initial
matter, the Court notes that Liu failed to timely file her opposition.
 
Opposition papers are required to be filed and served at
least nine court days prior to the hearing under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b). A court may properly consider
papers that are not timely filed pursuant to CCP section 1005(b) unless
“substantial rights” are affected.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d);
Code Civ. Proc., § 475.)  The appearance of a party at the hearing of a
motion and his or her opposition to the motion on the merits is a waiver of any
procedural defects or irregularities in a motion.  (Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697.)
 
Here, Liu’s
opposition was due by April 10, 2024. Liu did not file and serve her opposition
until April 19, 2024. However, the hearing was continued to May 23, 2024, and McGausa filed a reply addressing Liu’s
opposition on the merits. Therefore, there has been no prejudice to McGausa
and the Court will consider the
motions on the merits. 
 
B.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating he
discussed the grounds of the Demurrer and Motion to Strike with Plaintiff’s
counsel by telephone and email. (Shakouri Decl., ¶ 3.)
The Court finds the moving party satisfied its
meet and confer obligations.   
 
C.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
D.     First and
Second Causes of Action: Breach of Covenants of Contract and Breach of Covenant
Restricting Transfer
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
If a breach of contract claim “is based on
alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the
body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and
incorporated by reference.”  (Harris
v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.)  In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also
“plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.”  (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-99.)
 
The FACC
alleges that the parties entered into a lease agreement. The subject lease is
attached as an exhibit to the FACC. According to the FACC, McGausa breached the
lease by: (1) failing to pay rent when due; (2) failing to pay the rent
increases; (3) by using the premises to operate a cigar lounge and renting the
space out for parties instead of using it as a community workspace; (4)
subletting the premises without Liu’s consent; and (5) failing to pay the
increase in insurance premiums. (FACC, ¶¶ 10-16.) The FACC alleges that Liu sustained damages as a result
of the breach. (FACC, ¶ 16.) The Court finds Liu has sufficiently alleged a cause of
action for breach of the lease. 
 
McGausa
argues that the lease states smoking was permitted on the premises. Therefore,
McGausa contends that it did not breach the lease and Liu cannot prevail on
this cause of action. “Exhibits to a complaint are given precedence over the
contrary allegations in the complaint itself.” (Vallejo Development Co. v. Beck
Development Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 929, 946.) Paragraph 1.8 of the lease
provides that agreed use of the premises includes: “workspace, office and
permitted smoking, and related activities.” (FACC, Ex. A, p. 1.) Yet, since the
parties dispute the terms of the lease and what is included in “permitted
smoking,” the Court does not find this as grounds to sustain the demur to this
cause of action at this stage. The FACC also alleges other actions taken by
McGausa that constituted breaches of the lease, such as its failure to pay rent,
which McGausa does not address.  
 
McGausa also
asserts that Liu hasn’t provided support for her alleged damages. However,
McGausa’s dispute over Liu’s claimed damages is also not adequate grounds for
demurring to this cause of action as Liu is not required to present extrinsic
evidence in support of damages at this time.  
 
McGausa
further demurs to the second cause of action stating that Liu has offered no evidence
to support her allegation that McGausa sublet the leased premises without Liu’s
consent. However, extrinsic evidence is not necessary at this stage. The Court
finds Liu has sufficiently alleged a cause of action. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, McGausa’s demurrer to the first and second
causes of action is OVERRULED. 
 
E.     Third Cause
of Action: Nuisance
 
The
elements for a private nuisance cause of action are: (1) interference with use
and enjoyment of plaintiff’s property that is (2) substantial and (3)
unreasonable. (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3
Cal.App.5th 248, 262-63.) Plaintiff must plead and prove
interference with plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of the property – i.e.,
defendant’s activity must be “of such a nature, duration or amount as to
constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (San
Diego Gas & Elec. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (Covalt) (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 938.) 
 
The FACC
alleges that “in or about 2020 or 2021, McGausa changed the permitted uses of
the Premises from a workspace, office and business incubator, to a cigar lounge
and a rental space for parties and events in violation of the lease and without
the Liu’s consent. By conducting a cigar lounge and a party rental location, McGausa
produced and caused noxious odors from excessive smoke, loud music, the
accumulation of excessive trash and loitering around the Building.” (FACC, ¶ 23.)
 
McGausa
demurs to this cause of action on the basis that: (1) smoking was permitted
pursuant to the lease and (2) Liu was not a tenant of the building and
therefore did not suffer any effects of the alleged nuisance. 
 
The Court
does not find McGausa’s arguments persuasive. As discussed above, the parties
dispute the term of the lease as to whether using the premises as a cigar
lounge constituted “permitted smoking.” Further, nuisance involves the
interference with the plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of the property. Even if
Liu was not a commercial tenant of the building, McGausa’s conduct, which
includes producing and causing “noxious odors from excessive smoke, loud music,
the accumulation of excessive trash and loitering,” could still interference
with Liu’s use and enjoyment of the property as the owner of the building. 
 
Accordingly, McGausa’s
demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
F.      Fourth Cause
of Action: Harassment
 
The elements for a hostile work environment
harassment are: (1) plaintiff belongs to a protected group; (2) plaintiff was
subject to unwelcome harassment; (3) the harassment complained of was based on
membership in the protected class, (4) the harassment complained of was
sufficiently pervasive so as to alter the conditions of employment and create
an abusive working environment; and (5) respondeat superior.  Further, for
hostile work environment harassment to be actionable, it must be sufficiently
severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of the victim's employment and
create an abusive working environment… (Fisher v. Penninsula Hospital (1989)
214 Cal.App.3d 590, 608.)   
 
In determining what constitutes sufficiently
pervasive harassment, the courts have held that acts of harassment cannot be
occasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial, rather the plaintiff must show a
concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized
nature.  (Fisher, supra, 214 Cal.App.3d at pp. 610-611.) 
 
The FACC alleges McGausa has subjected Liu “to harassing conduct
because of her gender, ancestry, race and age by denying her full and equal
advantages and privileges by discriminating against her where the motivating
reason is because of her gender, race, ancestry and age.” (FACC, ¶ 29.)
 
The Court
does not find these allegations sufficient to show harassment by McGausa. Besides
these conclusory allegations that McGausa harassed Liu, Liu does not allege how
McGausa’s conduct was based on Liu’s membership in the protected classes. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the FACC’s fourth cause of action for
harassment with leave to amend.
 
G.   
Motion to
Strike 
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
McGausa requests the Court to strike portions
of the FACC as follows:
1.     FACC, page 9,
prayer for relief, ¶ 3: “For termination of the lease”
2.     FACC, page 4,
¶ 13, line 4: “Cross-Complainant has suffered damages in the sum of
approximately $1,052,550, such being the difference between the fair rental
value of the premises and the rent for which the Premises were leased to
Cross-Defendant.”
3.     FACC, page 9,
prayer for relief, ¶ 4: “For pain and suffering for the Third and Fourth Cause
of Action”
4.     FACC, page 9,
prayer for relief, ¶ 5: “For medical expenses for the Third and Fourth Cause of
Action”
5.     FACC, page 9,
prayer for relief, ¶ 6: “For statutory fines and penalties for the Third and
Fourth Cause of Action.”
 
McGausa
argues paragraph 3 in the FACC’s prayer for relief that states “for termination
of the lease” should be stricken because Liu did not file an unlawful detainer
complaint. McGausa asserts that Liu must file an unlawful detainer complaint if
she is attempting to evict McGausa. However, Liu contends in her opposition
that she is not asserting any request for the return of possession of the
premises. Regarding whether Liu served notice or has given McGausa the
opportunity to cure is extrinsic evidence not considered on a motion to strike.
Thus, the Court finds that Liu is warranted in including termination of the
lease in the FACC’s prayer for relief. 
 
Next,
McGausa argues that Liu has not provided support for her claim for damages in the sum of approximately $1,052,550. (FACC, ¶ 13.) However, as
discussed above, Liu is not required to provide evidence in support of her
claim for damages at this stage. Thus, the motion to strike as to paragraph 13
of the FACC is denied.
 
Finally,
McGausa moves to strike damages in paragraphs 4, 5, and 6 of the prayer for
relief because Liu cannot prove her fourth cause of action for harassment. As
discussed above, the Court sustained Liu’s fourth cause of action. McGausa does
not address the fact that Liu is also seeking these damages for her third cause
of action for nuisance. The Court overruled McGausa’s demur to Liu’s third
cause of action. Damages for discomfort, annoyance, and mental distress
suffered by the plaintiff as the result of a nuisance are recoverable, but not
merely as an alternative to or to the exclusion of damages for depreciation of
the plaintiff’s property in rental value. (Spaulding v. Cameron,
(1954) 127 Cal. App. 2d 698, 706.) Further, exemplary or punitive damages may
be recovered in a nuisance case. (Hassoldt v. Patrick Media Group, Inc.,
(2000) 84 Cal. App. 4th 153, 168.) Therefore, the Court does not strike Liu’s
requests for damages as they are recoverable for her third cause of action. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
strike punitive damages is DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended
Cross-Complaint’s first, second and third causes of action are OVERRULED.
 
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended
Cross-Complaint’s fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to
amend.
 
Cross-Defendant’s motion to strike is
DENIED.