 Case Number:  24STCP00880    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  73 5/23/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
IN
THE MATTER OF DANIELLE L. RICHTER, TRUSTEE OF THE DANIELLE L. RICHTER REVOCABLE
TRUST DATED JULY 20, 2016 AS AMENDED, et al. v. SOCAL DESIGN & BUILDING INC. (24STCP00880) 
Counsel for
Petitioner/moving party:  Michele Seltzer (Seltzer Legal Group, P.C.)
 
PETITION FOR RELEASE OF PROPERTY FROM MECHANICS LIEN (filed 03/20/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
The Petition for Release
of Property from Mechanics Lien is
GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On March 20, 2024,
Petitioners In the matter of Danielle L. Richter, Trustee of the Danielle L.
Richter Revocable Trust dated July 20, 2016 as Amended; Glenn R. Richter,
Trustee of the Glenn R. Richter Revocable Trust dated July 10, 2012 as Amended (“Petitioners”)
filed a petition against Respondent Socal Design & Building Inc., dba
M-Cubed Design and Building aka M-Cubed (“Respondent”) for release of property
from lien.
 
No opposition or other response has been filed. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard
 
“The claimant shall commence an action to enforce a lien within 90
days after recordation of the claim of lien. If the claimant does not commence
an action to enforce the lien within that time, the claim of lien expires and
is unenforceable.” (Civ. Code, § 8460.) If a claimant has not commenced an
action to enforce the mechanics lien within the time provided in Civil Code
section 8460, the property owner may petition the court for an order releasing
the property from the lien. (Id., § 8480, subd. (a).) “A release order
does not bar any other cause of action or claim for relief by the claimant,
other than an action to enforce the claim of lien that is the subject of the
release order.” (Id., subd. (b).) A petition for a release order may be
joined with a pending action to enforce the lien claim. (Id., subd.
(c).) 
 
Civil Code section 8484 states: A petition for a release order
shall be verified and shall allege all of the following: 
(a) The date
of recordation of the claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien
shall be attached to the petition. 
(b) The
county in which the claim of lien is recorded. 
(c) The book
and page or series number of the place in the official records where the claim
of lien is recorded. 
(d) The legal
description of the property subject to the claim of lien. 
(e) Whether
an extension of credit has been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date,
and that the time for commencement of an action to enforce the lien has
expired. 
(f) That the
owner has given the claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that the
claimant execute and record a release of the lien and that the claimant is
unable or unwilling to do so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found. 
(g) Whether
an action to enforce the lien is pending. 
(h) Whether
the owner of the property or interest in the property has filed for relief in
bankruptcy or there is another restraint that prevents the claimant from
commencing an action to enforce the lien.
 
At least 10 days before petitioning for a release order, the owner
must give the claimant a notice demanding that the claimant execute and record
a release of the lien claim. The notice must comply with the requirements of
Civil Code section 8100 et seq. and state the grounds for the demand. (Id.,
§ 8482.) 
 
Civil Code section 8486 states: 
(a) On the
filing of a petition for a release order, the clerk shall set a hearing date.
The date shall be no more than 30 days after the filing of the petition. The
court may continue the hearing only on a showing of good cause, but in any
event the court shall rule and make any necessary orders on the petition not
later than 60 days after the filing of the petition. 
(b) The
petitioner shall serve a copy of the petition and a notice of hearing on the
claimant at least 15 days before the hearing. Service shall be made in the same
manner as service of summons, or by certified or registered mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the claimant as provided in
Section 8108. 
 
Civil Code section 8488 states: 
(a) At the
hearing both (1) the petition and (2) the issue of compliance with the service
and date for hearing requirements of this article are deemed controverted by
the claimant. The petitioner has the initial burden of producing evidence on
those matters. The petitioner has the burden of proof as to the issue of
compliance with the service and date for hearing requirements of this article.
The claimant has the burden of proof as to the validity of the lien. 
(b) If
judgment is in favor of the petitioner, the court shall order the property
released from the claim of lien. 
(c) The
prevailing party is entitled to reasonable attorney's fees.
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Petitioners
allege they are the owners of real property (the “Property”) located at and
commonly known as 1375 North Wetherly Drive, Los Angeles, CA 90069. (Petition,
¶ 1.) Respondent is a corporation engaged in the business activity of general
contracting, and Respondent claims to have contributed to the work of
improvement on the property. (Petition, ¶ 2.)
 
Petitioners request
that the court release the mechanic’s lien recorded on October 13, 2019. Petitioners
attached a copy of the claim lien. (Petition, Ex. A.) The claim of lien was in
the amount of $58,245.00 for “not limited to labor, materials, construction
management, administrative costs, engineering services, design consulting,
material selections, travel time, and more” alleged to have been furnished by Respondent
for a work of improvement. (Petition, ¶ 3.)
 
Respondent
failed to bring an action to enforce the lien within 90 days after recordation.
Petitioners sent respondent an informal letter on or about February 5, 2024,
asking them to withdraw the lien. (Petition, ¶ 6.) Respondent responded on or
about February 16, 2022 stating it had “indeed refrained from initiating a
lawsuit to foreclose on the aforementioned mechanics lien.” (Petition, ¶ 6.) On
February 21, 2024, Petitioners sent Respondent a written demand to remove the
lien by overnight delivery. (Petition, ¶ 7.) On or about February 22, 2024,
Respondent responded via email that they acknowledge it’s been over 90 days
since they first recorded the lien and that it’s no longer enforceable.”
(Petition, ¶ 8.) Respondent has not executed a release of the lien. (Petition,
¶ 5.) The Court finds Petitioners have complied with Civil Code section 8484.
 
Petitioners
filed a proof of service indicating they served Respondent the petition papers by
personal service on April 23, 2024. Petitioners also served Respondent the
notice of the hearing. Thus, Petitioners have satisfied their service
requirements. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS the Petition for Release of Property from Mechanics Lien.
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
The Petition for Release
of Property from Mechanics Lien is
GRANTED.