  Case Number:  23STCV10614    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  73 05/23/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
WEAVER, et al. v. LANCE JAY ROBBINS
PALOMA PARTNERSHIP, et al. (23STCV10614)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiffs/opposing party:           James Fazio III (Gordon Rees Scully
Mansukhani, LLP)
Counsel
for Defendants/moving party:          Lisa
Salisbury (Salisbury Group, Inc.)
 
MOTION TO
QUASH SUBPOENA (filed 01/05/2024)

 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion
to quash. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On September 20, 2023, Plaintiffs H. Duane Weaver (“Weaver”) and
Negative Asset Limited Partnership filed this action against Defendants Lance
Jay Robbins Paloma Partnership, 7th St. Associates, Inc. and Lance
Jay Robbins (“Robbins”). 
 
Plaintiffs’
Complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty;
(2) Breach of Contract; (3) Abuse of Control; (4) Appointment of Receiver; (5)
Declaratory Relief; (6) Accounting; (7) Violation of Inspection Rights; (8) Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and/or Retention; and (9) Negligence.
 
The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff Weaver and Defendant Robbins formed a
partnership in the 1980s to acquire, own and operate a 58-unit apartment
building located at 15 Paloma Avenue, Venice, California 90291. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants failed in their duty to properly manage and operate the
subject property pursuant to the partnership agreement. Defendants had hired
Concord Real Estate Service, Inc. (“Concord”) to manage the subject property. 
 
On January 5, 2024, Defendants filed its
instant motion to quash, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs’ subpoena to Concord should be quashed as overly broad and unduly
burdensome
·      
Concord is Defendants’ property management company for the
property that is the subject of this dispute, 15 Paloma Avenue, Venice,
California 90291.
·      
The subpoena contains 31 requests for virtually every document and
communication in Concord’s possession related to Defendants’ real property that
is the subject to this lawsuit spanning an 8-plus year period from January 2015
to the present.
·      
As property managers, it is not Concord’s practice to store and
prepare documents of this nature on file for years. In order to identify and
gather all communications, financial records, invoices, receipts, employee and
payment records, and all other documents requested by the Subpoena, many people
at Concord would need to manually and electronically search innumerable inboxes
and sent items folders, bank records, and virtually the entire accounting
department and many outside parties including but not limited to countless city
agencies and third party vendors.
·      
Concord conservatively estimates it would take at least one
hundred and twenty hours if not considerably longer for Concord to search for,
gather and process all records requested by the Subpoena, in addition to an
inestimable amount of time waiting for responses and documents from city
agencies and third party vendors. 
 
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing: 
·       The subpoena asks for relevant information because one of the key issues
in the lawsuit is the condition and mismanagement of the subject property.
Defendants’ decision to hire Concord is a key issue because there is a cause of
action Negligent Hiring, Supervision and/or Retention 
·       The subpoena is narrow in scope and time
·       The records requested are not unduly burdensome
 
Defendants filed a reply maintaining
that Plaintiffs’ subpoena is overly broad and unduly burdensome.
 
II. DISCUSSION
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a) provides: 
 
If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
 
(Code
of Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).)
 
B.     Discussion
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ subpoena to Concord should be quashed as overly broad and unduly
burdensome.
 
Defendants assert the subpoena is overly broad because it contains
31 requests for “virtually every document and communication” in Concord’s
possession related to the subject property spanning an 8-plus year period from
January 2015 to the present. (Motion, p. 4.)
 
However, the Court does not find Plaintiffs’ requests are overly
broad. Plaintiffs’ Complaint alleges Negligent Hiring, Supervision and/or
Retention of Concord as Defendants’ property management company of the subject
property. The Complaint alleges “Concord was unfit or incompetent at acting as
a Professional Property Management company and maintaining accounting records.”
(Compl., ¶ 78.) Thus,
Plaintiffs limit the majority of their requests to within the time period that
Concord was property management of the property. Plaintiffs also limit the
subject matter of the documents it seeks to documents that should routinely be
kept by property managers, such as financial records and employment files. The
Court does not find Plaintiffs’ subpoena is overly broad.
 
Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs’ subpoena is unduly
burdensome. Defendants argue Concord does not maintain all documents related to
each property in conveniently organized file folders so “Concord would need to
manually and electronically search innumerable inboxes and sent items folders,
bank records, and virtually the entire accounting department and many outside
parties including but not limited to countless city agencies and third party
vendors.” (Goldstein Decl., ¶
3.) In support, Defendants submit the declaration of Joe
Goldstein, Concord’s Chief Operating Officer who estimates “it would take at
least one hundred and twenty hours if not considerably longer for Concord to
search for, gather and process all records requested by the Subpoena.” (Goldstein
Decl., ¶ 3.) 
 
However, the Court does not find Plaintiffs’ subpoena is unduly
burdensome. Generally,
objections of “undue burden” must be supported by “evidence showing the quantum
of work required….” (West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior
Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417 (“West Pico”).) “The trial court
must … consider not only the stated objections to the interrogatories, but also
the interrogatories themselves, as well as the pleadings, and the contentions
of the interrogating party as to the purpose and validity of the
interrogatories.” (See Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior Court (1968)
263 Cal.App.2d 12, 18-19, fn. omitted.) The court “retains the discretion to weigh
the burden of compliance against the likelihood of producing helpful information,
to avoid duplicative production, and to narrow demands if appropriate to
balance the reasonable concerns of both parties. [Citations.]” (Volkswagen
of America, Inc. v. Superior Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1497,
italics added.) Here, Plaintiffs’ requests specify the
witnesses it seeks Concord’s communications with or the documents it requests
such that Concord could likely search for these in its emails and software. Further,
the Court finds Plaintiffs’ requests would produce relevant information that outweighs
Defendants’ burden of compliance.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ Motion to Quash Subpoena is DENIED. 
 
III. DISPOSITION 

 
Defendants’
Motion to Quash Subpoena is DENIED.