  Case Number:  22STCV08533    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



LINDA EVERHART, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL
  DISTRICT,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV08533
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 18, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (“Defendant”)
moves for summary judgment against Plaintiff Linda Everhart (“Plaintiff”), who
is deceased and is now represented through her successor in interest Evan
Everhart (“Everhart”). In the alternative, Defendant seeks summary adjudication
on each of Plaintiff’s claims.
 
The Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion for summary adjudication as to
the religious discrimination claim in Plaintiff’s discrimination cause of
action.  Moreover, Plaintiff has stated
in her opposition that she intends to dismiss this claim.
 
The Court DENIES the motion for summary adjudication as to
Plaintiff’s remaining claims, including the disability discrimination claim in
Plaintiff’s discrimination cause of action.
 
Background
 
This is an employment action. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant discriminated against her and terminated her employment on the basis
of her disabilities and her religion. 
 
The following facts are taken from the parties’ separate
statements. The Court resolves all disputes of fact and draws all reasonable
inferences in favor of Plaintiff, the nonmoving party. The Court disregards
Defendant’s replies to Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s separate statement,
which are not authorized by statute. (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc.
(2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252.)
 
Plaintiff was employed by Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District (“Defendant”) as a substitute teacher from November 23, 1994
until November 5, 2021. (Defendant’s Undisputed Fact (“UF”) 1.) Plaintiff was
an at-will employee. (UF 66.) Plaintiff has a number of disabilities, including
a standing imbalance condition, muscle weakness, and limited eyesight.
(Plaintiff’s Additional Fact (“AF” 3.) Plaintiff used a cane to help her walk
and wore prescription glasses to help her see. (AF 4.) 
 
A substitute teacher’s duties include replacing the absent
teacher and performing the absent teacher’s regular instructional duties in a
competent manner. (UF 21.) This includes reviewing the lesson plan for the day,
if available, and if no plan was available, to determine areas currently being
studied by the class and the activities to pursue. (UF 21.) Failure to fulfill
these duties may result in an Inadequate Service Report (“ISR”). (UF 22.)
 
Plaintiff’s religious accommodation request
 
On September 1, 2021, Plaintiff applied for an accommodation
for Defendant’s Covid-19 vaccine policy based on her objection based on a
sincerely held religious belief. (UF 3.) 
 
On September 20, 2021, Plaintiff emailed Jorge Amador, the
Assistant Director of Defendant’s Certificated Substitute Unit, requesting a
transfer to Defendant’s City of Angels school, which was a remote online
academy. (UF 4.) At this time, Defendant was implementing a requirement that
substitutes teaching in person were required to be vaccinated. (UF 6.)
Plaintiff admits that she wanted to work at City of Angels because she was
unvaccinated. (UF 7.) Plaintiff told Amador that one of her reasons for
requesting the transfer was her mobility problem. (UF 4.) Amador told Plaintiff
that he would schedule a meeting with Plaintiff if she was seeking an
accommodation. (UF 4.) On September 23, 2021, Amador emailed a group of
substitute teachers, including Plaintiff, to schedule meetings with each
teacher regarding their requests for reasonable accommodations based on a
medical need or sincerely held religious belief. (UF 5.) Plaintiff replied,
stating that she was seeking an accommodation based on a sincerely held religious
belief and that she would advise him on her availability. (UF 5.) 
 
On October 6, 2021, Plaintiff emailed Amador a letter
supporting her request for an exemption to the vaccine policy. (UF 8.) Amador
believes that he forwarded the request to Defendant’s Sincerely Held Religious
Belief (“SHRB”) Committee. 
 
On October 19, 2021, Plaintiff attended a disciplinary
meeting with another employee, Mike Kimmel, to advocate for him in light of his
request for a religious exemption to the vaccine policy. 
 
On October 27, 2021, the SHRB Committee told Plaintiff that
it was satisfied that a conflict existed between the vaccine requirement and
Plaintiff’s religious beliefs. (UF 11.) The SHRB Committee advised that it was
granting Plaintiff’s request for placement at City of Angels, subject to
availability of work. (UF 11.) 
 
Amador had no responsibility in handling or granting
Plaintiff’s accommodation request. (UF 10.) Plaintiff admits she has no
evidence that Amador had no knowledge before November 5, 2021 that the SHRB
Committee had approved Plaintiff’s accommodation request. (UF 12.) Plaintiff
admits that she has no evidence that Amador opposed her request for
accommodation. (UF 13.) During his deposition, Amador testified that
Plaintiff’s request for a religious exemption to the vaccine policy did not
factor into his eventual decision to terminate Plaintiff. (UF 14.)
 
Plaintiff’s teaching assignment at Emelita Elementary School
 
On October 13, 2021, Plaintiff was assigned to work as a
substitute teacher in Ms. Pyle’s classroom, a special education class at
Emelita Elementary School. (UF 16.) 
 
The class included a variety of grade levels, with the
oldest students being in second grade. The students had a variety of
disabilities, with some more severe than others. (UF 17.) Some students were
aggressive or non-verbal. (UF 17.) Of ten total students in the class on that
day, approximately three or four were higher-performing than the others and
needed less direction. (UF 18.) The higher-performing students could read and
do work independently. (Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Undisputed Fact (“RUF”)
18.)
 
On October 13, 2021, Ms. Pyle’s classroom had three assigned
paraprofessionals, also known as special education assistants: Jesse Spesock,
Iranhi Ramirez-Hernandez, and Jazmin Rueda. (UF 23.) The paraprofessionals
believed that a lesson plan was left for Plaintiff because Ms. Pyle’s absence
was a planned absence. (UF 24.) However, the regular teacher did not leave a
lesson plan or any instructions for the day. (Waizman Decl., Ex. A at p.
12:17-23.) The paraprofessionals were able to find a laptop, so Plaintiff was
able to play educational videos for the students. (Waizman Decl., Ex. A at p.
12:17-23.) Plaintiff sat off to the far right while the students watched the
videos, which were projected onto a whiteboard. (Waizman Decl., Ex. A at p.
12:17-23.) The classroom lights remained off while the videos played. (Waizman
Decl., Ex. A at p. 12:17-23.) 
 
At one point while the video played, one of the
paraprofessionals believed that Plaintiff was sleeping and took a picture of
her. (UF 33-37.) The paraprofessional was about three to four feet away from
Plaintiff and was alerted when a student exclaimed that the teacher was
sleeping. (UF 34-35.) Plaintiff contests that she was sleeping, and provides
evidence that she was forced to squint because the mask that she was wearing
caused her classes to fog up. (RUF 33.)
 
The paraprofessionals briefly took the students outside for
a run during instructional time. (UF 29; RUF 29.) Plaintiff did not accompany
the students and paraprofessionals. (UF 29.) The parties dispute whether this
was permitted; Defendant contends that school policy requires that
paraprofessionals were not permitted to accompany students without a
credentialed teacher such as Plaintiff; Plaintiff contends that
paraprofessionals were permitted to take students out on timed breaks. (UF 29;
RUF 29.)
 
            While
Plaintiff was sitting at the front of the classroom in the morning, the
paraprofessionals noticed that Plaintiff dropped her walking cane on the floor.
(UF 38.) They saw that Plaintiff attempted to pick up the cane but could not
reach it, and therefore helped her. (UF 38.) 
 
The paraprofessionals reported that Plaintiff dropped her
cane to Elizabeth Mayorga, Emelita’s principal, out of a concern that an
unattended stick could be grabbed by a student and used as a weapon or
plaything. (UF 39.) AT the end of the day on October 13, 2021, the
paraprofessionals went to Mayorga’s office and told her during an approximately
15-minute meeting that Plaintiff had not assisted or engaged with the students,
that Plaintiff fell asleep in class, and that they had concerns about
Plaintiff’s cane dropping in the classroom. (UF 40.) Mayorga had a follow-up
meeting with the paraprofessionals a day or two later. (UF 41.)
 
Mayorga planned to issue an Inadequate Service Report to
Plaintiff and contacted Amador to discuss it. (UF 43-44.) Amador told Mayorga
that Plaintiff had prior ISRs issued to her and had served as a substitute
teacher for quite some time. (UF 45.) Amador later testified that it is
exceedingly rare for substitute teachers to receive ISRs, and that Plaintiff
had received three formal ISRs between 2019 and 2021. (UF 67-69.)
 
Mayorga sent Amador an email that read as follows:
 
“I
am going to recommend she be released from LAUSD. She is significantly
physically handicapped and accepted a sub position with a primary Aut Class.
These students, by their disability are loud, very active, and often have
little to no language. She did not help any students, even when she was given 2
higher performing students. She just stared at them. So the assistants took the
students back in their groupings. She was unable to get up and go outside for
PE, so the assistants took them and the Ms. Everhart stayed in the classroom.
At one point earlier in the morning she was sitting down, dropped her cane and
was unable to reach. One of the assistants picked it up for her.
 
At one point
she was sleeping during class. One of the assistants took a         picture.”
 
(Ex. G(1) at p. 1.)
 
            Three minutes later,
Amador replied, stating “[w]e will honor your request to separate.” (Ex. G(1)
at p. 1.)
 
On October 22, 2021, Mayorga and Amador discussed the
allegations made against Plaintiff in a Zoom meeting where a union
representative was present. (AF 26.) The purpose of such a meeting is to afford
the substitute the ability to respond to the allegations and for the principal
to determine whether the ISR will be issued. (AF 27.) The union representative
instructed Plaintiff to leave the meeting and she did so voluntarily, resulting
in Plaintiff being unable to respond to the allegations. (AF 28.) 
 
Immediately after Plaintiff exited the meeting, Mayorga
emailed her a copy of the ISR. (AF 30.) Plaintiff responded by email, stating
that she was not aware of a lesson plan and that she had not fallen asleep. (AF
31-33.) Plaintiff also stated that she was not given a group of high-performing
students and that the students never went outside for P.E., but rather went
outside to run from one end of the yard to the other and go to the bathroom.
(AF 34-35.) Plaintiff did not deny that she had dropped her cane, but stated
that she was being punished for her disability. (AF 36.) Plaintiff proposed
that she could secure the cane to her wrist with a strap as a “reasonable
accommodation.” (UF 84; AF 36.) (Because each of the statements in Plaintiff’s
email are hearsay, the Court does not consider them for their truth, but for
their effect on Mayorga and Amador and their legal effect.) Plaintiff has
stated that having a wrist strap would have assisted her in instructing the
students on October 13, 2021 by allowing her to more easily ambulate around the
classroom, assisting in her ability to work with the students. (UF 93.)
 
Plaintiff had not requested any accommodations for her
disability prior to October 13, 2021, and had mitigated her conditions by use
of a walking cane and rolling cart. (UF 80-81.)
 
Amador testified at his deposition that he understood that
Plaintiff was being written up for her disability, but could not recall
communicating with anyone about Plaintiff’s email or regarding her proposal to
strap a cane to her wrist. (AF 37.) 
 
As Defendant’s Assistant Director for the Substitute Teacher
Unit, Amador had the ability and responsibility to fire employees. (UF 52-53.)
Amador decided to terminate Plaintiff. (UF 59.) Amador never confirmed with Ms.
Pyle about the lack of a lesson plan or whether it was true that Plaintiff was
given a group of high-performing students. (AF 39.) Amador did not consider
declining to proceed with the termination in light of Plaintiff’s denials of
the allegations in the ISR, her request for accommodation, or her complaint
about being written up for her disability. (AF 39.) Amador testified that he
was familiar with Defendant’s non-discrimination and reasonable accommodation
policies. (AF 40.) 
 
Plaintiff contends that the City of Angels program, which
she had sought to participate in the prior month, would have resolved the
impact of her disability on her performance because it was fully remote. (AF
51-55.) Defendant had already informed Plaintiff that she was eligible to
participate in the program. (AF 55.)
 
Plaintiff filed this action on March 9, 2022. The operative
complaint is now the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), which raises claims for
(1) discrimination; (2) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (3) failure to
prevent discrimination and retaliation; (4) failure to accommodate disability;
(5) failure to engage in the interactive process; and (6) retaliation in violation
of Labor Code, section 1102.5.
 
On March 12, 2024, the Court appointed Evan Everhart as the
successor in interest to Plaintiff Linda Everhart.
 
Defendant filed this motion on April 12, 2024. Plaintiff
filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court overrules the parties’ evidentiary objections.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) 
 
“A defendant or
cross-defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
not merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action. 
Once the defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.  The plaintiff or
cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
 To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
Discrimination – First Claim
 
A plaintiff alleging discrimination must allege “that (1) [the
plaintiff] was a member of a protected class, (2) [the plaintiff] was qualified
for the position he sought or was performing competently in the position [they]
held, (3) [the plaintiff] suffered an adverse employment action, such as
termination, demotion, or denial of an available job, and (4) some other
circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Guz v. Bechtel National Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)
 
Where a plaintiff’s claims of discrimination or retaliation
are based solely on circumstantial evidence, the claims are examined under the McDonnell
Douglas “burden-shifting” analysis: first, the plaintiff must establish a
prima facie case. (Horsford v. Bd. Of Trustees of Cal. State Univ. (2005)
132 Cal.App.4th 359, 375; McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411
U.S. 792.) 
 
Once the plaintiff does so, the employer must carry the
burden of showing the employee's action has no merit. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) It may do so with evidence that either: (1) indicates “that one
or more of plaintiff’s prima facie elements is lacking,” or (2) shows some
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action taken against the employee.
(Caldwell v. Paramount Unified School Dist. (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 189,
203.) 
 
If defendant meets its burden, the burden then shifts to the
plaintiff to produce substantial evidence that the employer’s showing was
untrue or pretextual by raising at least an inference of discrimination or
retaliation. (Hersant v. California Department of Social Services
(1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004-1005.) “In short, by applying¿McDonnell
Douglas’s shifting burdens of production in the context of a motion for
summary judgment, ‘the judge [will] determine whether the litigants have
created an issue of fact to be decided by the jury.’ [Citation.]” (Caldwell,
supra, 41 Cal.App.4th at p. 203.) 
 
“[A]n employer need not have good cause to terminate an
at-will employee. The reason for termination need not be wise or correct so
long as it is not grounded on a prohibited bias.” (McGrory v. Applied Signal
Technology, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1524.) “Thus, ‘legitimate’
reasons in this context are reasons that are facially unrelated to prohibited
bias, and which, if true, would thus preclude a finding of discrimination.” (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 358 [citation omitted].)
 
Religious Discrimination
 
Defendant has met its initial burden to show that one or
more of the necessary elements are missing. Defendant submits the following
evidence.  Plaintiff admits that she has
no evidence that Amador had any knowledge before November 5, 2021 that the SHRB
Committee met with Plaintiff and approved her religious exemption. (UF 12.) She
further admits to having no evidence that Amador opposed her request for
accommodation based on her religious belief. (UF 13.) During his deposition,
Amador testified that plaintiff’s request for religious exemption to the
District’s COVID-19 vaccine policy did not factor in any way into his decision
to separate plaintiff from the District. (UF 14.)
 
Plaintiff admits that Amador never made any statement or
indication that her attendance at Kimmel’s disciplinary meeting contributed to
the decision to terminate her. (UF 87.) Plaintiff admits that she has no
evidence that Mayorga was present at the disciplinary meeting or aware of
Plaintiff’s attendance. (UF 88.) Plaintiff admits Amador never made any
statement or indication to her that her attendance at this disciplinary meeting
contributed to the decision to separate her from Defendant ; she further admits
she had no communications with representative of Defendant and has no documents
in her possession where it was stated or indicated that her attendance at this
meeting contributed to the decision to separate her from the District. (UF 89.)
 
Accordingly, Defendant has met its initial burden to show that
Plaintiff was not terminated for her religious beliefs, her decision to seek a
religious accommodation, or her advocacy for Kimmel. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff, but Plaintiff has not demonstrated a triable issue of fact that she
was terminated for her religious beliefs. 
To the contrary, Plaintiff asserts that she agrees “to dismiss the
following legal theories:  (1)
discrimination based upon religious creed, (2) retaliation for requesting an
accommodation for a religious belief, (3) failure to prevent discrimination
retaliation based upon her religious creed and requesting religious
accommodation, (4) failure to accommodate for requesting an accommodation for a
religious belief.”  (Opp. at 18:6-9.) The
Court therefore grants summary adjudication on Plaintiff’s religious
discrimination claim.
 
Disability Discrimination
 
There is a triable issue of fact that Plaintiff was
terminated for her disability. Although Defendant has presented legitimate,
non-discriminatory reasons for Plaintiff’s termination, Plaintiff’s production
of Mayorga’s email creates a triable issue of fact that Mayorga convinced
Amador to terminate Plaintiff based on Plaintiff’s disability.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication on this
claim. The Court denies the motion for summary judgment.
 
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA – Second Claim
 
“To establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the
[Fair Employment and Housing Act] FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged
in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to an
adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected
activity and the employer’s action.” (Meeks
v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879, brackets omitted.)
“An ‘adverse employment action,’ which is a critical component of a retaliation
claim, requires a substantial adverse change in the terms and conditions of the
plaintiff’s employment.” (Holmes v.
Petrovich Development Co., LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1063, quotation
marks omitted.)
 
Plaintiff requested accommodation in the form of a cane
strap to Amador, in very close temporal proximity to Amador’s termination of
Plaintiff. Although Plaintiff’s evidence arguably creates a stronger appearance
that Amador had already decided to terminate Plaintiff before the ISR meeting
even occurred, the emails showing that Amador agreed to terminate Plaintiff in
response to Mayorga’s complaints about Plaintiff’s disabilities creates a
triable issue that he may have subsequently reacted negatively to Plaintiff’s
accommodation request.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication on this
claim.
 
Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation – Third Claim
 
The elements of a cause of action for failure to prevent
harassment or retaliation are: (1) actionable discrimination or harassment by
employees or nonemployees; (2) defendant’s legal duty of care toward plaintiff
(i.e., defendant is the plaintiff’s employer); (3) breach of that duty (i.e.,
failure to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and
harassment from occurring); (4) legal causation; and (5) damages to plaintiff.
(Trujillo v. North County Transit
District (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 287, 289; Bradley v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 1612, 1630; Gov. Code, § 12940.)
 
Defendant argues that this claim should fail because it is
derivative of Plaintiff’s discrimination and retaliation claims. Because those
claims survive, the Court denies summary adjudication on this claim.
 
Failure to Accommodate Disability – Fourth Claim
 
Under Government Code, section 12940, it is an unlawful
employment practice “to fail to make reasonable accommodation for the known
physical or mental disability of an applicant or employee” unless the employer
demonstrates doing so would impose an undue hardship. “The essential elements
of a failure to accommodate claim are: (1) the plaintiff has a disability
covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or
she can perform the essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer
failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff's disability.” (Wilson v.
County of Orange (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1192.)
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s suggested wrist strap
accommodation could not have improved her job performance.  Plaintiff, by contrast, offers evidence that
it would have allowed her to safely ambulate around the room to instruct
students. Defendant contends that that Plaintiff was unable to instruct the
students even while sitting down. This argument does not eliminate triable
issues that the accommodation could have worked, for two reasons. First, it
fails to address the lack of a lesson plan provided to Plaintiff to enable
proper instruction. Second, it treats Plaintiff’s unaccommodated performance as
fair a measure of her potential accommodated performance – the precise analysis
that FEHA was intended to prevent. Defendant has not carried its burden to show
the absence of triable issues on this claim.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication on this
claim.
 
Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process – Fifth Claim
 
“FEHA requires an informal process with the employee to
attempt to identify reasonable accommodations, not necessarily ritualized
discussions.” (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359,
379.)
 
Once initiated, the employer has a continuous obligation to
engage in the interactive process in good faith. “Both employer and employee
have the obligation ‘to keep communications open’ and neither has ‘a right to
obstruct the process.’” [Citation.] Each party must participate in good faith,
undertake reasonable efforts to communicate its concerns, and make available to
the other information which is available, or more accessible, to one party.
Liability hinges on the objective circumstances surrounding the parties’
breakdown in communication, and responsibility for the breakdown lies with the
party who fails to participate in good faith. [Citation.] (Swanson v.
Morongo Uni¿ed School Dist. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 971–972.)
 
Defendant groups its arguments on this claim with
Plaintiff’s failure to accommodate claim. For the same reasons that the it
rejects Defendant’s arguments on that claim, the Court denies summary
adjudication on this claim.
 
Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code, Section 1102.5 – Sixth Claim
 
The Labor Code’s whistleblower provision prohibits an
employer from retaliating against an employee who reports a violation of state
or federal statute or a local, state or federal rule or regulation or who
refuses to participate in any activity that would result in a violation of law.
(Lab. Code, § 1102.5.) To prevail on whistleblower retaliation claim, a
plaintiff must establish that their alleged protected activated was a
contributing factor in the adverse action taken against them. (Lab. Code, §
1102.5.)
 
Defendant groups its arguments on this claim with
Plaintiff’s FEHA retaliation claim. For the same reasons that the it rejects
Defendant’s arguments on that claim, the Court denies summary adjudication on
this claim.
 