 Case Number:  23GDCV02621    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 10/11/2024 – 8:30am 
Case No. 23GDCV02621
Trial Date: UNcSET
Case Name:. GAGIK KHATCHATURYAN v. GARNIK TSATURYAN, et al.
TENTATIVE
RULING –MOTION TO QUASH


RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 
Defendants Garnik Tsaturyan and Argam Khachatryan will move this Court for an
Order quashing and/or limiting the subpoena for production of records (Exhibit
2) concerning "claim number 20ATCA0003575, or civil cause
"23GDCV02621". Defendants will further move the Court for a
protective order regarding the aforesaid subpoena to prevent the production of
certain documents requested by the subpoena.
 
Defendants bring this motion
pursuant to CCP §§ 1985.3, 1987.1, 2017.020, 2025.410, and 2025.420 on the
following grounds:
 
1.      The subpoena fails to include a declaration supporting the
need for and basis for the requested documents and thus fails to overcome the
heightened burden associated with the defendants' rights to privacy. The
subpoena does not include a stipulation that the consumers agree the records
can be produced.


2.      Pursuant to the Insurance Information and Privacy Protection
Act, the records sought may not be produced and the subpoena quashed. The
subpoena seeks the entirety of Defendant's insurance file and is overbroad,
unfocused, and the information sought is not reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence. Civ. Proc. Code) 2020.410(a).


3.      The Plaintiff’s subpoena violates attorney-client privilege,
attorney work privilege, and privilege for investigation performed in anticipation
of litigation.


4.      The information is otherwise available to Plaintiff client.
 
 
PROCEDURAL
 
Moving Party: Defendants, Garnik Tsaturyan and Argam
Khachatryan (Movants)
 
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Gagik Khachaturyan
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Proof of Service 
 
Opposition Papers: Omnibus Opposition
 
Reply: It is unclear if there is a Reply here. Defendant
Clearcover Insurance Company, LLC submitted a Response (presumably what is
typically known as a Reply) on 10/4/2024, but it is unclear if Clearcover’s
10/4/2024 Reply was intended to Reply to the instant motion filed by Defendants/Movants
Garnik Tsaturyan and Argam Khachatryan. Since the Reply submitted by Clearcover
states that it was submitted by the attorney for Defendants Garnik Tsaturyan,
Argam Khachatryan, and Clearcover, the Court will assume that this Reply was
intended to be a Reply for the instant motion filed by Movants Garnik and
Argam. Also, a proof of service was submitted with Clearcover’s Response
(Reply).
 
Sur-Reply: Plaintiff submitted an improper sur-reply with
procedural and evidentiary objections. Plaintiff does not cite any legal
authority for the basis of its sur-reply.
 
16/21 Day Lapse (CCP § 12c and § 1005(b)):
No – “Unless
otherwise ordered or specifically provided by law, all moving and supporting
papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing. The
moving and supporting papers served shall be a copy of the papers filed or to
be filed with the court. However, … if the notice is served by facsimile
transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for
overnight delivery, the required 16-day period of notice before the hearing
shall be increased by two calendar days.” (CCP § 1005(b).)
Here, Movants’ motion is not timely. Movants’ proof of
service indicates service via email on September 19, 2024. However, including
the additional two calendar days that had to be added for service via email,
this motion should have, at the latest, been served by September 16, 2024.

Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok

Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Uncertain – Movants
served Plaintiff’s counsel at naira.soghbatyan@gmail.com. Problematic with this
is that eCourt does not list an email address for Plaintiff’s counsel. However,
since Plaintiff’s counsel submitted an Opposition, the Court will assume that
Plaintiff received the instant motion. 
ANALYSIS


Preliminary Matter 1
The papers submitted by both the moving and opposing
parties are, in the Court’s view, incoherent. 
On several instances throughout both parties’ papers,
the parties cite inapposite legal authority, or no legal authority at all. Further,
both parties’ papers are borderline incomprehensible.  The papers fail to explain what the relevant
legal standard is for the instant motion and how the parties are or are not
satisfying it. 
Preliminary Matter 2
Both parties discuss the procedural background to this
case and what appears to be background about other cases.
In relevant part, Plaintiff (Gagik Khachaturyan) filed
a Complaint on 12/12/2023 against Defendants – Garnik Tsaturyan; Argam
Khachatryan; Syuzanna Mnatsakanyan; Artur Mnatsakanyan; and Does 1-30. The
Complaint alleged two causes of action – (1) Motor Vehicle, and (2) General
Negligence – from an incident that allegedly took place on December 16, 2020.
On 2/26/2024, Defendants Garnik Tsaturyan and Argam
Khachatryan filed an answer.
On 6/11/2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the
complaint to name Defendant Doe 1 as Clearcover Insurance Agency, LLC. This
amendment was allegedly served on July 10, 2024.
On 6/12/2024, Defendants Syuzanna Mnatsakanyan and
Artur Mnatsakanyan were dismissed. 
On 9/5/2024, this Court heard Clearcover Insurance
Company, LLC’s demurrer to the Complaint. 
On page 5 of the 9/5/2024 Minute Order, this Court
indicated that Clearcover’s demurrer to the Complaint was overruled. Further,
the Court stated, “The Court overrules the current demurrer to the original
complaint without prejudice to further demurrers. Frist Amended Complaint to be
filed and served within 5 business days.” (Min. Order 9/5/2024, p. 5.)
On 9/10/2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against Garnik Tsaturyan; Argam Khachatryan; Syuzanna
Mnatsakanyan; Artur Mnatsakanyan, and Does 1-30. The FAC alleged four causes of
action for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence, (2) General Negligence, (3) Common
Law Fraud, and (4) Unfair Competition Act (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200 et
seq.).
Despite the background described above by the Court
under “Preliminary Matter 2,” Movants state on page 7 of their motion:
The most recent first amended complaint
has alleged causes to which [sic] Plaintiff is not permitted to bring, which he
has not standing [sic] to bring, and which the appellate courts have ruled he either
cannot bring or cannot bring in the same lawsuit as the lawsuit against the
tortfeasor. These issues were the subject of prior demurrer and motion to
strike. Plaintiff counsel was advised that she cannot add allegations and
causes of action for fraud, punitive damages BPC 17200 and UIPA against the
defendants who had previously answered without a stipulation from the answering
defendants or motion to amend, [sic] has continued with her course of action
without providing a single case upon which she can "in good faith"
state she is entitled to amend the complaint [sic]. The actions of Plaintiff
counsel, in issuing the subpoena, are in violation of CCCP 2023.010(a), (b),
and are a misuse of the discovery process.
(Def. Mot. p. 7, ln. 3-12.)
The Court would like Movants to discuss their
statements made on page 7, lines 3-12 of their motion with the Court. The Court
overruled Clearvcover’s prior demurrer; therefore, the Court is unclear how
Movants are representing what claim(s) Plaintiff can or cannot bring. First,
the Court is unclear how Movants are stating what claim(s) Plaintiff cannot
bring based on how the appellate courts have ruled because to this Court’s
knowledge, based on looking at the record in this file, the Court has not seen
any appeals made in this action. 
Second, when Movants state that “these issues” were
the subject of a prior demurrer, the Court fails to see how this argument is
relevant when this Court overruled the prior demurrer and in fact stated that
the First Amended Complaint was to be filed and served within 5 business days. 
Third, even if Movants have a problem with the FAC,
the instant motion to quash is not the proper place to make an attack on the
FAC. This hearing is for a motion to quash a deposition subpoena. Arguments
related to a demurrer are irrelevant for the instant hearing.
Preliminary Matter 3
The
Court would like both parties to address what they think the operative
complaint is in the instant action.
The instant motion pertains to Garnik Tsaturyan and
Argam Khachatryan’s (Movants) motion to quash. 
However, also on calendar for 10/11/2024 is a motion
to quash filed by Defendant Clearcover Insurance Company.
There are several reasons it is confusing as to whether
or not this motion to quash filed by Clearcover that is also on calendar for
10/11/2024 should even be heard or if it should be denied as moot.
Problematic with Clearcover Insurance Company also
having a motion to quash on calendar for 10/11/2024 is that on 9/23/2024,
Plaintiff dismissed Clearcover Insurance Agency LLC. At the hearing, Plaintiff
should address the 9/23/2024 dismissal and clarify the difference between
Clearcover Insurance Agency, LLC and Clearcover Insurance Company. 
Further, on 10/7/2024, Plaintiff filed a “Plaintiff’s
Notice and Request To Withdraw The First Amended Complaint And Revert To The
Original Complaint As The Operative Pleading; Proposed Order.”
What is confusing about this request to withdraw the
FAC is that it requests to withdraw the FAC as to Clearcover, Argam, and
Garnik. The Court is confused as to why Plaintiff is requesting the FAC be
withdrawn as to Clearcover when Plaintiff already dismissed Clearcover from this
action. 
Further, the Court needs clarification as to what
Plaintiff means by requesting to withdraw the FAC and revert to the original
Complaint as to Argam and Garnik. The Court needs clarification because it is
unclear if Plaintiff is under the impression that the original Complaint can be
operative to Argam and Garnik, but yet still have the FAC be operative as to
other Defendants. Or to phrase it differently, why isn’t Plaintiff requesting
the original Complaint be the operative Complaint as a whole when Clearcover, Syuzanna
Mnatsakanyan, and Artur Mnatsakanyan have all already been dismissed? Not to
mention, this Court would not find it proper to have several different
operative complaints applicable to different defendants.
To add further confusion, not only does the first
paragraph of “Plaintiff’s Notice and Request To Withdraw The First Amended
Complaint And Revert To The Original Complaint As The Operative Pleading;
Proposed Order” explicitly request the FAC as against Clearcover be dismissed,
but Paragraph 3 then goes on to state that Plaintiff’s request to withdraw the
FAC as to Clearcover is not Plaintiff’s withdrawal or retraction of claims as
against Clearcover. Not only is this a direct contradiction, but it all belies
the fact that Plaintiff already dismissed Clearcover on 9/23/2024.
Therefore, the parties need to address what they
believe is the operative complaint and which parties are in the action.
Further, to the Court, it appears as if Clearcover’s
motion to quash filed on 9/19/2024 at 9:53pm appears as if it should be denied
as moot in light of Plaintiff dismissing Clearcover from this action on
9/23/2024. 
Confusingly, on 10/4/2024, Clearcover submitted a
Reply to the motion to quash and argued the merits about Clearcover’s motion to
quash despite the fact that Clearcover has been dismissed. 
Therefore, the parties should address whether the
merits of the Clearcover motion to quash should be ruled on. To this Court, it
appears as if Clearcover’s motion to quash should either be denied as moot
since Clearcover is no longer a party to this action, or it should be granted
because Clearcover is dismissed, no longer a party, and thus Clearcover does
not have to respond to the subpoena. Or to phrase it differently, the parties
should be expected to address why Clearcover has to respond to the subpoena
when they have already been dismissed from this action.
Subpoena Request
Defendants/Movants, Garnik Tsaturyan and Argam
Khachatryan, move to quash a Deposition Subpoena For Production of Business
Records directed at Defendant Clearcover Insurance Agency, LLC that was issued
on 9/5/2024. The Deposition Subpoena For Production of Business Records
indicates that the records are to be produce on 9/27/2024.
The records to be produced stated the following:
Names of Individuals: Gagik Khachaturyan, Gamik
Tsaturyan, Argam Khachatryan (hereinafter "Individuals") 
Policy#: 11101A00016760-00 (hereinafter,
"POLICY") 
Claim#: 20ATCA0003575 (hereinafter, "CLAIM")

Date of Loss: December 16, 2020 (hereinafter, DOL)
Records of any and all claims or policies by or
involving the named Individuals, including but not limited to: 1) records
related to the POLICY, CLAIM, and DOL; 2) any and all communications and
documents sent to or received from the named Individuals; 3) any and all
communications and documents sent to or received from State Farm Insurance
Agency; 4) claim and policy notes; 5) any claim denials related to the DOL; 6)
investigative reports, investigative notes, recorded statements, written
statements; 7) examination under oath transcripts, examination under oath
video; 8) site investigation notes, site investigation diagrams, site
investigation reports; 9) consultant notes, expert reports and investigation,
consultant reports; 10) EDR records, data control module downloads; 11) photos
and videos with METADATA intact; 12) repair estimates; 13) storage invoices;
14) damage assessments; 15) records of any and all investigator(s) used to
investigate or adjust any claims of the Individuals; 16) records of any and all
other insurance companies, including subrogation claims.
You are to provide any and all non-privileged
information for the above-named Individuals, CLAIM, and POLICY. This means your
ENTIRE file related to: (1) POLICY# 11101A00016760-00; (2) any claims made
against that POLICY; and (3) any property damage claims made by the above-named
Individuals.
(Def. Mot., Ex. 2. p.3; [The Court notes that
Defendants did not number the pages to their Exhibits. This page would be the
third page after the cover page indicating “Exhibit 2.”].)
Reasons for Confusion
Even
though Defendants’ notice page indicates that they are moving to quash the
instant deposition subpoena for production of business records under §§ 1985.3,
1987.1, 2017.020, 2025.410, and 2025.420, it is unclear what code section they
are actually moving under. 
It is nearly impossible for this Court to apply
Defendants’ arguments to a legal standard and determine if Defendants have met
that legal standard when Defendants themselves aren’t clear as to how they are
indicating they have met their burden, whatever that burden may be. 
One of the legal standards that Defendants cite is CCP
§ 1987.1, which states:
(a) If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.
(b) The
following persons may make a motion pursuant to subdivision (a):
(1) A
party.
(2) A
witness.
(3) A
consumer described in Section 1985.3.
(4) An
employee described in Section 1985.6.
(5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights.
(c) Nothing
in this section shall require any person to move to quash, modify, or condition
any subpoena duces tecum of personal records of any consumer served under
paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 1985.3 or employment records of any
employee served under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 1985.6.
(CCP § 1987.1(a)-(c).)
Problematic with this standard under § 1987.1 is that it
does not say whether the moving or opposing party has the burden on a motion to
quash a deposition subpoena for the production of business records.
Deposition Subpoena For the Production of
Business Records vs. Subpoena Duces Tecum
Defendants
first argument for why this deposition subpoena for production of business
records should be quashed is that “the subpoena duces tecum fails to include a
declaration containing a sufficient statement of materiality as required by
code of civil procedure § 1985(b) and the consumer did not agree or stipulate
to the production.” (See Def. Mot. p. 11.)
Whether Defendants’ argument is availing or not is
borderline impossible to determine based on moving, opposing, and reply
arguments. All parties’ arguments are incoherent at times, unsupported with
legal authority at times, or sometimes supported with out of context or
misleading legal authority.
For instance, Movants argue the instant deposition
subpoena for production of business records that it seeks to quash is actually
a subpoena duces tecum. Or to phrase it differently, Movants believe they are
moving to quash a subpoena duces tecum, despite the fact that the document that
Movants attached to their motion that they seek to quash is a deposition
subpoena for the production of business records.
In Reply, Movants argue that it is in fact a subpoena
duces tecum that it is quashing by arguing that this subpoena seeks more than
business records; therefore, this subpoena is a subpoena duces tecum and not a
deposition subpoena for the production of business records. The only legal
authority Movants cite to support what is considered a “business record” for
this subpoena is Evidence Code §1271. Defendants then argue that this subpoena
seeks writings relating to an entire insurance claim file and do not solely
include writings in the regular course of business. 
Ultimately, whether the instant subpoena is a deposition
subpoena for the production of business records or a subpoena duces tecum,
neither party provides an answer with any persuasive or convincing authority.
Defendants argument that it is a subpoena duces tecum seems to rely entirely on
a technical definition in Evidence Code 1271, which the Court is not entirely
sure how that is even applicable here to the definition in the CCP with respect
to subpoenas and depositions. Likewise, the Opposition simply seems to rely on
the fact that the subpoena that Plaintiff propounded explicitly states that it
is a deposition subpoena for the production of business records.
This technical distinction between a subpoena duces
tecum and a deposition subpoena for production of business records is relevant
because Movants argue that under CCP § 1985(b), Plaintiff did not file an
affidavit showing good cause for the production of the matters described in the
subpoena.
“A copy of an affidavit shall be served with a
subpoena duces tecum issued before trial, showing good cause for the production
of the matters and things described in the subpoena, specifying the exact
matters or things desired to be produced, setting forth in full detail the
materiality thereof to the issues involved in the case, and stating that the
witness has the desired matters or things in his or her possession or under his
or her control.” (CCP § 1985(b).)
Therefore, Movants argue that Plaintiff did not submit
an affidavit of good cause with the subpoena. 
The Court has its doubts regarding Movants’ arguments
for several reasons.
First, Movants discuss case law and fishing
expeditions generally, which is unhelpful for our purposes here. 
Second, Movants cite Terry v. SLICO (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 352, 355, and after a strained reading of that case seem to argue that
because Plaintiff’s only requested the production of business records, the
exception to 1985(b) does not apply. 
This argument makes the Court doubt Movants’ argument
for two reasons.
First, Movants cite Terry for the proposition
that since Plaintiff requested only the production of business records,
as opposed to requesting both the deposition of the witness and the production
of business records, then Plaintiff does not get the exception of 1985(b) and
thus must have to provide an affidavit when propounding the subpoena. 
This misinterprets Terry. In fact, under Terry,
if Plaintiff is only seeking business records in a deposition subpoena,
then Plaintiff did not need to submit an affidavit of good cause. “There is no
requirement that an affidavit of good cause be served with either a “testimony
only” deposition subpoena (see § 2020.310) or a “business records” deposition
subpoena (see § 2020.410).” (Terry v. SLICO (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 352, 357.)
“A deposition subpoena that commands only the
production of business records for copying need not be accompanied by an
affidavit or declaration showing good cause for the production of the business
records designated in it. It shall be directed to the custodian of those
records or another person qualified to certify the records. It shall command
compliance in accordance with Section 2020.430 on a date that is no earlier
than 20 days after the issuance, or 15 days after the service, of the
deposition subpoena, whichever date is later.” (CCP § 2020.410(c).)
Therefore, under the case Movants cited, Plaintiff did
not need to submit an affidavit. 
Second, Movants’ own moving papers on page 13 of their
motion admits that Plaintiff seeks only the production of business records. (See
Def. Mot. p. 13, line 4-6.) This goes against Movants’ entire argument that they
asserted in the Reply wherein Movants argue that this deposition subpoena does not
seek only business records.
Ultimately, when reading both parties’ arguments, the
Court is left to think that neither party has the slightest clue as to what is
going on, or the Court is left to think that both parties wrote their papers in
such a lazy manner that the Court cannot even follow the parties’ arguments. 
The Court will hear argument as to the difference
between a subpoena duces tecum and a deposition subpoena for the production of
business records. The Court will hear argument as to if an affidavit of good
cause was required. 
Insurance Information and Privacy
Protection Act
Movants
also argue that the records sought may not be produced because Insurance Code §
791.13(a) prohibits an insurance company or its agents from disclosing any
personal or privileged information received in connection with an insurance
transaction, unless the insured authorizes such disclosure. 
Movants argue that because Mr. Tsaturyan and Mr.
Khachatryan did not consent to release of insurance information, this
information cannot be released. 
Again, whether this argument is availing or not is
borderline impossible to determine based on the moving, opposition, and reply
papers.
Starting with common sense, the Court is highly
doubtful of Movants’ argument. If the law is what Movants allege it to be, then
the Court wonders how anything in the insurance context is discoverable, if, as
the Movants allege, the Defendants must first consent to the disclosure.
However, the Opposition is borderline incomprehensible
on the issue as well.
The closest that Opposition gets to shedding light on
the issue is the case of Griffith v. State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 59, 69-70.
As stated in Griffith:
Similarly, once a lawsuit has been filed,
and thus the potential claimant has demonstrated a serious claim is being
asserted against the insured, courts have recognized that an adverse party has
a “ 'discoverable interest' in [the other party's] liability insurance which
arises with the 'very pendency' of the action against the assured;
that therefore, the existence and policy limits of the [insured's] liability
insurance are relevant to the subject matter *70 involved in
the personal injury action ....” (Pettie v. Superior Court, supra, 178
Cal.App.2d at p. 683, italics added; Laddon v. Superior Court,
supra, 167 Cal.App.2d 391.) The courts have acknowledged that the
disclosure of the information will facilitate the resolution of the pending
controversy. (Pettie v. Superior Court, supra, 178 Cal.App.2d at p.
689.) However, this right to know arises upon the pendency of the suit.
Contrary to claimant's assertion, the right to the policy limits does not arise
prior to that time.
(Griffith v. State
Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 59, 69-70.)
In Reply, Movants attempt
to distinguish Griffith by arguing that it isn’t applicable because it
was a case about the release of policy limits prior to initiation of suit by a
third party and is irrelevant and does not support Plaintiff’s argument.
The Court does not find
Movants’/Reply’s argument about Griffith on point. While Movants are
correct to note that Griffith answers the question of – whether or not
prior to the filing of a lawsuit or another formal proceeding, can a third
party claimant require an insurance carrier to release the policy limits of an
insurance contract – the portion that Plaintiff cites in Griffith is in
fact on point. The portion cited by Opposition with respect to Griffith was
cited in Griffith to distinguish the difference in standards between
obtaining the insurance information pre-lawsuit versus during lawsuit. In
distinguishing those standards, the portion cited by Opposition is on point
here because it explains what the standard is when litigation has been
initiated, like the case here. 
Further, through no help of either party, the Court
cites the following:
An insurance institution, agent, or
insurance-support organization shall not disclose any personal or privileged
information about an individual collected or received in connection with an
insurance transaction unless the disclosure is:
(g) Otherwise permitted or required
by law.
(h) In response to a facially valid
administrative or judicial order, including a search warrant or subpoena.
(Ins. Code § 791.13(g)-(h).)
Therefore, even though Movants argue that they must
consent to the release of this information, Movants fail to cite the exceptions
to § 791.13(a) as indicated by the Court above.
Attorney-Client, Attorney Work Product,
Privilege
Movants
argue that the records sought are protected by attorney-client privilege,
attorney work product, and the privilege associated with investigation in
anticipation of litigation and the right to privacy. Movants also argue that
the requests are broad and not relevant.
Here, the Court will hear argument. 
Movants argue that all the aforementioned privileges
apply; however, Movants make no understandable explanation as to why or how
those privileges apply with respect to the requests in the subpoena. Movants
generally argue that those privileges apply to the requests, but Movants don’t
explain their arguments in any understandable fashion in the context of each
individual request in the subpoena.
Further, as the Court indicated before with respect to
CCP § 1987.1, that section does not indicate which party has the burden on this
type of motion. For example, does the party seeking to quash the subpoena have
the burden to justify good cause, or does the party seeking the disclosure of
the documents have the burden of good cause in justifying its requests. CCP §
1987.1 does not indicate as such.
Privilege Log
In
Reply, Movants submitted a privilege log.
As a preliminary matter, the Plaintiff submitted a
sur-reply objecting to the privilege log because it was evidence submitted in
Reply, which Plaintiff argues is improper. 
Whether or not submitting evidence in reply is
improper still belies the fact that the privilege log is entirely unhelpful to
the Court.
The subpoena requests at least 16 categories of
records. The privilege log in Exhibit 7 of the reply consists of 156 items that
don’t indicate in any clear fashion as to what request each response is
applicable to.
Movants are encouraged to read CCP §§ 2031.210 –
2031.320.
“Each statement of compliance, each representation,
and each objection in the response shall bear the same number and be in the
same sequence as the corresponding item or category in the demand, but the text
of that item or category need not be repeated.” (CCP § 2031.210(c).)
TENTATIVE RULING
Movants
are to address whether or not this motion can be heard under CCP § 1005(b).
Opposition did not bring the issue up, but this motion does not appear to be
filed with the proper notice under CCP § 1005(b).
The parties are to address all matters they were
directed to address in Preliminary Matters 2 and 3.
The parties are to address the issues brought up in
the section on the difference between a subpoena duces tecum and a deposition
subpoena for the production of business records. 
Overall, both parties’ papers are borderline
incomprehensible and lazily written.
Movants general premise is how all sorts of privileges
apply to the requests in the subpoena; however, Movants make no understandable
explanation supported by legal authority as to how each privilege applies to
each request.
Further, incorporated in this ruling is the ruling on
the motion to quash submitted by Defendant Clearcover Insurance Company. As to
the motion to quash submitted by Clearcover Insurance Company, the Court is
inclined to either deny it as moot based on the fact that Clearcover has been
dismissed, or grant it so that Clearcover does not have to answer it since
Clearcover has been dismissed.
Sanctions
Opposition requests sanctions under CCP § 1987.2(a). 
“Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making an
order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under
Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (CCP § 1987.2(a).)
In Opposition, Plaintiff requests sanctions in the
amount of $12,090.00 for 18.6 hours of work at $650/hour.
 
 