  Case Number:  19STCV03095    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No. 
Chen, et. al. vs.
Li, et. al., Case No. 19STCV03095
 
Tentative Ruling
re:  Cross-complainant’s Motion to Compel
Further Discovery Responses; Request for Sanctions
 
Cross-Complainant Gerardo Lopez
(Lopez) moves for an order compelling Cross-Defendant Mosaic Solar Loan Trust
2018-1 (MSLT) to produce further responses to Request Nos. 2, 3, and 4 in the Requests
for Production (Set One). The motion is granted.  MSLT is ordered to serve further responses
and documents within ten (10) days of today’s date.  The Court orders monetary sanctions against
MSLT in the amount of $3,198.  MSLT is
ordered to pay Cross-complainant’s counsel $3,198 within thirty (30) days of
today’s date.
 
A party may move for an order
compelling further response to a request for production of documents if the
demanding party deems that responses are incomplete, evasive, or contains
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (a).)  A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) 
“For discovery purposes, information is
relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.’
[Citation]. Admissibility is not the test and information, unless
privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.
[Citation] These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery.” (Gonzales
v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
 
Lopez served the Requests for Production
of Documents (Set One) on MSLT on August 23, 2022. (Valdez Jr. Decl. ¶ 2, Ex.
1.) The Requests at issue read as follows:
Request No. 2: “All agreements for
transfer of the FINANCING CONTRACT [i.e., the contract financing the sale and
installation of the solar panels at Lopez’s residence] to or from YOU or any
other entity.”
Request No. 3: “All written
communications discussing transfer of the FINANCING CONTRACT to YOU or any
other entity.”
Request No. 4: “All DOCUMENTS
evidencing transfer of the FINANCING CONTRACT to or from YOU or any other
entity.”
 
            MSLT
served initial responses on September 26, 2022. (Valdez Jr. Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 2.) MSLT
objected to Nos. 2, 3, and 4 as vague, irrelevant, unduly burdensome, seeking
confidential information, and seeking information protected by privilege or
work-product doctrine. 
 
            In
Opposition, MSLT argues that the Requests are irrelevant because MSLT has, in
other discovery responses, confirmed its status as a current or former holder
of the financing contract.  As MSLT
acknowledges, its alleged liability is premised on it being a current or former
holder of the contract. 
 
Lopez
disputes that MSLT has conceded its status as a current or former holder in
discovery, and the Court agrees that MSLT’s responses on this issue appear
equivocal. (Friedland Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 2 [“Responding Party is a beneficiary of
the Financing Contract but not a holder”] [15].) Furthermore, MSLT’s purported
concession would not necessarily preclude discovery of the documents; “[e]ven if, by concession in a pleading a party removes,
perhaps temporarily, a given issue from the case, the scope of discoverable information will not
necessarily be narrowed.” (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court
(1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 174–75.) MSLT has also failed
to explain how documents related to the transfer of the financing contract constitute
“confidential business documents” protected from discovery. Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses is granted.
 
“[T]he court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd.
(h).)
 
The Court finds that monetary
sanctions are warranted based on MSLT’s unsuccessful opposition. Lopez requests
sanctions in the amount of $3,198, based on 4.4 hours billed by counsel and 3.6
hours of paralegal time, plus a filing fee of $60. (Valdez Jr. Decl. ¶ 10.) The
requested sanctions are granted. 