  Case Number:  22STCV11178    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 27, 2024                      TRIAL
DATE: May 14, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Johnny Smith et al. v. City of Los
Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV11178            
 
SECOND
PITCHESS MOTION FOR DISCOVERY OF PEACE OFFICER PERSONNEL RECORDS
PURSUANT TO EVIDENCE CODE SECTION 1043

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Johnny Smith, individually and as a
Personal Representative of the Estate of Aidan Smith, and Reily Smith 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant City of
Los Angeles,
 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/01/22: Complaint filed.
·        
06/02/22: First Amended Complaint filed. 
·        
01/17/23: Second Amended Complaint filed.
·        
02/16/23: Cross-Complaint filed by County of Los
Angeles.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for negligence and wrongful death that was filed on
April 1, 2022.   In their First Amended
Complaint, filed June 2, 2022, Plaintiffs contend that Defendants City of Los
Angeles, County of Los Angeles, and others negligently breached their duties to
act to prevent the suicide of Plaintiffs’ family member, Aidan Smith (“Aidan”).
 
Plaintiffs move for discovery of
peace officer personnel records pursuant to Evidence Code section 1043.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs’ second Pitchess
motion is GRANTED. 
 
The Court sets an in camera
hearing for April 26, 2024 at 2:00 pm in Department 47, Stanley Mosk
Courthouse. The custodian of records is to produce at the hearing all
potentially responsive documents for in camera inspection by the Court. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiffs move for discovery of
peace officer personnel records pursuant to Evidence Code section 1043.
 
Legal Standard
 
Obtaining discovery of peace officers’
personnel records is a two-step process. First, the party seeking discovery
“must file a motion supported by affidavits showing ‘good cause for the
discovery,’ first by demonstrating the materiality of the information to the
pending litigation, and second by ‘stating upon reasonable belief’ that the
police agency has the records or information at issue.” (Warrick v. Superior
Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1019.) Second, if the Court finds good cause
for the discovery, “it reviews the pertinent documents in chambers and
discloses only that information falling within the statutorily defined
standards of relevance.” (Ibid.) 
 
The Pitchess procedure applies when “discovery or
disclosure is sought of peace or custodial officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the
Penal Code or information from those records.” (Evid. Code § 1043(a).) 
 
Penal Code § 832.5 applies to “complaints by members of the
public against the personnel of these departments or agencies.” (Penal Code §
832.5(a)(1).) “Complaints and any reports or findings relating to these
complaints shall be retained for a period of at least five years.” (Id.
§ 832.5(b).) They “may be maintained either in the peace or custodial officer’s
general personnel file or in a separate file designated by the department or
agency.” (Ibid.) 
 
The term “personnel records” is defined as follows: 
 
“Personnel
records” means any file maintained under that individual's name by his or her
employing agency and containing records relating to any of the following: 
 
(1)
Personal data, including marital status, family members, educational and
employment history, home addresses, or similar information. 
 
(2) Medical
history. 
 
(3)
Election of employee benefits. 
 
(4)
Employee advancement, appraisal, or discipline. 
 
(5)
Complaints, or investigations of complaints, concerning an event or transaction
in which he or she participated, or which he or she perceived, and pertaining
to the manner in which he or she performed his or her duties. 
 
(6) Any
other information the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy. 
 
(Penal Code § 832.8(a).) Under
Evidence Code section 1043, a party may seek disclosure of these records by
filing a regularly noticed motion with the appropriate court. (Evid. Code §
1043(a).)
 
Good Cause
 
Under Evidence Code section 1043, a
Pitchess motion must include:
 
(1) Identification of the proceeding in
which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or
disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the
governmental agency which has custody and control of the records, and the time
and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard.
 
(2) A description of the type of
records or information sought.
 
(3) Affidavits showing good cause for
the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to
the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon
reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or
information from the records.
 
(Evid. Code § 1043(b).) The good cause requirement creates a
“relatively low threshold for discovery.” (Riske v. Superior Court
(2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 647, 655-56.) A party seeking records need only
demonstrate through affidavits a “plausible factual foundation” for how the
records are material to the subject matter of the pending litigation. (Id.)
The affidavits may be based on information and belief, and may be made by
counsel, as the party seeking disclosure usually does not know the contents of
the records. (Abatti v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 39, 51.)
 
            Here, the
Notice of Motion identifies the proceeding, the party seeking disclosure, the
governmental agency with custody and control of the records, and the officers
whose records are sought, as required by subdivision (b)(1). The Notice of
Motion also describes the records sought, as required by subdivision (b)(2). The
Court therefore finds that Plaintiffs have complied with the procedural
requirements of subdivisions (b)(1) and (b)(2). 
 
            Plaintiffs’
Notice of Motion identifies 3 sets of peace officer records sought: (1) complaints
against any “involved LAPD employee” related to neglect of duty, including
untruthfulness, failure to investigate, obstructing or conspiring to obstruct
an investigation, interference with an investigation, or destruction of
evidence, from November of 2014 to the present; (2) complaints against LAPD
employees related to failure to properly report a fellow LAPD employee’s
alleged criminal storage of a firearm from November 2014 to the present; and
(3) any documents and correspondence discussing or otherwise contemplating an
investigation of Eric Eppolito for the “incident.” (Notice of Motion pp.
ii-iii.) “Incident” is defined as “the access of Aidan Smith to LAPD officer
service weapons between approximately November 1, 2019 and December 17, 2019,
leading to his ultimate death by gunshot.” (Notice p.ii:9-11.) “Involved LAPD
Employee” includes Eric and Amira Eppolito, their commanding officers, those
officers’ superiors, Plaintiff Johnny Smith, and his partner, as well as Deputy
Chief Rodriguez, Commander Hamilton, and Chief Moore. (Id. pp.
ii:12-iii:3.) 
 
1.     
LAPD Employee Misconduct
 
            The
Declaration of Gregory Yates attached to the motion states that a key element
of Plaintiffs’ case against the City of Los Angeles is whether a formal
complaint was lodged or an investigation conducted regarding the decedent’s
access to an LAPD service weapon and attempted suicide, for which he was placed
on an involuntary hold. (Declaration of Gregory Yates ISO Mot. ¶ 7; SAC ¶¶
83-108.) Plaintiffs contend that one of the “involved LAPD employees” was
downgraded for warning a subordinate of an ongoing investigation in a separate
matter, which permitted that subordinate to destroy evidence. (Id. ¶¶
8-9.) Thus, Plaintiffs argue, the records sought in the first category (request
No. 12) are relevant and admissible to prove motive, opportunity, intent,
preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, or absence of mistake, or to attack
credibility of witnesses. (Evid. Code § 1101(b).) 
 
Defendant argues that the scope of
Plaintiffs’ request is generally overbroad. As the Court has previously stated,
although such an objection may be sufficient to warrant limitations on disclosure,
the Court is not persuaded, based on the allegations as pled, that they should
not be produced for in camera review. 
 
Defendant also argues that
Plaintiffs are not entitled to receive entire complaints, merely the names,
addresses, and telephone numbers of complainants and witnesses, nor conclusions
by any investigating officer.  These are
standards applicable to disclosure not to the general relevance measure applied
in a Pitchess motion.  Thus, a
party may not be entitled to the subjective impressions and conclusions of an
investigating civil officer unless they are relevant. (Haggerty v. Superior
Ct. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1088-89.) Similarly, a party may not
receive materials from third-party complaints other than the names, addresses,
and phone numbers of the complainants absent a showing that further information
is required. (See, e.g., Kevin L. v. Superior Court (1976) 62 Cal.App.3d
823, 828-29.) Although such materials may be prohibited from disclosure, they
are not outside the scope of what should be produced for in camera
review. (See City of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 74,
84.)  Accordingly, the Court disagrees
with Defendant’s opposition to the motion on this basis.
 
2.     
Firearm Storage Complaints
 
Plaintiffs argue that the materials
sought with respect to this category are relevant to demonstrate a pattern and
practice of failing to report or investigate improper storage of a firearms by
LAPD employees. (Yates Decl. ¶¶ 7, 10-11.) Plaintiffs contend on information
and belief that there has been at least one other incident of a failure to
properly report an LAPD employee’s improper storage of a firearm within the
relevant period. (Yates Decl. ¶ 11.) Such materials are facially relevant to the
allegations in Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action. (SAC ¶¶ 109-120.) 
 
Defendant again argues that this
request is overbroad, and that it is not required to produce more than names,
addresses, and telephone numbers of complainants and witnesses. For the reasons
stated above, the Court rejects these arguments with respect to whether the
materials sought should be produced for in camera review. 
 
Plaintiffs contend that this
request is relevant because Johnny Smith testified in deposition that he was
informed that the firearm used by Aiden belonged to Eric Eppolito. (Yates Decl.
¶ 12.) According to Plaintiffs, both Eric and Amira’s weapons were likely
stored in the same safe and thus were both accessed when Aidan guessed Amira’s
birthday as the code to the safe. (See SAC ¶ 31.) Defendant argues Plaintiffs’
basis for this request is mere “speculation” in a Plaintiff’s statements are
more properly characterized as a contention made “on information and belief,”
which is all that is required to demonstrate good cause for in camera review.

 
Defendant also argues that this
request transforms the motion into an improper motion to compel because it is
seeking records that were sought in Plaintiffs’ first Pitchess motion.
This argument is based entirely on the implication in Plaintiffs’ moving papers
that these records were expected to be part of Defendant’s previous Pitchess
production with respect to Eric Eppolito’s personnel file. (Motion p. 5:8-12.) Defendant’s
assumption is flawed in that records evidencing discussion or contemplation of
an investigation would not necessarily be part of an officer’s personnel file,
and thus the requests are not identical on their face. Further, Defendant cites
no authority standing for the position that a motion to compel is the sole method
authorized by law to obtain materials which were expected but not received, nor
that supplemental discovery requests of narrower scope and identifying
materials sought with greater specificity are at all improper.  
 
The Court therefore finds that
Plaintiffs have demonstrated good cause for in camera review of the
materials sought. 
 
In Camera Review
 
            The parties
agree that, pursuant to Evidence Code section 1045, the records sought must be
reviewed in camera to determine if the records are discoverable. 
 
[I]f “the
trial court concludes the defendant has fulfilled these prerequisites and made
a showing of good cause, the custodian of records should bring to court all
documents ‘potentially relevant’ to the . . . motion. . . . The trial court ‘shall examine the information in
chambers’ (Evid. Code, § 1045, subd. (b)), ‘out of the presence and hearing of
all persons except the person authorized [to possess the records] and such
other persons [the custodian of records] is willing to have present.’ … Subject
to statutory exceptions and limitations . . . the trial court should then
disclose to the [moving party] ‘such information [that] is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation.’ [Citations.]”  
 
(Haggerty, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at 1086,
bold emphasis added.) 
 
Evidence
Code section 1045 sets forth certain statutory limitations on relevance: 
 
(b)¿In
determining relevance, the court shall examine the information in chambers in
conformity with Section 915, and shall exclude from disclosure: 
 
(1)¿Information consisting of complaints concerning
conduct occurring more than five years before the event or transaction
that is the subject of the litigation in aid of which discovery or disclosure
is sought. 
 
* * * 
 
(3)¿Facts sought to be disclosed that are so remote
as to make disclosure of little or no practical benefit. 
 
(c)¿In
determining relevance where the issue in litigation concerns the policies or
pattern of conduct of the employing agency, the court shall consider whether
the information sought may be obtained from other records maintained by the
employing agency in the regular course of agency business which would not
necessitate the disclosure of individual personnel records. 
 
All document production will be limited as set forth in
Evidence Code § 1045(b) and (c). 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ second Pitchess
motion is GRANTED. 
 
The Court sets an in camera
hearing for April 26, 2024 at 2:00 pm in Department 47, Stanley Mosk
Courthouse. The custodian of records is to produce at the hearing all
potentially responsive documents for in camera inspection by the Court. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: March 27, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 



 