 Case Number:  24SMCV03137    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  O Case Name:   Burkle v. Azria



Case No.:                    24SMCV03137


Complaint Filed:                   6-27-24




Hearing Date:            9-17-24


Discovery C/O:                     N/A




Calendar No.:            add-on


Discover Motion C/O:          N/A




POS:                           OK


Trial Date:                             N/A



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO
EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS 
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Lubov Azria,
Trustee of the Azria Family Trust Dated August 11, 1995 as amended; 
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Ronald W.
Burkle
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
             Defendant Lubov Azria, Trustee of the Azria
Family Trust Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED.  Plaintiff fails to reach their burden of
proving by a preponderance of evidence that there is a probable validity to
their claims. Plaintiff is ordered to pay Azria sanctions of $_______ within 20
days.
 
            Azria’s
Objections are OVERRULED as to No. 1, and SUSTAINED as to Nos. 2 and 3. 
 
REASONING
“At any time after notice of pendency of action has been
recorded, any party, or any nonparty with an interest in the real property
affected thereby, may apply to the court in which the action is pending to
expunge the notice.”  (CCP §405.30.)  On a motion to expunge a notice
of lis pendens, the claimant who filed the lis pendens has the burden of proof
under CCP §§405.31 and 405.32.  (See CCP §405.30; Kirkeby v. Supr. Ct.
(2004) 33 Cal.4th 642, 648 [“Unlike most other motions, when a motion to
expunge is brought, the burden is on the party opposing the motion to show the
existence of a real property claim.”].) 
 
Thus, that claimant, in opposing the motion to expunge the
lis pendens, must demonstrate the following: (1) the action affects title to or
right of possession of the real property described in the notice; (2) in so far
as the said notice is concerned, the party recording the notice has commenced
the action for a proper purpose and in good faith; and (3) the probable
validity of the real property claim by a preponderance of the evidence.  (See
Hunting World, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 67, 70; see
also CCP §§405.31 and 405.32.)  The court must order the notice expunged
if it finds the pleading on which the notice is based does not contain a real
property claim or the claimant has not established by a preponderance of the
evidence the probable validity of the real property claim (CCP §§ 405.31,
405.32.)
 
 
I.               
Probable Validity Of The Real Property Claim By
A Preponderance Of The Evidence
 
            Plaintiff Ronald
W. Burkle (“Plaintiff”) argues this motion should be denied because the
plaintiff adequately alleged the breach of contract cause of action, and thus established
the specific performance cause of action in turn. 
 
The essential elements of breach of
contract are “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff." (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United
Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.)
 
“To obtain specific performance
after a breach of contract, a plaintiff must generally show: “(1) the
inadequacy of his legal remedy; (2) an underlying contract that is both
reasonable and supported by adequate consideration; (3) the existence of a
mutuality of remedies; (4) contractual terms which are sufficiently definite to
enable the court to know what it is to enforce; and (5) a substantial
similarity of the requested performance to that promised in the contract.”(Real
Estate Analytics, LLC v. Vallas (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 463, 472.)
 
“It is, of course, basic hornbook
law that the existence of a contract is a necessary element to an action based
on contract, regardless whether the plaintiff seeks specific performance or
damages for breach of contract.” (Roth v. Malson (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
552, 557.)
 
The Complaint alleges in the
factual background that on 5-9-24 Plaintiff submitted an “irrevocable bid for
$30,000,000 to purchase” Defendant Lubov Azria’s (“Defendant”) Property located
at 10250 West Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA (the “Property”). (Compl., ¶¶
5, 13.) Plaintiff placed the bid on the Property via Concierge Auctions, LLC (the
“Auction House”), and the Auction House “authorized the auction to be without
reserve.”. (Id., ¶¶ 4, 12.) “Plaintiff’s bid was the successful bid to
purchase the Property, and on May 23, 2024. shortly after the auction closed,
the Auction House notified Plaintiff he was the successful bidder.” (Id.,
¶ 14.)  Plaintiff alleges that he was and
is now ready, willing able to consummate the purchase to his successful bid,
notifying the Defendant as such through multiple attempts to reach agreement,
however, Defendant “refused to complete the sale, except on unreasonable terms
that were not part of, and were inconsistent with, the auction announcement and
terms.” (Id., ¶¶ 15–18.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that these allegations establish an enforceable contract between
Plaintiff and Defendant commencing immediately upon the conclusion of the
auction for the purchase of the Property for $30,000,000 under California Commercial
Code § 2328. (See Cal. U. Com. Code, § 2328 [“(1) In a sale by auction if goods
are put up in lots each lot is the subject of a separate sale . . . . (2) A
sale by auction is complete when the auctioneer so announces by the fall of the
hammer or in other customary manner.”].)  However, California Commercial Code § 2328 governs
auctions of goods, not auctions of real property, and thus has no bearing on
the creation of an enforceable contract in this matter. Even assuming the commercial
code does apply to this auction, the effect of provisions of the commercial
code “may be varied by agreement.” (Cal. U. Com. Code, § 1302, subd., (a); see
also Hester v. Public Storage (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 668, 676 [parties can
agree to additional grounds for voiding sale].)  Additionally, contracts for the sale of real
property must be in writing subject to the statue of frauds. (See Reeder v.
Specialized Loan Servicing LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 795, 801 [“An
agreement for the sale of real property or an interest in real property comes
within the statute of frauds.”].)
 
Defendant shows Plaintiff agreed to Terms &
Services (“T&C”) prior to bidding that stated conditions Plaintiff was
required to satisfy in order to close on the sale of the Property. Defendant
submits admissible evidence from the Concierge Auctions, LLC custodian of
records, Aaron Gordon (“Gordon”), providing the “T&C” that Concierge
requires all bidders to execute as a condition of participating in a Concierge
auction. (Gordon Decl., ¶ 1–2, 6.). Gordon declares that Plaintiff entered into
the T&C on 5-3-24, prior to placing the 5-9-24 Property bid, and attached a
copy of the T&C to the declaration. (Id., ¶ 7; Ex. C (“T&C”).). The
T&C states the following:
 
1.    
“You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed the
applicable Purchase and Sale Contract [“PSA”], you agree to execute the [PSA]
upon request, to make any additional earnest money deposits required under the
Purchase and Sale Contract, and further understand that the [PSA] will be
legally binding once executed by you.” (T&C, p. 4.)
2.    
“Once bidding is complete and the Buyer is
identified by Concierge, Buyer will be required immediately to execute the [PSA]”
(Ibid.)
3.    
“A Buyer of Property shall initiate a wire
transfer to Escrow Agent or applicable closing agent listed in the [PSA] for
its earnest money deposit up to twelve percent (12.00%) of the Purchase Price
(the “Deposit”), and the executed [PSA], Escrow Instructions and other
documents reasonably required by the Escrow Agent must be received no later
than 5:00 p.m. Local Time on the second business day following the Auction date
and the Deposit must be received by the Escrow Agent no later than 5:00 p.m.
Local Time two business days following the Auction date” (Ibid.)
4.    
“Bidder acknowledges that its failure to execute the [PSA]
or to pay the full Deposit is a material breach that will result in forfeiture
of the Bidder’s Deposit, among other things.” (Ibid.)
5.    
“Seller will convey good and marketable title to the
Property free and clear of all liens and encumbrances, except as set forth in
the Purchase and Sale Contract and subject to any Preliminary Title Report
related to the Property. You are advised to review the Purchase and Sale
Contract and the Preliminary Title Report/Commitment for the Property prior to
participating in any Auction” (Id., p. 7.)
6.    
“BUYER’S PURCHASE OF THE PROPERTY IS A CASH TRANSACTION
AND IS NOT SUBJECT TO OR DEPENDENT UPON ANY CONTINGENCIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, including, without limitation, a contingency for financing, due diligence
or inspections.” (Id., p. 7.)
 
Defendant attaches a copy of the PSA, and Rider, at
issue here, to the Gordon Declaration and declares that Plaintiff failed to
sign the PSA or remit the earnest money deposit within the T&C allotted
time, or anytime as of 6-19-24. (Gordon Decl., ¶¶ 10, 11; Ex. D (“PSA”), E
(“Rider”); Worley Decl., ¶¶ 9–11; Ex. A [email conversations regarding
Plaintiff’s failure to execute the PSA or the earnest money deposit].)
Defendant argues the failure to timely execute the PSA and remit the earnest
money deposit constitutes a material breach of the T&C and “obviates any
obligation [Defendant] may have to had to sell the property. (Reply., p. 4;
T&C, p. 4.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues the intent of the parties was for an immediately enforceable contract
for the purchase and sale of the Property, to arise upon the fall of the gavel
at the auction without reserve. (Oppo., p. 8.)  Plaintiff does not provide any evidence of intent
other than referring to the pleadings and the law applicable to the auction of
goods, not real property. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the Auction House required Plaintiff to execute a copy of a Terms
and Conditions (“T&C”) in order to bid on the property itself, but not “to set
forth the terms of the agreement to purchase the Property.” (Oppo., pp. 8:12–28–9:4.)
Plaintiff points to sections of the T&C which provide that “Seller may
extend the closing date pursuant to PSA or other negotiations between Seller
and Buyer”, and that “Seller will convey good and marketable title to the
Property free and clear of all liens and encumbrances except as set forth in
PSA,” to argue this point. Nevertheless, the T&C expressly states the
winning bidder is subject to executing the PSA and remitting the Earnest Money
Deposit by a specific date. These provisions are clear terms regarding the
purchase of the property, and not just terms stated to bid on the property
only.  
 
Plaintiff cannot meet his burden to show by a
preponderance of evidence that he will succeed on their breach of contract
claim, and in turn the specific performance claim. The only agreement Plaintiff
can possibly allege the parties are bound by is the T&C. (See Compl., ¶ 27 [“Plaintiff
and Azria understood and agreed to be bound by the terms of the contract.”].)
Plaintiff provides no evidence of any other agreement entered into, nor does
Plaintiff dispute entering into the T&C in the opposition. Azria has shown
by a preponderance of evidence that Plaintiff breached the T&C, that
Plaintiff has not entered into the PSA nor sent the earnest money deposit. Because
the PSA was never executed, there is no contract for the sale of the property,
and thus no specific performance of a real property contract can be ordered,
nor can a breach of contract claim succeed. 


            Plaintiff
fails to reach their burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence that
there is a probable validity to their claims. 
The Motion To Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED. 
 
II.            
Defendant’s Request for Attorney’s Fees
 
            “The court
shall direct that the party prevailing on any motion under this chapter be
awarded the reasonable attorney's fees and costs of making or opposing the
motion unless the court finds that the other party acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of attorney's
fees and costs unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.38.)  The
prevailing party on a motion to expunge is entitled to an award only against
the losing party. There is no provision for an award against the losing party's
attorneys as sanctions or otherwise.  (See
Doyle v. Sup.Ct. (Jacinth Develop., Inc.) (1991) 226 Cal.App.3d 1355, 1359.)  
            Plaintiff
argues they brought the complaint and lis pendens with substantial
justification that Defendant breached a contract when not transferring title to
Plaintiff. The Court disagrees.  The evidence
shows Plaintiff has not acted with substantial justification and that awarding Defendant
reasonable attorney’s fees is not unjust. 
 
            Azria
requests an award of $53,590.00 in attorney’s fees and costs ($60 filing fee) as
the prevailing party.  Azria claims to
have incurred $45,030 to prepare and file the motion to expunge and supporting
documents.  Mr. Casparian states he spent
30 hours “preparing and drafting” the motion and accompanying memorandum and
declarations at his hourly rate of $860. Ms. Suchard (a 5th year associate)
also spent 30 hours “preparing and drafting” the same documents at an hourly
rate of $525.00. Additionally,  Mr
Posivak (1st year associate) spent an additional 8 hours at $435 per
hour for legal research in connection with the preparation of the motion. (See Casparian
Decl., ¶¶ 5–8).  In addition, Defendant’s
request attorney’s fees of $6,700 for the preparation of the reply memorandum,
and finally an additional $1,720 to appear at the hearing. (Casparian Reply
Decl., ¶¶ 8–12.) 
 
            As
the prevailing party, it is Azria evidentiary burden to show its claim for
attorney fees is reasonable by demonstrating that the fees incurred were
necessary for the conduct of the litigation and were reasonable in amount. (See,
Mikhaeilpoor v. BMW of North America, LLC, (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 240)  “[If the prevailing party fails to meet this
burden, and the court finds the time expended or amount charged is not
reasonable under the circumstances, “then the court must take this into account
and award attorney fees in a lesser amount.” (citation.)” (Id, at 2467.  As the Court explained in Concepcion v.
Amscan Holdings, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1309, 1320: 
“Of particular
significance here, this initial calculation requires the court to determine the
reasonable, not actual, number of hours expended by counsel entitled to an
award of fees. (Citation.) Thus, class counsel “are not automatically entitled
to all hours they claim in their request for fees. They must prove the hours
they sought were reasonable and necessary.” (Citation) “The evidence should
allow the court to consider whether the case was overstaffed, how much time the
attorneys spent on particular claims, and whether the hours were reasonably
expended.” (Citation.) Indeed, “[a] fee request that appears unreasonably
inflated is a special circumstance permitting the trial court to reduce the
award or deny one altogether.” ( errano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621,
635, 186 Cal.Rptr. 754, 652 P.2d 985; accord, Chavez v. City of Los Angeles
(2010) 47 Cal.4th 970, 990, 104 Cal.Rptr.3d 710, 224 P.3d 41; see Ketchum v.
Moses, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 1132, 104 Cal.Rptr.2d 377, 17 P.3d 735[“[i]n
referring to ‘reasonable ’ compensation, we indicated that trial courts
must carefully review attorney documentation of hours expended; ‘padding’ in
the form of inefficient or duplicative efforts is not subject to
compensation”].
 
 
            Other
than stating a loadstar calculation of the hourly rates and time spent,
Defendant have not offered any evidence of why the extraordinary time spent was
necessary, or the substantial hourly rates are reasonable.  In particular, as noted by Plaintiff, Azria has
not explained why it was necessary or reasonable to have two experienced
attorneys each spend 30 hours to prepare the motion and accompanying documents
as well as duplicate hours for the drafting of the reply.  The Court finds Azria has failed to meet its
burden and the Court finds the total time expended is not reasonable under the circumstances.
Taking this into account, the Court finds the reasonable amount of attorney’s
fees to be awarded to Azria is _______________________ to be paid by Plaintiff
to Azria within 20 days.