..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV00628
Case Name: Vitolo, et al. v. Srour, M.D., et al.
Plaintiff's Name: Stefano Vitolo, Hyun Vitolo
Defendant's Name: Raja Srour, M.D., Doheny Sunset Surgery Center
People Names: Stefano Vitolo, Hyun Vitolo, Raja Srour, Doheny Srour
Company Names: Doheny Sunset Surgery Center
Place: California
Date: January 12, 2023, January 28, 2022, March 3, 2023, March 6, 2024, May 7, 2024
Event: Cosmetic procedure, Emergency surgery
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Negligence, Malpractice
Facts: Cosmetic procedure, Bleeding, Hematoma, Carotid artery injuries
Disputes: Standard of care, Causation
Acts: Cosmetic procedure, Failure to inspect for bleeding
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure, Evidence Code
Statutes: California Civil Code, California Evidence Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Expert witness
Significant Statements:
* There is a triable issue of material fact regarding whether Dr. Srour complied with the applicable standard of care.
* There is a triable issue of material fact regarding whether Dr. Srour's acts or omission were a substantial factor in causing Mr. Vitolo's injuries.
```

English text summary:

The judge's tentative ruling denies the defendants' motion for summary judgment and the joinder to the motion for summary judgment. The judge finds that there are triable issues of material fact regarding whether Dr. Raja Srour, M.D. complied with the applicable standard of care and whether his acts or omissions were a substantial factor in causing Mr. Stefano Vitolo's injuries. The judge also finds that there are triable issues of material fact regarding whether Dr. Srour's acts or omissions were a substantial factor in causing Mr. Vitolo's loss of consortium. Therefore, the motion for summary judgment as to the first cause of action for medical negligence and the second cause of action for loss of consortium are denied.
