 Case Number:  23NWCV00879    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  C Hoag Property Management v. Palencia, et al. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00879
HEARING:   11/1/23 @ 10:30 AM
#8
 
Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED in part and
OVERRULED in part as set forth below. Defendants’ Motion to Strike is GRANTED
in part and DENIED in part.  Plaintiff is
granted 20 days leave to amend.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendants Luis Palencia and Uptown Property
Management (collectively Defendants) demur to Plaintiff Hoag Property
Management (Plaintiff)’s Complaint and move to strike seven portions of the
Complaint.
Background
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant Luis Palencia (Palencia) obtained proprietary knowledge
during his 25 year employment with Plaintiff. Further, Palencia signed
Confidentiality Agreements pursuant to his employment which prevented Palencia
from using the proprietary knowledge and from diverting any of Plaintiff’s
customers for three years. Plaintiff alleges that Palencia resigned in March
2022 and then started his own company, Defendant Uptown Property Management
(Uptown). Plaintiff claims that Palencia used the proprietary information at
Uptown and solicited Plaintiff’s clients. 

Plaintiff
brings causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations, (3) Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Relations, (4) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets, and (5)
Violation of Business and Professions Code Section 17200.
Legal
Standard
The party against whom
a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings which are not
challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). (CCP
§§ 435, 436 & 437.) A motion to strike lies only where the pleading has
irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. (C.C.P. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must
appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (C.C.P. §
437.)
Discussion

Defendants argue that the Complaint is
uncertain. Demurrers for uncertainty are strictly construed, because discovery
can be used for clarification, and apply where defendants cannot reasonably
determine what issues or claims are stated. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
The Complaint is not uncertain because Defendant can reasonably determine what
claims are stated. Thus, Defendants’ Demurrer is overruled on the grounds of
uncertainty.
Defendants argue that the First Cause of Action
for Breach of Contract fails because Plaintiff did not attach all contracts to
the Complaint. “[A] plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the contract rather
than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG
Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 199.) Here, Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant signed a Confidentiality Agreement and Agreement Regarding
Confidentiality of Trade Secrets and Proprietary Information (collectively the
Agreements) and the terms of the Agreements (Compl. ¶¶ 7-17.) Thus, Plaintiff
pleaded sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for breach of
contract. Defendant’s Demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.
Defendants argue that the Second and Third Causes
of Action for Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations and
Prospective Economic Relations fail because Plaintiff did not identify a third
party and allege any intentional wrongful acts by Defendants. However,
Plaintiff identifies the third parties as its current customers. (See Roth
v. Rhodes (1994) 25 Cal. App. 4th 530, 546) (doctor alleging intentional
interference had to identify “an existing relationship” and could not rely on “speculative
‘future patients.’ ”).) Further, the Complaint alleges that Defendants “contacted
various property owners with current contracts with HPM in an effort to solicit
business away from Plaintiff” and they “intended to disrupt the performance of
certain contracts ….” (Compl. ¶¶ 30 and 31.) Thus, Plaintiff pleaded sufficient
facts to constitute a cause of action for Intentional Interference with
Contractual Relations and Prospective Economic Relations. Therefore,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the second and third causes of action is overruled.
Defendants argue that the Fourth Cause of
Action for Misappropriation of Trade Secrets fails because Plaintiff failed to
identify the trade secret with reasonable particularity. “Before a defendant is
compelled to respond to a complaint based upon claimed misappropriation or
misuse of a trade secret and to embark on discovery which may be both prolonged
and expensive, the complainant should describe the subject matter of the trade
secret with sufficient particularity to separate it from matters of general knowledge
in the trade or of special knowledge of those persons who are skilled in the
trade, and to permit the defendant to ascertain at least the boundaries within
which the secret lies.” (Diodes, Inc. v. Franzen (1968) 260 Cal.App.2d
244, 253.) Here, Plaintiff provides no particularity as to what proprietary
information it alleges that Defendants misappropriated. It simply claims the
information was not generally known or available to the public and it spent
tremendous time, effort, and resources developing it. (Compl. ¶¶ 48 and 49.)
Thus, Plaintiff has failed to plead sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action for Misappropriation of Trade Secrets. Therefore, Defendant’s Demurrer
to the fourth cause of action is sustained.
Defendants argue that the Fifth Cause of Action
for Unfair Business Practices fails because Plaintiff’s other causes of action
fail. However, as stated above, Plaintiff’s First through Third Causes of
Action are sufficiently pled. Therefore, Defendant’s Demurrer to the fifth
cause of action is overruled.
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to
allege sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff
alleges in its Misappropriation of Trade Secrets Cause of Action that
“Defendants took these actions deliberately, callously, malicious, fraudulently
and in an oppressive manner to cause harm to Plaintiff, and that such improper
motives amounted to malice and a conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights.” “In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Sup. Ct..(1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.)
Here, Plaintiff does not allege ultimate facts which can support a claim for
punitive damages. Thus, Defendants’ Motion to Strike is granted as to Requests
to Strike Nos. 4 and 5.
Defendants include seven requests to strike.
However, they fail to present any argument as to why Requests Nos. 1-3, 6, and
7 should be struck. Therefore, the remaining part of Defendants’ Motion to
Strike is denied.
Plaintiff is granted leave to amend because
Plaintiff has not yet amended its Complaint and Defendant has failed to show
that the defects cannot be cured.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
Demurrer is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in part as set forth above.
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Plaintiff
is granted 20 days leave to amend.