 Case Number:  22NWCV00356    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  C LEE, et al. v. GUARDIAN MANUFACTURING, INC., et al. 
CASE NO.: 22NWCV00356
HEARING:   11/1/23 @ 9:30 AM
#3
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Terminating Sanctions
is GRANTED. Defendants Wen Auguste Lee and Jin Gao’s Answers are struck.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiffs Sae Lee and Myung Hee Lee
(Plaintiffs) move for terminating sanctions for failure to comply with a court
order compelling Defendants Wen Auguste Lee and Jin Gao (collectively
Defendants) to appear for deposition and produce documents. Plaintiffs also
seek $2,040.00 in monetary sanctions.
Background
This
is a breach of commercial lease action relating to Defendants and Defendant
Guardian Manufacturing, Inc’s failure to pay rent. On January 17, 2023, Counsel
for all Defendants filed a motion to be relieved as counsel because he was
unable to contact his clients.
Legal
Standard
If
a party fails to comply with a court order compelling discovery responses or
attendance at a deposition, the court may impose monetary, issue, evidence, or
terminating sanctions. (CCP § 2025.450(h); § 2030.290(c); § 2031.300(c).) “To
the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method … the court, after notice to any affected party,
person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose … [monetary,
issue, evidence, or terminating] sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process ….” (CCP § 2030.030.) “Misuses of the discovery
process include, but are not limited to, the following: … (d) Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery … (g) Disobeying a
court order to provide discovery ….” (CCP § 2030.010.)
“The
trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after
considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.’ ” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377,
390, quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225,
1246.) “Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not
be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of
abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce
compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing
the ultimate sanction.’ ” (Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th
at 390.) 
Discussion

Here, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Compel
Depositions of Defendants and Requests for Production of Documents at time of
hearing. Defendants failed to appear at the properly noticed depositions. This
Court ordered Defendants to appear at their next noticed depositions and to pay
$2,040.00 in sanctions within 30 days. Defendants have not responded to any
attempts by Plaintiffs’ counsel to meet and confer regarding the depositions.
(Clark Decl., Exs. B and C.) Further, Defendants did not oppose the Motion to
Compel or appear at the hearing and they have not opposed this Motion. It
appears to this Court that Defendants will not be compelled to participate in
this action. Thus, the Court finds that terminating sanctions are appropriate
as Defendants have shown a disregard for this Court’s order to comply with
discovery and less severe sanctions have not produced compliance with the
discovery rules. Therefore, Defendants Wen Auguste Lee and Jin Gao’s Answers
are struck.
The Court declines to impose additional
monetary sanctions as such sanctions would be simply to punish Defendants
because terminating sanctions were granted.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
Motion for Terminating Sanctions is GRANTED. Defendants Wen Auguste Lee and Jin
Gao’s Answers are struck.
 
 
 