 Case Number:  24STCV07956    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June 13, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV07956




MOTIONS


Demurrer to Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Lisa
  Kim and Un Chong Kim




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Do Young Kim



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Do Yang
Kim (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Lisa Kim and Un Chong Kim (“Defendants”) as a
self-represented litigant.  Plaintiff
claims Defendants failed to pay Plaintiff sums due in the divorce agreement
between Plaintiff and Defendant Lisa Kim. 
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s complaint.  Defendants also move to strike portions of
the complaint.  After Defendants filed
these motions, Plaintiff retained counsel. 
Through his counsel, Plaintiff belatedly filed oppositions to the
motions.
  
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322,
subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the
court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
 
Plaintiff’s first cause of action is premised
on Defendants’ failure to comply with a written agreement to settle the divorce
action.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 8-9.)  As such, Plaintiff’s claim belongs in family
court, even though Plaintiff has framed the first cause of action as a civil
cause of action.  (Neal v. Superior
Court (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 22, 25-26.) 
The court, therefore, sustains the demurrer to Plaintiff’s first cause
of action without leave to amend.  
Plaintiff’s second cause of action is for
breach of a rental agreement for a mobile home. 
 Plaintiff must amend to clarify this
claim is unrelated to the divorce action, and it is, therefore, suitable for
resolution in this civil action. 
Further, Plaintiff must attach an English translation of any document written
in Korean Plaintiff attaches to the complaint, and he must provide
documentation reflecting a qualified interpreter has certified the translation under
oath.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(g).)  Additionally, Plaintiff must allege a basis on
which Defendant Lisa Kimis to be held liable as to the rental agreement.  Therefore, the court sustains the demurrer to
the second cause of action with leave to amend.
By sustaining the demurrer, the motion to
strike is rendered moot.  However, the court
notes Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s allegations on the basis they do
not support causes of action.  That is
not a proper basis for a motion to strike. 

Defendants also
move to strike the prayer for attorney fees. 
The court agrees with Defendants that Plaintiff does not allege a basis
for an award of attorney fees in his first amended complaint.  Moreover, Plaintiff does not oppose the
motion to strike the prayer for attorney fees. 
Thus, Plaintiff has not alleged entitlement to attorney fees and must clearly
do so if Plaintiff elects to file a further amended complaint and seeks
attorney fees.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’
demurrer to the first cause of action in Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained
without leave to amend.  Defendants’
demurrer to the second cause of action in Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained
with leave to amend.  Sustaining the
demurrer renders the motion to strike moot.
Plaintiff is to
file an amended complaint within 10 days of notice of this order.  
Defendants are ordered
to provide notice of this order and file proof of service of such. 