 Case Number:  24STCV02694    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE  RULING      DEPARTMENT   39     HEARING DATE   June    13, 2024     CASE NUMBER   24STCV02694     MOTION   Motion    to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint      MOVING PARTIES   Defendant DraftKings Inc.     OPPOSING PARTY   Plaintiffs    Michael Z. Hermalyn and FVP, LLC        BACKGROUND Defendant  DraftKings Inc. (“Defendant”) moves for an order quashing the service of  summons in this action.  Plaintiffs  Michael Z. Hermalyn (“Hermalyn”) and FVP, LLC (“Fanatics”) oppose the  motion.     ANALYSIS Under the due process clause of the  Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, state courts may  exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents who have “minimum contacts”  with the forum state.  Minimum contacts  exist when the relationship between the nonresident and the forum state is such  that the exercise of jurisdiction does not offend “traditional notions of fair  play and substantial justice.”  (International Shoe Co. v. Washington  (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316, internal quotations omitted.) “Personal jurisdiction may be either general  or specific.  A nonresident defendant may  be subject to the general jurisdiction of the forum if his or  her contacts in the forum state are substantial[,] continuous and  systematic.  In such a case, it is not  necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be connected with the  defendant's business relationship to the forum.   Such a defendant's contacts with the forum are so wide-ranging that they  take the place of physical presence in the forum as a basis for  jurisdiction.”  (Vons Companies, Inc.  v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445-446, internal  quotations and citations omitted.)  Even if a nonresident defendant does not have  sufficient contacts with California such that the defendant is subject to suit  in California generally, the defendant may nonetheless be subject to  jurisdiction in California for claims based on the defendant’s activities in  the state.  To assert “limited” or  “specific” personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant, the plaintiff  must demonstrate: (a) the out-of-state defendant purposefully established  contacts with the forum state; (b) the plaintiff's cause of action “arises out  of” or is “related to” defendant's contacts with the forum state; and (c) the  forum's exercise of personal jurisdiction in the particular case comports with  “fair play and substantial justice.”  (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985)  471 U.S. 462, 477-478.) “[W]hen jurisdiction is challenged by a  nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to demonstrate  that ‘minimum contacts’ exist between defendant and the forum state to justify  imposition of personal jurisdiction.”  (Elkman v. National States Ins. Co.  (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1313.)  If the  plaintiff meets the initial burden, “it becomes the defendant’s burden to  demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th  1353, 1362.) Hermalyn was employed as an executive for  Defendant, based in Boston, Massachusetts, He left his employment with  Defendant to work for Fanatics, Defendant’s competitor.  Defendant sued Hermalyn in DraftKings Inc. v. Hermalyn (D.Mass. 2024, No. 1:24-cv-10299) to enforce Hermalyn’s  agreement not to compete with Defendant.   In turn, Plaintiffs filed this instant action to invalidate that agreement.   Defendant relies on the declaration of  Gregory Karamitis (“Karamitis”), chief revenue officer for Defendant.  Karamitis states Defendant is a Nevada  corporation with its corporate headquarters in Boston, and Hermalyn worked for  Defendant out of Hermalyn’s home in New Jersey and, at times, out of  Defendant’s office in New York City.  Karamitis provides no information regarding  Defendant’s operations in California.   Plaintiffs’ complaint in this case is based  on Defendant’s enforcement of Hermalyn’s agreement not to compete with  Defendant.  By attempting to enforce that agreement,  Defendant knowingly aimed to directly impact Hermalyn’s employment with  Fanatics in California.  As such,  Defendant intentionally acted to restrain Hermalyn in California and is,  therefore, subject to jurisdiction in California.  (Calder  v. Jones (1984) 465 U.S.  783, 789; see also Jones v. Calder (1982) 138 Cal.App.3d 128, 134.)   In reply, Defendant cites Casey v. Hill  (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 937.  In that case,  the court noted, “For claims sounding in contract, courts generally apply a  purposeful availment analysis, where the focus is on the defendant's  intentionality. This inquiry is only satisfied when the defendant purposefully  and voluntarily directs his activities toward the forum so that he should  expect, by virtue of the benefit he receives, to be subject to the court's  jurisdiction based on his contacts with the forum.”  (Id. at p. 965, internal quotations  and citations omitted.)  This authority  does not support Defendant’s argument Defendant is not subject to jurisdiction  in California.  As set forth above,  Defendant has intentionally sought to restrain Hermalyn in his employment with  Fanatics in California.  As Defendant “purposefully  and voluntarily direct[ed] [its] activities toward” California in seeking to do  so, Defendant is subject to jurisdiction in California.  (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29  Cal.4th 262, 269.)   Accordingly, the motion to quash is denied. Defendant also argues in reply Hermalyn is  not actually a resident of California, although Plaintiffs counter Hermalyn has  leased a home in California, moved his family to the state, and enrolled his  children in California schools.   The totality of circumstances does not  suggest Hermalyn has abandoned his planned relocation to Los Angeles to work  for Fanatics.  In any event, Hermalyn’s current residence is of questionable relevance, when,  as discussed above, Defendant is preventing Hermalyn from working for Fanatics  in Los Angeles.  Moreover, the evidence  before the Court is that Hermalyn has not yet commenced meaningful work for  Fanatics in Los Angeles because of the injunction Defendant obtained in the  federal district court action in Massachusetts.    Plaintiffs are ordered to provide notice of  this order and to file proof of service of same.  