 Case Number:  23STCV12237    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  82 Elshir
Enterprises, L.P. v. House of Abundance WeHo LLC, et al.
Case No.
23STCV12237
Ex Parte
Application for Writ of Attachment
 
            Elshir
Enterprises, L.P. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against House of Abundance
WeHo LLC (“House of Abundance”) and a series of individuals (the “Individual
Defendants”) asserting causes of action for fraudulent transfer and conspiracy
to defraud, asserting an alter ego theory of liability and damages.  
 
            The
Individual Defendants owned and operated Defendant Team MWB-LA, LLC (“MWB”).  (Complaint, ¶ 17.)  MWB operated the “Gym Sports Bar” in West
Hollywood, California.  (Id., ¶¶
15-16.)  MWB held a “California On-Sale
General Public Premises [liquor] license.” 
(Id., ¶ 19.)  The Gym Sports Bar
rented space from Plaintiff. 
(Declaration of Richard Schmutzler, ¶ 2.)  MWB closed the Gym Sports Bar during the
pandemic, purportedly because “Plaintiff was unwilling to work with [MWB] to allow
it to weather the shutdown.”  (Id., ¶
5.)  MWB vacated Plaintiff’s premises on
July 27, 2020, and is no longer in business. 
(Id., ¶ 6; see also Complaint, ¶ 21.) 
 
 
            On July 28,
2020, the Individual Defendants looked for a new location to start a new
business and created a new limited liability corporation.  (Declaration of Richard Schmutzler, ¶ 7.)  In September 2020, Defendants found a new
location and open escrow for the purpose of transferring their liquor
license.  (Id., ¶¶ 9-10.)  This process was initiated before Plaintiff
filed a lawsuit against Defendants for the unpaid rent.  (Id., ¶¶ 10, 13.)  This lawsuit was not filed until May 4,
2021.  (Id., ¶ 13.)  On August 20, 2021, Alcohol Bureau Control
approved the transfer of the liquor license, which allowed the new restaurant
to open.  (Id., ¶ 15.)  The parties resolved the lawsuit with a
stipulated judgment in April 2023.  (Id.,
¶ 19.)  On March 18, 2024, Defendants
agreed to sell the restaurant to BraveCott Ventures, LLC, and the liquor
license is in the process of being transferred as part of the sale.  (See id., ¶ 23; see also Declaration of Roy
C. Manukyan, ¶¶ 10-11.)  The sale has
been completed; the funds are in escrow; and escrow will close once Alcohol
Bureau Control approves the transfer of the liquor license.   
 
            Now,
Plaintiff seeks a writ of attachment by way of an ex parte application.  In the alternative, Plaintiff seeks a
temporary restraining order (and order to show cause why a preliminary
injunction should not issue) to enjoin the escrow company from distributing any
proceeds of the sale to HOA and its members until this lawsuit is
resolved.  The court denies this ex parte
application for multiple reasons.  
 
            First, the
court cannot issue a writ of attachment over proceeds from the sale of a liquor
license.  (See Grover Escrow Corporation
v. Joseph G. Cole (1969) 71 Cal.2d 61, 63-64.) 
Rather, Business and Professions Code section 24074 governs the priority
of such claims, and a creditor cannot establish priority over another creditor
through a writ of attachment.  (Id., p.
62.)  Specifically, the California
Supreme Court has held that “section 24074 represents a mandatory and exclusive
scheme for payment of creditors of liquor license transferors, giving creditors
who comply with this section priority over those who employ any form of levy on
the proceeds.”  (Id., p. 62.)  Simply, Plaintiff must submit a claim in
escrow.  
 
            Second, in
the alternative, Plaintiff’s counsel does not demonstrate the “probable
validity” of the claim upon which the attachment is based.  A claim has probable validity where it is
more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the
defendant on that claim.  (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 481.190.)  In this case,
Plaintiff alleges that the transfer of the liquor license was part of a
fraudulent transfer and related conspiracy. 
In order to prevail, Plaintiff must prove that there was a transfer
“with the intent to prevent a creditor from reaching that interest to satisfy
its claim.”  (Nautilus, Inc. v. Yang
(2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 33, 39.)  Plaintiff
fails to do so.    
 
            Third, in
the alternative, Plaintiff’s counsel does not demonstrate irreparable harm.  Plaintiff’s counsel does not demonstrate that
the funds will concealed, substantially impaired in value, or unavailable to
levy for some other reason.  The mere
fact that Plaintiff’s counsel may have to undertake collection efforts is not a
basis to grant the requested relief.
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s ex parte application is denied.  Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of service with the court.                