 Case Number:  23STCP02658    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  82 Jenny Zhan, on behalf of her                                   Case No. 23STCP02658
Daughter,
S.W.
                                                                        Hearing
Date: May 3, 2024, at 9:30 a.m.
v.
                                                                    Location:
Stanely Mosk Courthouse 
                                                                                    Department:
82
Kim
Johnson, Director of California                      Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch 
Department
of Social Services                                             

 
 
[Tentative] Order Granting in Part and
Denying in Part
Petition for Writ of Mandate
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Petitioner
Jenny Zhan (“Petitioner”) filed this petition for writ of mandate on behalf of
her daughter, S.W. (the “Recipient” or “S.W.”). 
S.W. has cognitive impairment, autism, epilepsy, and Angelman Syndrome.  Accordingly, S.W. is a client of Eastern Los
Angeles Regional Center (“ELARC”) and has been placed on a Medicaid
waiver.  While S.W. was a minor,
Petitioner applied for In-Home Supportive Services (“IHSS”) from the California
Department of Social Services (“DSS”).  A
social worker from the County of Los Angeles (the “County”) determined that
S.W. requires 65:14 hours of monthly IHSS, effective November 5, 2021, and then
increased that number to 69:56 hours, effective February 1, 2022.  Petitioner challenged that decision and had a
hearing before an administrative law judge (the “ALJ”).  The ALJ ordered the County to rescind its
determinations and issue new determinations that S.W. shall receive 71:44 hours
of monthly IHSS, effective November 5, 2021, and 82:38 hours of monthly IHSS,
effective February 1, 2022, with retroactive benefits.  Now, Petitioner challenges two aspects of the
ALJ’s decision.  
 
First, the County denied IHSS hours
for “protective supervision,” which is intended to ensure that recipients do
not unintentionally harm themselves as a result of their mental condition.  The ALJ agreed with that decision, finding
that her “potentially dangerous behaviors” mostly are “excluded behaviors,” such
as tantrums and or behavior outside the home. 
The ALJ found that the “only behavior for which protective supervision
could be granted is the recipient’s constantly picking of her scabs and
scratching the skin causing herself to bleed.” 
The court grants the petition on this basis because the ALJ did not
sufficiently consider whether S.W.’s seizures constitute a condition that
requires protective supervision.  
 
Second, Petitioner argues that the
ALJ awarded insufficient hours for “bowel and bladder care.”  The ALJ ordered that S.W. shall receive 2:15
hours of monthly IHSS, effective November 5, 2021, and 3:20 hours of monthly
IHSS, effective February 1, 2022.  Petitioner
argues that the ALJ erred in failing to consider the amount of time necessary
to clean and repair the toilet after S.W. clogged the toilet with toilet paper.  The court denies the writ because the ALJ
considered the issue in rendering her decision. 
 
FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   
 
            A.        In-Home Supportive Services 
 
            “In 1973 the Legislature
enacted the In-Home Supportive Services (IHSS) program to enable aged, blind or
disabled poor to avoid institutionalization by remaining in their homes with
proper supportive services.”  (Miller
v. Woods (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 862, 867.) 
“The Department and its director are responsible for administering the
IHSS program in compliance with state and federal laws. [Citations.]  The Department promulgates regulations to
implement the statutes [Citations] while the county welfare departments
administer the program under the state's general supervision.  The county departments process applications
for IHSS assistance [Citations], determine the individual's needs and authorize
services. [Citation.].”  (Id. at
868.)  
 
The IHSS program is governed by Welfare and Institutions Code sections
12300, et seq., and the Department’s Manual of Policies and Procedures (the
“MPP”), sections 30-700, et seq.  The Department
issues additional guidance on IHSS benefits in All-County Letters (“ACL”) to
county departments.  Some pertinent
provisions of the MPP and All-County Letters are summarized in the
administrative decision.  (See
Administrative Record (“AR”) 35-56.)
 
B.        Protective Supervision  
 
            Protective supervision is an IHSS
supportive service.  (Welf. & Inst.
Code § 12300(b).)  “Protective
supervision” consists of observing recipient behavior and intervening as appropriate
in order to safeguard the recipient against injury, hazard, or accident.  (MPP § 30-757.17.)  It is a benefit available for observing the
behavior of “non-self-directing, confused, mentally impaired, or mentally ill
persons only.” (MPP § 30-757.171.)
 
Protective
supervision is only authorized if “[a]t the time of the initial assessment or
reassessment, a need exists for twenty-four-hours-a-day of supervision in order
for the recipient to remain at home safely.”  (MPP § 30-757.173(a).)  Furthermore, it is limited to protective
supervision needed because of the functional limitations of the recipient and
cannot be authorized for routine childcare or supervision.  (MPP § 30-763.456(d).)
 
California law
requires social services staff to request “that a person requesting protective
supervision submit [medical] certification to the county.” (Welf. & Inst.
Code § 12301.21(b).) That certification is made on a standard form (the SOC
821), which must be completed by a physician or other qualified medical
professional.  (MPP §
30-757.173(a)(1).)  “The completed form
SOC 821 (3/06) shall not be determinative, but considered as one indicator of
the need for Protective Supervision.”  (MPP
§ 30-757.173(a)(3).)  Other pertinent
information in assessing the need for protective supervision includes the
social worker’s interview with the recipient. (MPP § 30-757.173(a)(5).)
 
            MPP section 30-757.172 specifies
five circumstances in which protective supervision is not authorized: 
 
(a)  
For
friendly visiting or other social activities;
(b)  
When
the need is caused by a medical condition and the form of the supervision
required is medical;
 
(c)  
In
anticipation of a medical emergency;
 
(d)  
To
prevent or control anti-social or aggressive recipient behavior; or 
 
(e)  
To
guard against deliberate self-destructive behavior, such as suicide, or when an
individual knowingly intends to harm himself/herself.
 
“The Department's
regulations, and case law, define the purpose and form of protective
supervision, which, in essence, determines the eligible recipients of this
benefit….. [¶] Some recipients are old, suffering degenerative diseases.  Others are young but retarded, epileptic,
blind, brain damaged or schizophrenic.  The
recipients cannot protect themselves from injury. Some are self-destructive.  For example, one autistic, blind and
brain-damaged child lapses ‘into seizures and temper tantrums ... venting his
frustrations by banging his head against a wall.’ Others cannot control normal
but potentially hazardous activities such as cooking or smoking a
cigarette.’”  (Calderon v. Anderson (1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 607, 614-615, quoting Miller v. Woods, supra, 148
Cal.App.3d at 867.)  “‘Protective
supervision’ appears to be similar to care given small children, that is,
anticipating everyday hazards and intervening to avert harm.”  (Calderon, supra, 45 Cal.App.4th at
615.)  
 
Significantly, “protective supervision is available if ‘[a]t
the time of the initial assessment or reassessment, a need
exists for twenty-four-hours-a-day of supervision in order for the recipient to
remain at home safely.’”  (Norasingh
v. Lightbourne (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 740, 754.)   Also, “eligibility
for IHSS benefits must generally be reassessed on an annual basis.” (Ibid.)
 
            C.        Petitioner’s Application for Protective
Supervision 
 
            At
the time of the administrative hearing, S.W. was a 17-year-old female diagnosed
with cognitive impairment, epilepsy, Angelman Syndrome, and autism.  (AR 3.) 
S.W. lives with her mother.  (Ibid.)  On November 5, 2021, Petitioner applied for
IHSS on behalf of S.W.  After an
assessment by a county social worker, Los Angeles County authorized a weekly
amount of 65 hours and 14 minutes, effective January 1, 2022.  (Ibid.)  On February 28, 2022, a change assessment was
conducted by telephone.  (AR 4.)  On March 1, 2022, County increased the hours
for bowel and bladder care of S.W. from 2 hours, 15 minutes to 3 hours, 20
minutes.  (AR 4.)  The County did not authorize IHSS hours for
protective supervision of S.W.  (See AR
3-4.)  
 
            D.        Administrative Hearing and Decision
 
            On
March 3, 2022, Petitioner filed a hearing request.  As relevant to this writ petition, Petitioner
challenged County’s determinations with respect to protective supervision and
bowel and bladder care.  (AR 4.)  An administrative hearing was held on June
22, 2022, and July 27, 2022, before an administrative law judge (“ALJ”).  (Ibid.)  A social worker testified as County’s
witness, and Petitioner testified on behalf of S.W.  Petitioner was represented by an authorized
representative at the hearing.  A
Mandarin interpreter provided interpretation during the hearing as needed by
Petitioner.  The ALJ also admitted documentary
evidence, including the SOC 821 form, case assessment narrative, a letter from a
behavior analyst, the individual program plan (IPP), the individualized
education plan (IEP), a letter from the associate clinical supervisor, and
Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) progress notes. (See AR 4-8.)
 
            The ALJ issued a proposed decision
finding, in relevant part, that S.W. is not entitled to protective supervision
and that S.W. was properly allocated time for bowel and bladder care.  (AR 3-57.) 
On July 30, 2022, Respondent adopted the ALJ’s decision as her final
decision (“Decision”).  (AR 2.)  
            
            E.         Relevant
Findings Regarding Protective Supervision 
 
All County Letter (“ACL”) No. 15-25 provides a
four-step test to determine a child’s need for protective supervision once it
has been determined that the child is mentally impaired/mentally ill.  (AR 31). 
Specifically, each of the following must be answered in the affirmative
in order to qualify for protective supervision:
 
1.         Is
the recipient nonself-directing due to a mental impairment/mental illness? 
 
2.         Is
the recipient likely to engage in potentially dangerous activities? 
 
3.         Does
the recipient need more supervision than a minor of comparable age who is not
mentally impaired/mentally ill? 
 
4.         Does
the recipient need 24 hour-a-day supervision in order to remain safely at home?”  (Ibid.)
 
The ALJ found that factors two and three were satisfied, but found that
factors one and four were not satisfied. 
(AR 31-35, 56.)  
 
                        1.         Factor One
 
The ALJ found that S.W. is self-directing (i.e., her
actions are deliberate and intentional) “most of the time” based on her review
of the Case Assessment Narrative, Petitioner’s testimony, and other
information.  The ALJ found that “the
recipient is able to understand and carry out simple instructions, and the
claimant is able to redirect the recipient before self-injurious behaviors
occur.”  (AR 31.)  Although S.W. “will have tantrums which
include crying and screaming, hitting her head, and poking her arms with a
pencil … [,] the tantrums will occur when the recipient is presented with a
non-preferred activity or when she is not receiving attention.  Additionally, per the ABA Progress Report, the
recipient will ask the same question repeatedly ‘when can I talk to mom’ ‘when
can I go upstairs’ when provided with an instruction to engage in a
non-preferred activity or when encountering difficulty with a task rather than
engaging in tantrums.”  (Ibid.)  The ALJ found that “[t]hese behaviors show
the deliberateness and intentionality of the recipient’s actions: acting out to
get out of a preferred activity or to get attention. Tantrums are excluded
behavior for which protective supervision is not granted.”  (AR 31.) 
   
 
The ALJ considered Petitioner’s concern that S.W. may attempt to turn on
the stove on her own, but determined the evidence did not show nonself-direction.  “These behaviors again are demonstrative of
the recipient’s intentionality, she tries to use the stove when she is hungry
or to help her mother while she is cooking, showing she is self-directing.
Additionally, the claimant testified that the recipient knows not to put her
hand on the stove and does not do this; showing the recipient’s awareness of
the danger of touching a hot stove.”  (AR
32.)  
 
The ALJ also weighed the evidence of community safety and determined
S.W.’s behavior did not rise to the level of nonself-direction. (AR 32.)  The ALJ found that S.W. “can assess the danger of crossing the street, she
understands it, but she cannot/does not put it to practice.” Although there
were two instances of S.W. leaving the home, the evidence demonstrated that
they both occurred because S.W. was looking for her mother, “which makes this
behavior predictable: the recipient is not constantly and at unpredictable
times trying to leave the home.” (AR 32.) 
Finally, for the first factor of ACL No. 15-25, the ALJ found that S.W.
is not nonself-directing because she “recognizes her emotional state and
independently engages in self-talk.”  (AR
32.)
 
The ALJ acknowledged that some of S.W.’s behaviors were
nonself-directing.  For example, the ALJ concluded
that S.W.’s “overdose of medication in May 2021 is an example of the recipient
being nonself-directing.  However,
following the overdose the recipient informed the claimant hat she had taken
all the medication in the medication container when asked what happened to the
medicine. Additionally, this behavior is now prevented by environmental
modifications, specifically, the claimant hides the recipient’s medications.”  (AR 31-32.) 
Similarly, the ALJ found that “the recipient will grab food from the hot
pot, which shows that she does not assess the fact that she could hurt herself
by putting her hand in a hot pot or burn her mouth by eating food directly from
a hot pot.”  (AR 32.)  
 
The ALJ did not consider the role of S.W.’s seizures in determining
whether she is nonself-directing.  (See
AR 31-33.)
 
            2.         Factor Four
 
The ALJ found that there is no need for 24-hour supervision because “[m]ost
of the recipient’s potentially dangerous behaviors are excluded behaviors for
which protective supervision is not to be granted.”  (AR 33.) 
The ALJ found that S.W. exhibits “tantrum behavior,” which does not
qualify for protective supervision.  The
ALJ also found that S.W.’s behavior outside of the home does not qualify for
protective supervision.  “[P]rotective
supervision is meant to safeguard the recipient in the home and is not provided
for friendly visiting or other social activities. The is no indication of the
recipient eloping or attempting to elope other than the instances she left the
house to look for the claimant. These instances show the intentionality and
predictability of the recipient’s behavior in that the recipient will go
outside only if the claimant is not in the home: it is not the case that the
recipient is constantly trying to elope from home.”  (AR 34.)
 
The ALJ acknowledged that some of S.W.’s behavior would qualify for
protective supervision: “The only behavior for which protective supervision
could be granted is the recipient picking at her scabs causing them to
bleed.”  (AR 34.)  However, the ALJ found that “while the
occurrence of this behavior is frequent, it would not rise to level of needing
24 hour a day supervision in the order for the recipient to remain safely at
home.”  (AR 34.)
 
The ALJ discounted the role of seizures, finding that “there is no
evidence that during or after a seizure the recipient is engaging in
potentially dangerous activities, such as wandering away from the home.”  (Ibid.)  The ALJ found that “the recipient loses
consciousness after a seizure” but “protective supervision cannot be granted in
anticipation of a medical emergency.” 
(AR 34-35.)    
 
            F.         Writ Proceedings 
 
            On
July 27, 2023, Petitioner filed her petition for writ of mandate challenging
the Decision.  Respondent answered the
petition.  On March 5, 2024, Petitioner
filed her opening brief in support of the petition.  On April 3, 2024, Respondent filed her opposition.  On April 18, 2024, Petitioner filed her
reply.  The parties have lodged the
administrative record.
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5, the pertinent issues are whether the respondent
has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether
there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion. 
An abuse of discretion is established if the agency has not proceeded in
the manner required by law, the decision is not supported by the findings, or
the findings are not supported by the evidence. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
“In reviewing decisions denying
applications for public assistance . . ., the superior court exercises its
independent judgment, i.e., it reconsiders the evidence presented at the
administrative hearing and makes its own independent findings of fact.”  (Norasingh
v. Lightbourne (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 740, 752.)  Under the independent judgment test, “the
trial court not only examines the administrative record for errors of law, but
also exercises its independent judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited
trial de novo.”  (Bixby
v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 143.) 
The court must draw its own reasonable inferences from the evidence and
make its own credibility determinations. 
(Morrison v. Housing Authority of
the City of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th
860, 868.)  
 
An agency is
presumed to have regularly performed its official duties.  (Evid. Code § 664.)   “In exercising its independent judgment, a
trial court must afford a strong presumption of correctness concerning the
administrative findings, and the party challenging the administrative decision
bears the burden of convincing the court that the administrative findings are
contrary to the weight of the evidence.” 
(Fukuda v. City of Angels
(1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)  
 
A reviewing court
“will not act as counsel for either party to an appeal and will not assume the
task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for any purpose of
discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742.)  When an appellant challenges “’the sufficiency of the
evidence, all material evidence on the point must be set forth and not merely
[his] own evidence.” (Toigo v. Town of Ross (1998) 70 Cal.App.4th 309,
317.)  
 
“On questions of
law arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent
judgment.’”  (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  The interpretation of statute or regulation
is a question of law.  (See State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Quackenbush (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.)  “A challenge
to the procedural fairness of the administrative hearing is reviewed de novo on
appeal because the ultimate determination of procedural fairness amounts to a
question of law.”  (Nasha L.L.C. v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 470,
482.) 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
            The ALJ relies on the Department’s
Manual of Policies and Procedures (the “MPP”), sections 30-700, et seq.,
and quoted certain sections in her decision. 
However, neither party requested that the court take judicial notice of
the MPP.  At the hearing, the court
provided notice of its intention to take judicial notice of the MPP.  The court offered to do so in writing and
continue the hearing so the parties may file written objections.  The parties waived notice and opportunity to
be heard and indicated that they have no objection.  Therefore, the court takes judicial notice of
the MPP.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Protective Supervision 
 
                        1.         S.W.’s Seizures 
 
            In
assessing whether S.W. qualified for protective supervision, the ALJ was
required to determine whether “a need exists for
twenty-four-hours-a-day of supervision in order for the recipient to remain at
home safely.’”  (Norasingh, supra, 229
Cal.App.4th at 754.)  The ALJ did not
sufficiently consider whether S.W. requires protective supervision as a result
of her seizures.  
 
            The ALJ found that S.W. “has had an
increase in seizures since February 2022.” 
(AR 34.)  This is supported by the
evidence in the record.  For example, Petitioner testified that S.W.’s seizures “increased a lot” starting in
January 2022, before the February 2022 assessment.  (AR 273.) 
There is documentary evidence, including from S.W.’s physician,
suggesting that S.W. suffered regular seizures prior to February 2022.  (AR 18, 20-21, 144.)  Moreover, Petitioner testified that S.W.
suffered many seizures in July 2022, after the February 2022 assessment.  (AR
329-330.)  The ALJ acknowledged that S.W.
“loses consciousness after a seizure.”  (AR
35.)  The record contains evidence that
injury may result, e.g., S.W.’s neurologist opined that “[t]he recipient
is at risk of seizures which could cause her to be in situations where she can
injure herself.”  (AR 18.)  Similarly, Petitioner testified that S.W.
fell to the ground during a seizure.  (AR
329-330.)  
 
            However,
the ALJ did not sufficiently address S.W.’s seizures in finding that protective
supervision is not necessary.  The ALJ
found only as follows: 
 
[T]here is no evidence that
during or after a seizure the recipient is engaging in potentially dangerous
activities, such as wandering away from the home.  In fact, the IPP notes that the recipient
loses consciousness after a seizure, and the claimant testified that during the
recipient’s most recent seizures she stood frozen and crying.  Therefore, protective supervision cannot be
granted in anticipation of a medical emergency. 
 
(AR 34-35)  These findings are not sufficient because the
ALJ did not consider whether S.W. risks injury—which is the dispositive issue—as
a result of her seizures or losing consciousness.  For example, the ALJ did not consider whether
S.W. might fall and injure herself if she loses consciousness as a result of a
seizure.  The ALJ did not address whether
S.W. might choke if she has a seizure while eating, especially in light of evidence
that “[t]he recipient has a history of choking . . . .”  (AR 21.) 
The ALJ did not consider whether S.W. might drown if she has a seizure
while bathing.  Petitioner raised this
concern during her testimony.  (AR
329-330.)  Although S.W. receives IHSS
for “feeding” and “bathing,” the ALJ did not address whether the respective
time allotments are sufficient or whether the risks associated with seizures
justify additional supervision, i.e., protective supervision.  
 
            Moreover, the ALJ erred in finding
that protective supervision is not appropriate because “protective supervision
cannot be granted in anticipation of a medical emergency.”  Although that is a correct statement of law, supervision
to protect a recipient from injury as a result of falling, choking, or drowning
is not “medical” or “in anticipation of a medical emergency.”  (Norasingh, supra,
229 Cal.App.4th at 758-759.) 
 
            Nor did the ALJ consider whether S.W.’s
seizures would qualify for protective services under Factor One, i.e.,
whether they are “excluded behaviors.” 
Petitioner points out that Norasingh is cited in the Decision’s
discussion of applicable law, but not analyzed with respect to the
nonself-directing element of protective supervision.  (OB 9.) 
Accordingly, Petitioner contends that a remand is required for Respondent
to consider whether S.W.’s seizures justify protective supervision.  (Ibid.)  Respondent does not address these arguments
in its opposition brief and thereby concedes them.  (Sehulster
Tunnels/Pre-Con v. Traylor Brothers, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328,
1345, fn. 16 [failure to address point is “equivalent to a concession”].)  
 
Therefore, the
court grants the petition.  The court
remands the case so the ALJ may consider: (1) Whether S.W.’s seizures qualify
for protective supervision under Factor One; and (2) Whether the risks
associated with S.W.’s seizures and loss of consciousness risk injury that
necessitates protective supervision under Factor Four.    
 
                        2.         The Remaining Issues 
 
            Petitioner challenges other aspects
of the ALJ’s decision not to authorize protective supervision.  The court finds no abuse of discretion in
this regard.  
 
                                    a.         The
stove 
 
Petitioner argues that S.W. “has attempted to turn on the kitchen stove”
and contends that such behaviors make her eligible for protective
supervision.  (OB 6, citing AR 322-326.)  The ALJ found that “the recipient’s ability
to turn on the stove is a change in circumstances after the initial assessment
on November 5, 2021 and one that was not reported during the change assessment
on February 28, 2022.”  (AR 56.)  Petitioner does not address that finding or
show that it was an abuse of discretion for the ALJ to limit S.W.’s claim for
protective supervision to the circumstances presented in the initial assessment
on November 5, 2021, and the change assessment on February 28, 2022.  
 
Regardless, the ALJ did not abuse her discretion in finding that this was
excluded behavior because it is self-directing, i.e., deliberate and
intentional.  The ALJ relied on evidence
that: (1) S.W. “tries
to use the stove when she is hungry or to help her mother while she is cooking;”
(2) S.W. “knows not to put her hand on the stove and does not do this”; and (3)
S.W. “does know all the safety rules but is at times impulsive and acts without
thinking.”  (AR 32.)  Petitioner does not address this material
evidence, which supports the ALJ’s conclusion that S.W. acts intentionally and
has awareness of the dangers of using the stove.  (See e.g. AR 324-326 [Petitioner’s
testimony]; AR 18-20, 133 [summary of Case Assessment Narrative]; AR 159
[social worker’s assessment narrative, stating that “Recipient told [the social
worker] she does not use the stove because she knows she might burn the house
down” and S.W. knows the safety rules].) 

 
                        b.         S.W.’s elopement 
 
Petitioner cites
evidence that S.W. wandered outside when her mother left her home alone while
she retrieved groceries from the car.  (OB
7, citing 320-321.)  Because S.W. went to
look for her mother, they suggest intentionality and self-direction.  Further, as the ALJ found, “when the claimant
is home with the recipient, she will not leave the home, which makes this
behavior predictable: the recipient is not constantly and at unpredictable
times trying to leave the home.”  (AR
32.)  The weight of the evidence,
including Petitioner’s testimony and the Assessment Narrative, support these
findings.  (See e.g. AR 321-322
[Petitioner’s testimony that S.W. left house to look for Petitioner]; AR 159
[Assessment Narrative: “Recipient knows the rules for crossing streets; she
knows a red light means stop and a green light means go.”].)
 
                        c.         S.W.’s overdose of medication 
 
The ALJ considered whether S.W. qualifies for protective supervision due
to a medication overdose in May 2021.  The
ALJ found that protective supervision was not necessary because S.W. had
informed Petitioner what happened and such behavior is now prevented by
environmental modifications.  (AR
31-32.)  Petitioner highlights her
testimony about the overdose but does not develop an argument that the ALJ’s
findings or conclusions were in error. 
(OB 7:28-8:3.)  Accordingly,
Petitioner does not show a prejudicial abuse of discretion related to this
finding.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b); Fukuda, supra, 20 Cal. 4th at 817.)  
 
                        d.         S.W.’s tantrum behavior
 
Petitioner cites her own testimony that S.W. will sometimes hit or bang
her head or poke herself with a pencil if she is frustrated.  (OB 8:19-24, citing AR 332-333.)  However, as the ALJ concluded, “[t]hese
behaviors show the deliberateness and intentionality of the recipient’s
actions: acting out to get out of a preferred activity or to get
attention.”  (AR 31.)  The weight of the evidence supports that
finding.  (See e.g. AR 326, 332-333, 159.)  Further, MPP section 30-757.172 specifies that protective
supervision is not authorized “[t]o guard against deliberate self-destructive …
or when an individual knowingly intends to harm himself/herself.”  (AR 31, 40-41.)  Petitioner does not sufficiently address
these issues.  
 
B.        Bowel and Bladder Care 
 
The ALJ did not
abuse her discretion in finding that S.W. properly received 2 hours and 15
minutes for bowel and bladder care, effective November 5, 2021, and 3 hours and
20 minutes, effective February 1, 2022. 
(AR 9.)  The ALJ found that S.W.
“is correctly ranked a function level 3 in this life skill area.”  (AR 9.) 
MPP section 30-757.14(a)(2) authorizes hours in the range of 1.17 to
3.33 for recipients with a functional level 3 in the life skill area of bowel
and bladder care.  There are several
factors for the ALJ to consider, including “[t]he frequency of the recipient's
urination and/or bowel movements.”  (MPP
§ 30-757.14(a)(3).)  There are also
exceptions justifying increased hours, including “if the recipient has frequent
bowel or bladder accidents.”  (MPP §
30-757.14(a)(4).)  Accordingly, the ALJ
found:  
 
Back in November 2021 and December 2021, the recipient
had bathroom accidents involving her bowels only three to four times a week.
The recipient would go to the bathroom after soiling herself, use a lot of
toilet paper to clean herself, and use towels to clean herself. The time being
authorized is to assist the recipient with cleaning herself after bowel
movements. The time for washing the recipient’s pants, underwear, and towels is
authorized under the category of laundry services. Effective February 1, 2022,
the recipient was correctly authorized 3:20 hours per week, which is the high
range for a functional level 3. Per the claimant’s credible testimony, with the
increase in the recipient’s seizures and medication, the recipient began
wetting the bed at night and having accidents of peeing herself during the day
as well.  
 
(AR 9.)
 
            Petitioner argues that a remand is
necessary because S.W. “stuffed the toilet” and a member of the Behavior
Training Program stated that Petitioner spends “hours cleaning and repairing
the toilet.”  (OB 11, citing AR 8, 128.)  Petitioner has not shown that the ALJ abused
her discretion in ranking S.W. as a “3” for bowel and bladder care.  The court concludes that the weight of the
evidence supports that ranking.  (See AR
6-9 [summary of evidence]; AR 157-158 [social worker ranking S.W. as a 3 for
bowel and bladder care].)  Contrary to
Petitioner’s assertion, the ALJ weighed all of the evidence, including
Petitioner’s testimony that S.W. sometimes “will just throw a lot of toilet
paper into the toilet and clog it” and that Petitioner has to “unclog the
toilet.”  (AR 8.)  Further, the allotted hours fall within the
recommended range for that ranking. 
Therefore, the petition is denied on this ground.    
 
            C.        Petitioner’s
Remaining Arguments 
            
            Petitioner raises a series of new
arguments in her reply brief.  For
example, Petitioner argues that “Respondent abused her discretion by failing to
investigate the ‘intervention’ aspect of Protective Supervision” and “[t]his
abuse is the failure to provide Petitioner with a fair trial.”  (Reply 6.) 
Petitioner also argues, for the first time in reply, that Petitioner’s
testimony that S.W.  cannot be left alone
for more than a few minutes and sleeps with her shows that that Recipient
requires 24-hour supervision.  (Reply
10.)  Petitioner does not show good cause
to raise these arguments for the first time in reply.  Accordingly, the court does not consider
them.  (Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010.) 
However, Petitioner may raise these issues on remand to the extent they
relate to S.W.’s seizures.          
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition for writ of mandate is
granted in part and denied in part.
 
            2.         The court shall issue a writ directing
Respondent to set aside the Decision only with respect to the finding that S.W.
is not entitled to protective supervision and to reconsider the matter in light
of this court’s opinion and judgment, viz., whether S.W. is entitled to
protective supervision based upon her seizures. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(f).)  
 
            3.         The petition is denied in all other
respects.  
 
            4.         Petitioner’s counsel shall prepare and
lodge a judgment forthwith.  
 
            5.         Petitioner’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
 
Dated: May 3, 2024                                                    _____________________________ 
Stephen I. Goorvitch
                                                                        Superior
Court Judge
 
 