 Case Number:  21STCV38499    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV38499




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One 
(2)
  Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Statement of Damages




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed 



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Defendant”) now moves for an
order to compel verified responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One, and a response to the Statement of Damages request, propounded on
Plaintiff Darlene Willis (“Plaintiff”). Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions
for compelling the Request for Production. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Requests for Production 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
Request for Statement of Damages  
 
In a personal injury action, a defendant may at any time
request a statement of damages setting forth the nature and amount of damages
being sought. The request shall be served upon the plaintiff, who shall serve a
responsive statement as to the damages within 15 days. (Code Civ. Proc.,
section 425.11, subd. (b).) If a plaintiff fails to respond after a defendant
makes the request, the defendant may petition the court in which the action is
pending to order the plaintiff to serve a responsive statement. (Id.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant asserts that it served Requests for Production
of Documents, Set One and Request for Itemization of Nature and Extent of
Damages on Plaintiff on November 16, 2023. (Tsao
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) The discovery was due on December 19, 2023. (Id. ¶ 4.) The
statement of damages was due on December 5, 2023. Plaintiff has not responded
and has not filed an opposition to this motion. Therefore, the motions to
compel are granted.   
 
Defendant
requests $585 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of record
for the discovery motion only, representing an hourly rate of $350 and the
$60.00 filing fee. The Court finds sanctions are warranted because Plaintiff
has failed to respond. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $585.

 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One and motion to compel Statement of Damages is GRANTED. Plaintiff Darlene Willis shall serve verified responses without objections within 30
days. 
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of record, jointly and severally,
in the amount of $585.00.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days
of the date of this order. 
 
Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 