 Case Number:  23STCV08596    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
16, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Martin Melendez-Murillo et al. v. AKG
Trading (USA), Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08596            
 
(1)
MOTION FOR RECIPROCAL ORDER FOR PRESERVATION OF EVIDENCE
(2)(3) MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
AND COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Plaintiffs Martin Melendez-Murillo and Rufina
Barajas; (2) Specially Appearing Defendant Stone Gallery, LLC; (3) Specially
Appearing Defendant Consentino Group, S.A.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Dal-Tile
Distribution, LLC, joined by C&C North America, Inc.; WilsonArt LLC; Best
Cheer Stone, Inc.; Walker & Zangler, LLC; Surface Warehouse, L.P.; Cambria
Company, LLC; Global Stone Trading, Inc.; LX Hausys America, Inc.; Elite Stone
& Cabinet, Inc.; Home Depot USA, Inc.; Caesarstone USA, Inc.; Arizona Tile
LLC; Francini, Inc.; Lilly Industries; Ollin International, Inc.; Lowe’s Home
Centers, LLC; and Stone Mart; (2) No response on eCourt as of 4/11/24; (3) Plaintiffs
Martin Melendez-Murillo and Rufina Barajas;
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort action, filed on April 18, 2023, alleging Plaintiff
Melendez-Murillo developed silicosis and consequential injuries by breathing in
dust from Defendants’ stone products generated by his work as a fabricator and
polisher of stone countertops.
 
Plaintiffs move for an order
requiring all parties to preserve all product supply records pertaining to
stone slabs. Specially Appearing Defendants Stone Gallery, LLC and Consentino
Group, S.A.  move to quash service of the
summons and complaint for lack of personal jurisdiction. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion for Reciprocal Order for Preservation of Evidence is DENIED. 
 
            Specially
Appearing Defendant Stone Gallery, LLC’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is
GRANTED.
 
            Specially
Appearing Defendant Consentino Group, S.A.’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons
is CONTINUED to May 23, 2024 at 9:00 AM. 
 
Plaintiffs’ supplemental
opposition shall be due Friday, May 10, 2024. Specially Appearing Defendant’s
supplemental reply shall be due Thursday, May 16, 2024. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for Reciprocal Order for Preservation of
Evidence
 
Plaintiffs move for an order
requiring all parties to preserve all product supply records pertaining to
stone slabs. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendant
Dal-Tile, Inc. raises several evidentiary objections to the Declaration of
Raphael Metzger in support of the motion. The Court rules on these objections
as follows:
 
            Objection
No. 1: SUSTAINED as irrelevant and speculative.
 
            Objection
No. 2: SUSTAINED as irrelevant argument. 
 
            Objection
No. 3: SUSTAINED as lacking foundation. 
 
            Objection
No. 4: SUSTAINED as lacking foundation.
 
            Objection
No. 5: SUSTAINED as improper speculation. 
 
            Objection
No. 8: SUSTAINED as lacking foundation with respect to the physiological
and financial condition of Plaintiffs. 
 
Joinder of Parties
 
            Numerous
other Defendants have joined Dal-Tile Distribution, LLC in opposing this
motion, offering substantively identical arguments or simply adopting the
arguments of Dal-Tile wholesale. In the interest of brevity, the Court will
consider these arguments as a collective. 
 
Analysis 
 
Plaintiffs move for an order
requiring all parties to preserve all product supply records pertaining to
stone slabs. 
 
Defendants
rightly characterize Plaintiffs’ motion as an improper request for a
preliminary injunction without the requisite showing of irreparable harm or
likelihood of success on the merits. “An injunction
is a writ or order requiring a person to refrain from a particular act.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 525.) “A preliminary injunction may be granted at any time before
judgment upon a verified complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the
one case, or the affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient
grounds exist therefor.” (Code Civ. Proc.§ 527(a).) An injunction may be
granted in the following cases:            
 
(1) When it
appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded,
and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period or
perpetually.  
 
(2)¿When it
appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of
some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable
injury, to a party to the action. 
 
(3)¿¿When
it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
 
(4) When pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate
relief.  
 
(5) Where
it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation which
would afford adequate relief.  
 
            . . . . 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(1)-(5).) 
 
In deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction, two
factors must be considered prior to issuing a preliminary injunction: (1) the
balance of the harm to the applicant should the injunction not issue, compared
to the harm to the enjoined party should the injunction issue; and (2) whether
the applicant is ultimately likely to prevail on the merits. (Common Cause
v. Board of Supervisors (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 441442.)  A trial court
has broad discretionary powers to grant or deny a request for a preliminary
injunction if it does not act capriciously.  The court should exercise its
judgment in favor of the party most likely to be injured. (Robbins v.
Superior Court (1985) 38 Cal.3d 199, 205.)  In addition, the two
factors are interrelated: the greater the Plaintiff’s showing as to one of the
factors, the less that must be shown as to the other factor. (Butt v. State
of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.) 
 
As
the Court of Appeal expressly stated in Northpoint Homeowners Association v.
Superior Court, an order for the preservation of evidence is an order to
maintain the status quo—i.e., a prohibitory preliminary injunction. (Northpoint
Homeowners Association v. Superior Court (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 241, 246). Certainly,
such orders are well within the Court’s authority under both precedent and
statute. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 525-527.) Before such an order may issue, however,
Plaintiffs must make the requisite showing for such an order. Plaintiffs’
attempts to distinguish Northpoint as pertaining only to an order
preventing physical activity, contrary to the express language of the opinion,
is not well-taken. Even the precedent cited by Plaintiffs in support of their
request expressly describes and analyzes the order to preserve evidence as a
preliminary injunction. (Dodge, Warren & Peters Insurance Services,
Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1419.) To be clear, nothing in
these authorities or in the Court’s ruling should be taken to mean that a
motion for preservation of evidence is per se improper; merely that such
a request is a request for a preliminary injunction that must satisfy the
corresponding standards if it is to be granted. As Plaintiffs do not address
those elements in their motion, the injunction they seek cannot issue. 
 
As
a further note, well-established precedent holds that spoliation of evidence
constitutes “misuse of the discovery process” as the phrase is used in the
Civil Discovery Act. As the Act states, the court,
after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity
for hearing, may impose monetary, issue, evidence, and/or terminating sanctions
against anyone [not merely a party]¿engaging in conduct that is a
misuse of the discovery process.¿¿(Code Civ. Proc.,¿§¿2023.030¿subd.¿(a)-(d) [emphasis
added].)¿These remedies “provide a substantial deterrent to acts of spoliation,
and substantial protection to the spoliation victim.”¿ (Cedars-Sinai Center
v. Superior Court¿(1998) 18 Cal.4th¿1,¿17.)¿ 
 
“Spoliation of evidence means the destruction or
significant alteration of evidence or the failure to preserve evidence for
another's use in pending or future litigation.¿[Citations]¿Such conduct is
condemned because it¿‘can destroy fairness and justice, for it increases the
risk of an erroneous decision on the merits of the underlying cause of
action.¿Destroying evidence can also increase the costs of litigation as
parties attempt to reconstruct the destroyed evidence or to develop other
evidence, which may be less accessible, less persuasive, or
both.’¿¿[Citation]¿While¿there is no tort cause of action for the intentional
destruction of evidence after litigation has commenced, it is a misuse of the
discovery process that is subject to a broad range of punishment, including
monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating sanctions.¿¿[Citations]¿A
terminating sanction is appropriate in the first instance without a violation
of prior court orders in egregious cases of intentional spoliation of
evidence.¿¿[Citation.]” 
 
(Williams v. Russ¿(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th¿1215,
1223.)¿¿ Willfulness is not a requirement for
discovery sanctions. (Id.) Put plainly, parties to pending or
future litigation are already obligated to preserve evidence that may be
relevant and may be subject to nonmonetary sanctions for the failure to do so. Likewise,
a party who is the victim of spoliation of evidence is entitled to substantial
remedies whether or not the perpetrator is a party. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
2020.240 [entitlement to sanctions against non-party who fails to comply with
subpoena].) The Court therefore finds that Plaintiffs have not demonstrated
that they are entitled to the order sought. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Reciprocal Order for Preservation of Evidence is DENIED. 
 
Motion to
Quash Service of Summons (Stone Gallery, LLC)
 
            Specially Appearing Defendant Stone
Gallery, LLC moves to quash service of the summons and complaint for lack of
personal jurisdiction. 
 
Special Appearance 
 
No motion under Code of Civil Procedure 418.10 “shall be
deemed a general appearance by the defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(d).)
Here, Specially Appearing Defendant (“Defendant”) brought this motion under
section 418.10. Thus, filing this motion does not constitute a general
appearance.  
 
Legal Standard
 
On a motion to quash service of the summons and
complaint, the moving party must first present some admissible evidence, such
as declarations or affidavits, to place the issue of minimum contacts before
the Court. (School Dist. of Oskaloosa County v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1126, 1131.) “When a motion to quash is
properly brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish
the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”  (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 556, 568; see also Elkman v. National States Ins. Co. (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1312-13 [“Where a nonresident defendant challenges
jurisdiction by way of a motion to quash, the plaintiff bears the burden of
establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that minimum contacts exist
between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal
jurisdiction.”].) Evidence of the facts giving rise to personal jurisdiction or
their absence may be in the form of declarations. (Arensen v. Raymond Lee
Organization, Inc. (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d 991, 995.) The Court should
exclude evidence that would be inadmissible at trial. (See, e.g., Judd v.
Superior Court (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 38, 43-44 [Court of Appeal excluded
inadmissible hearsay evidence offered in support of affirmation of trial
court’s denial of motion to quash, and subsequently reversed the trial court’s
denial].) A non-resident defendant may be subject to either general or specific
jurisdiction. (See Elkman v. National States Insurance Co., supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 1314.) 
 
Analysis
 
Specially Appearing Defendant contends that the Court
lacks either general personal jurisdiction or specific personal jurisdiction
over Stone Gallery because it does not have a sufficient relationship with the
State of California. Specially Appearing Defendant’s argument is based on the
declaration of its Chief Executive Officer, Anil Sethi, who states that
Specially Appearing Defendant was founded in 2007 as a Florida Limited
Liability Corporation headquartered in Tampa, Florida. (Declaration of Anil
Sethi ISO Mot. ¶¶ 3-4.) Mr. Sethi states that Stone Gallery is solely a
distributor of stone products and not a manufacturer. (Id. ¶ 4.) Mr.
Sethi also categorically declares that Stone Gallery has no facilities,
employees, or distributors in California, has never sold products in
California, has never sold products to customers who it understood to be in
California, and does not advertise in California. (Id.) As Plaintiffs
have not responded to this motion, the Court finds that Specially Appearing
Defendant has demonstrated that it does not have sufficient contacts with the
State of California to subject it to personal jurisdiction. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Specially Appearing
Defendant Stone Gallery, LLC’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons &
Complaint is GRANTED.
 
Motion
to Quash Service of Summons & Complaint (Consentino Group)
 
Specially Appearing Defendant
Consentino Group, S.A.  moves to quash
service of the summons and complaint for defective service, or, alternatively,
lack of personal jurisdiction. 
 
The Court held a hearing on
this motion on January 9, 2024. Following argument on the tentative ruling, the
Court found that Plaintiffs had properly effected service of the summons and
complaint, but continued the matter to permit jurisdictional discovery.
(January 9, 2024 Minute Order; see also April 10, 2024 nunc pro tunc
Order.) The Court, in consultation with the parties, set a briefing schedule on
the results of that discovery, ordering Plaintiffs to file an opposition by
April 2, 2024, with Defendant to reply by April 9, 2024. (Id.) No
supplemental opposition was filed, and Defendant filed a notice of
non-opposition on April 9. (See Notice of Non-Opposition filed April 9, 2024.) On
that same date, however, Plaintiffs filed a document titled “Plaintiffs’
Opposition to Consentino Groups’ Motion to Quash and Request to Continue
Hearing to Allow for the Taking of Jorge Cuervo Vela’s Deposition and the
Submission of Supplemental Briefing and Testimony.” Plaintiffs’ supplemental
filing states that, due to a scheduling mishap, the deposition of Specially
Appearing Defendant’s person most qualified to testify to jurisdictional issues
had to be continued from March 5, 2024 to April 30, 2024. (Plaintiffs Supp.
Opp. p.2:7-14.) Plaintiffs’ counsel, Raphael Metzger, states that he requested
a continuance for motions to quash in two similar cases, but neglected to
specifically request a continuance in this matter. (Declaration of Raphael
Metzger ISO Supp. Opp. ¶¶ 4-6, Exh. A.) Attorney Metzger discovered the error
on April 9 when he was served with the Notice of Non-Opposition. (Id.)
Specially Appearing Defendant’s counsel refused to stipulate to a continuance
on the basis that Plaintiff’s counsel had not specifically requested to
continue the hearing in this matter. (Id.) Attorney Metzger takes
responsibility for the error and requests a continuance to a date in
mid-to-late May to allow Plaintiffs to take the rescheduled deposition and
prepare their papers. (Id. ¶ 7.) 
 
The purpose of the Court’s
order setting a briefing schedule was to permit the parties to engage in
jurisdictional discovery to allow the Court to issue a ruling grounded in the
facts of Consentino Group’s contacts or lack thereof with the State of
California. That purpose is not served by deliberately obtuse and literal
readings of correspondence with opposing counsel, nor by spurious “notices of
non-opposition” filed with knowledge that essential discovery is not yet
complete. The Court admonishes Specially Appearing Defendant’s counsel to
refrain from this type of gamesmanship in the future.
 
Accordingly, Specially
Appearing Defendant Consentino Group, S.A.’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons
is CONTINUED to May 23, 2024 at 9:00 AM. 
 
Plaintiffs’ supplemental
opposition shall be due Friday, May 10, 2024. Specially Appearing Defendant’s
supplemental reply shall be due Thursday, May 16, 2024. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Reciprocal Order for Preservation of Evidence is DENIED.

 
            Specially
Appearing Defendant Stone Gallery, LLC’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is
GRANTED.
 
            Specially
Appearing Defendant Consentino Group, S.A.’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons
is CONTINUED to May 23, 2024 at 9:00 AM. 
 
Plaintiffs’ supplemental
opposition shall be due Friday, May 10, 2024. Specially Appearing Defendant’s
supplemental reply shall be due Thursday, May 16, 2024. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 16, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 