  Case Number:  22STCP03518    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  47 MYUNG HYE KIM vs DAVID OKJU AN, Case No. 22STCP03518
TENTATIVE RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
PLAINTIFF’S MIL # 1:  seeking an
order precluding any evidence in support of Defendant’s claim for compensation
or credit based on his unlicensed contracting activities.         
TENTATIVE RULING: 
DEFERRED TO TRIAL – this issue is at the core of a central case to be
tried in this matter.  
PLAINTIFF’S MIL #2:   seeking to exclude parol
evidence that contracts terms of partnership agreement and/or lease. 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
DENIED.  
Because Plaintiff does not identify any specific
evidence to be excluded or clarify how it contradicts the terms of the parties’
agreements, the Court cannot issue a meaningful order setting an evidentiary
limit.
PLAINTIFF’S MIL #3:   seeking to exclude Defendant’s
experts as untimely designated.   
TENTATIVE RULING: 
DENIED.  
Plaintiff’s initial designation of experts was timely served
by email on February 26, 2024.  A
supplemental designation must be served within 20 days after the initial expert
exchange under Code of Civil Procedure § 2034.280(a).  Because service by email adds two days to the
period for any response (Code Civ. Proc. §1010.6(b)), Defendant’s supplemental
disclosure was due 22 days later on March 19, 2024, which is the day it was
served.    
 
DEFENDANT’S MIL # 1:  seeking an
order precluding any evidence or reference to construction work performed at
Plaintiff’s Santa Monica address because it was completed in or before May 2021
– more than one year before Plaintiff filed her claim for forfeiture on
September 28, 2022.         
TENTATIVE RULING: 
DENIED.  
Under Code of Civil Procedure § 458, a bar based on the
statute of limitations must be asserted through factual allegations on which it
is grounded or “it may be stated generally that the cause of action is barred
by the provision of Section __ (giving the number of the section and
subdivision thereof, if it is so divided, relied upon)”  Courts applying this provision have held it
should be “must be strictly applied, and that the attempted plea of the statute
of limitations [without reference to the specific section and subdivision is]
insufficient to raise that issue in the trial court.”  (Davenport v. Stratton (1944) 24 Cal.
2d 232, 247; see also Overton v. White (1937) 18 Cal.App.2d 567.)  Because Defendant asserted a limitations
defense with a list of statutes but with no mention of subdivision (a) of Code
of Civil Procedure § 340, the case law advanced by Plaintiff dictates a ruling
that defendant has waived the defense. 
Even so, Defendant’s construction activities in 2021 are highly relevant
to Plaintiff’s claim for relief under Unfair Competition Act, Business and
Professions Code § 17200, et seq., which has a four-year limitations
period.  Further, these activities are potentially
admissible to demonstrate Defendant’s intent, plan, or the absence of mistake
under Evidence Code § 1101(b) or to challenge Defendant’s credibility.  
DEFENDANT’S MIL # 2:  seeking an
order precluding any evidence or reference to unlicensed construction work
performed by Defendant on the grounds that it is irrelevant and unduly
prejudicial under Evidence Code §§ 210 and 352 because, as a business partner,
Defendant was not required to hold a contractor’s license to perform work at
the property.     
DEFENDANT’S MIL # 3:  seeking an
order precluding any expert testimony about whether Defendant performed any
unlicensed construction work on the grounds that it is irrelevant and unduly
prejudicial under Evidence Code §§ 210 and 352 because, as a business partner,
Defendant was not required to hold a contractor’s license to perform work at
the property.           
TENTATIVE RULINGS: 
DENIED.  
As Plaintiff emphasizes, Business & Professions
Code § 7044 provides an exception to the restrictions on unlicensed contractors
performing construction work where it is the property’s owner or its employees who
performs the work at issue.  This is not
the situation in this case where it is Plaintiff, not Defendant, who owned the
real property on Florence Avenue.  Thus,
the question of whether Defendant performed construction work without a license
is centrally important to the case. 
 