  Case Number:  22STCV02662    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  76             This is a lawsuit filed by
Plaintiff general contractor alleging that Defendant subcontractor has breached
a settlement agreement by filing an arbitration demand.
            The court
granted Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration..
            Defendant
KS Steel Corporation obtained an order confirming the arbitration award.
The Court entered judgment in favor
of Defendant KS Steel Corporation and granted Defendant’s now motion to add
Andrew Meyers Abdul-Wahab as an additional judgment debtor on the ground that
there is a unity of interest and ownership between Debtor Shangri-La
Construction, LP and Wahab.
Defendant judgment debtor now seeks
an order imposing a lien and charging orders on the membership interests of
Andrew Meyers Abdul-Wahab in certain limited liability companies. Defendant
also seeks certain injunctive relief.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant/Judgment
Creditor K S Steel Corporation’s motion for an
order imposing a lien and charging orders on the membership interests of Andrew
Meyers Abdul-Wahab in the identified California limited liability companies,
and related orders, is GRANTED.
ANALYSIS
Motion For Charging
Order
The Court entered judgment in favor
of Defendant KS Steel Corporation and granted Defendant’s motion to add Andrew
Meyers Abdul-Wahab as an additional judgment debtor on the ground that there is
a unity of interest and ownership between Debtor Shangri-La Construction, LP
and Wahab.
Defendant judgment debtor now seeks
the following orders:
1. Creditor will seek Orders
imposing a lien and charging orders on the membership interests of Andrew
Meyers Abdul-Wahab (hereafter DEBTOR) in the following California limited
liability companies: Veterans Housing Partnership, LLC; MH Industries, LLC,
Shangri-La Industries, LLC, W Investments, LLC, 12 Conejo Preservation, LLC,
Shangri-La Development, LLC, I.E. Properties Group, LLC, 37th Place, LLC and
Shangri-La Capital, LLC. Creditor will seek a charging Order and lien equal to
the amount of the current writ of favor of Creditor in the sum of$290,001.64 or
according to proof at the time of the motion; 
 
2. Creditor will seek Orders
restraining DEBTOR and Veterans Housing Partnership, LLC; MH Industries (DE),
LLC, Shangri-La Industries, LLC, W Investments, LLC, 12 Conejo Preservation,
LLC, Shangri-La Development, LLC, I.E. Properties Group, LLC, 37th Place, LLC
and Shangri-La Capital, LLC from paying any distributions to DEBTOR pursuant to
C.C.P. Section 708.520 and restraining DEBTOR from transferring, selling,
hypothecating, concealing, selling or encumbering any assets of the subject
LLC's and including Debtor's membership interests subject to this motion until
further Order of this court; 
 
3. Creditor will seek Orders
requiring Veterans Housing Partnership, LLC; MH Industries (DE), LLC,
Shangri-La Industries, LLC, W Investments, LLC, 12 Conejo Preservation, LLC,
Shangri-La Development, LLC, I.E. Properties Group, LLC, 3 7th Place, LLC and Shangri-La
Capital, LLC to pay over to Creditor any distributions otherwise payable to
DEBTOR until further Order of this court.  
 
This motion is made on the ground that DEBTOR is probably a member of
Veterans Housing Partnership, LLC; MH Industries (DE), LLC, Shangri-La
Industries, LLC, W Investments, LLC, 12 Conejo Preservation, LLC, Shangri-La
Development, LLC, I.E. Properties Group, LLC, 37th Place, LLC and Shangri-La
Capital, LLC which are limited liability companies that are authorized to
conduct business in California. The DEBTOR's membership interests in the LLC's
are assets, not subject to any judgment enforcement exemption and are subject
to CREDITOR's enforcement of judgment rights.
Judgment Creditor argues that DEBTOR is listed as a member or officer in
the Statements of Information filed with the secretary of state (Exhibit B), in
public records databased (Exhibit C) or in records subpoenaed from various
financial institutions, Exhibit D.
Civ. Proc. Code, § 699.720 (a)(2) provides:
(a) The following
types of property are not subject to execution:
 
. . .
 
(2) The interest
of a partner in a partnership or member in a limited liability company if the
partnership or the limited liability company is not a judgment debtor.

     (Civ.
Proc. Code § 699.720.)
 
            However,
Civ. Proc. Code, § 708.310, provides:
 
If a money judgment is rendered against a partner or member but not
against the partnership or limited liability company, the judgment debtor’s
interest in the partnership or limited liability company may be applied toward
the satisfaction of the judgment by an order charging the judgment debtor’s
interest pursuant to Section 15907.03, 16504, or 17705.03 of the
Corporations Code.
     (Civ. Proc.
Code § 708.310.)
            Corporations
Code § 17705.03 provides:
(a) On application by a judgment
creditor of a member or transferee, a court may enter a charging order against
the transferable interest of the judgment debtor for the unsatisfied amount of
the judgment. A charging order constitutes a lien on a judgment debtor’s
transferable interest and requires the limited liability company to pay over to
the person to which the charging order was issued any distribution that would
otherwise be paid to the judgment debtor.
 
(b) To the extent necessary to
effectuate the collection of distributions pursuant to a charging order in effect under subdivision (a), the court may do any of the
following:
 
(1) Appoint a receiver of the
distributions subject to the charging order, with the power to make all
inquiries the judgment debtor might have made.
 
(2) Make all other orders necessary
to give effect to the charging order.
 
(3) Upon a showing that
distributions under a charging order will not pay the judgment debt within a
reasonable time, foreclose the lien and order the sale of the transferable
interest. The purchaser at the foreclosure sale obtains only the transferable
interest, does not thereby become a member, and is subject to Section
17705.02.
 
(c) At any time before foreclosure
under paragraph (3) of subdivision (b), the member or transferee whose
transferable interest is subject to a charging order under subdivision (a) may
extinguish the charging order by satisfying the judgment and filing a certified
copy of the satisfaction with the court that issued the charging order.
 
(d) At any time before foreclosure
under paragraph (3) of subdivision (b), a limited liability company or one or
more members whose transferable interests are not subject to the charging order
may pay to the judgment creditor the full amount due under the judgment and
thereby succeed to the rights of the judgment creditor, including the charging
order.
 
(e) This title does not deprive any
member or transferee of the benefit of any exemption laws applicable to the
member’s or transferee’s transferable interest.
 
(f) This section provides the
exclusive remedy by which a person seeking to enforce a judgment against a
member or transferee may, in the capacity of judgment creditor, satisfy the
judgment from the judgment debtor’s transferable interest.
     (Corp. Code § 17705.03.)
(a) When an application is made pursuant to Section 708.510 or
thereafter, the judgment creditor may apply to the court for an order restraining
the judgment debtor from assigning or otherwise disposing of the right to
payment that is sought to be assigned. The application shall be made on
noticed motion if the court so directs or a court rule so requires. Otherwise,
it may be made ex parte.
(b) The court may issue an order pursuant to this section upon a
showing of need for the order. The court, in its discretion, may require the
judgment creditor to provide an undertaking.
 
(c) The court may modify or vacate the order at any time with or
without a hearing on such terms as are just.
 
(d) The order shall be personally served upon the judgment debtor
and shall contain a notice to the judgment debtor that failure to comply with
the order may subject the judgment debtor to being held in contempt of court.

     (Civ. Proc. Code, § 708.520 [bold
emphasis added].)
            Moving party has made a sufficient
showing that it is entitled to the relief sought under Corp. Code §§ 708.310
and 17705.03. The records attached to the Declaration of John M. Kalajian as
Exhibits B, C, and D reflect that Andrew Meyers Abdul-Wahab likely has some
membership interest in these entities—Shangri-La Capital, LLC; Shangri-La
Industries, LLC; Veterans Housing Partnership, 12 Conejo Preservation, LLC;
37th Place, LLC; and W Investments, LLC.  that are subject to this judgment creditor
remedy. (Kalajian Decl., ¶¶ 3 and 4.) To the extent Abdul-Wahab does not
actually have any membership interest, the order simply will not apply.
As such, the motion for an order imposing a lien and
charging orders on the membership interests of Andrew Meyers Abdul-Wahab in the
identified California limited liability companies, and related orders, is
GRANTED.
 
 