 Case Number:  19STCV37977    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  T 19STCV37977 Salinas v  Transit System The court reminds all  counsel to be cognizant of the 5 year plus 6 months (Additional 6 Months  Applies To Cases Filed Prior To 4/6/2020) time limitation to bring each  complaint and each cross-complaint to trial. Tentative orders: 1.         Cross-Defendant  Acrisure of California, LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Broker’s Demurrer  to the Cross-Complaint (Urciel case): OVERRULED. Cross-Defendant Acrisure of  California, LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Broker’s Motion to Strike  Portions of the Cross-Complaint is DENIED. Cross-Defendant Acrisure of  California, LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Broker’s Request for Judicial  Notice is GRANTED but not as to facts in dispute or hearsay. Cross-Complainant US Bus Charter  & Limo Inc. “which will do business as” US Coachways, Inc.’s Requests for  Judicial Notice in support of their Opposition to the Demurrer and Motion to  Strike are GRANTED but not as to facts in dispute or hearsay. Introduction  Cross-Defendant Acrisure of  California, LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Broker (Cross-Defendant or  TIB) demurred to Cross-Complainant US Bus Charter & Limo Inc. “which will  do business as” US Coachways, Inc.’s (Cross-Complainant or US Coachways)  Cross-Complaint (XC).  Cross-Defendant’s  demurrer placed into issue the entirety of the Cross-Complaint.  The Cross-Complaint at issue is the pleading  filed within the related case Urciel v. Transit Systems Unlimited, Inc., et al.  (Super. Ct., Los Angeles County, 20STCV39458). Discussion  Cross-Defendant TIB argued that  another action is pending and that the Cross-Complaint failed to plead  sufficient facts.  (Code Civ. Proc.,  secs. 430.10(c) & (e).)  For “another  action pending”, Cross-Defendant must provide absolute identity of parties and  causes of action.  The identity of the  causes of action is determined by a comparison of the facts from which the  primary rights arose.  There must be an  absolute identity of the causes of action so that claim preclusion would apply  between the two actions.  (Eichman v.  Fotomat Corp. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1170, 1175; Bush v. Superior Court (1992)  10 Cal.App.4th 1374, 1384.)  To support  the “anther action pending” argument, Cross-Defendant cited to an action filed  in Department 15, titled US Bus Charter & Limo Inc. v. Carolina Casualty  Insurance Co., et al. (Super. Ct., Los Angeles County, 2024, 23STCV07779) (Dept  15 Action).  (Alan Jacobus (Jacobus)  Decl., par. 5, Exh. 4.)  Cross-Defendant  asserted that the Dept 15 Action and the Instant Action were both based upon  the same bus accident and the same claim that Cross-Defendant mishandled the  Certificate of Liability Insurance (CLI).   Although the two actions involved the same bus accident, the claims  alleged against Cross-Defendant and the mishandling of the CLI are  different.  The difference is seen in the  relationship between the parties relative to the other.  In the Dept 15 Action, Cross-Complainant US  Coachways is referenced as the “Additional Insured” on the CLI.  [The court notes that it previously denied  the Notice of Related Action concerning the Dept 15 Action.] Cross-Defendant TIB was alleged  to be the insurance broker for Transit Systems Unlimited, Inc. (Transit  Systems).  Transit Systems is alleged to  be the insured and the client of Cross-Defendant TIB.  Transit Systems allegedly retained TIB to  obtain the proper insurance for the event.   Despite being properly named as the “Additional Insured” on the CLI,  Carolina Casualty Insurance Company, the insurer, allegedly refused to provide  coverage to US Coachways.  (Jacobus  Decl., par. 5, Exh. 4:  Second Amended  Complaint (SAC) pars. 12-26.)  There is  no allegation that US Coachways had any express relationship with  Cross-Defendant TIB, the insurance broker for Transit Systems.  However, in the Instant Action,  Cross-Complainant US Coachways is not identified as the “Additional Insured” on  the CLI but is the alleged insured.  In  the instant action, US Coachways and TIB were alleged to be in an express relationship  wherein TIB, as a broker, agreed to procure insurance for US Coachways and add  Universal Church, as an “Additional Insured”.   However, TIB mishandled the CLI by failing to name US Coachways as the  insured on the CLI.  The CLI in the  Instant Action named a non-party, “American Tour & Travel, Inc.” as the  insured.  (XC pars. 8-14.)  For this mishandling, the insurer refused to  provide coverage to both US Coachways and the Additional Insured, The Universal  Church.  Because the parties stand in a  different relationship to each other when comparing the two Actions, the facts  and primary rights alleged are not the same and claim preclusion would be  inapplicable.  There is insufficient  showing as to the “another action pending” argument.    The demurrer based upon “another  action pending” is OVERRULED. As for the argument that  insufficient facts were pled to support the causes of action (Code Civ. Proc.,  sec. 430.10(e)), Cross-Defendant’s Points and Authorities is silent as to the  issue.  Cross-Defendant failed to present  any argument applying the facts to the legal authority.  A judge in a civil case is not “'obligated to  seek out theories [a party] might have advanced, or to articulate for him that  which … [a party] has left unspoken.'”   (Mesecher v. County of San Diego (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686.)  “Contentions are waived when a party fails to  support them with reasoned argument and citations to authority.” (Moulton  Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.)  With Cross-Defendant’s silence as to the  contention, the Demurrer on insufficient fact pleading is not persuasive. The demurrer on the separate  ground of insufficient fact pleading is OVERRULED. Cross-Defendant TIB’s motion to  strike sought to strike the Prayer’s request for prejudgment interest.  (XC, Prayer par. 7.)  Cross-Defendant argued that the request for  prejudgment interest is irrelevant, false, or improper because the alleged  damages to support prejudgment interest is uncertain or incapable of being made  certain by calculation.  However, the  Court disagrees with Cross-Defendant.   Cross-Complainant’s damages are “capable of being made certain by  calculation” because the underlying litigation will be resolved and the damages  and fees incurred by Co-Cross-Defendant The Universal Church, Inc. will be  definitive.  Nothing in the statutory  authority or case law authority supports Cross-Defendant’s contention that the  damages must be made certain at the time of filing.  It is noted that the three cases relied upon  by Cross-Defendant reviewed the propriety of a prejudgment interest award when  judgment was entered.  (Duale v.  Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 718, 728-729; Sackett v. Spindler  (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 220, 240; Steinfeld v. Foote-Goldman Proctologic Med.  Grp., Inc. (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 13, 21.)   The procedural stance of the Instant Action is still in the pleading  stage.  Cross-Defendant’s argument is not  persuasive. The motion to strike is DENIED. ­­­­­­­­­­­_______________________   2.         Cross-Defendant  Acrisure of California, LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Broker’s Demurrer  to the Cross-Complaint (Lemus case): OVERRULED. Cross-Defendant Acrisure of  California, LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Broker’s Motion to Strike  Portions of the Cross-Complaint is DENIED. Cross-Defendant Acrisure of  California, LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Broker’s Request for Judicial  Notice is GRANTED but not as to facts in dispute or hearsay. Cross-Complainant US Bus Charter  & Limo Inc. “which will do business as” US Coachways, Inc.’s Requests for  Judicial Notice in support of their Opposition to the Demurrer and Motion to  Strike are GRANTED but not as to facts in dispute or hearsay. Introduction  Cross-Defendant Acrisure of  California, LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Broker (Cross-Defendant or  TIB) demurred to Cross-Complainant US Bus Charter & Limo Inc. “which will  do business as” US Coachways, Inc.’s (Cross-Complainant or US Coachways)  Cross-Complaint (XC).  Cross-Defendant’s  demurrer placed into issue the entirety of the Cross-Complaint.  The Cross-Complaint at issue is the pleading  filed within the related case Lemus v. Rodriguez et al. (Super. Ct., Los  Angeles County, 19STCV44511). Discussion  Cross-Defendant TIB argued that  another action is pending and that the Cross-Complaint failed to plead  sufficient facts.  (Code Civ. Proc.,  secs. 430.10(c) & (e).)  For “another  action pending”, Cross-Defendant must provide absolute identity of parties and  causes of action.  The identity of the  causes of action is determined by a comparison of the facts from which the  primary rights arose.  There must be an  absolute identity of the causes of action so that claim preclusion would apply  between the two actions.  (Eichman v.  Fotomat Corp. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1170, 1175; Bush v. Superior Court (1992)  10 Cal.App.4th 1374, 1384.)  To support  the “anther action pending” argument, Cross-Defendant cited to an action filed  in Department 15, titled US Bus Charter & Limo Inc. v. Carolina Casualty  Insurance Co., et al. (Super. Ct., Los Angeles County, 2024, 23STCV07779) (Dept  15 Action).  (Alan Jacobus (Jacobus)  Decl., par. 5, Exh. 4.)  Cross-Defendant  asserted that the Dept 15 Action and the Instant Action were both based upon  the same bus accident and the same claim that Cross-Defendant mishandled the  Certificate of Liability Insurance (CLI).   Although the two actions involved the same bus accident, the claims  alleged against Cross-Defendant and the mishandling of the CLI are  different.  The difference is seen in the  relationship between the parties relative to the other.  In the Dept 15 Action, Cross-Complainant US  Coachways is referenced as the “Additional Insured” on the CLI.  [The court notes that it previously denied  the Notice of Related Action concerning the Dept 15 Action.] Cross-Defendant TIB was alleged  to be the insurance broker for Transit Systems Unlimited, Inc. (Transit  Systems).  Transit Systems is alleged to  be the insured and the client of Cross-Defendant TIB.  Transit Systems allegedly retained TIB to  obtain the proper insurance for the event.   Despite being properly named as the “Additional Insured” on the CLI,  Carolina Casualty Insurance Company, the insurer, allegedly refused to provide  coverage to US Coachways.  (Jacobus  Decl., par. 5, Exh. 4:  Second Amended  Complaint (SAC) pars. 12-26.)  There is  no allegation that US Coachways had any express relationship with  Cross-Defendant TIB, the insurance broker for Transit Systems.  However, in the Instant Action,  Cross-Complainant US Coachways is not identified as the “Additional Insured” on  the CLI but is the alleged insured.  In  the instant action, US Coachways and TIB were alleged to be in an express relationship  wherein TIB, as a broker, agreed to procure insurance for US Coachways and add  Universal Church, as an “Additional Insured”.   However, TIB mishandled the CLI by failing to name US Coachways as the  insured on the CLI.  The CLI in the  Instant Action named a non-party, “American Tour & Travel, Inc.” as the  insured.  (XC pars. 8-14.)  For this mishandling, the insurer refused to  provide coverage to both US Coachways and the Additional Insured, The Universal  Church.  Because the parties stand in a  different relationship to each other when comparing the two Actions, the facts  and primary rights alleged are not the same and claim preclusion would be  inapplicable.  There is insufficient  showing as to the “another action pending” argument.    The demurrer based upon “another  action pending” is OVERRULED. As for the argument that  insufficient facts were pled to support the causes of action (Code Civ. Proc.,  sec. 430.10(e)), Cross-Defendant’s Points and Authorities is silent as to the  issue.  Cross-Defendant failed to present  any argument applying the facts to the legal authority.  A judge in a civil case is not “'obligated to  seek out theories [a party] might have advanced, or to articulate for him that  which … [a party] has left unspoken.'”   (Mesecher v. County of San Diego (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686.)  “Contentions are waived when a party fails to  support them with reasoned argument and citations to authority.” (Moulton  Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.)  With Cross-Defendant’s silence as to the  contention, the Demurrer on insufficient fact pleading is not persuasive. The demurrer on the separate  ground of insufficient fact pleading is OVERRULED. Cross-Defendant TIB’s motion to  strike sought to strike the Prayer’s request for prejudgment interest.  (XC, Prayer par. 7.)  Cross-Defendant argued that the request for  prejudgment interest is irrelevant, false, or improper because the alleged  damages to support prejudgment interest is uncertain or incapable of being made  certain by calculation.  However, the  Court disagrees with Cross-Defendant.   Cross-Complainant’s damages are “capable of being made certain by  calculation” because the underlying litigation will be resolved and the damages  and fees incurred by Co-Cross-Defendant The Universal Church, Inc. will be  definitive.  Nothing in the statutory  authority or case law authority supports Cross-Defendant’s contention that the  damages must be made certain at the time of filing.  It is noted that the three cases relied upon  by Cross-Defendant reviewed the propriety of a prejudgment interest award when  judgment was entered.  (Duale v.  Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 718, 728-729; Sackett v. Spindler  (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 220, 240; Steinfeld v. Foote-Goldman Proctologic Med.  Grp., Inc. (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 13, 21.)   The procedural stance of the Instant Action is still in the pleading  stage.  Cross-Defendant’s argument is not  persuasive. The motion to strike is DENIED. ______________________   3.         Demurrer  and Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint (Mejia case): Continue as the  Cross-complaint is not on file.  US Coachways has failed to file  the Cross-Complaint.  The demurrer will  be continued to allow the filing.   IT IS SO ORDERED.   VERBATIM  NOTICE OF THE COURT'S RULING BY Cross-Complainant US Bus Charter & Limo  Inc.