 Case Number:  22STCV13243    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARIA CRISTINA SOTO, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
REAL TIME STAFFING SERVICES, LLC.,
  et al.,
 
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV13243
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 23, 2024
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendant St. Clair Plastics, Inc. (“St. Clair”) moves for
an order dismissing this action against it on the basis that indispensable
parties have been dismissed from the action.
 
The Court DENIES St. Clair’s motion.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this action on April 20, 2022 against
Defendant Real Time Staffing Servies, LLC d/b/a Select Staffing (“Select
Staffing”), St. Clair, Novel Alamilla, Pirate Staffing (“Pirate”), Pirate
California Holdings, LLC (“Pirate Holdings”), and Commerce Temporary Staffing
Services, LLC (“Commerce”).
 
Plaintiff was employed by Select Staffing, a temporary
employee company. Select Staffing entered an agreement with St. Clair, whereby
Select Staffing provided its employees to work at St. Clair’s warehouse.
Plaintiff was one such employee.
 
While Plaintiff worked at the St. Clair Warehouse, another
temporary employee, Novel Alamilla, allegedly harassed and retaliated against
Plaintiff. Alamilla was not employed by Select Staffing, but by Pirate
Holdings.
 
Plaintiff raises claims for (1) gender based harassment; (2)
sexual harassment; (3) failure to prevent discrimination and harassment; (4)
failure to correct and remedy discrimination and harassment; (5) retaliation
for complaints of discrimination and harassment; (6) violation of
whistle-blowing law; (7) wrongful termination; (8) hostile work environment;
(9) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (10) negligent infliction of
emotional distress; and (11) failure to permit inspection of personnel and
payroll records in violation of Labor Code section 1198.5.
 
Around November 2023, Plaintiff reached a settlement
agreement with Alamilla and Pirate Holdings.
 
On December 5, 2023, Alamilla, Pirate, Pirate Holdings, and
Commerce were dismissed from this action pursuant to Plaintiff’s request.
 
St. Clair filed this motion on April 30, 2024. Plaintiff
filed an opposition and St. Clair filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A person who is subject to service of process and whose
joinder will not deprive the court of jurisdiction over the subject matter of
the action shall be joined as a party in the action if 
 
(1) in his absence
complete relief cannot be accorded among those already parties or 
 
(2) he claims an
interest relating to the subject of the action and is so situated that the
disposition of the action in his absence may 
 
(i) as a practical
matter impair or impede his ability to protect that interest or 
 
(ii) leave any of
the persons already parties subject to a substantial risk of incurring double,
multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of his claimed
interest. If he has not been so joined, the court shall order that he be made a
party.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 389, subd. (a)
[paragraph breaks added].)  


“If a person as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of
subdivision (a) cannot be made a party, the court shall determine whether in
equity and good conscience the action should proceed among the parties before
it, or should be dismissed without prejudice, the absent person being thus
regarded as indispensable. 
 
The factors to be considered by the court include: (1) to
what extent a judgment rendered in the person's absence might be prejudicial to
him or those already parties; (2) the extent to which, by protective provisions
in the judgment, by the shaping of relief, or other measures, the prejudice can
be lessened or avoided; (3) whether a judgment rendered in the person's absence
will be adequate; (4) whether the plaintiff or cross-complainant will have an
adequate remedy if the action is dismissed for nonjoinder.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 389, subd. (b)
[paragraph breaks added].)  
 
“A person may be added as a party at any stage of the action
on motion or on the court's initiative []; and a motion to dismiss, on the
ground that a person has not been joined and justice requires that the action
should not proceed in his absence, may be made as late as the trial on the
merits [] However, when the moving party is seeking dismissal in order to
protect himself against a later suit by the absent person [] and is not seeking
vicariously to protect the absent person against a prejudicial judgment [], his
undue delay in making the motion can properly be counted against him as a
reason for denying the motion. A joinder question should be decided with
reasonable promptness, but decision may properly be deferred if adequate
information is not available at the time.”  (Union Carbide Corp. v.
Superior Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 15, 22 [internal quotation marks and
citation omitted].) 
 
Discussion
 
St. Clair contends that Alamilla and Pirate Holdings are
necessary parties because Alamilla is the underlying tortfeasor and Pirate
Holdings is his employer. St. Clair argues that without Alamilla and Pirate
Holdings, the Court will not be able to afford complete relief under section
389, subd. (a)(1).
 
 “It is well settled
that joint tortfeasors are not necessary to afford complete relief.” (Countrywide
Home Loans, Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 785, 794 [internal
quotation marks and citation omitted; cleaned up].) “It has long been the rule
that it is not necessary for all joint tortfeasors to be named as defendants in
a single lawsuit.” (Temple v. Synthes Corp., Ltd. (1990) 498 U.S. 5, 7.)
 
It is similarly well established that an underlying
tortfeasor may settle out of an action, leaving only a derivatively liable
tortfeasor: “a vicariously or derivatively liable tortfeasor, like any other
minimally culpable tortfeasor, is afforded substantial protection against harm
from an unfair settlement between a more culpable tortfeasor and the plaintiff.
If the more culpable tortfeasor settles with the plaintiff before the
vicariously liable tortfeasor, and if the settlement does not require the more culpable
tortfeasor to bear its fair share of the loss, the trial court can find that
the settlement is not in good faith and, as a consequence, the settlement will
not bar the less culpable tortfeasor from pursuing its equitable indemnity
claim against the more culpable tortfeasor.” (Far West Financial Corp. v. D
& S Co. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 796, 815.)
 
St. Clair argues that “a joint tortfeasor will be considered
a necessary party when the absent party ‘emerges as an active participant’ in
the allegations made in the complaint that are ‘critical to the disposition of
the important issues in the litigation.’” (Dreamweaver Andalusians, LLC v.
Prudential Ins. Co. of America (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1168, 1175 [internal
quotation marks and citation omitted]. Dreamweaver is distinguishable.
Aside from being the only case St. Clair cites indicating that a joint
tortfeasor can be a necessary party in California, Dreamweaver concerned
the joinder of a defendant who had never been named in the complaint. (Id.
at pp. 1171-1172.) Further, the Dreamweaver court’s ruling was that the
trial court did not abuse its discretion by determining that the missing
party, who employed the primary tortfeasor, was a necessary party. (Id.
at p. 1175.) The court did not hold that failure to join the
party would have been error.
 
St. Clair argues that Pirate Holdings is a necessary party
because it is the primary custodian of evidence required by St. Clair to
establish defenses against Plaintiff’s allegations. Fortunately, St. Clair is
not without remedies – it may obtain this evidence by means of a deposition
subpoena. (Code Civ. Proc., §2020.010, subd. (b).) The need to obtain discovery
from a party does not make them a necessary party, nor does St. Clair provide
authority indicating as such.
 
St. Clair argues that a decision absent Alamilla and Pirate
Holdings could result in multiple or inconsistent liability under section 389,
subd. (a)(2).
 
First, this basis for finding a party to be necessary only exists
when the excluded party claims an interest in the litigation – e.g., in the
context of interpleader. (Code Civ. Proc., § 389, subd. (a)(2).) Further, when
this basis for necessity is asserted, the risk of multiple liability must
derive from that party’s claimed interest. (Code Civ. Proc., § 389,
subd. (a)(2)(ii).) Alamilla and Pirate Holdings do not claim an interest in
this litigation because they have settled out of it. Thus, Alamilla and
Pirate Holdings are highly unlikely to claim an interest in this litigation
that produces inconsistent liabilities.
 
Second, as St. Clair clarifies in its reply, its concern is
that St. Clair or Select Staffing might seek indemnification against Alamilla
or Pirate Holdings, resulting in an unnecessary second suit. While an
unnecessary second suit is not desirable, it is also not a reason to prohibit
defendants from settling out of a case. The procedural remedy to seek
indemnification while avoiding filing a second suit is to file a cross-claim
against the alleged indemnitor.
 
The Court therefore finds that St. Clair has not established
that either Alamilla or Pirate Holdings are necessary parties.