 Case Number:  23STCV13030    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



RHONDA RUDOLPH, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
LIVING SPACES FURNITURE, LLC, et
  al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV13030
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 23, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Plaintiff Rhonda Rudolph moves for an order setting this
case for trial preference. Plaintiff requests that trial remain on the
currently set trial date of December 16, 2024.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion. A motion for trial
preference would require a trial to begin no later than September 2024.  Plaintiff is not seeking a trial in September
2024 and does not contend that one is practical.
 
As a matter of case management and fairness, however, the
Court states as follows.  Trial will
commence on December 16, 2024 and the Final Status Conference will take place
on December 6, 2024, all as currently scheduled.  Defendants are on notice that the Court does
not intend to grant continuances of the trial date or the Final Status
Conference date.  Accordingly, the
parties must be fully prepared for those proceedings on those days.  The parties are referred to the Court’s Trial
Preparation Order and are expected to comply with this order fully by the dates
specified.
 
Background
 
This is an employment action. Plaintiff was employed by
Defendant Living Spaces Furniture, LLC (“Living Spaces”). Plaintiff has
leukemia and alleges that Defendants Living Spaces, Charlynn Lok, and Susana
Grennon failed to accommodate and discriminated against her on the basis of her
medical condition.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on June 7, 2023, raising claims
for (1) wrongful termination in violation of FEHA; (2) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; (3) disability discrimination; (4) failure to
provide reasonable accommodations; (5) failure to engage in a good-faith
interactive process; (6) associational disability discrimination; (7) hostile
work environment; (8) unfair competition; and (9) assault.
 
On October 25, 2023, the Court scheduled trial in this
matter for December 16, 2024.
 
On April 26, 2024, Plaintiff moved for trial preference.
Defendants filed an opposition and Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Actions can be set for trial preference under several
circumstances.
 
First, “[a] party to a civil action who is over 70 years of
age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings: 
 
(1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a
whole. 
 
(2) The health of
the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the
party's interest in the litigation.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)
 
Second, “[a] civil action to recover damages for wrongful
death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the motion of any
party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court finds that
the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole. A civil
action subject to subdivision (a) shall be given preference over a case subject
to this subdivision.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (b).)
 
Third, “[i]n its discretion, the court may also grant a
motion for preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing medical
documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or
condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond
six months, and that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be
served by granting the preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).)
 
Fourth, “[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, the
court may in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by
a showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served
by granting this preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (e).)
 
When a court grants a request for a preference, “the court
shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from the date and there
shall be no continuance beyond 120 days,” barring specified circumstances.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 36, subd. (f).)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves for trial preference on the grounds that she
has a life-threatening medical condition that could significantly shorten her
lifespan.  Importantly, however,
Plaintiff asks for a trial date later than the 120 days specified in the
statute governing trial preferences.
 
Plaintiff has had Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, a chronic
and degenerative form of blood cancer, since 2015. (See generally Rudolph
Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff’s doctors have explained to her that patients with
this form of cancer often remain fairly stable for a long period and then
suddenly worsen, which can lead to unexpected death. At times, Plaintiff’s
cancer is relatively stable, but at other times, her white blood cell count
suddenly changes drastically and her doctors need to change her medication immediately
to preserve her life. Plaintiff’s cancer has significantly shortened her life span,
and she is never sure when she could be hospitalized again. Plaintiff’s doctors
have warned her that increased stress, such as that from litigation, could
cause her condition to worsen.
 
Plaintiff also suffers from kidney disease, liver disease,
high cholesterol, and pre-diabetes.
 
Plaintiff’s liver and kidney diseases are a result of her
leukemia. In order to treat her cancer, Plaintiff has undergone multiple rounds
of chemotherapy, which caused irreversible damage to her liver and kidneys.
Plaintiff’s doctors have told her that her liver and kidney functioning will
never return to normal. One result of this damage is that Plaintiff must be
careful about taking any medications, even over-the-counter medications. At the
same time, the medication regime necessary to control Plaintiff’s cancer is
further weakening her kidneys. Plaintiff’s doctors have warned her that her
kidneys could fail in the future.
 
Defendants make two arguments in opposition. 
 
First, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to provide
dates for her deposition and has noticed several other depositions which have
given rise to discovery disputes. Plaintiff’s motion falls under the
subdivisions of section 36 where relief is discretionary, and not mandatory, so
the Court may consider discovery issues. The Court agrees with Defendant that
the facts relating to the scheduling of Plaintiff’s deposition would interfere
with the Court’s ability to set the trial within 120 days required by the
statute.  
 
As noted, ordinarily, trials with preference must be set
within 120 of the granting of the motion for trial preference. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36, subd. (f).) Plaintiff requests that the trial be set for December
16, 2024, well after that deadline. Functionally, Plaintiff is not really asking
for a trial preference under section 36. 
Instead, she is asking for an order barring further continuances. The
Court is inclined to agree that Plaintiff’s request—while not formally a
request for trial preference—is appropriate.
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not provided medical
documentation that actually indicates the level of risk that her medical
conditions pose to her life. This appears true. The Court considers the
documentation provided by Plaintiff sufficient. 

 
Based on the totality of circumstances, the Court does not
believe that Plaintiff has satisfied the requirements for relief under section
36(d), which requires trial within 120 days of today, and declines to formally
set the case for trial preference under section 36(e).  However, the Court expects the already-set
December 16, 2024 trial date to remain firm. 