  Case Number:  21STCV19397    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



FOSTER WASHINGTON, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
DANIEL STURRIDGE,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV19397
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 23, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Defendant Daniel Sturridge (“Defendant”) moves to quash service
by mail or publication on him by Plaintiff Foster Washington (“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion but will discuss whether
additional publication in a United Kingdom publication is appropriate.
 
The Court requests that Plaintiff’s counsel come to the
hearing with a suggestion as to what publication would be appropriate to use
for publication in the United Kingdom. 
The Court would also consider arguments by defense counsel as to what
publication is most likely to be seen by Defendant.  
 
Background
 
            This
is a breach of contract action. Plaintiff alleges that he found and returned
Defendant’s lost dog and filed this action to recover the promised reward. The
facts stated here are taken from the allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
            In
July 2019, Defendant announced on social media that he had been burglarized and
his dog was stolen. Defendant offered a reward of $30,000.00 for the return of
his dog.
 
            Plaintiff
found and returned Defendant’s dog, but Defendant did not pay the reward.
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action against Defendant on May 24, 2021, raising claims for (1)
breach of oral contract; and (2) breach of written contract.
 
            Plaintiff’s
proof of service filed on August 20, 2021, states that Defendant was served on
July 3, 2021 at 2351 Mt. Olympus Drive, Los Angeles, CA 90046 by substituted
service. (Proof of Service of Summons at p. 1.)
 
            The
Court entered Default against Defendant on November 8, 2021.
 
            The
Court entered default judgment against Defendant on December 21, 2021 in the
total amount of $30,085.00.
 
            Defendant
moved for an order setting aside the default and default judgment on January 3,
2024, contending that he was not properly served in this action. On February 2,
2024, the Court set aside the default and default judgment entered against
Defendant, finding that the proof of service was defective on its face and that
Plaintiff had failed to provide evidence that Defendant was personally served.
 
            On
May 2, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to quash the substituted
service that gave rise to the default judgment. That service is not at issue
here.
 
            On
March 14, 2024, the Court issued an order for service by publication in The
British Weekly, a newspaper of general circulation published at 171 Pier
Avenue, Suite 121, Santa Monica, CA 90404.
 
On April 15, 2024 the Court denied Defendant’s ex parte
application to set aside the order for publication. 
 
            On
April 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a proof of service by mail as to Defendant.
 
On April 24, 2024, Defendant moved to quash service by
publication. This is the motion at issue here.
 
On April 29, Plaintiff filed a proof of service by
publication in The British Weekly on March 30, 2024, April 6, 2024, April 13,
2024, and April 20, 2024.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendant’s motion to quash
on May 9, 2024. Defendant filed a reply on May 16, 2024.
 
Discussion
 
Hague Convention
 
Defendant is a professional soccer player and currently
resides in London, England in the United Kingdom, where he is a citizen.
(Leventhal Decl., Ex. A, Sturridge Decl. in Support of Defendant’s Application
to Vacate Default Judgment (“Sturridge Decl.”) at ¶¶ 1, 8.) Defendant argues
that he must therefore be served by the means prescribed in the Hague Service
Convention (“Hague Convention”), and that both Plaintiff’s service by mail and
by publication are therefore improper.
 
The Hague Convention “shall apply in all cases, in civil or
commercial matters, where there is occasion to transmit a judicial or
extrajudicial document for service abroad.” (Hague Convention, art. 1, 20
U.S.T. 361, T.I.A.S. No. 6638.) The Hague Convention provides for certain
procedures to be followed when serving judicial documents internationally. (Hague
Convention, supra, 20 U.S.T. 361.)
 
“Where a writ of summons or an equivalent document had to be
transmitted abroad for the purpose of service, under the provisions of the
present Convention, and the defendant has not appeared, judgment shall not be
given until it is established that –
 
(a) the document
was served by a method prescribed by the internal law of the State addressed
for the service of documents in domestic actions upon persons who are within
its territory, or
 
(b) the document
was actually delivered to the defendant or to his residence by another method
provided for by this Convention, and that in either of these cases the service
or the delivery was effected in sufficient time to enable the defendant to
defend.”
 
(Hague Convention, supra, art. 15, 20 U.S.T. 361.)
 
“In California, Code of Civil Procedure section 413.10
governs service of summons within and without the United States.” (Kott v.
Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1135.) “In California service on
an individual may be made by [1] personal delivery …. [2] [s]ubstituted service
….[3] first class mail with a return receipt requested, or coupled with an
acknowledgment and return envelope with postage prepaid  …. [or] [4] by publication, if upon
application it appears to the satisfaction of the court the party to be served
cannot with reasonable diligence be served in another manner …. However, if the
party's address is ascertained before expiration of the time prescribed for
publication of the summons, copies of the complaint, summons and order for publication
must be mailed to the person.” (Ibid.)
 
“Thus, with one possible exception, all of these
methods for service on an individual requires transmission of documents abroad
and are therefore subject to the Hague Service Convention.” (Id. at pp.
1135-1136 [emphasis added].)
 
Transmission of Documents
 
First, because the Court ordered service by publication, it
appears that the Hague Convention does not apply at all. As discussed above,
the Hague Convention applies “where there is occasion to transmit a judicial
or extrajudicial document for service abroad.” (Hague Convention, supra,
20 U.S.T. 361 [emphasis added].) “The only method of service under California
law which does not require the transmission of documents abroad, and
consequently does not implicate the Hague Service Convention, is service of
summons by publication where the party's address remains unknown during the
publication period despite the exercise of reasonable diligence.” (Kott,
supra, 45 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1136.)
 
Defendant argues that service by publication was not proper
because Plaintiff did not conduct reasonable diligence to serve Defendant in
another manner, as required by Code of Civil Procedure, section 415.50.
 
“Section 415.50, authorizing service by publication
specifies this method of service is only warranted when “‘the party to be
served cannot with reasonable diligence be served in another manner specified
in this article....’” (Kott, supra, 45 Cal.App.4th at p. 1137,
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (a).)
 
“The Judicial Council comment to this section is instructive
in defining the showing required before a trial court is justified in finding a
party has exercised reasonable diligence in attempting to locate the party to
be served. ‘The term “reasonable diligence” … denotes a thorough, systematic
investigation and inquiry conducted in good faith by the party or his agent or
attorney. A number of honest attempts to learn [the] defendant's whereabouts or
his address by [1] inquiry of relatives, friends, and acquaintances, or of [2] his
employer, and by [3] investigation of appropriate city and telephone
directories, [4] the voters’ register, and [5] the real and personal property
index in the assessor’s office, near the defendant’s last known location, are
generally sufficient. These are likely sources of information, and consequently
must be searched before resorting to service by publication.’ However, the
showing of diligence in a given case must rest on its own facts and no single
formula nor mode of search can be said to constitute due diligence in every
case.” ((Kott, supra, 45 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1137-1138 [internal
citations omitted; cleaned up].)
 
There is ample evidence to indicate that Plaintiff conducted
reasonable diligence to find and serve Defendant.
 
Plaintiff retained the services of Barbra Wolford at Kinsey
Investigations to locate Defendant in Los Angeles. (Scully Decl. in Support of
Application for Service by Publication (“Scully Decl.”) ¶ 3.) Wolford,
Plaintiff’s original process server, checked utilities and online skip tracing
services in 2021 and determined 2351 Mt. Olympus Drive, Los Angeles, CA 90046
(the “Mt. Olympus Address”) to be Defendant’s residence in Los Angeles in 2021.
(Wolford Decl. in Opposition to Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment (“Wolford
Decl.”) ¶ 4.) Sturridge did, in fact, live in Los Angeles from approximately
July 15, 2020 through July 11, 2021. (Sturridge Decl. ¶ 7.) However, Defendant
previously submitted evidence that the Mt. Olympus Address was not his address
in 2021. Wolford served a person, who she believed to be Defendant because the
person matched his description, with the summons and complaint at the Mt.
Olympus Address on July 3, 2021. (Wolford Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) Wolford declares that
she listed the service as “Substitute Service” only because the person served
refused to identify himself. (Wolford Decl. ¶ 6.) The proof of service
indicates that the man served “refused to show his I.D.” (Proof of Service of
Summons filed on August 20, 2021 at p. 1.) The Court ultimately determined this
service to be invalid.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to locate Defendant be
searching proprietary databases such as Accurint, a paid subscription service
of LexisNexis. (Scully Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel contacted Octagon, an international
agency representing celebrities and athletes, which appeared to represent
Defendant, who is a soccer player. (Scully Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel also
attempted to contact Sky Sports, a channel on which Defendant has appeared as
an on-air commentator, based on social media posts and videos which Plaintiff’s
counsel found online. (Scully Decl. ¶ 4.) None of Plaintiff’s counsel’s
letters, emails, or phone calls were responded to, not even with a statement
that those companies did not represent or employ Defendant. (Scully Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
Upon request by Plaintiff’s counsel, Kinsey Investigations
ran additional searches of the public records and databases that Wolford, as a
private investigator, has access to. (Scully Decl. ¶ 5.) Wolford was unable to
find a current hit for Defendant’s address in Los Angeles. (Scully Decl. ¶ 5.)
The only hit that came up was an outdated address where they had already
attempted service. (Scully Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel also personally investigated the Los
Angeles addresses where Defendant has lived. Defendant’s declaration in support
of his motion for relief from default judgment indicated that he had lived at
the Mt. Olympus Address in 2019 and that he lived at 530 N Alta Vista
Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90036 (the “Alta Vista Address”) for a brief period
in 2021. (Sturridge Decl. ¶¶ 4, 7.) Defendant briefly lived in Beverly Hills,
California for less than a month in 2022. (Sturridge Decl. ¶ 8.) On February
16, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel drove to the Alta Vista Address and the Mt.
Olympus Address. (Scully Decl. ¶ 6.) There was no response at the Alta Vista
Address. (Scully Decl. ¶ 6.) At the Mt. Olympus Address, a young woman
initially opened the door to accept a communication for Defendant Daniel
Sturridge, but immediately refused when she realized who Plaintiff’s counsel
was. (Scully Decl. ¶ 6.) A middle aged man who claimed to be the owner of the
house approached Plaintiff’s counsel at that moment, but did not identify
himself. (Scully Decl. ¶ 6.) The man stated that Defendant Daniel Sturridge did
not live there any longer because he was out of the country. (Scully Decl. ¶
6.)
 
Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to locate Defendant in the
United Kingdom. (Scully Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s counsel searched publicly
available databases, but found it impossible to locate Defendant. (Scully Decl.
¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s counsel reached out to individuals in the United Kingdom who
might know something about Defendant, but they were not able to help
Plaintiff’s counsel locate Defendant. (Scully Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
Plaintiff’s counsel has had multiple conversations with
Defendant’s counsel, Joseph Leventhal. Plaintiff’s counsel inquired whether
Leventhal would simply accept service on behalf of Defendant, but Leventhal
stated that he was not authorized to accept service. (Scully Decl. ¶ 7.)
Defendant’s counsel has provided evidence in the form of Defendant’s
declaration that Defendant lives in London, but has not provided Defendant’s
address.
 
These facts create a strong showing that Plaintiff exercised
reasonable diligence to locate Defendant. 
 
Unknown Address
 
There is further, independently sufficient, reason to find
that the Hague Convention does not apply here.
 
“[The Hague Convention] shall not apply where the address of
the person to be served with the document is not known.” (Hague Convention, supra,
art. 1, 20 U.S.T. 361.) 
 
Courts read this to mean that “the Hague Convention does not
apply to situations in which the whereabouts of the defendant cannot be
ascertained despite reasonable diligence.” (Lebel v. Mai
(2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1161 [internal citation and quotation marks
omitted; emphasis in original].) 
 
The ‘reasonable diligence’ analysis under the Hague
Convention is substantially similar to the ‘reasonable diligence’ analysis with
regard to service by publication. “No bright-line rule or singular test can be
articulated identifying or quantifying what good faith efforts would amount to
a proper showing of reasonable diligence. Such a determination necessarily
would have to be made on a case-by-case basis—a factual inquiry appropriately
left to resolution in the trial court. ‘The showing of diligence in a given
case must rest on its own facts and ‘no single formula nor mode of search can
be said to constitute due diligence in every case.’” (Lebel, supra,
210 Cal.App.4th at p. 1162 [cleaned up]; quoting Kott, supra, 45
Cal.App.4th at p. 1138 [setting forth the ‘reasonable diligence’ standard for
service by publication].) Thus, the legal standard and analysis laid out above
is applicable.
 
As a factual matter, it is not disputed that the address of
Defendant is not known. Defendant’s counsel has not divulged Defendant’s
address, nor has Defendant provided it in any of his declarations. The most
precise information provided is that Defendant resides in London, England.
(Sturridge Decl. at ¶ 1.)
 
For all of the reasons discussed above, the Court believes
that Plaintiff has exercised reasonable diligence in searching for Defendant. Because
Defendant’s address is not known despite reasonable diligence, the Hague
Convention does not apply.
 
Proper Publication
 
            Defendant
argues that The British Weekly is not the proper publication to serve Defendant
because Defendant lives in the United Kingdom, and not the Los Angeles area,
where The British Weekly is published. 
 
            In
the interest of ensuring that the case does not proceed without proper service,
the Court is inclined to reconsider its order for publication or issue a nunc
pro tunc, to the effect of selecting an additional publication that circulates
in London, England, where Defendant has stated that he lives.
 
The Court requests argument from counsel as to what
publication would be most likely to be seen by Defendant.  Plaintiff should be prepared to make a
specific suggestion.  