 Case Number:  24PSCV00713    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Yonghong Li’s Motion for Leave to File  Second Amended Complaint Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff Yonghong Li’s Motion for Leave to File  Second Amended Complaint is DENIED. BACKGROUND This is a wrongful death  action arising from the death of a tour bus operator. In September 2023, Ziheng  Li was operating a tour bus for Defendants Gary Meng and GM Coach Inc. (GM  Coach) in the Yellowstone National Park when Ziheng Li suffered a fatal  cerebral hemorrhage. Plaintiff Yonghong Li, Ziheng Li’s mother, alleges Meng  was overworking Ziheng Li by requiring Ziheng Li to drive a bus from Los  Angeles to the Yellowstone National Park while GM Coach’s other drivers were  allowed to travel by plane. At the time, Yonghong Li alleges Meng was aware of  Ziheng Li’s poor health condition. On March 11, 2024, Yonghong  Li filed a complaint against Meng, GM Coach, and Does 1-50, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) negligence per se, (3) wrongful  death, and (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED). On July 29,  2024, the court sustained Meng and GM Coach’s demurrer to the Complaint with  leave to amend. On August 19, 2024, Yonghong  Li filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging  the same causes of action. On October 14, 2024, the court sustained Meng and GM  Coach’s demurrer to the FAC without leave to amend as to the third cause of  action and with leave to amend as to the remaining causes of action. On November  1, 2024, Yonghong Li filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion  is set for November 26, 2024, along with a case management conference on  January 14, 2025. ANALYSIS Yonghong  Li seeks leave to file a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) that alleges additional  causes of action for wrongful death and negligent hiring, supervision, and  retention. For the following reasons, the court DENIES Yonghong Li’s motion.Legal  Standard “A  court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow  a party to amend any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) The  court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendments of  the pleadings. (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920,  939.) “A motion to amend a pleading before trial must . . . [s]tate what allegations in the  previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,  paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and [s]tate what allegations are  proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph,  and line number, the additional allegations are located.”  (Cal. Rules of  Court, rule 3.1324(a).)  The declaration must also specify the amendment’s  effect, why it is necessary and proper, when the facts supporting the amended  allegations were discovered, and why the request was not made earlier.  (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).) If  the party seeking the amendment has needlessly delayed, and the delay has  prejudiced the opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to  amend.  (See Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial,  resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.  (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New  York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) Discussion In this case,  Yonghong Li’s counsel provides the effect of the proposed SAC is to include two  “new causes of action” for wrongful death and negligent hiring, supervision,  and retention. (Deng Decl., p. 2:18-21.) But as to the cause of action for  wrongful death, this is not a new cause of action. While Yonghong Li previously  alleged this cause of action in the FAC, the court sustained a demurrer to this  cause of action without leave to amend. (10/14/2024 Ruling, p. 3.)  The court’s reason for doing so was the exclusivity of California’s workers  compensation scheme. (10/14/2024 Ruling , p. 3.) The court also noted that  Yonghong Li failed to include a timely opposition to the demurrer that  addressed this issue. (10/14/2024 Ruling , p. 3.) Yonghong Li is now attempting  to reassert the identical cause of action which the court has barred. While the  proposed SAC provides additional allegations to support Yonghong Li’s standing,  neither the proposed SAC nor the present motion provide any grounds for the  court to reverse its prior finding that this cause of action is barred as a  matter of law. By failing to address the grounds upon which the court previously  denied leave to amend, the court finds that Yonghong Li failed to demonstrate  how this is a proper amendment. As to the new  cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, the court  notes this cause of action contains the same defects noted in the court’s  previous ruling on Meng and GM Coach’s demurrer to the FAC. In previously  sustaining the demurrer to the negligence causes of action, the court found the  FAC failed to allege how Meng and GM Coach owed Yonghong Li a duty. (10/14/2024  Ruling , p. 2-3.) Similarly, here, this new cause of action fails to allege how  Meng and GM Coach owed a duty to Yonghong Li with regards to the hiring,  supervision, and retention of Ziheng Li. Thus, the court also finds that Yonghong  Li failed to demonstrate how this cause of action constitutes a proper  amendment. Accordingly, the court DENIES  Yonghong Li’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Yonghong Li’s motion for leave to file  a SAC is DENIED.