 Case Number:  24PSCV03869    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  G Blue Wave
Properties, LLC v. Reusch  (24PSCV03869)
November 26,
2024
Plaintiff’s
Ex Parte Application for a Temporary Restraining Order and OSC re: Preliminary Injunction
Preventing Tenant From Using Property For Other Than Its Intended Purpose
RULING:
The court
read and considered the moving papers filed by Plaintiff Blue Wave Properties,
LLC (Blue Wave), to include the declarations of Ernie Park, Esq., property
manager Kara Wolff, and private investigator Ron Echavarria.  The court did not receive an opposition
Defendant Eric Reusch (Reusch).  
Plaintiff
requests a Temporary Restraining Order and the setting of an OSC re: Preliminary
Injunction so that Defendant Reusch operates the business property located at 2043
South Hacienda Blvd., Hacienda Heights, CA, for no other purpose than the
stated purpose as a laundromat. 
Plaintiff seeks a TRO that prohibits Reusch from allowing acts at the
subject premises that would constitute a nuisance to other business owners,
including prostitution, illegal drug sales, and illegal gambling.  Plaintiff presented the declarations of Ms.
Wolff and Mr. Echavarria as the basis establishing these acts are occurring at
the premises unchecked by Reusch.  
Pursuant to Rule 3.1202, subdivision (c) of the
California Rules of Court, an application for ex parte relief "must make
an affirmative factual showing in a declaration containing competent testimony
based on personal knowledge of irreparable harm, immediate danger, or any other
statutory basis for granting relief ex parte.”  The court finds that the
declarations of Ms. Wolff and Mr. Echavarria submitted by Plaintiff in support
of the ex parte application satisfy this requirement.  Specifically, the declarations states that
the Property is a “shopping center . . . with sixteen tenants,” that Defendant
Reusch assumed the lease obligations of the subject premises, and that
Defendant Reusch’s failure to curb illegal activity at the premises has
“fostered a hub for criminal activity. . . .” 
As such, the court finds exigent circumstances to support Plaintiff’s
request for ex parte relief.
Accordingly
ex parte application for a Temporary Restraining Order is GRANTED.    
The
court sets an OSC re: Preliminary Injunction for December 6, 8:30 a.m.,
Dept. G.  As for
jurisdiction over Defendant Eric Reusch, the court notes that Plaintiff has not
filed a proof of service of the Summons and Complaint as to Defendant.  Therefore, Plaintiff is ordered to
serve the OSC re: Preliminary Injunction on Defendant not later than November
30, 2024, in a manner compliant with California Rules of Court
3.1150(a).  Failure to do so will result
in denial of Plaintiff’s Preliminary Injunction as the court will not have
proper jurisdiction over Defendant.  
The court sets the
following briefing schedule:
            Opposition to the OSC re: Preliminary Injunction:     December
4, 2024, by 4:00 pm
            Reply by Plaintiff:                                                       December
5, 2024, by 4:00 pm
Plaintiff is ordered to
give notice.