  Case Number:  20STCV08408    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Robert
  Lamm, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV08408




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Bedrock
  Protection of California, et al.,  


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: March 26, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion for New Trial, Relief from Judgment,
or to Vacate Judgment and Enter New Judgment
Moving Party:  Defendants Bedrock Protection of California, et al.
Responding Party:  Plaintiffs Robert Lamm and Benjamin Beckes
 
T/R:    DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR NEW TRIAL, RELIEF FROM JUDGMENT, OR TO
VACATE JUDGMENT AND ENTER NEW JUDGMENT IS DENIED.
 
            DEFENDANTS
TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, reply, and sur-reply.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Robert Lamm and
Benjamin Beckes sued Defendants Bedrock Protection of California, LLC, Paul
Nelson, Damien Scott, and Todd McGuire on March 3, 2020. The operative Second
Amended Complaint, filed October 19, 2020, adds Bedrock Protection Agency LLC
as a Defendant, and alleges causes of action for: 1. Failure to pay minimum
wage (Lab. Code § 1194, 1194.2 and IWC Wage Orders); 2. Failure to pay overtime
(Lab. Code §§ 510, 1194); 3. Failure to provide/authorize meal periods (Lab.
Code §§ 226.7, 512, IWC Wage Orders); 4. Failure to provide/authorize rest
periods (Lab. Code §§ 226.7, 512, IWC Wage Orders); 5. Failure provide all
wages upon discharge (Lab. Code §§ 201-203); 6. Failure to reimburse
work-related expenses (Lab. Code § 2802); 7. Unfair Competition (B&P § 17200
et seq.); and 8. Breach of Contract. 
After a bench trial, the Court issued its Final Statement
of Decision on May 4, 2023. On January 18, 2024, the Court entered an Amended
Judgment against Defendants Bedrock Protection Agency, LLC and Paul Nelson and
in favor of Plaintiff Robert Lamm. The Amended Judgment awarded attorney’s fees
and costs to Plaintiffs.
On February 2, 2024, Defendants filed a notice of
intent to move for new trial. On February 14, 2024, Defendants filed the
instant motion for new trial, relief from judgment, or to vacate judgment and
enter judgment. 
ANALYSIS
Defendants move for an order: (1)
vacating the Amended Judgment entered on January 18, 2024 and entering new
judgment; (2) relieving Defendant Bedrock from the Amended Judgment; or (3)
setting a new trial on the issue of attorney’s fees. Defendants contend that
Plaintiffs’ counsel had a conflict of interest with their clients which
precludes his ability to collect attorney’s fees.  
A.        Procedural Issues
            1.         Motion for New Trial (CCP § 657)
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendants’ motion for new trial is jurisdictionally defective
because they failed to timely serve notice of intent to move for new trial
pursuant to CCP § 657. That statute requires that the motion be filed within 15
days of the date of mailing notice of entry of judgment, or within 180 days
after entry of judgment, whichever is earliest. Counsel Drew Lewis’ declaration
states that, although the proof of service for the Notice of Intent to Move for
New Trial document includes the proper email, the service provider’s Electronic
Service Notice states that he was served at an incorrect address. (Lewis Decl.
¶ 18.) 
Defendants assert that the
jurisdictional deadline has not elapsed because the notice of entry of judgment
sent by the Court’s clerk did not satisfy CCP § 664.5. According to Defendants,
the notice did not state that it was made on “order of the court” or “under
section 664.5; as a result, the 180-day period, not the 15-day limit, applies. Defendant
also argue that any failure to serve properly was Plaintiffs’ fault, for
providing an incorrect email address to the electronic service provider. 
In sur-reply,[1]
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants have no basis for the assertion that Plaintiffs’
counsel directed the use of the incorrect email address for service. Plaintiffs
also assert that Defendants’ own proof of service includes the correct email
address. 
The Amended Judgment was properly
ordered by the Court. It states: “IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, ADJUDICATED, AND
DECREED…consistent with the Final Statement of Decision issued by the Court on
May 4, 2023.” (1/18/24 Amended Judgment.) This is sufficient to comply with the
notice rules. 
Defendants failed to file their
motion for new trial within 15 days. Defendants did not rebut Plaintiffs’
showing that the service provider’s electronic service notice includes an incorrect
email address. The Court may not circumvent clear jurisdictional mandates. Defendants’
motion for new trial is denied on this ground. 
            2.         Relief under CCP § 473
Plaintiffs argue that CCP § 473
cannot be used to circumvent statutory requirements that govern motions for new
trials or to vacate judgments. Plaintiffs cite Advanced Building Maintenance
v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (1999) 49 Cal.App.4th 1388, where the Court of
Appeal held that section 473 cannot be used to extend the filing deadline of a
motion for new trial. 
The Court has found that the
motion for new trial was not timely filed; Defendants are not entitled to
relief under CCP § 473. 
3.         Motion to Vacate Court’s Judgment (CCP
§ 663)
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’
motion to vacate should be denied because they failed to mention this basis for
relief in their Notice of Motion. Plaintiffs also contend that Defendants did
not fulfill the mandatory notice requirements under section 663a, which is a
prerequisite for filing a motion under section 663. 
Defendants fail to respond meaningfully
to these arguments. But the motion was filed within 60 days after the court
clerk mailed notice of entry of the amended judgment. The Court rejects these
procedural arguments and will consider the merits.
B.        Substantive Arguments
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s counsel Lewis’s efforts to negotiate his fees directly
with Defendants separate from any client settlement create a conflict of
interest. They distinguish Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
904, which acknowledged an inherent conflict of interest in bifurcated
settlement negotiations but did not categorically find such negotiations to be
unethical. Defendants say that any attempt by Lewis to collect future
contingency fees would be detrimental to the integrity of attorney-client
relationships. 
Plaintiffs contend that bifurcated
negotiations can be appropriate where the client’s interests are not adversely
affected. Plaintiffs assert there is no case or statute that obligates
Plaintiffs to accept a global settlement offer, especially when counsel has advised
that each Plaintiff should independently decide whether to accept their
respective offers. This practice, they argue, is common in multi-plaintiff
cases. Plaintiffs also contend that statutory fee awards are considered the
property of the attorney who earned them unless an agreement specifies
otherwise. And Plaintiffs say that even if an ethical breach were found
California law allows attorneys to recover fees for services rendered before
any such breach. 
Defendants have not shown that counsel’s
effort to negotiate attorney’s fees separately from Plaintiffs’ settlements requires
vacating the judgment. As the Ramirez court held: “The parties may, if they wish, negotiate a separate
settlement of damages and attorney fees. That settlement, however, should be
approved by an impartial tribunal charged with the duty of determining whether
or not a fair and reasonable balancing of the interests of the plaintiff and
plaintiff's attorney was reflected in the negotiations.” (Ramirez, supra, 21 Cal.App.4th at 925.)
There is no evidence here that the negotiations – which did not yield a
settlement - impacted the attorneys’ fees ultimately awarded by the Court, or
that Plaintiffs were prejudiced. Defendants have not shown any basis to vacate the
judgment under section 663.
 
 
 


