 Case Number:  22STCV00738    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 




 
STEPHANIE MARIE WICKSTROM, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs, 


 
Case No.: 
 


 
22STCV00738




 
vs. 


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants. 
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: March 26, 2024 
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter 
 
(1)  Motion to Seal Good
Faith Settlement Determination Motion 
(2)  Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement
(3)  Motion to Seal
Minors Compromise Petition
(4)  Petition to Confirm
Minor’s Compromise Re: Brayden Lee Wickstrom 
(5)  Petition to Confirm
Minor’s Compromise Re: Logan Thomas Wickstrom 
T/R:     The
motions for good faith settlement and to seal are GRANTED. The petitions to
confirm minors’ compromises are CONTINUED to April 16, 2024 at 9:00 am.
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers. 
No opposition was filed.   
 
BACKGROUND  
On January 7, 2022, Plaintiff Stephanie Marie Wickstrom,
individually, and as heir and successor in interest of Eric Wickstrom,
Decedent, and as Guardian ad Litem for Logan Wickstrom and Brayden Wickstrom,
minors and heirs of Eric Wickstrom, Decedent, commenced this wrongful death and
survival damages action against Defendants Southern California Edison Company
(“SCEC”) and New Legend, Inc. (“New Legend”).
Plaintiffs move to confirm minors’ compromise for Brayden Lee
Wickstrom and Logan Thomas Wickstrom, and to seal the petitions.  Defendant SCEC moves to determine good faith
settlement determination and to seal.
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement 
 
Defendant SCEC moves for an order of determination of good faith
settlement under Code of Civil Procedure § 877.6. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, a good faith settlement discharges the settling defendant
from liability for contribution or indemnity to any other joint tortfeasor.
Guidelines for determining a good faith settlement include: (1) assessing
whether the settlement reflects the rights and liabilities of the parties; (2)
the amount paid; (3) the allocation among plaintiffs; (4) recognizing that the
amount will normally be less than the defendant would pay upon losing at trial;
(5) defendants’ insurance policy limits and financial condition; and (6)
existence of collusion, fraud or tortious conduct aimed at injuring the
interests of other defendants.  (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assoc. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) 
When the motion for determination of
good faith settlement is unopposed it may be granted without consideration of
the Tech-Bilt factors.  (See City
of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [“[W]e
. . . conclude that only when the good faith nature of a settlement is
disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt
factors. That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets
forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a
brief background of the case is sufficient.”])
Defendant SCEC’s motion is unopposed.
The motion establishes good faith and sets forth a background of the case.  The Court finds that the settlement was made
in good faith.   
Motion to Seal Good Faith Settlement Determination 
Defendant SCEC moves for an order directing that its
unredacted motion for determination of good faith settlement be filed under
seal. 
Unless confidentiality is required by
law, court records are presumed to be open to public review.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c); see also
Cal. Const., art. I, § 3(b)(1) [“The people have the right of access to
information concerning the conduct of the people’s business”].)  “The court may order that a record be filed
under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see also
NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178,
1217-1218.)  “The motion
or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing
facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).)
Defendant SCEC’s motion complies with
the California Rules of Court. Defendant’s counsel has filed a supporting
declaration establishing the factors in California Rules of Court, Rule
2.550(d).  A contractual obligation not
to disclose the settlement amount can constitute an overriding interest under
the Rules of Court. (Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 1273.)  Here, confidentiality
is a material term of the settlement agreement, and Defendant SCEC cannot
protect its bargained-for confidentiality absent an order sealing the
unredacted version.  There is an
overriding interest supporting sealing; there is a substantial probability that
this interest will be prejudiced if the subject portions are not sealed.  The redacted portions are restricted to the
settlement terms subject to the confidentiality provision and necessary to
protect the parties’ privacy rights.   
            Motion to Seal Minors Compromise
Petition  
Plaintiffs
similarly move for an order that the unredacted versions of their petitions for
minors’ compromise be placed under seal pursuant to California Rules of Court
rule 2.550 and rule 2.551. 
Again, there
is an overriding interest which supports sealing; the parties contractually
agreed for their settlement to be confidential. 
(See Universal City Studios, Inc. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273,
1283.) There is a substantial probability that this overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the subject portions of the petitions are not sealed.  The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored
because it concerns the petitions for minors’ compromise. There are no less
restrictive means to achieve this confidentiality interest. Plaintiffs meet the requirements of California
Rules of Court.  
            Petitions to Confirm Minor’s
Compromise 
Plaintiffs
Brayden Lee Wickstrom and Logan Thomas Wickstrom,
minors, by and through their parent and guardian ad litem Stephanie Marie
Wickstrom, seek to settle their claims against Defendants.
Court
approval is required for all settlements of a minor’s claim.  (Probate Code §§ 3500, 3600, et seq.; Code of
Civ. Proc. § 372.)  To obtain court
approval of the settlement of a minor’s claims, the petitioner must file a complete
and “verified petition for approval of the settlement and must disclose ‘all
information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise.’
[Citations.]”  (Barnes v. Western
Heritage Ins. Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 249, 256; Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 7.950.)  (Italics added).  
Plaintiffs
have failed to file or lodge unredacted petitions under seal; instead they filed
only redacted petitions.  Without information
such the total settlement amount and amounts to be paid from the settlement
proceeds including attorney fees the Court cannot determine the reasonableness
of the compromise.  The Petition to
Confirm Minor’s Compromise re: Brayden Lee
Wickstrom and Petition to Confirm Minor’s Compromise
re: Logan Thomas Wickstrom are continued to allow Plaintiffs to
submit the necessary information.


 