  Case Number:  22STCV22815    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  74 Richard
Lopez v. Rafael David Miranda, et al. 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, or alternatively, for Summary Adjudication
 The court grants Lopez’s request
for judicial notice. All evidentiary objections are preserved.
The court finds that Lopez has carried
his prima facie initial burden and Miranda has not shown the existence of one
or more triable issues of material fact. 
Lopez has been the sole rightful
legal and equitable owner of the Property continuously since May 2017. (SUF 1.)
The Settlement Agreement does not entitle
Miranda to any interest in the Property as against Lopez. (SUF 6, 11.)
The Improper Default Judgment had
been set aside and could not support recording the Trust Transfer Deed. (SUF 17,
22, 23.) As such, the Trust Transfer Deed is void. Because Lopez is entitled to
judgment of the first cause of action for quiet title as the Property’s sole
rightful legal and equitable owner, cancellation of the Trust Transfer Deed is
necessary to clear title and effectuate the judgment for Lopez on the quiet
title action.
Miranda recorded the Trust Transfer
Deed knowing it to be false and without privilege or justification. (SUF 21) Miranda
knew that Lopez was no longer a party in the First, Second, or Third Miranda
lawsuits when Miranda improperly included in Miranda’s proposed default
judgment that Lopez’s Grant Deed be expunged. (SUF 17.) Miranda did not serve
Lopez with his proposed default judgment or the Improper Default Judgment. (SUF
17, 18.) Miranda also refused to apply to amend the Improper Default Judgment
to remove the reference to the Property. (SUF 20.) Instead, he clouded the
title of the Property by recording the Trust Transfer Deed. (SUF 21.) Lopez has
suffered pecuniary loss due to Miranda’s recordation of the Trust Transfer
Deed. Lopez has incurred $70,934.00 in attorney’s fees and $4,652.47 in costs
necessary to remove the doubt cast by the Trust Transfer Deed and to clear
title. (SUF 24.)  Miranda fails to create a triable issue for any of the
foregoing. The court grants summary adjudication for Lopez on the
first, second, and third causes of action. Plaintiff shall prepare a proposed
judgment.