  Case Number:  22STCV24515    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  11, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22STCV24515




MOTION


Petition
  to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Safa Elizabeth Sharabi, M.D.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Tiera Terry



 
MOTION
 
On July 29, 2022, Plaintiff Tiera Terry (“Respondent”) filed a
complaint for damages against Defendants Safa Elizabeth Sharabi, M.D.
(“Petitioner”) and Kaiser Permanente West Los Angeles Medical Center
(“Kaiser”), alleging causes of action for (1) medical malpractice; (2) battery;
(3) breach of contract; (4) breach of implied contract; (5) lack of informed
consent; (6) breach of fiduciary duty; (7) negligent infliction of emotional
distress; and (8) fraud and deceit, stemming from a breast reduction and lift
procedure Petitioner performed on Respondent at Kaiser in August of 2021.  Kaiser has not yet appeared in the case.
 
Petitioner seeks to compel Respondent to arbitrate Respondent’s claims
and to stay the action pending resolution of the arbitration proceeding.  Respondent opposes the petition, [1]
and Petitioner replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION – LEGAL STANDARDS
 
            “[T]he advantages of arbitration
include a presumptively less costly, more expeditious manner of resolving
disputes.  It follows a party to a valid
arbitration agreement has a contractual right to have its dispute with another
party to the contract resolved quickly and inexpensively.”  (Henry v. Alcove Investment, Inc.
(1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 94, 99–100 [cleaned up].) 
Thus, “on petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see also 
EFund
Capital Partners v. Pless (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1311, 1320 [the language
in section 1281.2 compelling arbitration is mandatory].) The right to compel
arbitration exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a
party’s conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where
a pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds.
(a)-(c).)    
 
            “On a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court must first determine whether an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists. 
Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.  The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the
respondent's signature.”  (Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-544 [cleaned
up].)  The party seeking to compel arbitration must also “plead and prove a
prior demand for arbitration and a refusal to arbitrate under the
agreement.”  (Mansouri v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640-641.) 

 
            And while the moving party on a
motion to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, [a] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842 [cleaned
up]; see also Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 [“The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability”].)  
 
2.     
ENFORCEABLE ARBITRATION AGREEMENT
 
In 2017, Respondent telephonically enrolled as a Kaiser member in the
Inland Empire Health Plan (“IEHP”), a Local Initiative Plan that contracts with
the California Department of Health Care Services for the provision of covered
health care services to eligible Medi-Cal beneficiaries, like Respondent.  In turn, the Inland Empire Health Plan
contracted with Kaiser to provide those services to patients like
Respondent.  (Mot. at pp. 1-2.)
 
Kaiser is not involved in the enrollment process, and “typically has
no interaction with a member until after” it is notified that the member has
enrolled.  (Mot. at p. 3; Deniz Decl. ¶
4.)  Following Respondent’s 2017 enrollment
in the plan, Kaiser mailed Respondent a copy of the 2017 IEHP Member Handbook
Combined Evidence of Coverage and Disclosure Form on November 7, 2017, which
covered the time period July 1, 2017 through June 30, 2018.  (Velarde Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. D.)  In subsequent years, Kaiser mailed Respondent
a notice explaining how to view the new year’s IEHP Member Handbook Combined
Evidence of Coverage and Disclosure Form. 
(Id. at ¶ 7 & Exs. E-G.) 
Kaiser mailed Respondent notice of the 2021 IEHP Member Handbook
Combined Evidence of Coverage and Disclosure Form on June 30, 2021.  (Ibid.) 
 
The Kaiser Permanente 2021 IEHP Member Handbook Combined Evidence of
Coverage and Disclosure Form for beneficiaries who have elected Kaiser contains
the following arbitration provision:
 
Binding Arbitration 
 
Binding arbitration is a way to solve problems
using a neutral third party. This third party hears both sides of the issue and
makes a decision that both sides must accept. Both sides give up the right to a
jury or court trial [….] 
 
Scope of Arbitration 
 
You must use binding arbitration if the claim is
related to this Member Handbook or your membership with us, if all of the
following requirements are met: 
 
• The claim is for: 
¿Malpractice (a claim that
medical services or items were unnecessary or unauthorized or were improperly,
negligently, or incompetently rendered); or 
¿Delivery of services or
items; or 
¿Premises liability 
 
• The claim is brought by: 
¿You against us; or 
¿Us against you 
 
• Governing law does not prevent the use of
binding arbitration to resolve the claim 
 
• The claim cannot be settled through Small
Claims Court 
 
Keep in mind: 
 
¿You do not have to use binding arbitration for
claims that can be settled through a State Hearing 
¿You cannot use binding arbitration if you have
gotten a decision on the claim through a State Hearing 
 
In this “Binding Arbitration” section only, “you”
means the party who is asking for binding arbitration: 
 
¿You (a member) 
¿Your heir, relative, or someone you name to act
for you 
¿Someone who claims that a duty to them exists
due to your relationship with us 
 
In this “Binding Arbitration” section only, “us”
means the party who has a claim filed against them: 
 
¿Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (“KFHP”) 
¿Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (“KFH”) 
¿Southern California Permanente Medical Group
(“SCPMG”) [….] 
¿Any SCPMG or TPMG doctor 
¿Any person or organization with a contract with
any of these parties that requires the use of binding arbitration 
¿Any employee or agent of any of these parties
 
(Velarde
Dec. Ex. C at 120-121, emphases in original.) 
Although the arbitration agreement is not signed, Petitioner notes that
an agreement to arbitrate may be express or implied (Craig v. Brown &
Root, Inc. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 420-421) and suggests that by
continuing to stay enrolled in the plan, and utilizing the plan’s services, after
being given notice of the provision, Respondent agreed to arbitrate the claims
at issue.
 
Respondent’s Opposition is not exactly a model of clarity, dedicating
pages to countering arguments Petitioner did not make, and arguing facts not
present in this case, apparently including lengthy passages of arguments made
in an opposition brief from another case or cases.  Distilled down to the best of the Court’s
ability, the Court interprets the Opposition as raising the following
arguments:
 
·        
The agreement is not valid because Kaiser failed
to comply with various provisions of Health and Safety Code section 1599.81
 
·        
The scope of the arbitration agreement does not
extend to the claims at issue
 
·        
The arbitration provision is both procedurally
and substantively unconscionable, including because the provision lacks
mutuality and because it imposes financial burdens on Plaintiff.
 
With regard to the purported failure to comply with various provisions
of Health and Safety Code section 1599.81, as Respondent explains, that section
“specifies the requirements for arbitration clauses in nursing home contracts.”  (Opp. at p. 6.)  Moreover, Health and Safety Code section 1599
provides:  “It is the intent of the
Legislature in enacting this chapter to expressly set forth fundamental human
rights which all patients shall be entitled to in a skilled nursing or
intermediate care facility, as defined in Section 1250 [….]”  Section 1250 defines “skilled nursing
facility” as “a health facility that provides skilled nursing care and
supportive care to patients whose primary need is for availability of skilled
nursing care on an extended basis.” 
Similarly, Section 1250 defines “intermediate care facility” as “a
health facility that provides inpatient care to ambulatory or nonambulatory
patients who have recurring need for skilled nursing supervision and need
supportive care, but who do not require availability of continuous skilled
nursing care.”
 
Respondent underwent a breast reduction and lift surgery at
Kaiser.  There is no evidence in the
record suggesting that Kaiser is a “skilled nursing facility” or “intermediate
care facility” providing extended or recurring nursing care services such that Section
1599.81 applies.
 
Therefore, Kaiser’s purported failure to comply with the requirements
of Section 1599.81 does not render the arbitration agreement invalid.
 
a.      
SCOPE
 
The agreement provides
that the following claims are subject to mandatory arbitration: 
 
¿Malpractice (a claim that medical services or
items were unnecessary or unauthorized or were improperly, negligently, or
incompetently rendered; or 
¿Delivery of services or
items; or 
¿Premises liability 
 
Respondent argues that the “arbitration agreement does not clearly
encompass” the claims in Respondent’s Complaint.  A careful review of the Complaint
demonstrates that all of Respondent’s causes of action arise from Petitioner’s
alleged removal of more than the 50 grams of breast tissue Respondent had
authorized to be removed.  Thus, all of
the causes of action in the Complaint arise from “a claim that medical services
or items were unnecessary or unauthorized, or were improperly, negligently, or
incompetently rendered” and fall within the scope of the arbitration agreement.
 
b.     
UNCONSCIONABILITY 
 
            “Unconscionability is ultimately a
question of law for the court.”  (Flores
v. Transamerica Homefirst, Inc. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 846, 851.)  “However, numerous factual issues may bear on
that question.” (Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77,
89.)  As such, Respondent must show two
elements to establish the unconscionability defense: (1) procedural
unconscionability, which focuses on the manner in which the contract was
negotiated, and (2) substantive unconscionability, which concerns whether the
contract’s terms are unreasonably one-sided. (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113-115 (hereafter, Armendariz).)

 
            “The prevailing view is that
procedural and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for
a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause
under the doctrine of unconscionability. But they need not be present in the
same degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the
regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates
the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the
substantive terms themselves.  In other
words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” 
(Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114 [cleaned up].)  
 
                                                                         
i.     
PROCEDURAL UNCONSCIONABILITY 
 
Procedural unconscionability examines the “oppression
that arises from unequal bargaining power and the surprise to the weaker party
that results from hidden terms or the lack of informed choice.”  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012)
203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)  Preprinted
forms buried within a volume of documents offered on a “take or leave it basis”
evidence a high degree of procedural unconscionability.  (See Dougherty v. Roseville Heritage
Partners (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 93, 102-104.)  Most consumer contracts are adhesive and
therefore present some procedural unconscionability. (Sanchez v. Valencia
Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 915.)  “[A] finding of procedural unconscionability
does not mean that a contract will not be enforced, but rather that courts will
scrutinize the substantive terms of the contract to ensure they are not
manifestly unfair or one-sided.”  (Ibid.)  
 
In support of its contention that the arbitration agreement is not
adhesive, Petitioner cites Madden v. Kaiser Found Hosps. (1976) 17
Cal.3d 699.  In that opinion, the Court
of Appeal  held that Kaiser’s arbitration
provision, contained in a membership agreement between Kaiser and the
plaintiff’s employer through the California Public Employees Retirement System,
was not adhesive.  The appellate court
reasoned that the arbitration provision was “the product of negotiation”
between the State Employees Retirement System, acting as agent and
representative of the employees, and the plan” and employees had the
opportunity to select from among several medical plans.  (Id. at p. 711.)
 
            In opposition, Respondent cites to Victoria
v. Superior Court (1985), 40 Cal.3d 734, which affirmed the Madden decision
that Kaiser’s arbitration provision was not adhesive, and held again that
Kaiser’s arbitration provision was not adhesive, because it was the product of
bargaining between the State Employees Retirement System and Kaiser, even
though it had some adhesive characteristics, such as that it was a lengthy,
standard form contract Kaiser utilizes for all or almost all of the groups to
which it provides services.
 
            Similarly, here, Kaiser’s applicable
arbitration provision for Medi-Cal beneficiaries who enroll in its plan is
presumably the product of negotiations between IEHP and Kaiser, as well as IEHP
and the Department of Healthcare Services. 
Moreover, like Madden, Medi-Cal beneficiaries have the option to
enroll in other plans.
 
            Therefore, the Court finds that the
arbitration provision at issue is not procedurally unconscionable.
 
                                                                       
ii.     
      SUBSTANTIVE
UNCONSCIONABILITY 
 
The arbitration provision is also not substantively
unconscionable.  Respondent argues that
the provision is substantively unconscionable because it imposes financial
burdens on Respondent and because the provision lacks mutuality.  
 
Financial Burden
 
With regard to financial burdens, Respondent contends that the
arbitration violates the cost burden rules of Armendariz.  Armendariz held that “arbitration
agreements that encompass unwaivable statutory rights” in furtherance of
public policy “must be subject to particular scrutiny.”  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.
100.)  Such an arbitration agreement is
lawful if it “(1) provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than
minimal discovery, (3) requires a written award, (4) provides for all of the
types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) does not
require employees to pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators' fees or
expenses as a condition of access to the arbitration forum.”  (Id. at p. 102.)  
 
Otherwise, the default rule is that each side bears its own costs and
fees.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1284.2.)  Here, Respondent’s claims do not encompass
any such unwaivable statutory rights in furtherance of public policy.
 
Nor is the fee provision at issue unconscionably burdensome.  The provision provides that the $150 filing
fee “will be waived if you cannot pay your share of the costs.”  (Velarde Decl., Ex. C at p. 122.)  Moreover, the provision explains “If you are
not able to pay your share of the costs of binding arbitration, you can ask the
Office of the Independent Administrator to waive the costs. To do this, you
must fill out and send in a Fee Waiver Form[….]”  (Id. at p. 123.)  Kaiser also “will pay the fees of the neutral
arbitrator” (1) in cases of hardship; or (2) if the claimant signs a form
waiving objections to Kaiser’s payment of 100% of the arbitrator fees and
waiving the right to a party arbitrator in cases where the claim exceeds
$200,000.  (Pierrou Decl., Ex. Q at p.
9.)  
 
Thus, in all instances of financial hardship, Kaiser will pay the
fees.  And even if there is no financial
hardship, Kaiser will still pay the fees, so long as the claimant waives the
right to a party arbitrator on claims exceeding $200,000.  If paying the party arbitrator fees on a
claim exceeding $200,000 would be a financial hardship to claimant, then Kaiser
will pay the fees.
 
Mutuality
 
Respondent does not raise any substantive arguments regarding
mutuality, other than to conclude generally that the provision is not
mutual.  The Court disagrees.  The arbitration provision provides, “[b]oth
sides give up the right to a jury or court trial” and the provision applies to claims
brought by plan members against Kaiser, as well as Kaiser against plan
members.  Thus, the provision is mutual.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            For the reasons stated above,
Petitioner’s motion to compel Respondent’s claims to arbitration is granted and
orders that action stayed pending the conclusion of the arbitration proceedings.
 
            Further, the Court vacates that Case
Management Conference set on January 26, 2024 and sets a Status Conference
regarding the arbitration on June 5, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  The parties shall meet and confer, and
cooperate in the filing of a joint report on the status of the arbitration no
later than 5 court days before the scheduled status conference.  
 
            Petitioner shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.
 
 
 
 
 
DATED: December  11,
2023                                                ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


