 Case Number:  24SMCP00281    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  CITY OF CALABASAS,   Plaintiff, v.  ROBERT GARNER HAHN, JR., et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  24SMCP00281     Hearing Date:  January 16,  2025   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   NON-PARTY ELMER SHERMAN’s    motion for joinder    BACKGROUND This case involves property located at 23320 Dale Road, in Calabasas, California (the “Property”).  The Property was previously owned by Decedent Robert Garner Hahn, Jr., and is now owned by Respondent Sarah Baisley.   Petitioner the City of Calabasas (“the City”) petitioned for appointment of a receiver to take complete control over the Property because of numerous health and safety violations including unpermitted construction of a three-level structure built into and up the steep hillside of the Property, and a septic system that was not suitable for the three level structure, causing untreated sewage to discharge onto the ground surface, and raw sewage to spill down the hillside.  This hearing is on non-party Elmer Sherman, Jr.’s motion for joinder.  Sherman claims he has “custody” and “physical control” over the Property.  Although styled as a motion for joinder, the Court will treat the motion as a motion to intervene.   REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Whether by right or by court permission, “[a]n intervention takes place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party to the action or proceeding between other persons”  by “[j]oining a plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint,” “[u]niting with a defendant in resisting the claims of a plaintiff,” or “[d]emanding anything adverse to both a plaintiff and a defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (b).)  The prospective intervenor must “petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).)  “The purposes of intervention are to protect the interests of others who may be affected by the judgment and to obviate delay and multiplicity of actions.” (People ex rel. Rominger v. County of Trinity (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 655, 660.) Section 387 is construed liberally to permit intervention. (City of Malibu v. California Coastal Commission (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 897, 906.) DISCUSSION Sherman’s motion to intervene is procedurally defective.  It fails to attach a copy of the proposed answer in intervention.  Accordingly, the Court denies the motion.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Sherman’s motion for joinder. IT IS SO ORDERED. 