  Case Number:  23GDCV01801    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  V SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIACOUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – NORTHEAST DISTRICTDEPARTMENT VARAM DJAGHARBEKIAN, an individual; GILDA DJAGHARBEKIAN, an individual; ANNA DJAGHARBEKIAN, an individual; and ALEX DJAGHARBEKIAN, an individual,Plaintiffs,vs.LISA WONG, as an individual and as trustee of the WONG AND TSAI FAMILY TRUST; DOE COTRUSTEE (DOE 1), as an individual and as trustee of the WONG AND TSAI FAMILY TRUST; DOE PROPERTY MANAGER (DOE 2), an individual; and DOES 3-50, Inclusive, Defendants. Case No.: 23GDCV01801 Hearing Date: November 25, 2024 Time: 8:30 a.m. [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTIONS TO COMPEL ANSWERS TO FORM INTERROGATORIES AND DEMAND FOR PRODUCTIN OF DOCUMENTS OF PLAINTIFF ARAM DJAGHARBEKIANMOVING PARTIES: Defendant LISA WONGRESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed The court considered the moving papers.BACKGROUND This case  arises out of a residential lease. Plaintiffs Aram Djagharbekian (Aram), Gilda  Djagharbekian (Gilda), Anna Djagharbekian (Anna), and Alex Djagharbekian (Alex)  (collectively, plaintiffs) filed the complaint against defendants Lisa Wong  (Wong), as an individual and as trustee of the Wong and Tsai Family Trust; Doe  Cotrustee (Doe 1), as an individual and as trustee of the Wong and Tsai Family  Trust; and Doe Property Manager (DOE 2) on August 23, 2023. Plaintiffs allege  the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Warranty of Habitability; (2)  Breach of Contract; (3) Unfair Business Practices; (4) Nuisance; (5)  Negligence; (6) Fraud; (7) Financial Elder Abuse; (8) Intentional Infliction of  Emotional Distress; (9) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Abuse; (10) Violation  of CHSC § 17975, et. seq.; and (11) Elder Abuse. Plaintiffs Aram and Gilda leased a single-family residence  in 2012, located at 3601 E. Chevy Chase Dr. Glendale, California (subject  property) from defendants. Plaintiffs allege that as a result of mold found in  the subject property, plaintiffs experienced serious health issues some of  which led to hospitalization. After the hospitalization, defendants opened the  walls of the subject premises and found widespread toxic mold in the residence.  Plaintiffs allege that as a direct and proximate result of the toxic mold and  the intentional and negligent disregard of plaintiffs’ concerns and the  presence of odor and damp conditions by defendants, plaintiffs developed severe  respiratory problems, adverse health effects like fatigue, asthmas, and other  long term adverse health effects. Plaintiffs’ counsel filed motions to be relieved as counsel  on the grounds of a breakdown in communication and irreconcilable differences.  On November 4, 2024, the court continued plaintiffs’ attorney’s motions to be  relieved as counsel for plaintiffs’ attorney to give plaintiffs proper notice  of those motions. Defendant filed the instant motions on July 24, 2024. No  opposition has been received. LEGAL STANDARD  A plaintiff may serve a request for production of documents  and interrogatories without leave of court at any time 10 days after the  service of the summons on, or appearance by, the party to whom the demand is  directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.020(b); Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.020(b).) The party whom the request is propounded upon is required to  respond within 30 days after service, but the parties are allowed to informally  agree to an extension and confirm any such agreement in writing. (Code Civ.  Proc., §§ 2031.260(a), 2031.270(a) - (b); Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.260(a),  2030.270(a)-(b).) Where there has been no timely response to a request for the  production of documents or to interrogatories, the demanding party may seek an  order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b); Code Civ. Proc., §  2030.290(b).) If a party fails to timely respond to a request for production of  documents, the party to whom the request is directed waives any objection,  including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(a).) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7  against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a  motion to compel a response to a request for production and interrogatories,  unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(c); Code Civ. Proc., §  2030.290(c).) DISCUSSION A.       Motion to Compel Responses to Form  Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents Defendant Wong served plaintiff Aram on November 8, 2023,  with the Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Request for Production of Documents  (Set One) via email. (Carpenter Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4; Exhs. A, B.) Defendant followed  up with plaintiffs’ counsel by sending a letter requesting verified answers to  be provided on March 6, 2024. (Carpenter Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. C.) As of the date  defendant filed this motion, plaintiff Aram has not provided verified responses  to Form Interrogatories or Requests for Production of Documents. Plaintiff  Aram’s responses were due by December 12, 2023. Since verified responses have  not been served by plaintiff Aram, the court grants defendant Wong’s motion to  compel responses to Form Interrogatories and Requests for Production of  Documents. B.       Sanctions  Defendant Wong requests sanctions be imposed against  plaintiff Aram in the amount of $360 per plaintiff. While plaintiff Aram has  failed to provide responses to discovery, the court finds that sanctions are  not warranted in this situation given the breakdown in communication between  plaintiff Aram and his counsel. C.    Filing Fees  Defendant Wong filed the motions to compel responses to form  interrogatories and request for production of documents as one motion. A motion  must be brought separately for each discovery method at issue. Here, the  instant motion to compel responses to form interrogatories and request for  production of documents should have been filed as two separate motions and two  filing fees paid, one for each motion. Accordingly, defendant is ordered to pay  the additional filing fee. Based on the foregoing, the court GRANTS the motions to  compel responses to Form Interrogatories and Requests for Production of  Documents served on plaintiff Aram Djagharbekian.Defendant is ordered to pay  an additional filing fee to the court. Defendant Wong is ordered to give notice  of this ruling.