  Case Number:  21STCV44756    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Jane Doe,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV44756




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
County of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January
11, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(4) Motions to
Compel Further Responses to Discovery
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS ARE DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTIONS ARE GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO
SERVE FURTHER RESPONSE TO THE SUBJECT DISCOVERY WITHIN 20 DAYS OF NOTICE OF
RULING.
 
DEFENDANT’S
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, oppositions, and replies.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On June 6, 2022, Plaintiff Jane Doe filed the operative first amended
complaint against Defendant County of Los Angeles, asserting claims for
injunctive relief and possession of personal property. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant wrongfully confiscated Plaintiff’s phone data.
 
ANALYSIS
 
On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that an objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. (CCP 2030.300(a)(3).) The
responding party has the burden of justifying the objections to the form
interrogatories (“FIs”) and special interrogatories (“SIs”).  (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220-221.) 
 
The moving party on a motion to compel
further responses to requests for production of documents (“RPDs”) must submit
“specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand.”  (CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).)  If the moving party has
shown good cause for the RPDs, the burden is on the objecting party to justify
the objections.  (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.)
 
On receipt of a
response to requests for admission (“RFAs”) the propounding party may move for
an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that an
objection to an RFA is without merit or too general. (CCP § 2033.290(a)(2).)  
 
A. Plaintiff’s
Motions to Compel Further Responses to RPDs and SIs
 
Plaintiff moves
to compel further responses to RPDs and SIs from Defendant. The RPDs at issue
seek “contracts, payment records, user agreements,
user guides and user manuals, the County had as to the use of Cellebrite
products in 2019, at the time the incident occurred; Sgt. Joel Flores’s
credential, training, and qualification as to the use and understanding of Cellebrite
products; documents supporting the facts that a Cellebrite UFDR file includes
Cellebrite UFED software and that Cellebrite Reader is a proprietary software.”
Defendant objected to these requests on the grounds that they are overbroad and
unduly burdensome.
 
Plaintiff
believes that Defendant misrepresented in discovery the need for Cellbrite
software to read Plaintiff’s seized cell phone data. Plaintiff has since accessed
the data in discovery. It is entirely unclear what these requests have to do
with the claims in Plaintiff’s operative pleadings –that Defendant exceeded its
authority in seizing Plaintiff’s phone data in July 2019. Plaintiff has failed
to show good cause for this discovery. No further response is necessary.
 
The SIs similarly
seek information about Sgt. Joel Flores’ Cellebrite
training. They also request the physical address where the cell phone data is
stored. Sgt. Flores’ Cellbrite training is not relevant to this action, and
Defendant represents that it has already provided the address in previous
discovery. No further response is necessary.
 
Plaintiff’s motions are DENIED.
 
B. Defendant’s
Motions to Compel Further Responses to RFAs and FIs
 
Defendant moves
to compel further responses to RFAs and FIs from Plaintiff. The RFA seek information
about previous lawsuits filed by Plaintiff. The FIs seek basic identifying
information and information regarding Plaintiff’s employment history and claim
for lost income. Plaintiff objected to the discovery requests on the grounds
that they seek irrelevant and private information.
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that the motions are untimely and that the agreed upon date
for filing motions to compel was October 10, 2023. These motions were filed on
November 2 and 3, 2023. Defendant asserts the parties agreed to November 3,
2023 as the deadline. The Court finds that the parties agreed to a November 3,
2023 deadline. (See Reply to Mtn to Compel FIs p. 2 for an explanation of the
emails between the parties.) The Court cautions the parties going forward to
have clearer communication regarding motion deadlines.
 
The discovery
requests at issue seek basic information that is relevant to Defendant’s
defenses against Plaintiff’s claims. Plaintiff has provided no reason why she
should not be made to provide identifying information; if Plaintiff seeks lost
income, she must provide information about her income. Further response is
necessary.
 
Defendant’s
motions are GRANTED. The Court declines to award sanctions against Plaintiff,
given the confusion over the motion deadlines. 


 