..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV46566
Plaintiffs: Keegan Davis, Jerry Davis, Kimberly Penny
Defendants: Prime Healthcare Services – St. Francis, LLC DBA St. Francis Medical Center, Elite Funerals and Cremation Center of California
People-Names: Andrew Kirksey (Decedent), Dr. Daniel Luthringer
Company-Names: Prime Healthcare Services – St. Francis, LLC, Elite Funerals and Cremation Center of California
Places: St. Francis Medical Center, Evins Funeral Home, Greenfield Nursing Home, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles County
Dates: August 22, 2020, December 21, 2021, September 1, 2020, September 15, 2020, July 18, 2024
Events: Decedent's admission to St. Francis Medical Center, Decedent's death, Removal of breathing apparatus from Decedent's facial cheeks
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff's attempt to hold Defendant liable for Decedent's death and subsequent emotional distress
Facts: Decedent was admitted to St. Francis Medical Center, where he died on August 22, 2020. After death, Decedent's body was released to Elite Funerals, where a "medical device" was attached to his facial cheeks. When the device was removed by Evins Funeral Home, the skin on both cheeks peeled away.
Disputes: Plaintiff's claims of negligence and intentional infliction of emotional distress against Defendant
Acts: Defendant's alleged failure to properly prepare Decedent's body for transport to Elite Funerals
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure Section 437c, Landeros v. Flood, Galvez v. Frields, Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic
Case Citations: Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp., Juge v. County of Sacramento, FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles: Judge Mel Red Recana, Dr. Daniel Luthringer (expert witness)
Significant Statements: The court grants summary judgment in favor of Defendant, finding that there is no triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiffs' claims. The court concludes that Defendant complied with the standard of care at all times during its care of Decedent.
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The court has granted summary judgment in favor of Defendant Prime Healthcare Services – St. Francis, LLC DBA St. Francis Medical Center on the grounds that there is no triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiffs' claims. The court has reviewed the evidence presented by Defendant, including an expert declaration from Dr. Daniel Luthringer, and has concluded that Defendant complied with the standard of care at all times during its care of Decedent. As a result, the court has granted summary judgment in favor of Defendant on all causes of action, including negligence and intentional infliction of emotional distress.
