 Case Number:  22STCV31807    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




elizabeth lopez fabian

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
maria del carmen cervantes

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV31807




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   13, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff elizabeth lopez fabian
(2)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff juan carlos roman
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Jacob O. Partiyeli       
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff Elizabeth Lopez Fabian
(2)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff Juan Carlos Roman
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Jacob O. Partiyeli (“Plaintiffs’ Counsel”) separately moves to be
relieved as counsel for (1) plaintiff Elizabeth Lopez Fabian, and (2) plaintiff
Juan Carlos Roman (collectively, “Plaintiffs”). 
In the interest of efficiency, the court discusses Plaintiffs’ Counsel’s
two motions to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs together. 
“The question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to
withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within
the sound discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal
might work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires
(1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration,
and proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form
(MC-053)).¿¿¿¿ 
The court finds that Plaintiffs’ Counsel has served (1) Plaintiffs
with the moving papers filed in connection with the motions to be relieved as
their counsel by mail at Plaintiffs’ last known address, which Plaintiffs’
Counsel has confirmed within the past 30 days is current, and (2) counsel for
defendants Maria Del Carmen Cervantes and Mayra Alejandra Alatorre, as
administrator of the Estate of Oscar Alatorre, with the moving papers filed in
connection with the pending motions by mail.  (MC-052 Forms, ¶ 3, subds. (a)(2), (b)(1)(b); MC-051
and MC-052 Forms, Proofs of Service.)  The
court also finds that Plaintiffs’ Counsel has shown sufficient reasons why the
motions should be granted, and why counsel has brought the motions under Code
of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) instead of filing a consent under
section 284, subdivision (1).  (MC-052
Forms, ¶ 2.) 
            The court therefore grants
Plaintiffs’ Counsel’s (1) motion to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff
Elizabeth Lopez Fabian, and (2) motion to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff
Juan Carlos Roman.
            Jacob O. Partiyeli will be relieved as
counsel of record for plaintiffs Elizabeth Lopez Fabian and Juan Carlos
Roman effective upon the filing of the proof
of service of the signed “Order[s] Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel – Civil” on the clients.¿
            The court orders Jacob O. Partiyeli
to give notice of this ruling and the signed “Order[s] Granting Attorney’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” to plaintiffs Elizabeth Lopez Fabian and Juan Carlos Roman and to
all other parties who have appeared in this action.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 13, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court