 Case Number:  BC691437    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




frank depto

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
st. paul the apostle church

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC691437




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   13, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion for order permitting
  discovery of defendants’ financial condition prior to trial
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Frank Depto
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Defendants Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los
Angeles (erroneously sued and served as Archdiocese of Los Angeles), St. Paul
the Apostle Church, and St. Paul the Apostle School           
Motion for Order Permitting Discovery of Defendants’ Financial Condition
Prior to Trial
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Frank Depto (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order
permitting him to conduct discovery into the financial condition of defendants
Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, St. Paul the Apostle Church, and St.
Paul the Apostle School (“Defendants”) pursuant to Civil Code section 3295.
“Pretrial discovery of a defendant’s financial condition in connection
with a claim for punitive damages is prohibited absent a court order permitting
such a discovery.”  (Kerner v.
Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 84, 119; Civ. Code, § 3295, subd.
(c).)  “Upon motion by the plaintiff
supported by appropriate affidavits and after a hearing, if the court deems a
hearing to be necessary, the court may at any time enter an order permitting
the discovery otherwise prohibited by this subdivision if the court finds, on
the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented, that the
plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294.”  (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (c).) 
First, the court notes that, in their opposition papers, Defendants
contend that Plaintiff’s motion is an improper request for reconsideration that
does not satisfy the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1008.  (Opp., pp. 5:11-12, 8:20-28, 17:2-26.)  The court disagrees. 
On September 4, 2024, the court issued an order granting Plaintiff’s
motion to amend his complaint and ordered that (1) Plaintiff was permitted to
amend his complaint to assert punitive damages, and (2) discovery was reopened
for the limited purpose of allowing Defendants to conduct discovery on
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. 
(Sep. 4, 2024 Order, p. 6:6-16.) 
The court did not reopen discovery to allow Plaintiff to conduct
discovery on his claim for punitive damages. 
(Sep. 4, 2024 Order, p. 6, n. 2.)  On September 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex
parte application requesting that the court amend its September 4, 2024 order
to order that discovery is reopened to permit both parties to conduct discovery
relating to Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages, which the court denied on
September 10, 2024.  (Sep. 9, 2024 Ex
Parte, p. 1:13-16; Sep. 10, 2024 Minute Order, p. 1.)  However, Plaintiff did not expressly request
leave to conduct discovery of Defendants’ financial conditions pursuant to
Civil Code section 3295 in his September 9, 2024 ex parte application.  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff’s motion is not a motion for
reconsideration subject to the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section
1008.  (Powell v. County of Orange (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 1573, 1577 [“The name of a motion is not controlling, and,
regardless of the name, a motion asking the trial court to decide the same
matter previously ruled on is a motion for reconsideration under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008”].)
 
Second, the court finds, after considering the supporting and opposing
affidavits and evidence presented by the parties, that Plaintiff has met his
burden to establish “that there is a substantial probability that [he] will
prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (c); I-CA Enterprises, Inc. v. Palram
Americas, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 257, 283 [a substantial probability
of prevailing means that it is very likely, or that there is a strong
likelihood, that the plaintiff will prevail on such a claim].) 
Plaintiff has presented evidence to show Defendants engaged in an act
of malice or oppression by wrongfully terminating Plaintiff following the
negative change in his job description based on the evidence that (1) Plaintiff
raised concerns about the installation of the kiln in the closet of an art
classroom to Defendants through Plaintiff’s conversations with Richard Billups
(“Billups”); (2) in response to Plaintiff’s raising concerns about the
installation, Billups sent an email stating that he was “leaning toward taking
this out of [Plaintiff’s] hand” and that he “need[ed] to sit down with him[;]”
(3) after Plaintiff raised these concerns, Billups informed Plaintiff that his
job description had changed, about which Plaintiff expressed concern because
the description could “possibly put him in violation of his retirement.”  (Yenoki Decl., Ex. 15 [March 6, 2017 emails
to Billups noting that Plaintiff “has again spoken to Joanna about the
dangerous kiln and all the complications of installing one[,]” and from Billups
stating that he was leaning toward taking the issue out of Plaintiff’s hands];
Yenoki Decl., Ex. 2, Billups Dep., pp. 22:5-10 [discussion about Plaintiff’s
job description and pension/retirement], 47:1-10 [testifying that Plaintiff
raised concerns about the kiln installation], 68:16-20 [asserting that
Plaintiff was told that the job description was in its final phase].)  Plaintiff has also presented evidence showing that
the act of malice or oppression was on the part of a managing agent of Defendants
(i.e., Billups).  (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (b); Yenoki Decl., Ex. 2, Billups Dep., pp. 16:21-17:3 [Billups has a
role in creation of written policies or procedures at St. Paul]; CRST, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1255, 1273 [a managing agent is an
employee that exercises substantial discretionary authority over the
significant aspects of the business].) 
The court acknowledges that Defendants have presented evidence that the
finance council, in the fall of 2016, began discussions regarding a new job
description for Plaintiff, and that Defendants eventually decided not to
install the kiln.  (Opp., p.
14:12-22.)  However, this evidence does
not show that Plaintiff cannot establish that Defendants are guilty of malice
or oppression since (1) the evidence does not show that the finance council
wanted to change Plaintiff’s job description in such a manner that could
possibly implicate Plaintiff’s retirement, and (2) the evidence that Defendants
decided not to move forward with the kiln installation does not show that Defendants
did not negatively change Plaintiff’s job description as a result of his
raising concerns about that installation. 
(Skinner Decl., Ex. 4, Billups Dep., pp. 60:5-23.)  Defendants’ additional arguments regarding their
renewed offer of employment and Plaintiff’s performance of other potentially
disqualifying tasks do not show that Plaintiff cannot establish that Defendants
are guilty of malice or oppression since those arguments do not show that
Defendants did not change Plaintiff’s job description as a result of his
raising concerns about the kiln installation, thereby potentially affecting his
pension.[1]  (Opp., p. 14:12-23; Skinner Decl., Ex. 4,
Billups Dep., pp. 80:9-12 [testifying that Billups could not “speak to” whether
the job description would have caused Plaintiff to lose his pension], 204:15-17
[Plaintiff performed some work that would have rendered his pension void].) 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has shown that he is likely to
prevail on his claim for punitive damages against Defendants.  (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (c).)  The court notes that this finding “shall not
be considered to be a determination on the merits of the claim or any defense
thereto and shall not be given in evidence or referred to at trial.”  (Ibid.) 
Third, while the court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to establish
that there is a substantial likelihood that he will prevail on his claim for
punitive damages against Defendants, the court finds that Plaintiff has not supported
his request to conduct discovery into their financial conditions.  (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (c).) 
Plaintiff has not identified the discovery that he wishes to propound
on Defendants.  Plaintiff has not (1)
explained the methods of discovery he plans to use (e.g., interrogatories,
document demands, depositions), or (2) attached the proposed discovery to his
moving papers.  Thus, the court cannot
make a determination as to whether the proposed discovery is reasonable in
scope and appropriate in light of the circumstances, including the upcoming
trial date of January 8, 2025.  (I-CA
Enterprises, Inc., supra, 235 Cal.App.4th at p. 284 [finding that
the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying request for discovery
after phase one of trial based on the circumstances, including, inter alia,
that “the documents requested were overly broad, and the matter has been
pending for almost five years”].)  
To the extent that Plaintiff would require a continuance of trial to
conduct this discovery, the court further finds that any further delay of trial
in order to permit Plaintiff to conduct unspecified discovery into Defendants’
financial condition is inappropriate and unwarranted based on the age of this
case[2]
and the proximity of trial.  (I-CA
Enterprises, Inc., supra, 235 Cal.App.4th at p. 284.)  Moreover, Plaintiff has not demonstrated that
he will be prejudiced if he does not conduct the unspecified discovery, and the
court finds that Plaintiff will not be prejudiced by this ruling since he may
require Defendants to produce their financial information at trial by using the
traditional subpoena process.  (Soto
v. BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 165, 193 [“Civil Code
section 3295, subdivision (c) also enables a plaintiff seeking punitive damages
to use subpoenas to require a defendant to produce financial information at
trial”]; Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (c) [“the plaintiff may subpoena documents or
witnesses to be available at the trial for the purpose of establishing the
profits or financial condition . . .”].) 
The court therefore exercises its discretion to deny Plaintiff’s
motion for an order permitting him to conduct discovery of Defendants’
financial condition before trial.  (Civ.
Code, § 3295, subd. (c).)
 
 
 
 
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiff Frank
Depto’s motion for order permitting discovery into defendants’ financial
condition before trial. 
            The court orders defendants Roman
Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, St. Paul the Apostle Church, and St. Paul
the Apostle School to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 13, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


