 Case Number:  24STCP03318    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




regal medical group, inc.

   , et al.;
 
Petitioners,
 
 
vs.
 
 
george chidi, m.d.

   ;
 
Respondent.


Case
  No.:


24STCP03318




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   13, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
petitioners’ petition to confirm arbitration
  award and enter judgment thereon
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Petitioners Regal Medical Group,
Inc., and Lakeside Medical Organization, Inc.                 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award and Enter Judgment Thereon
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this petition.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Petitioners Regal Medical Group, Inc., and Lakeside Medical
Organization, Inc. (“Petitioners”) petition the court to confirm the Final
Arbitration Award issued by the arbitrator in the arbitration proceedings between
Petitioners and respondent George Chidi, M.D. (“Respondent”) on July 12, 2024. 
“Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may
petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award.¿ The petition shall
name as respondents all parties to the arbitration and may name as respondents
any other persons bound by the arbitration award.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.)¿
“A petition under this chapter shall: ¿[¶]  (a) Set forth the substance of or have
attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the
existence of such an agreement.¿ [¶]  (b)
Set forth the names of the arbitrators.¿ [¶] 
(c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written
opinion of the arbitrators, if any.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.) “If a
petition or response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court
shall confirm the award as made . . . unless in accordance with this chapter it
corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or dismisses
the proceeding.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.)¿ Any response to the petition is
required to be filed and served within 10 days after service of the petition.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.6.)¿¿“If an award is confirmed, judgment shall be
entered in conformity therewith.¿ The judgment so entered has the same force
and effect as, and is subject to all the provisions of law relating to, a
judgment in a civil action of the same jurisdictional classification; and it
may be enforced like any other judgment of the court in which it is entered, in
an action of the same jurisdictional classification.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
1287.4.)¿ 
First, the court finds that Petitioners have served Respondent with
the summons, Petition, Notice of Hearing on the Petition, and other case
management documents in the manner provided by law for the service of summons
in an action because Petitioners served Respondent with the documents described
above by substitute service on November 5, 2024.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1290.4, subd. (b)(1)
[“If the arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which such
service shall be made and the person upon whom service is to be made has not
previously appeared in the proceeding and has not previously been served in
accordance with this subdivision: [¶] (1) Service within this State shall be
made in the manner provided by law for the service of summons in an action”],
415.20, subd. (b); Nov. 18, 2024 POS-010; Pet., ¶ 6 [the parties’ Primary Care
Physician Agreement includes an arbitration provision in 10.4.1, which is
quoted in the Petition and does not include the manner of service].) 
Second, the court finds that Petitioners have satisfied the
requirements for confirmation of the arbitration award by (1) setting forth the
substance of the arbitration provision in the parties’ Primary Care Physician
Agreement; (2) setting forth the name of the arbitrator (Hon. Gregory C.
O’Brien (Ret.)); and (3) attaching a copy of the Final Arbitration Award to the
Petition.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4;
Pet., ¶¶ 6 [quoting section 10.4.1 of the agreement], 9 [Petitioners and
Respondent selected arbitrator Hon. Gregory C. O’Brien (Ret.)]; Pet., Ex. 1,
Final Arbitration Award.)  
Third, the court notes that Respondent did not file an opposition to
the Petition contending that the Final Arbitration Award should be corrected or
vacated for any reason. 
The court therefore grants Petitioners’ Petition.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.)
ORDER
            The court grants petitioners Regal
Medical Group, Inc., and Lakeside Medical Organization, Inc.’s Petition to
Confirm Arbitration Award and Enter Judgment Thereon. 
            The court orders petitioners Regal
Medical Group, Inc., and Lakeside Medical Organization, Inc. to serve on
respondent George Chidi, M.D. and to lodge with the court a proposed judgment
confirming arbitration award no later than 10 days of the date of this order.
            The court orders that the Case Management
Conference set for February 24, 2025 is vacated.  
            The court sets an Order to Show
Cause re entry of judgment for hearing on March 4, 2025, at 8:30 a.m., in
Department 53. 
            The court orders petitioners Regal
Medical Group, Inc., and Lakeside Medical Organization, Inc. to give notice of
this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 13, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court