 Case Number:  23STCV11642    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  57  The motion of Defendant PopID, Inc. to compel Plaintiff to provide further responses to form interrogatories is defective.  It is defective  because Defendant's separate statement in support of the motion is defective in two respects.  First, the separate statement is overinclusive insofar as it recites multiple interrogatories and responses thereto that the Defendant' s motion does not place in dispute.  Second, and more importantly, the separate statement is underinclusive insofar as it fails to include "[a] statement of the factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses . . . as to each matter in dispute" as specified in California Rule of Court 3.1345(c).  Toward the end of the separate statement, Defendant says that Plaintiffs' objections to the disputed interrogatories are "meritless," but does not explain why that is so.  The Court could deny Defendant's  motion for this reason alone.  Instead, the Court is continuing the hearing on the motion so that Defendant can submit a Separate Statement that complies with the Rules of Court.  The Court notes that Plaintiff's opposition to the motion is defective as well.  That is because Plaintiff did not submit a separate statement of its own, as required by the Rules of Court.  The Court will set a continued hearing date and the schedule for the filing of separate statements at the hearing on the motion.The separate statement in support of Defendant PopID, Inc.'s motion to compel further responses to requests for production of documents  similarly fails to explain adequately the factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses.  But the defects in this motion go beyond just that and require the motion to be denied without prejudice.  The separate statement indicates that Plaintiff's responses to the requests for production of documents fall into three categories.  First, for some requests, Plaintiff has stated that it will comply subject to objections .  Second, for other requests, Plaintiff has recited objections and stated that, in any event, it is unable to comply.  And third, for still other requests, Plaintiff has recited objections only.   When a party responds to requests for production of documents with a statement that it will comply but has not complied as promised, the proper procedure for the party propounding the requests is to file a motion to compel compliance under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.320(a)(1).  When a party responds to requests for production of documents with a statement that is unable to comply, coupled with objections, and the party propounding the requests finds the statement incomplete or evasive and the objections without merit, the proper procedure for the propounding party is to file a motion to compel further responses under Section 2031.310(b)(1).  The same goes for responses that only objections that the propounding party believes are meritless.  Here, Defendant has improperly combined  a motion to compel compliance with a motion to compel further responses.   Defendant needs to file two separate motions  -- one directed at the responses that Plaintiff will comply, and another directed at the responses that Plaintiff is unable to comply or that contain objections only. 