  Case Number:  24STCP00969    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  82 Ekaterina Petrushkina                                             Case
No. 24STCP00969
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: November 14, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
Steve
Gordon, Director for the                                Department: 82 
Department
of Motor Vehicles                                Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Petition for
Writ of Mandate
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
While driving her vehicle, Petitioner
Ekaterina Petrushkina (“Petitioner”) drove off the street and hit a wood
utility pole.  Officers from the Los
Angeles Police Department (the “LAPD”) responded and asked Petitioner to take
field sobriety tests.  For the next 25
minutes, Petitioner argued with the officers, claiming that she would take the
tests, but refusing to do so until her attorney was present and/or her daughter
was taken to her mother’s house.  The officers—a
model of professionalism and courtesy—eventually arrested her.  When advised that she had to take a chemical
test and had the option of taking a breath or blood test, Petitioner continued
to argue with the officers and refused at least twice.  As a result, Petitioner’s driving privileges
were suspended for one year, giving rise to the instant petition for writ of administrative
mandate against Steve Gordon in his official capacity as Director for the
Department of Motor Vehicles (the “DMV” or “Respondent.”)  Petitioner raises three issues before this
court.  First, Petitioner argues that
there was no reasonable cause to arrest her. 
Second, Petitioner argues that the chemical test admonishment was
defective and she never refused to take a chemical test.  Third, Petitioner argues that the DMV hearing
lacked due process because there was no prosecutor, only a hearing officer, and
the hearing officer was biased.  The
petition for writ of mandate is denied.   
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
When a driver
petitions for a writ of mandate following an order suspending his or her
driver’s license, the trial court is required to determine, based on its
independent judgment, whether the weight of the evidence supports the
administrative decision.  (Lake v. Reed (1997) 16 Cal. 4th 448,
456.)  Under the independent judgment
test, “the trial court not only examines the administrative record for errors
of law, but also exercises its independent judgment upon the evidence disclosed
in a limited trial de novo.”  (Bixby
v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 143.) 
The court must draw its own reasonable inferences from the evidence and
make its own credibility determinations. 
(Morrison v. Housing Authority of
the City of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th
860, 868.)  However, “in exercising its
independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong presumption of
correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the party challenging the
administrative decision bears the burden of convincing the court that the
administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the evidence.”  (Fukuda
v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)
 
The court
exercises its independent judgment on questions of law arising in mandate
proceedings.  (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  The interpretation of statute or regulation
is a question of law.  (See State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Quackenbush (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.)  “A challenge to the procedural
fairness of the administrative hearing is reviewed de novo on appeal because
the ultimate determination of procedural fairness amounts to a question of
law.”  (Nasha L.L.C. v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 470,
482.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        There
Was a Lawful Arrest for Driving under the Influence 
 
Contrary to Petitioner’s argument,
there was sufficient evidence to arrest her for driving under the influence of
alcohol.  Vehicle Code section 40300.5
states in relevant part:
 
[A] peace officer may, without a warrant, arrest a person
when the officer has reasonable cause to believe that the person had been
driving while under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or any drug, or
under the combined influence of an alcoholic beverage and any drug when . . .
[t]he person is involved in a traffic crash.
 
(Veh. Code § 40300.5.)  The officers had reasonable cause to believe
that Petitioner had been driving under the influence of alcohol.  There is no dispute that Petitioner was in a solo
collision, having hit a wooden utility pole. 
Moreover, the officer smelled alcohol on Petitioner’s breath.  (AR 15.) 
This evidence alone is sufficient to justify the arrest.  (See Espinoza v. Shiomoto (2017) 10
Cal.App.5th 85, 101-102.)  
 
In addition, the officers reasonably
interpreted Petitioner as refusing to take the field sobriety tests, which is a
valid consideration in determining whether she had been driving under the
influence.  (Ibid.)  First, Petitioner refused to take the field sobriety
tests unless she had an attorney present. 
(See 904_AMB_CPI at 15:00-27:30.) 
Then, Petitioner agreed to do the field sobriety tests if they could be
conducted outside the presence of her daughter. 
(See id. at 27:30-28:40.)  When
the officers suggested that might be possible, Petitioner again reiterated that
she wanted an attorney present and insisted on taking her daughter to her
mother’s house as a condition of doing the field sobriety tests.  (See id. at 28:40-38:00.)  Petitioner accused the officers of
“intimidating” her, even though the officers were a model of professionalism
and courtesy.  (See id. at 37:04-37:12.)  Finally, the lead officer said: “I’m just
going to say one more thing, and after that I’m done.”  (See id. 39:20-39:30.)  The lead officer advised Petitioner that she
would need to do the field sobriety tests “right now.”  (See id. at 39:30-39:33.)  The lead officer then said: “If you keep
insisting on doing what you want to do, you’re going to be subject to an
arrest.”  (See id. at
39:33-39:39.)  Petitioner said,
“No.”  (See id. at 39:40.)  The lead officer then advised Petitioner that
they would interpret the record as a refusal. 
(See id. at 39:45-39:48.)  Petitioner
was arrested.  Petitioner’s lack of
cooperation—after 25 minutes of the officers asking her to take the field
sobriety tests and her refusal to do so unless the officers accommodated her
various conditions—was reasonably interpreted as a refusal that justified her
arrest.[1]  Indeed, Petitioner did not have the right to
have an attorney present before taking the field sobriety tests.  (See Veh. Code § 23612(a)(4).)  Conditional consent to a chemical test
constitutes a refusal.  (See Espinoza,
supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at 104.)  The same
is true for field sobriety tests.    
 
B.        Petitioner
Refused To Take a Chemical Test             
 
Pursuant to Vehicle Code section
23612, an officer must advise those lawfully arrested for driving under the
influence of certain information, including, among other things, that they have
an obligation to take a chemical test of blood or breath for the purpose of
determining alcoholic content; they have a choice which test to take but a
breath test will not result in a sample being saved; they do not have a right
to an attorney being present; and refusal to submit to the test will result in
an administrative suspension of driving privileges for one year.  The officer read Petitioner an advisement
that contained all necessary information under section 23612.  (See DUI-ARR-CHEM_TEST-REFUSAL at 2:00-4:00.)  
 
Petitioner argues that the
admonition was incomplete because the officer referenced a refusal to take a
“test,” instead of making clear that he was referring to a breath or blood test.  The court disagrees.  The admonition contained all necessary
information under section 23612, and it was abundantly clear to which test the
officer was referring, either a breath or blood test.
 
Similarly, Petitioner argues that
the officers erred in asking whether she would submit to a “chemical test”
instead of asking, first, whether Petitioner would take a breath test and,
second, whether Petitioner would take a blood test.  Based upon this, Petitioner argues that “she
was offered neither.”  That is a
mischaracterization of the record.  The
officer read the entire admonishment, which made clear that she was required to
take a test and that she had the choice between a breath or a blood test.  Therefore, when the officers referenced a
“chemical test,” it was clear that they were offering her the choice between a
breath or a blood test.  
 
Moreover, Petitioner’s argumentative
and disruptive behavior gave rise to this issue.  When the lead officer asked whether
Petitioner understood the admonishment, she began arguing, accusing him of depriving
her of her rights relating to the field sobriety tests.  The officer then said, “This is not the field
sobriety test.  This is the chemical
test.”  (See id. at 4:20-4:20.)  When Petitioner continued to argue with him,
the lead officer asked, “Are you going to take the chemical test, yes or
no?”  (See id. at 4:20-4:25.)  Petitioner continued to argue with him.  (See id. at 4:25-4:30.)  The lead officer asked, “Are you going to
refuse a chemical test?”  (See id.
at 4:30-4:33.)  When Petitioner said,
“No,” the officer said, “Let’s do the chemical test then.”  (See id. at 4:33-4:36.)  Petitioner refused to move from her position
and again started arguing with the officer about the field sobriety tests.  The officer said, “We’re beyond that,”
referring to the field sobriety tests, and then said, “We’re going to do the
chemical test.”  (See id. at
4:36-4:42.)  Petitioner said, “No, No,
No, you’re not a judge, you’re not a prosecutor.”  (See id. at 4:42-4:55.)  One refusal is sufficient to constitute a
refusal.  (See Webb v. Miller
(1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 619, 627.)  
 
            The
officers continued to ask whether Petitioner would take a “chemical test,” and
she continued to argue with the officers about the field sobriety tests.  (See id. at 4:55-10:15.)  At one point, Petitioner said she would take
a chemical test but continued to argue with the officers over the field
sobriety tests.  (See ibid.)  Finally, the sergeant said, “So, are you
willing to do the chemical test right now, yes or no?”  (See id. at 10:15-10:19.)  Petitioner said, “No, [Unintelligible], No.”  (See id. at 10:20.)  This is sufficient to establish that
Petitioner refused to take a chemical test, and based upon the prior
admonishment, it is clear she was refusing both a breath and a blood test.  Contrary to Petitioner’s argument, the
officers did not commit perjury when they noted a refusal to both tests in
their report.      
 
C.        There
Was no Due Process Violation 
 
Petitioner contends that the DMV
violated her due process rights by using a single hearing officer format in
which the hearing officer acted both as an advocate for DMV and as the trier of
fact.  In California DUI Lawyers
Association v. California Department of Motor Vehicles (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 517 (“DUI Lawyers”), the Court of Appeal held that
“combining the roles of advocate and adjudicator in a single person employed by
the DMV violates due process under the Fourteenth Amendment and the California
constitution Article I, section 7.”  (Id. at 532-533.)  Summarizing prior appellate decisions, the DUI
Lawyers Court reasoned as follows:
 
Although procedural fairness does not prohibit the
combination of the advocacy and adjudicatory functions within a single
administrative agency, tasking the same individual with both roles violates the
minimum constitutional standards of due process. The irreconcilable conflict
between advocating for the agency on one hand, and being an impartial
decisionmaker on the other, presents a “particular combination of circumstances
creating an unacceptable risk of bias.”  
 
(Id. at 532.)  
 
            Petitioner
argues that the hearing office acted in a dual role by admitting exhibits into
evidence and then using those exhibits to find against Petitioner.  Standing alone, this does not constitute a
due process violation under Knudsen v. Department of Motor Vehicles
(2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 186, 193 (“Knudsen”).  A hearing officer is permitted to act “as an
adjudicator and a collector and developer of evidence,” as long as the hearing
officer does not also act as an “advocate.” 
(Id. at 193.)  In this
case, the hearing officer made no opening statement or closing argument and
asked no questions.  Simply, there was no
advocacy in this case.
 
            Petitioner
argues that the hearing officer sustained her own objection to one of
Petitioner’s exhibits and would not allow her to move the exhibit into evidence.  Ruling on the admissibility of exhibits is a
judicial function, not advocacy.  A judge
can refuse to admit exhibits even if there is no objection from the other side,
especially in a bench trial.  The hearing
officer never “objected;” the hearing officer simply refused to admit the
exhibit.      
 
            Finally,
Petitioner argues that the hearing officer was biased because she overruled
Petitioner’s objections ignored “false, misleading and fabricated statements”
by the officers in their reports, and failed to consider video evidence calling
into question the officers’ accounts. 
This does not evidence bias.  Bias
stems from extra-judicial sources, and there is no evidence of that in this
case. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            The
court watched the LAPD’s body camera videos in this case, which makes
abundantly clear that the officers had reasonable cause to arrest Petitioner
for driving under the influence, and that Petitioner refused to take a chemical
test after she was properly advised.  Indeed,
Petitioner’s conduct throughout this entire encounter was nothing more than
passive-aggressive gamesmanship.  In
addition, the hearing before the DMV did not lack due process and there is no
evidence that the hearing officer was biased. 
Therefore, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition for writ of mandate is
denied.
 
            2.         The parties shall meet-and-confer and
lodge a proposed judgment if necessary.
 
            3.         The court’s clerk shall provide notice.
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 

Dated:  November 13, 2024                                       ________________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
 


