 Case Number:  24STCV00523    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  32 


 
KEILYN MEDINA ALCERRO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
HARDAGE HOSPITALITY, 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV00523
  Hearing Date:  January 17, 2025
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel further
  responses 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff Keilyn
Medina Alcerro filed this employment discrimination action against Defendant
Hardage Hospitality and Does 1 through 50. Plaintiff alleges that she was
abruptly fired after suffering a work-related injury and requesting
accommodation. Plaintiff alleges that she was falsely accused of sexual
harassment as a pretext to terminate her. 
            On December 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to compel a further response to RFP Set Four No. 65.
Defendant filed its opposition on January 6, 2025. Plaintiff filed her reply on
January 10, 2024.    
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) Good cause must be shown to justify further responses to requests
for production. (Id., § 2031.310(b)(1).) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Good Cause
The motion concerns a single request, RFP
No. 65, which seeks “Guadalupe Romero’s ‘Time Cards’ for the period from July
26, 2021 until January 26, 2022.” Ms. Romero was the employee who reported
Plaintiff and another employee (Ana Sabala Brooks) for sexual harassment,
leading to their terminations. 
Plaintiff seeks Ms. Romero’s time records
to determine any overlap between the hours worked by Plaintiff and Ms. Romero.
Whether Plaintiff and Ms. Romero worked the same days or hours is probative to
showing whether Plaintiff had the opportunity to harass Ms. Romero as alleged.
Therefore, Plaintiff has established good cause for the production. 
II.
Objections
            Once a showing of good cause has
been made, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify any objections.
(Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Defendant
stands on its relevance and privacy objections. 
            a. Relevance
            “[A]ny party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) “‘Relevant’ evidence is evidence ‘having any tendency
in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the
determination of the action.’” (D.Z. v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2019)
35 Cal.App.5th 210, 229.) 
            As discussed above, Ms. Romero’s
time records will show whether she and Plaintiff worked at the same times such
that Plaintiff had the opportunity to harass her. Therefore, the information is
relevant to the subject matter and reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. Put another way, the evidence has some
tendency to prove or disprove Defendant’s allegation that Plaintiff sexually
harassed another employee. This fact is of consequence to the action because
the harassment allegation is the linchpin of Defendant’s defense. Thus, the
information is relevant.  
            Defendant correctly notes that FEHA
is not concerned with whether an employer’s decision was wise or correct; the
ultimate inquiry is whether the employer was motivated by prohibited animus.
(See Featherstone v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2017)
10 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1159.) However, that does not mean the truth of the
employer’s reasoning is totally irrelevant. (See Soria v. Univision Radio
Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 594 [“pretext may be
demonstrated by showing the proffered reason had no basis in fact, the proffered
reason did not actually motivate the discharge, or, the proffered reason was
insufficient to motivate discharge”].) Plaintiff has sufficiently established
relevance for discovery purposes regardless of whether the information will
ultimately help her survive summary judgment. 
            Defendant also argues that Ms.
Romero’s time records are unnecessary because Plaintiff possesses the CCTV
footage of one incident, as well as a copy of Ms. Romero’s complaint. Defendant
does not dictate Plaintiff’s litigation strategy and cannot unilaterally decide
that Plaintiff has received all the information she needs to address the
harassment allegations. The merits of the litigation are not at issue in this
motion. Defendant cannot simply declare that it has definitively proven its
defense and then preclude Plaintiff from obtaining contrary evidence. Moreover,
the CCTV footage relates at most to one alleged incident, but Ms. Romero
alleged that Plaintiff harassed her on multiple occasions. Thus, the time
records are relevant even if Plaintiff possesses the CCTV footage and Ms.
Romero’s complaint.
            b. Privacy
            “The party asserting a privacy right
must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.” (Williams v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) If
the court finds a privacy interest, the court must balance the privacy concerns
against the need for the information. (Id. at p. 552.) Discovery of
private information is governed by the more stringent standard of direct
relevance in order to prevent a fishing expedition of “tangentially pertinent
sensitive information.” (Boler v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 201 Cal.App.3d 467,
472.) 
            Personnel files may fall within a
zone of privacy. (See Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Jr. Univ. v.
Sup.Ct. (1981) 119 Cal.3d 516, 528-30.) However, in this particular case,
Defendant has not articulated a serious intrusion caused by disclosure of Ms.
Romero’s time cards for a limited time period. Defendant argues that the
request would violate Ms. Romero’s personal autonomy and cause psychological
harm from the knowledge that her abusers are combing through her personnel
records. This speculation is not supported by law or evidence and is
exaggerated given the limited discovery actually sought by Plaintiff.
            Even assuming a privacy interest
existed, Plaintiff’s need for the information would outweigh the interest in
privacy. (See Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552.) Additionally, the
protective order currently in place adequately addresses the privacy concerns.
(See Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 38.)
Therefore, privacy does not preclude the production sought here.   
III.
Brooks Decision
            Lastly, Defendant contends that
this Court should follow the decision of Judge Treu in the similar case filed
by Ana Sabala Brooks, the coworker who was terminated along with Plaintiff. The
cited minute order states the following: “Informal Discovery Conference is held
and resolved. Plaintiff will seek alternative form of discovery to obtain the
information it is seeking.” (Harrison Decl., Ex. 11.) An IDC is not an official
order or ruling, and Superior Court decisions are not binding. Thus, the result
of the IDC in Brooks has no bearing on this case. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses is GRANTED. Defendant shall produce documents responsive to RFP No.
65 within 20 days of this order. Production shall be subject to the existing
protective order. Sanctions are denied as the parties acted with substantial
justification.  