  Case Number:  23STCV07020    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  32      LYNWOOD SANTA FE, LLC,                         Plaintiff,             v.   ADVANCED LABS, INC., et    al.,                          Defendants.           Case No.:  23STCV07020   Hearing Date:  January 17, 2025        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: advanced labs, inc.’s motion to compel production    of documents (CRS# 9457)                BACKGROUND             On March 30, 2023, Plaintiff Lynwood  Santa Fe, LLC (Lynwood) filed this action against Defendants Advanced Labs,  Inc. and Advanced Nutrients Ltd. for breach of lease and breach of guaranty  arising from unpaid rent.                 On May 23, 2024, Defendants filed a  cross-complaint against Lynwood and Shaoul Levy, alleging fraud and unjust  enrichment. Defendants allege that they were fraudulently induced into signing  the commercial lease agreement by Lynwood and Lynwood’s manager (Levy), who  conspired with Defendants’ then-counsel, David Welch.              On November 20, 2024, Defendant  Advanced Labs, Inc. (Advanced Labs) filed the instant motion to compel Lynwood  and Levy to produce 11 emails withheld based on privilege. Lynwood and Levy  filed their opposition on December 30, 2024. Advanced Labs filed its reply on  January 6, 2025.       LEGAL STANDARD “If a party filing a response to a demand  for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling . . . thereafter fails to permit  the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that party’s  statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order compelling  compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320(a).) DISCUSSION             This motion concerns requests for  production seeking all communications with Welch relating to the purchase of  the subject property and the lease. Lynwood and Levy responded with statements  of compliance and produced documents. However, Advanced Labs contends that  Lynwood and Levy improperly withheld 11 emails on the privilege log. (See Lee  Decl., Ex. 18.) Advanced Labs argues that the attorney-client privilege does  not apply for the following reasons: (1) Levy denies Welch was his attorney;  (2) the privilege was waived; (3) the privilege does not apply due to the  crime/fraud exception; (4) the privilege does not apply due to the breach of  duty exception.              a. Welch as Levy’s Attorney             Advanced Labs argues that the  attorney-client privilege does not apply because Levy denied that Welch was his  or Lynwood’s attorney. (Mtn. 6:17-21.) But Welch (and attorneys from Greenberg  Traurig) advised Levy’s other company, Levy Affiliated, in negotiations with  third parties for the purchase of the subject property before the deal with  Lynwood. Communications relating to that prior transaction are privileged, and  they do not become unprivileged merely because Welch was involved. Lynwood and  Levy have produced communications with Welch relating to the transaction at  issue in this case, i.e., the Lynwood-Advanced lease.                  b. Waiver             The attorney-client privilege “is  waived with respect to a communication protected by the privilege if any holder  of the privilege, without coercion, has disclosed a significant part of the  communication or has consented to disclosure made by anyone.” (Evid. Code, §  912(a).)  Advanced Labs argues that Lynwood and Levy  waived the attorney-client privilege by producing other emails with Welch as  nonprivileged. (Mtn. 7:21-8:11.) However, prior production of nonprivileged  material does not negate the privilege over the 11 emails at issue. With  regards to those 11 emails, Lynwood and Levy have not “disclosed a significant  part of the communication or . . . consented to disclosure.” (Ibid.) The  privilege is not waived simply because Lynwood and Levy have produced other  emails on the subject property. The waiver only applies if “the communication”  at issue has been disclosed. (Ibid.)  Advanced Labs cites to Kerns Constr.  Co. v. Superior Court of Orange County (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 405 for the  proposition that Lynwood and Levy cannot selectively disclose certain  communications and withhold others. However, Kerns did not hold that  disclosure of some communications waives the privilege over other  communications just because the communications relate to the same topic. In Kerns,  the privilege was waived over reports because the reports were furnished to a  witness, who then testified from them. (Id. at pp. 413-14.) The  privilege over the reports was waived through disclosure of the reports  themselves, not by disclosure of other communications. Thus, Kerns does  not compel disclosure of the 11 emails at issue here. The withheld emails may  be responsive to the RFPs and related to the sale of the property, but “[t]he  attorney-client privilege is an absolute privilege that prevents disclosure, no  matter how necessary or relevant to the lawsuit.” (DP Pham LLC v. Cheadle  (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 653, 659.) Advanced Labs also argues that “Levy  communicated with Welch knowing Welch represented Advanced Labs in leasing the  Property” and therefore “Levy’s communications with Welch were not privileged  because they concern Welch’s representation of Advanced Labs.” (Reply 4:19-22.)  The fact that Levy communicated with Welch in general does not waive the  privilege over the specific emails at issue. There is no indication that the 11  emails at issue “concern Welch’s representation of Advanced Labs.” There is  also no indication that those emails had been previously disclosed or consented  to be disclosed. (See Evid. Code, § 912(a).)                   c. Crime/Fraud Exception             The attorney-client privilege does  not apply “if the services of the lawyer were sought or obtained to enable or  aid anyone to commit or plan to commit a crime or a fraud.” (Evid. Code, §  956(a).) “[M]ere assertion of fraud is insufficient; there must be a showing  the fraud has some foundation in fact.” (BP Alaska Exploration, Inc. v.  Superior Court (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1240, 1262.) Furthermore, “[t]he  documents in question must have a reasonable relation to the ongoing fraud to  be discoverable under the crime-fraud exception.” (Id. at p. 1269.)              Advanced Labs’ interpretation of  certain communications involving Welch does not constitute sufficient evidence  to infer that Lynwood or Levy retained Welch for the purpose of committing a  crime or fraud. (See Lee Decl., Ex. 1 at pp. 571, 2333, 2486; Ex. 2 at pp.  18442, 19035-42.) Advanced Labs also does not demonstrate that the 11 emails at  issue have a reasonable relation to the alleged fraud.             d. Breach of Duty             The attorney-client privilege does  not apply “to a communication relevant to an issue of breach, by the lawyer or  by the client, of a duty arising out of the lawyer-client relationship.” (Evid.  Code, § 958.) Advanced Labs argues that the Court should apply this exception  to compel production because it previously relied on the exception in ordering  Welch to produce communications with Advanced Labs. (Mtn. 11:15-21.)              Production was ordered in the prior  motion because Advanced Labs raised the issue of breach in its cross-complaint,  thereby waiving the privilege over its own communications with Welch. (Sept.  25, 2024 Order re Mtn. to Quash at 2:13-4:7.) But Advanced Labs cannot waive  the privilege over communications from a different lawyer-client relationship, i.e.,  the one between Welch and Levy Affiliated. (See Glade v. Superior Court (1978)  76 Cal.App.3d 738, 746-47 [plaintiffs suing for legal malpractice cannot obtain  “communications between their attorney and other clients of his not  privy to the relationship between defendant and plaintiffs”]; Anten v.  Superior Court (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1254, 1259 [disclosure under section  958 “is limited to communications between the lawyer charging or charged with a  breach of duty, on the one hand, and the client charging or charged with a  breach of duty, on the other”].)             Advanced Labs claims that it is  seeking its own communications with Welch, not Levy’s, because “Welch was  acting as Advanced Labs’ attorney when Welch communicated with Levy and Levy’s  attorneys, McBride and Gershman, regarding the ‘purchase’ and lease of the  Property.” (Reply 7:20-24.) However, that does not mean the specific emails at  issue were communications between Welch and Advanced Labs concerning the  transaction at issue in this lawsuit. As discussed above, the emails were from  Welch’s representation of Levy Affiliated in a different transaction with a  third party. Under Anten and Glade, Advanced Labs cannot obtain  communications from a different attorney-client relationship just because  Advanced Labs has alleged a breach of duty in its own relationship with Welch.              In sum, the attorney-client  privilege was not waived, and neither the crime/fraud nor breach of duty  exception applies to the communications at issue. Thus, the 11 emails remain  privileged as stated in the privilege log.  CONCLUSION             Advanced Labs’ motion to compel  production is DENIED. Sanctions are denied as the parties acted with  substantial justification. 


 
LYNWOOD SANTA FE, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ADVANCED LABS, INC., et
  al., 
                        Defendants.



 
  Case No.:  23STCV07020
  Hearing Date:  January 17, 2025
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
advanced labs, inc.’s motion to compel
  further responses to special interrogatories (CRS# 8337)  




 


 




BACKGROUND

            On March 30, 2023, Plaintiff Lynwood
Santa Fe, LLC (Lynwood) filed this action against Defendants Advanced Labs,
Inc. and Advanced Nutrients Ltd. for breach of lease and breach of guaranty
arising from unpaid rent.   

             On May 23, 2024, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint against Lynwood and Shaoul Levy, alleging fraud and unjust
enrichment. Defendants allege that they were fraudulently induced into signing
the commercial lease agreement by Lynwood and Lynwood’s manager (Levy), who
conspired with Defendants’ then-counsel, David Welch. 

            On December 2, 2024, Defendant
Advanced Labs, Inc. (Advanced Labs) filed the instant motion to compel Lynwood
to provide further responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 53-56 and 61. Lynwood
filed its opposition on January 6, 2024. Advanced Labs filed its reply on
January 10, 2025. 

LEGAL STANDARD

Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) 

MEET AND CONFER

A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Advanced Labs has satisfied the
meet and confer requirement. (See Lee Decl.)

DISCUSSION            

            Advanced Labs seeks information on
several redacted entries in Lynwood’s general ledger. Specifically, the
redacted entries indicate payments to a consultant, and Advanced Labs suspects
this consultant is Welch. Advanced Labs claims that Welch is assisting Lynwood
in this litigation to further his own financial gain. Thus, the SROGs at issue
seek the identity of the person paid for consulting services on various dates
and the reasons why.

            However, “[t]he identity and
opinions of a party's retained experts are generally privileged unless they are
going to testify at trial.” (Schreiber v. Estate of Kiser (1999) 22
Cal.4th 31, 37.) Disclosing the identity of Lynwood’s litigation consultants,
as well as the reason they were consulted, would reveal Lynwood’s counsel’s “impressions,
conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories,” which are “not
discoverable under any circumstances.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030(a).) 

            Advanced Labs argues that Lynwood
has not sufficiently proven the information is privileged. However, Lynwood’s
counsel has averred that “the redactions at issue here are protecting the
identities of my confidential litigation expert consultants.” (Gershman Decl. ¶
3.) “The confidential expert consultants at issue in this motion are experts
retained for this case.” (Id., ¶ 6.) “Disclosing the types of
confidential experts I chose to consult with, or their names, would necessarily
reveal my confidential strategy and mental impressions for how best to prepare
this case on behalf of my clients.” (Ibid.) This is a sufficient “preliminary
or foundational showing” that the information is absolutely privileged. (See Coito
v. Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 495.) 

Even if the information were only afforded
qualified privilege, it is “not discoverable unless the court determines that
denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking discovery in
preparing that party’s claim or defense or will result in an injustice.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2018.030(b).) Advanced Labs would not suffer prejudice from being
unable to ascertain the identities of Lynwood’s consultants because Advanced
Labs only needs to know whether Welch was the consultant. The interrogatories
can be limited to specifically asking whether Welch was the recipient of the payments
referenced in the redacted ledger entries. Lynwood acknowledges that it would
be willing to answer such an interrogatory. (See Opp. 9:13-18, 16:14-17.)     

Advanced Labs has specified no reason for
propounding the interrogatories at issue other than to discover whether Welch
is the consultant. Advanced Labs has not articulated any need for ascertaining
the names of other consultants, nor has Advanced Labs convincingly explained
why that information is not privileged. Thus, the interrogatories are limited
to ascertaining whether Welch is the consultant in the redacted entries. 

CONCLUSION

            Advanced Labs’ motion to compel
further responses is GRANTED in part. Within 10 days of this order, Lynwood
shall provide further responses to SROG Nos. 53-56 and 61, specifying whether
Welch is the individual referenced in the ledger entries at issue. Sanctions
are denied as the parties acted with substantial justification. 


 
LYNWOOD SANTA FE, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ADVANCED LABS, INC., et
  al., 
                        Defendants.



 
  Case No.:  23STCV07020
  Hearing Date:  January 13, 2025
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
advanced labs, inc.’s motion to compel production
  of documents (CRS# 9457)  




 


 


BACKGROUND            On March 30, 2023, Plaintiff Lynwood
Santa Fe, LLC (Lynwood) filed this action against Defendants Advanced Labs,
Inc. and Advanced Nutrients Ltd. for breach of lease and breach of guaranty
arising from unpaid rent.                On May 23, 2024, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint against Lynwood and Shaoul Levy, alleging fraud and unjust
enrichment. Defendants allege that they were fraudulently induced into signing
the commercial lease agreement by Lynwood and Lynwood’s manager (Levy), who
conspired with Defendants’ then-counsel, David Welch.             On November 20, 2024, Defendant
Advanced Labs, Inc. (Advanced Labs) filed the instant motion to compel Lynwood
and Levy to produce 11 emails withheld based on privilege. Lynwood and Levy
filed their opposition on December 30, 2024. Advanced Labs filed its reply on
January 6, 2025.    LEGAL STANDARD“If a party filing a response to a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling . . . thereafter fails to permit
the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that party’s
statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320(a).)DISCUSSION            This motion concerns requests for
production seeking all communications with Welch relating to the purchase of
the subject property and the lease. Lynwood and Levy responded with statements
of compliance and produced documents. However, Advanced Labs contends that
Lynwood and Levy improperly withheld 11 emails on the privilege log. (See Lee
Decl., Ex. 18.) Advanced Labs argues that the attorney-client privilege does
not apply for the following reasons: (1) Levy denies Welch was his attorney;
(2) the privilege was waived; (3) the privilege does not apply due to the
crime/fraud exception; (4) the privilege does not apply due to the breach of
duty exception.             a. Welch as Levy’s Attorney            Advanced Labs argues that the
attorney-client privilege does not apply because Levy denied that Welch was his
or Lynwood’s attorney. (Mtn. 6:17-21.) But Welch (and attorneys from Greenberg
Traurig) advised Levy’s other company, Levy Affiliated, in negotiations with
third parties for the purchase of the subject property before the deal with
Lynwood. Communications relating to that prior transaction are privileged, and
they do not become unprivileged merely because Welch was involved. Lynwood and
Levy have produced communications with Welch relating to the transaction at
issue in this case, i.e., the Lynwood-Advanced lease.               b. Waiver            The attorney-client privilege “is
waived with respect to a communication protected by the privilege if any holder
of the privilege, without coercion, has disclosed a significant part of the
communication or has consented to disclosure made by anyone.” (Evid. Code, §
912(a).) Advanced Labs argues that Lynwood and Levy
waived the attorney-client privilege by producing other emails with Welch as
nonprivileged. (Mtn. 7:21-8:11.) However, prior production of nonprivileged
material does not negate the privilege over the 11 emails at issue. With
regards to those 11 emails, Lynwood and Levy have not “disclosed a significant
part of the communication or . . . consented to disclosure.” (Ibid.) The
privilege is not waived simply because Lynwood and Levy have produced other
emails on the subject property. The waiver only applies if “the communication”
at issue has been disclosed. (Ibid.) Advanced Labs cites to Kerns Constr.
Co. v. Superior Court of Orange County (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 405 for the
proposition that Lynwood and Levy cannot selectively disclose certain
communications and withhold others. However, Kerns did not hold that
disclosure of some communications waives the privilege over other
communications just because the communications relate to the same topic. In Kerns,
the privilege was waived over reports because the reports were furnished to a
witness, who then testified from them. (Id. at pp. 413-14.) The
privilege over the reports was waived through disclosure of the reports
themselves, not by disclosure of other communications. Thus, Kerns does
not compel disclosure of the 11 emails at issue here. The withheld emails may
be responsive to the RFPs and related to the sale of the property, but “[t]he
attorney-client privilege is an absolute privilege that prevents disclosure, no
matter how necessary or relevant to the lawsuit.” (DP Pham LLC v. Cheadle
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 653, 659.)Advanced Labs also argues that “Levy
communicated with Welch knowing Welch represented Advanced Labs in leasing the
Property” and therefore “Levy’s communications with Welch were not privileged
because they concern Welch’s representation of Advanced Labs.” (Reply 4:19-22.)
The fact that Levy communicated with Welch in general does not waive the
privilege over the specific emails at issue. There is no indication that the 11
emails at issue “concern Welch’s representation of Advanced Labs.” There is
also no indication that those emails had been previously disclosed or consented
to be disclosed. (See Evid. Code, § 912(a).) 
               c. Crime/Fraud Exception            The attorney-client privilege does
not apply “if the services of the lawyer were sought or obtained to enable or
aid anyone to commit or plan to commit a crime or a fraud.” (Evid. Code, §
956(a).) “[M]ere assertion of fraud is insufficient; there must be a showing
the fraud has some foundation in fact.” (BP Alaska Exploration, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1240, 1262.) Furthermore, “[t]he
documents in question must have a reasonable relation to the ongoing fraud to
be discoverable under the crime-fraud exception.” (Id. at p. 1269.)             Advanced Labs’ interpretation of
certain communications involving Welch does not constitute sufficient evidence
to infer that Lynwood or Levy retained Welch for the purpose of committing a
crime or fraud. (See Lee Decl., Ex. 1 at pp. 571, 2333, 2486; Ex. 2 at pp.
18442, 19035-42.) Advanced Labs also does not demonstrate that the 11 emails at
issue have a reasonable relation to the alleged fraud.            d. Breach of Duty            The attorney-client privilege does
not apply “to a communication relevant to an issue of breach, by the lawyer or
by the client, of a duty arising out of the lawyer-client relationship.” (Evid.
Code, § 958.) Advanced Labs argues that the Court should apply this exception
to compel production because it previously relied on the exception in ordering
Welch to produce communications with Advanced Labs. (Mtn. 11:15-21.)             Production was ordered in the prior
motion because Advanced Labs raised the issue of breach in its cross-complaint,
thereby waiving the privilege over its own communications with Welch. (Sept.
25, 2024 Order re Mtn. to Quash at 2:13-4:7.) But Advanced Labs cannot waive
the privilege over communications from a different lawyer-client relationship, i.e.,
the one between Welch and Levy Affiliated. (See Glade v. Superior Court (1978)
76 Cal.App.3d 738, 746-47 [plaintiffs suing for legal malpractice cannot obtain
“communications between their attorney and other clients of his not
privy to the relationship between defendant and plaintiffs”]; Anten v.
Superior Court (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1254, 1259 [disclosure under section
958 “is limited to communications between the lawyer charging or charged with a
breach of duty, on the one hand, and the client charging or charged with a
breach of duty, on the other”].)            Advanced Labs claims that it is
seeking its own communications with Welch, not Levy’s, because “Welch was
acting as Advanced Labs’ attorney when Welch communicated with Levy and Levy’s
attorneys, McBride and Gershman, regarding the ‘purchase’ and lease of the
Property.” (Reply 7:20-24.) However, that does not mean the specific emails at
issue were communications between Welch and Advanced Labs concerning the
transaction at issue in this lawsuit. As discussed above, the emails were from
Welch’s representation of Levy Affiliated in a different transaction with a
third party. Under Anten and Glade, Advanced Labs cannot obtain
communications from a different attorney-client relationship just because
Advanced Labs has alleged a breach of duty in its own relationship with Welch.             In sum, the attorney-client
privilege was not waived, and neither the crime/fraud nor breach of duty
exception applies to the communications at issue. Thus, the 11 emails remain
privileged as stated in the privilege log. CONCLUSION            Advanced Labs’ motion to compel
production is DENIED. Sanctions are denied as the parties acted with
substantial justification. 

























































