 Case Number:  24STCV10238    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  32 


 
Haroutioun
  ohanian, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
bmw
  of north america, llc, et
  al.
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  24STCV10238
 
  Hearing Date:  January 17, 2024
 
            order
  RE:
 
Motion to compel Further responses to
  plaintiff’s form interrogatories, set one
 
 



            
 
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Haroutioun
Ohanian (“Plaintiff”) brings an action against Defendants BMW of North America,
LLC (“Defendant”), asserting causes of action arising out of the Beverly-Song
Act. 
A.   
FORM INTERROGATORIES 
Under
California law, a party may not respond to form interrogatories by stating that
investigation is still continuing.  According to CCP § 2030.220 , each answer in a
response to interrogatories must be as complete and straightforward as the
information reasonably available to the responding party permits. If an
interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it must be answered to the extent
possible. If the responding party does not have sufficient personal knowledge
to respond fully, they must state this and make a reasonable and good faith
effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other persons or organizations,
except where the information is equally available to the propounding party (See,
CCP. § 2030.220).
Additionally,
in the case of  Deyo v. Kilbourne
(1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, it was noted that while current information must
be disclosed in answers to interrogatories, it is common practice to include a
caveat that the party has not completed its investigation.  However, this does not excuse the party from
providing the most complete and straightforward answers possible based on the
information available at the time of the response.
Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1 asks Defendant to provide the following information for
each Request for Admission for which it did not respond with an unqualified
admission: (1) the
number of the request; (2) all facts upon which
Defendant based its response; (3) the names,
addresses, and telephone numbers of all persons
who have knowledge of those facts; and (4) all
documents and other tangible things that support
Defendant’s response and the name, address,
and telephone number of the person who has each
document or thing.
            In
reviewing the responses, the court finds that Defendant responses are code
compliant.  Defendant has provided responses
that address the four categories under 17.1.  Defendant has identified facts, documents, and
witnesses that support its assertion. 
Plaintiff’s belief that there should be more or different facts or
documents does not warrant a further response. To the extent Plaintiff has
particular information in mind, it can propound specific interrogatories or
request for production for that information.
            The court also finds that Defendant’s
verification is valid.  Defendant is a corporation,
and as such, this verification is valid and enforceable against Defendant.
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’
motions to compel are DENIED.  Both sides
acted with substantial justification, and as such, sanctions are denied.  
 