  Case Number:  19STCV43802    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  E  
Hearing Date: 02/02/2024 –
8:30am
Case No:   19STCV43802
Trial Date: 04/08/2024
Case Name: ORLANDO PRICE, an individual; v. LOS ANGELES COUNTY
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, and DOES 1-20
 
[DEFENDANT’S
MSJ] 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant, Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, a Public Entity, moves the Court for an
Order granting summary judgment in favor of Metro and against Plaintiff,
Orlando Price.
 
The Motion for Summary Judgment is
made pursuant to the Code of Civil Procedure section 437c on the grounds that
there is no triable issue of material fact on either of Plaintiff’s causes of
actions.
 
PROCEDURAL
 
Moving Party: Defendant, Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, a Public Entity (Defendant or Metro)
 
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Orlando Price
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement; Index of
Exhibits; Request for Judicial Notice; Ashour Declaration; 
 
Opposing Papers: Opposition; Separate Statement; Index of
Exhibits; Plaintiff’s Objections to Evidence; Madison Declaration; Objection to
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice; 
 
Reply Papers: Reply
 
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013,
1013(a)):Ok
 
75/80 Days
Under 437c(2), notice of
the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all other parties to the
action at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing. If the notice is
served by mail, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by 5 days
if the place of address is within the State of California. If the notice is
served by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery
providing for overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice shall be
increased by two court days. (CCP §437c(a)(2).)
 
Here, the instant motion
appears timely.
 
BACKGROUND
The operative complaint at issue
here is the Fourth Amended Complaint. The Fourth Amended Complaint (FoAC) was
filed on 06/30/2023. Plaintiff alleges two causes of action in the Fourth
Amended Complaint – (1) Dangerous Condition of Public Property and (2)
Violation of Disabled Persons Act, Cal. Civ. Code §54, et seq.
 
Defendant moves for summary judgment
as to both causes of action in the FoAC.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (a) provides that “a party may move for summary judgment in
an action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” The motion shall be
granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to
any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) In determining if the papers show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall
consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to
which objections have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be
granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
if contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as
to any material fact. (Id.)
 
As to each claim as
framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element,
or to establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
“A defendant or cross-defendant has met his or her burden of
showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or
more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action. Once
the defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
plaintiff or cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials
of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but,
instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP
§437c(p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of
material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is
DENIED.
As a preliminary
matter, Defendant did not comply with the separate statement requirements of
CRC, Rule 3.1350(d)(1).
CRC 3.1350(d)(1)
states:
(1)  The Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in
support of a motion must separately identify:
(A)  Each cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or
affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion; and
(B)  Each supporting material fact claimed to be without dispute
with respect to the cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or
affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion.
 
(CRC, rule 3.1350(d)(1).)
 
Although Defendant’s motion appears to be moving as to both causes of
action in the FAC, the separate statement does not separately identify each
cause of action it is moving for summary judgment on. Defendant’s separate
statement lists 19 undisputed material facts. By failing to identify each cause
of action in the separate statement, it is unclear what evidence in the
separate statement for each of the 19 undisputed material facts is directed to
which specific cause of action.
 
The supporting papers
shall include a separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all
material facts that the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the
material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting
evidence. The failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement
may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground for denying the
motion.
 
(CCP §437c(b)(1).)
 
Further, both moving and opposition papers are extremely difficult to
interpret. 
 
As an example: One of Defendant’s arguments is that Plaintiff cannot
establish there was a dangerous condition that caused his injuries. However, it
is unclear precisely what in the separate statement Defendant believes supports
this assertion, as Defendant lumps conduct together.
 
Further, while Defendant points to the Plaintiff’s deposition as proof
there was no dangerous condition, the Plaintiff points to that same deposition
to show there was a dangerous condition. 
 
Plaintiff points to Petersen v. San Francisco Community College
Dist. (1984) 36 Cal.3d 799, 810 which states, “In general, “[w]hether a
given set of facts and circumstances creates a dangerous condition is usually a
question of fact and may only be resolved as a question of law if reasonable
minds can come to but one conclusion.”” (Peterson v. San Francisco Community
College Dist. (1984) 36 Cal.3d 799, 810.)
 
It  appears as if there is a
dispute as to whether there was a dangerous condition at the premises based on Plaintiff’s
deposition. 
 
Defendant also argues as follows:
 
In addition, "the plaintiff must establish that either: (a) '[a]
negligent or wrongful actor omission of an emplovee of the public entity within
the scope of his emplovment created the dangerous condition.' or (b) ‘[t]he public
entity had notice of the dangerous condition ... a sufficient time prior to the
iniurv to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous
condition.'" Cal. Gov. Code § 835; See also Cordova V. City of Los
Angeles, 61 Cal.4th 1099, 1105-1106 (2015).
 
(Def. Mot. p. 10-11.)
 
Defendant
then argues, “Here, not only is there no dangerous condition present, as
Plaintiff admits to being aware of the alternative elevator nearby, but
Plaintiff cannot establish that any employee of Metro created the alleged
dangerous condition, or that Metro had notice of the alleged dangerous
condition in time to have prevented it.” (Def. Mot. p. 11.)
 
The  Court will hear argument as to the issue about
whether any employee of Metro created the alleged dangerous condition. There
are several issues with the resolution of this point. The first is that the
Opposition did not address this issue brought up by Movant. However, a problem
facing the Movant is that Movant did not put this issue into its separate
statement; therefore, the Opposition may have not addressed this issue because
of Movant’s failure to properly put the issue in the separate statement.
 
As to the
second cause of action, Movant discusses the ADA. Movant does not once cite
what the elements are for Plaintiff’s second cause of action for Violation of
Disabled Persons Act, Cal. Civ. Code § 54, et seq. 
 
Movant
discusses intentional discrimination in the context of the ADA but Movant makes
no explanation as to how this is relevant to the cause of action that is
asserted in the FAC. Further, the separate statement does not separately
identify that the second cause of action is a part of the separate statement. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is
DENED. Defendant’s Separate Statement was noncompliant with CRC, rule
3.1350(d)(1). Defendant and Plaintiff’s papers were confusingly written,
possibly in part due to Defendant not complying with the separate statement
requirements. 
 
Further,
as to the second cause of action, Defendant doesn’t explain why any of the
arguments it is discussing are relevant to the Plaintiff’s second cause of
action, and Movant has the burden on an MSJ. 
 
Further, as explained in Schmidlin v. City of Palo
Alto:

A motion
for summary adjudication tenders only those issues or causes of action
specified in the notice of motion, and may only be granted as to the matters
thus specified. The movant must “state[ ] specifically in the notice of motion
and ... repeat[ ], verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material
facts,” “the specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages,
or issues of duty” as to which summary adjudication is sought. (Former Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 342(b); see now Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b).)
The motion must be denied if the movant fails to establish an entitlement to
summary adjudication of the matters thus specified; the court cannot summarily
adjudicate other issues or claims, even if a basis to do so appears from the
papers. (See Gonzales v. Superior Court (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d
1542, 1546, 235 Cal.Rptr. 106 [“ ‘If a party desires adjudication of
particular issues or subissues, that party must make its intentions clear in
the motion....’ [Citation.] There is a sound reason for this rule: ‘... the
opposing party may have decided to raise only one triable issue of fact in
order to defeat the motion, without intending to concede the other issues. It
would be unfair to grant a summary adjudication order unless the opposing party
was on notice that an issue-by-issue adjudication might be ordered if summary
judgment was denied’ ”].)
 
Here defendants'
separate statement reflects no attempt to comply with this requirement. That
alone precludes a holding that the trial court erred in denying the motion.
 
(Schmidlin v.
City of Palo Alto (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 728, 743-744.)
 
The Court
will hear argument as to the above, as well as the Defendant’s Request for
Judicial Notice, and Plainfiff’s Objections to Evidence.    