 Case Number:  23GDCV02009    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 23GDCV02009
Hearing Date: 02/02/2024 – 8:30am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: ZHIRAYR AKOPYAN, an individual; v. CALSTAR
MOTORS INC., a California Stock Corporation; and DOES 1-30
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
DEMURRER & MOTION TO STRIKE]
Moving Party:  Defendant, Calstar Motors Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff,
Zhirayr Akopyan
Moving Papers: Notice;
Proposed Order; Yang Declaration
Opposition Papers: Opposition;
Margarian Declaration
Reply Papers: Reply
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant, Calstar Motors Inc., demurs to the first cause of action (fraud and
deceit) and the second cause of action (breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing) in Plaintiff’s Complaint pursuant to CCP §430.10(e) on
the ground that each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Defendant.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff filed the
instant Complaint on 09/20/2023. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant sold
Plaintiff a new 2021 Mercedes-Benz and that Defendant defrauded Plaintiff by
selling the Subject Vehicle above the advertised price without proper
disclosure to Plaintiff and without Plaintiff’s consent. (Compl. p. 2, ln.
6-9.)
Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action: (1) Fraud and Deceit, (2) Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (3) Selling Automobile Above
Advertised Price, (4) Violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200, et
seq., (5) Violation of Business & Professions Code §17500, et seq., and (6)
Violation of California Consumer Legal Remedies Act
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule
3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §430.41(a)(4).)
Here,
moving party alleged it met and conferred. (Decl. Yang ¶11.)
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS
Demurrer
– Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.”  (Das v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” 
(Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  “Generally
it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)

Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored
and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot
reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against
him/her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague,
“ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
ANALYSIS
 
In the Statement
of Relevant Facts, Plaintiff alleges as follows in ¶¶13-42:
 
13. Some time
prior to December 2021, Plaintiff was searching online with the intent to find
a new vehicle to purchase it. 
14. Plaintiff
browsed through the inventory of brand-new vehicles at Defendant’s official
webpage and looked at various Mercedes-Benz models. 
15. Plaintiff
chose to purchase the Subject Vehicle listed at the price of $143,040.00. 
16. On or about
12/18/2021, Plaintiff visited Defendant’s place of business with the intent to
purchase the Subject Vehicle. 
17. Defendant’s
personnel, including, but not limited to, Salesperson, name unknown this time
(“Salesperson”) and Anton Vasyukevich, Finance Manager (“Finance Manager”)
assured Plaintiff that he would be getting all of the available savings and the
lowest and best available price for the Subject Vehicle as advertised. 
18. Plaintiff
inquired if the Subject Vehicle came with all the original
manufacturer-installed and approved, standard or required equipment. 
19. Salesperson
and Finance Manager assured Plaintiff that the Subject Vehicle had all
manufacturer-approved and installed original parts. 
20. Salesperson
and Finance Manager further assured Plaintiff that he was getting a great
hassle-free deal. 
21. All of the
foregoing representations to Plaintiff by Finance Manager and Salesperson at
Defendant’s place of business were substantial elements in Plaintiff’s decision
to purchase the Subject Vehicle. 
22. On or about
12/18/2021, Plaintiff executed the Retail Installment Sale Contract (“RISC”)
for the Subject Vehicle and took possession thereof. (The true and correct copy
of the RISC is attached hereto and marked as “Exhibit A”.) 
23. The Subject
Vehicle was advertised for a price of $143,040.00. However, the Subject Vehicle
was sold to Plaintiff for a cash price of $183,040.00. Therefore, the cash
price of the Subject Vehicle, which was supposed to match the advertised sale
price, was $40,000.00 above the advertised price. 
24. As such,
Defendant fraudulently added an additional $40,000.00 to the advertised sale
price as a market adjustment price. 
25. Plaintiff was
not given a chance to refuse the additional charge for which, in fact,
Plaintiff were charged $40,000.00 higher than the advertised price. 
26. Moreover,
Plaintiff had to pay additional taxes because the Subject Vehicle was purchased
at a much higher price than advertised. 
27. It appears
that Defendant has a deliberate and customary practice of advertising vehicles
at a low price, inducing consumers to visit Defendant’s place of business, and
then switching vehicles and/or upselling without proper disclosure. 
28. As such, all
the sale prices listed on Defendant’s website are false and misleading, merely
designed to bait consumers into visiting its place of business. Similarly,
Defendant advertised the Subject Vehicle for a lower price to create a false
impression, and to induce consumers, including Plaintiff. 
29. It became
clear that the sale price listed on Defendant’s website was misleading, false,
and deceptive, constituting malicious conduct.
30. The market
adjustment price was not advertised online but was forced onto Plaintiff
without proper disclosure. 
31. Plaintiff was
fraudulently assured that the Subject Vehicle was available for $143,040.00
including all manufacturer-approved and manufacturer-installed original and
mandatory parts. 
32. As such,
Plaintiff was charged an additional $40,000.00 as a market adjustment price
which was never disclosed as required for the Subject Vehicle. 
33. Plaintiff was
assured that the Subject Vehicle was available for a set low price, which
turned out to be false and misleading, as all consumers, including Plaintiff,
had to pay more in addition to the advertised price. 
34. Plaintiff
negotiated the terms of the RISC by and through Salesperson and Finance
Manager. 
35. Through
trickery, deceit, and misinterpretation, Plaintiff was duped into purchasing
the Subject Vehicle. 
36. Whereas
Plaintiff reasonably relied on the intentional misrepresentations made by
Salesperson, Finance Manager, and others at Defendant at the time of purchase
and was fraudulently induced into purchasing the Subject Vehicle. 
37. Plaintiff
would have never agreed to purchase the Subject Vehicle, had he been accurately
informed of its grossly inflated price. 
38. Salesperson
and Finance Manager had been trained by Defendant regarding the selling and/or
leasing of vehicles above the advertised price. Salesperson and Finance Manager
acted as agents and authorized representatives of Defendant. 
39. Defendant, by
and through its Salesperson and Finance Manager, had several opportunities to
tell Plaintiff that the Subject Vehicle was being purchased above the
advertised price. 
40. In retrospect,
it is clear that Defendant had a malicious custom and practice of advertising
vehicles at a low price to lure consumers to visit their place of business.
However, upon arrival, Defendant would switch the vehicles and/or upsell
without proper disclosure, defrauding the consumers. All the advertised prices
are false and misleading, designed only to bait consumers. This intentional
conduct amounts to fraud. 
41. Given that
Defendant is in the business of acquiring and selling vehicles, Plaintiff
presumes in good faith that Defendant has an established practice of selling or
leasing vehicles above the advertised price without proper disclosure. It is
indisputable that the Subject Vehicle was advertised at a low price
intentionally to attract consumers and then sold at a much higher price. 42.
This custom and practice of advertising vehicles at the set low price and then
switching vehicles and/or upselling the vehicles without properly disclosing
the fact that they were advertised for a certain price was primarily developed
by Defendant, by and through its executives, including, but not limited to the
Chief Executive Officer Terrence Ho, Chief Financial Officer Evelyn Cabrera.
Each element of this scheme was fully researched, discussed, designed, and
finalized by Defendant, by and through its executives.
 
First Cause of
Action – Fraud and Deceit
Plaintiff
alleges as follows in its first cause of action:
 
55. Plaintiff
re-alleges and incorporates by reference as fully set forth herein all
paragraphs of Plaintiff’s Complaint for Damages. 
56. The
particularity requirement for fraud requires the pleading of facts showing
“how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered”. Stansfield v. Starkey, 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73 (Cal. Ct. App. 1990)
citing Hills Trans. Co. v. Southwest, 266 Cal.App.2d 702 (Cal. Ct. App. 1968).
Every element of fraud herein with specificity have been plead as follows: 
a. How: Prior to
December 2021, Plaintiff was searching on Defendant’s website for brand new
vehicles with the intent to purchase one. As a result, Plaintiff chose the
Subject Vehicle for the acquisition considering several factors, including the
advertised price of $143,040.00. Thus, on or about 12/18/2021, Plaintiff
visited Defendant’s place of business with the intent to acquire the Subject
Vehicle for personal use. Plaintiff spoke with Defendant’s Salesperson and
Finance Manager, who were following the fraudulent scheme designed by Defendant
to misrepresent the sale price. Defendant’s representatives verbally
represented to Plaintiff that although the Subject Vehicle was available for
$143,040.00, there was also a market adjustment price worth $40,000.00.
Defendant advertised the cash price of the Subject Vehicle as $143,040.00 but
the cash price ended up being $183,040.00. As a result, Defendant overcharged
Plaintiff by at least $40,000.00. 
b. When: Prior to,
at the time of purchase the Subject Vehicle on or about 12/18/2021, and on the
days following the purchase of the Subject Vehicle. 
c. Where: The oral
discussions about the advertised price of the Subject Vehicle took place at
Defendant’s place of business at that time — 700 S Brand Boulevard, Glendale,
CA 91204. 
d. To Whom: The
statements were made to Plaintiff by Defendant’s representatives. 
e. What Means: The
discussions were made orally, by use of English language, simple words. 57.
“The requirement of specificity in a fraud action against a corporation
requires [Plaintiffs] to allege the names of persons who made the allegedly
fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” Tarmann v. State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157 (Cal. Ct. App. 1991): 
a. Names of
Persons: Plaintiff spoke with Defendant’s Salesperson and Finance Manager, who
were following the fraudulent scheme designed by Defendants. 
b. Authority to
Speak: Defendant’s representatives are responsible for speaking with and explaining
the price of their vehicles to consumers. Their authority to speak is self-evident
in their job titles. Defendant’s representatives were hired to effectuate the
plot as designed by Defendant’s executives, including, but not limited to,
Chief Executive Officer Terrence Ho, Chief Financial Officer Evelyn Cabrera, to
intentionally misrepresent their vehicles’ prices. The executives, by the very
nature of their role within Defendant had the authority to design and implement
the fraudulent representations regarding the price of the Subject Vehicle,
implement procedures to train dealership personnel, and did do so in fact. 
c. To Whom They
Spoke: Defendant’s representatives spoke with Plaintiff directly. 
d. What they Said
or Wrote: Defendant told Plaintiff that he had to pay $40,000.00 as a market
adjustment price in addition to the advertised $143,040.00 price for the
Subject Vehicle. Defendant, however, had failed to mention this in the
advertisement Plaintiff had seen before visiting Defendant. 
e. When It Was
Said or Written: At the time of purchase the Subject Vehicle on 12/18/2021. 
58. Cal. Civ. Code
§ 1710 identifies four kinds of fraud: (1) intentional misrepresentation, (2)
concealment, (3) false promise, and (4) negligent misrepresentation. 
59. Here, the
fraud at hand is intentional misrepresentation, concealment, and false promise.

60. Intentional
misrepresentation occurs when there are the following elements present: “(1) a
misrepresentation of a material fact; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to
induce reliance; (4) actual and justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting
damage.” Chapman v. Skype Inc., 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230 (Cal. Ct. App. 2013) 
(1) On 12/18/2021,
Defendant, by and through its agents, intentionally misrepresented material
facts to Plaintiff, including, but not limited to, the following: · Plaintiff could acquire the
Subject Vehicle for only $143,040.00 per the publication advertising the
Subject Vehicle for sale. · If Plaintiff
wanted to acquire the Subject Vehicle, he had to pay a market adjustment price
worth $40,000.00 not mentioned in the publication advertising the Subject
Vehicle for sale.
(2) Defendant made
the aforementioned representations either knowingly and falsely or recklessly
and without regard for their truth. Defendant was privy to material facts that
were not available to Plaintiff, such as early consumer complaints regarding
the price discrepancies, aggregate data from authorized dealers, and other
internal sources. Defendant had a duty to disclose the actual price of the
Subject Vehicle and sale it at that price because they knew the representations
made to Plaintiff were false or made recklessly, considering that it had no
intention to sale the Subject Vehicle at the advertised price. It knew it had
not included the actual price in the advertisements. Defendant’s experts
published the advertisements, so it must have known this information.
Additionally, Defendant should have been aware of California laws that prohibit
false advertising and the misrepresentation of vehicle prices. Cal. Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200, et seq.; Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17500, et seq.; Cal.
Civ. Code § 1750, et seq.; and Cal. Veh. Code § 11713. 
(3) “A statement
fraudulently made, with knowledge of its falsity, must necessarily be intended
to deceive.” People v. Swenson, 127 Cal.App.2d 658, 664 (Cal. Ct. App. 1954)
Defendant intended for Plaintiff to rely on these statements and subsequently
defrauded Plaintiff by encouraging him to purchase the Subject Vehicle despite
the price discrepancies between the advertisements and the RISC. Defendant had
the intention to deceive Plaintiff and induce him into making the purchase. It
had a direct material interest to induce. The fact that Defendant neither tried
to rectify the situation (did not try to include the additional charges on the
advertisements of other vehicles) nor attempted to compensate Plaintiff for the
harm evinces the clear intent to defraud. 
(4) Plaintiff
reasonably relied on Defendant’s assurances that he would purchase the Subject
Vehicle for the advertised price. Such reliance upon misrepresentations,
material omissions, and/or wrongful acts was justified and reasonable under the
circumstances. “The reasonableness of the plaintiff's reliance is judged by
reference to the plaintiff's knowledge and experience.” Dampf v. Bac Home Loans
Servicing, L.P., No. B248246, at *16 (Cal. Ct. App. Oct. 22, 2014), Defendant
is an established business with a positive reputation and reassuring
infrastructure which put Plaintiff, with little experience in vehicle
acquisition and limited knowledge about the market and the laws, at ease. This
gave Plaintiff no reason to mistrust Defendant. The harm to Plaintiff was not
otherwise inevitable or due to unrelated causes because Plaintiff would simply
not have purchased the Subject Vehicle at all and/or would have negotiated
different terms for it. (5) As a direct and proximate result of the acts and
omissions of Defendant, Plaintiff has suffered damages for which relief is
sought herein. Specifically, damages include the amount of the markup price of
$40,000.00, any and all incidental and consequential damages as a result of the
purchase, which would not have taken place but for Defendant’s fraudulent
misrepresentations at the time of purchase. 
61. Concealment
exists where a “(a) defendant suppressed a material fact; (b) the defendant was
under a duty to disclose to plaintiff; (c) the fact was intentionally
suppressed with intent to defraud; (d) plaintiff was unaware of the fact and
would not have acted if the fact had been known; and (e) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” Salameh v. 5th and K Master Assn., Inc., D066096, at *7 (Cal. Ct. App.
Sep. 23, 2015) 
(a) On 12/18/2021,
Defendant, by and through its agents, in the publications advertising the
Subject Vehicle, concealed the extra charges to be imposed during the purchase
and suppressed the material fact that the Subject Vehicle was not available for
the advertised price of $183.040.00. 
(b) “The duty to
disclose relevant information to a contractual party can arise as a result of
the transaction itself within the parties' general obligation to deal in good
faith.” Liebergesell v. Evans, 93 Wn. 2d 881, 893 (Wash. 1980) Defendant is an
industry expert in sales and distribution of motor vehicles and related
equipment and services and therefore had knowledge of the actual price of the
Subject Vehicle. This material fact was not within reasonably diligent
attention, observation, and judgment of Plaintiff because Plaintiff has no
professional expertise, has no legal background, and has very limited consumer
experience in vehicle acquisition. Defendant thus had a “general obligation” to
disclose the equity rights and its implications to Plaintiff. Further, under
California law, a duty to disclose arises when “(1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the
defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
fact.” Falk v. General Motors Corp., 496 F. Supp. 2d 1088, 1904 (N.D. Cal.
2007) Here, (2) Defendant had exclusive knowledge of the material facts
concerning the actual price of the Subject Vehicle; (3) it actively concealed
the extra charges in the advertisement; (4) it assured that the Subject Vehicle
was available at the advertised price of $143,040.00 but suppressed the fact
that Plaintiff would need to pay $40,000.00 extra. 
(c) Defendant
intentionally concealed and suppressed the extra charges to induce the
purchase. Defendant omitted the material fact of market adjustment price, with
the intention to deceive, defraud, and induce Plaintiff into acting in reliance
on the representations Defendant had made to Plaintiff and to induce Plaintiff
to purchase the Subject Vehicle. Defendant actively concealed or suppressed
these material facts, in whole or in part, to protect/maximize its profits. It
did so at the expense of Plaintiff. Defendant neither tried to rectify the
situation (did not try to include the additional charges on the advertisements
of other vehicles) nor attempted to compensate Plaintiff for the harm evinces
the clear intent to defraud. 
(d) Plaintiff was
unaware of these omitted material facts and would not have acted as he did if
he had known of the concealed or suppressed facts. Plaintiff did not receive
the benefit of the bargain as a result of Defendant’s fraudulent concealment.
This omitted and concealed fact was material because it would be relied on by a
reasonable person purchasing/leasing a new or used motor vehicle, and because
it directly impacts the value of the Subject Vehicle acquired by Plaintiff.
Plaintiff trusted Defendant not to publish a false price for the Subject
Vehicle. Plaintiff had no reason to believe Defendant was hiding information
during Plaintiff’s inquiry about these facts. Plaintiff asked about these
facts. Defendant lied, made misrepresentations, and did not disclose what they
knew. 
(e) As a direct
and proximate result of the acts and omissions of Defendant, Plaintiff has
suffered damages for which relief is sought herein. Specifically, damages
include the amount of the markup price of $40,000.00, any and all incidental
and consequential damages as a result of the purchase, which would not have
taken place but for Defendant’s fraudulent misrepresentations at the time of
sale. Defendant committed concealment. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to
recission and restitution in an amount according to proof at trial. Defendant’s
conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, and malicious, and constitutes despicable
conduct in conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights. Accordingly, Defendant
is liable to Plaintiff for their damages in an amount to be proven at trial,
including, but not limited to, Plaintiff’s lost benefit of the bargain.
62. A false
promise, also known as “promissory fraud”, occurs when a person makes a promise
to do something “without any intention of performing it.” Union F. M. v.
Southern Cal. F. M., 10 Cal.2d 671, 676 (Cal. 1938) “The elements of promissory
fraud (i.e., of fraud or deceit based on a promise made without any intention
of performing it) are: (1) a promise made regarding a material fact without any
intention of performing it; (2) the existence of the intent not to perform at
the time the promise was made; (3) intent to deceive or induce the promisee to
enter into a transaction; (4) reasonable reliance by the promisee; (5)
nonperformance by the party making the promise; and (6) resulting damage to the
promise.” Behnke v. State Farm General Ins. Co., 196 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1453
(Cal. Ct. App. 2011): 
(1) “…[A]
merchant's advertisement that listed particular goods at a specific price …
constituted a promise to sell to a customer at that price in exchange for the
customer's act of arriving at the store...” Donovan v. RRL Corp., 26 Cal.4th
261, 272 (Cal. 2001) Here, Defendant published an advertisement of the Subject
Vehicle promising to sale it for $143,040.00. 
(2) Defendant made
this promise without any intention to perform it. Even if it was unaware of the
implications of such advertisement, the numerous complaints from consumers
should have already notified it about such implications. The fact that
Defendant neither tried to rectify the situation (did not try to include the
additional charges on the advertisements of other vehicles) nor attempted to
remedy Plaintiff evinces the clear intent not to perform the promise made. 
(3) The intent
required for the fraud “is an intent to induce action”. Beckwith v. Dahl, 205
Cal.App.4th 1039, 1063 (Cal. Ct. App. 2012) Here, Defendant, well aware of
Plaintiff’s desire to acquire the Subject Vehicle at the advertised price, had
financial interest to induce Plaintiff to enter the RISC including extra
charges. 
(4) Not being an
expert in law, having no legal assistance at the time of reading the
advertisement, and counting on the experts in the automotive industry to
deliver proper services, Plaintiff relied on the promise made by Defendant and
came to Defendant to purchase the Subject Vehicle. 
(5) By
overcharging Plaintiff for the Subject Vehicle at the time of sale, Defendant
failed to fulfil its promise to sale it at the advertised price. 
(6) As a result,
Plaintiff has suffered damages for which relief is sought herein. Specifically,
damages include the amount of the markup price of $40,000.00, any and all
incidental and consequential damages as a result of the purchase, which would
not have taken place but for Defendant’s fraudulent misrepresentations at the
time of purchase. 
63. Thus,
Defendant committed fraud by giving a false promise of selling the Subject
Vehicle at the advertised price without any intent of performing it; by
concealing, despite its duty to disclose, the extra charges in the
advertisement with the intent to induce Plaintiff to enter the RISC. Plaintiff,
being no expert in the field, relied on Defendant’s expertise and knowledge,
counted on it acting in good faith, and suffered damages as a result of its
conduct. 
64. Due to the
element of fraud present at the time of sale, Plaintiff’s consent was not real
or free failing to satisfy the requirement of Cal. Civ. Code § 1565 and thus
providing ground for rescission pursuant to Cal. Civ. Code § 1566. 
65. Plaintiff
seeks relief for these damages. 
66. Plaintiff was
not, however, the first to face these issues. Defendant has multiple complaints
from former clients who experienced the same fraudulent and deceptive business
practice. 
67. Therefore,
Plaintiff is entitled to recover an award of punitive damages in order to deter
and punish Defendant from repeating such conduct in the future.
 
(Compl. ¶¶55-67.)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION – FRAUD AND DECEIT
The Court is
inclined to agree with Defendant’s arguments asserted in its demurrer.
 
Defendant cited Genis
v. Schainbaum (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 1007, 1015, which states, “However,
courts will not close their eyes in situations where a complaint contains
allegations of fact inconsistent with attached documents/exhibits, or
allegations contrary to facts which are judicially noticed. (Ibid.)
Where facts appearing in attached exhibits or judicially noticed documents
contradict, or are inconsistent with, the complaint's allegations, we must rely
on the facts in the exhibits and judicially noticed documents.”
 
Plaintiff appears
to be attempting to hold Defendant liable for fraud under four different
theories – intentional misrepresentation, concealment, false promise, and
negligent misrepresentation. (See Compl. ¶58.) Plaintiff appears to be
attempting to hold Defendant liable for allegedly fraudulently assuring that
the Subject Vehicle was available for $143,040.00 when in fact Defendant charged
Plaintiff for a price of $183,040.00.
 
Here, the Court
fails to understand both Plaintiff’s Complaint and Plaintiff’s Opposition to
the demurrer. Several times throughout the Complaint, in Paragraphs 56a, 57d,
and 60, Plaintiff admits that Defendant’s representatives verbally represented
to Plaintiff that although the Subject Vehicle was available for $143,040.00,
there was also a market adjustment price worth $40,000.00.
 
Further, as
pointed out in the demurrer, Plaintiff’s Complaint admits that Plaintiff
executed the Retail Installment Sale Contract (RISC) in ¶22, Plaintiff attached
the RISC as Exhibit A, and Exhibit A explicitly lists the price of the subject
vehicle as $183,040.00.
 
Not only does the
Complaint and Exhibit A to the Complaint admit that Defendant informed
Plaintiff of the increase in $40,000.00, but Plaintiff’s Opposition states, “Defendant
drafted the Retail Installment Sale Contract (“Sale Contract”) and listed a
price for the Subject Vehicle which was $40,000.00 higher than the advertised
price. Defendant refused to lower the price on the Sale Contract to match the
advertised price. Defendant contended that the online price was not binding,
and they had the right to charge the higher sum. Defendant contended that the
higher sum constituted the actual price of the Subject Vehicle. On 12/18/2021,
Plaintiff executed the Sale Contract and took possession of the Subject Vehicle
for a purchase price of $183,040.00 instead of $143,040.00. (Complaint ¶ 23, p.
5).” (Pl. Oppo. p. 2.)
 
 “However, courts will not close their eyes in
situations where a complaint contains allegations of fact inconsistent with
attached documents/exhibits, or allegations contrary to facts which are
judicially noticed. (Ibid.) Where facts appearing in attached exhibits
or judicially noticed documents contradict, or are inconsistent with, the
complaint's allegations, we must rely on the facts in the exhibits and
judicially noticed documents.” (Genis v. Schainbaum (2021) 66
Cal.App.5th 1007, 1015.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
Complaint itself and Exhibit A attached to the Complaint directly contradict
Plaintiff’s allegations that there was fraud. The Court fails to see what the intentional
misrepresentation, concealment, false promise, or negligent misrepresentation
even is when Plaintiff admits that Defendant informed Plaintiff of the
$40,000.00 market adjustment and when Plaintiff attached as Exhibit A the RISC
which explicitly stated the price of $183,040.00.
 
Defendant’s
demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Second Cause of Action – Breach of the
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
“Every contract imposes upon each party a
duty of good faith and fair dealing in its performance and its enforcement.” (Hicks
v. E.T. Legg & Associates (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 496, 508.) “It is
universally recognized the scope of conduct prohibited by the covenant of good
faith is circumscribed by the purposes and express terms of the contract.” (Id.
at 509.)
 
“The covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, implied by law in every contract, exists merely to prevent one
contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s right to receive
the benefits of the agreement actually made.” (Guz v. Bechtel (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 349.)
 
Under Merced Irr. Dist. v. County of
Mariposa :
 
Under California
law, to allege a claim for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, a plaintiff must allege the following elements: (1) the plaintiff and
the defendant entered into a contract; (2) the plaintiff did all or
substantively all of the things that the contract required him to do or that he
was excused from having to do so; (3) all conditions required for the
defendant's performance had occurred; (4) the defendant unfairly interfered
with the plaintiff's right to receive the benefits of the contract; and (5) the
defendant's conduct harmed the plaintiff. See Judicial Counsel
of California Civil Jury Instructions § 325 (2013); see
also Reinhardt v. Gemini Motor Transport, 879 F.Supp.2d 1138,
1145 (E.D.Cal.2012).
 
(Merced Irr.
Dist. v. County of Mariposa (E.D. Cal. 2013) 941 F.Supp.2d 1237, 1280,
discussing California law.)
 
‘[T]he implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
is limited to assuring compliance with the express terms of the
contract, and cannot be extended to create obligations not contemplated by the
contract.’” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182,
206 (quoting Pasadena Live v. City of Pasadena (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th
1089, 1094).) 
A breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty itself
and it has been held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than mistaken
judgment. (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990)
222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.)
Plaintiff alleges as follows in the Complaint:
68. Plaintiff re-alleges and incorporates by reference
as fully set forth herein all paragraphs of Plaintiff’s Complaint for Damages. 
69. In every contract or agreement there is an implied
promise of “good faith and fair dealing”. American Student Financial Group,
Inc. v. Dade Medical College, Inc., 180 F. Supp. 3d 671, 679 (S.D. Cal. 2015).
This implied promise means that each party will not do anything to unfairly
interfere with the right of any other party to receive the benefits of the
contract. Uranga v. Continental Casualty Co., 2d Civil B205995 (Cal. Ct. App.
Mar. 24, 2009) Good faith means honesty of purpose without any intention to
mislead or to take unfair advantage of another. It means being faithful to
one’s duty or obligation. However, the implied promise of good faith and fair
dealing cannot create obligations that are inconsistent with the terms of the
contract. Attenborough v. Reicher, No. B218931 (Cal. Ct. App. Oct. 6, 2010) 
70. “To show a breach of this covenant, a plaintiff
must show the following elements: (1) the existence of a contract; (2)
plaintiff performed all, substantially performed, or was excused from
performing his obligations under the contract; (3) all conditions for
defendant's performance occurred; (4) defendant unfairly interfered with
plaintiff's right to receive the benefits of the contract; and (5) plaintiff
was harmed by defendant's conduct.” Gonzalez v. First Franklin Loan Services,
1:09-CV-00941 AWI-GSA (E.D. Cal. Jan. 11, 2010) 
(1) Here, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a
contract when Plaintiff accepted the offer to purchase the Subject Vehicle at
the advertised price. Donovan v. RRL Corp., 26 Cal.4th 261, 262 (Cal. 2001)
[According to the California Vehicle Code, an advertisement by a licensed
automobile dealer that specifies a particular vehicle at a certain price is
considered an offer. Therefore, it is illegal for the dealer to refuse to sell
the vehicle at the advertised price to any potential buyer as long as the vehicle
remains unsold.] 
(2) Plaintiff did all, or substantially all of the
significant things that the contract required him to do, or he was excused from
having to do those things. After the offer was made, Plaintiff came to
Defendant to purchase the Subject Vehicle. 
(3) All conditions required for Defendant’s
performance occurred. Defendant could have sold the Subject Vehicle at the
advertised price when executing the RISC. However, it refused to do so, adding
extra charges. Additionally, on 07/03/2023, Plaintiff, through his Counsel,
notified Defendant about the violations and requested compensation for the
damages. Nevertheless, to the date of filing this lawsuit, Defendant has failed
to provide any remedies to Plaintiff. 
(4) Thus, Defendant, did not act fairly and in good
faith. It unfairly interfered with Plaintiff’s right to receive the benefits of
the contract. Defendant overcharged Plaintiff for the Subject Vehicle and
refused to compensate for damages. 
(5) As a result of Defendant’s conduct, Plaintiff paid
more than he should have. 
71. Consequently, Defendant breached the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing inherent in the offer made to Plaintiff
by advertising the Subject Vehicle at a low price, inducing him to visit
Defendant’s place of business, and then upselling without proper disclosure. 
72. Defendant’s conduct prevented Plaintiff from
receiving the benefits under the contract. Since Defendant breached the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing when misrepresenting the price of the
Subject Vehicle, Plaintiff has never received the benefit of the bargain.
Defendant did not act in good faith because it was not honest and actively
intended to mislead Plaintiff and take unfair advantage of him. 
73. As a direct and proximate result of the breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing as alleged herein,
Plaintiff suffered damages for which relief is sought herein.
(Compl. ¶¶68-73.)
TENTATIVE RULING SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION
The
Court’s tentative is to SUSTAIN Defendant’s demurrer.  The Court will hear argument.
 
Leave to Amend
As
stated in Dalton v. East Bay Mun. Utility Dist. (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th
1566, 1570-71:
If the complaint, liberally construed, can state
a cause of action, or if it is reasonably possible that the plaintiffs can cure
the complaint by amendment, the trial court should not sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend. (Heckendorn v. City of San Marino (1986) 42
Cal.3d 481, 486 [229 Cal.Rptr. 324, 723 P.2d 64].) The burden is on
the plaintiffs to establish the reasonable possibility that the defect is curable.
(Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.) A demurrer is
properly sustained without leave to amend if it appears that under applicable
substantive law there is no reasonable possibility that an amendment could
remedy the defects. (Heckendorn v. City of San Marino, supra,
42 Cal.3d at p. 486.)
 
(Dalton v. East Bay Mun. Utility Dist. (1993)
18 Cal.App.4th 1566, 1570-71.)
 
The Court will hear argument as to whether plaintiff
should be given leave to amend.
 
 
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant moves pursuant to CCP §§ 435 and 436 for an order striking the
following portions of the Complaint:
1.
All references to punitive damages in the Complaint should be stricken,
including without limitation, the following: 
a.
Page 9, paragraph 50, which reads in pertinent part: “It is also indisputable
that the personnel at Defendant acted with a clear intent to defraud Plaintiff.
The foregoing constitutes outrageous conduct, which entitles Plaintiff to a
recovery of punitive damages in order to deter and punish Defendant from
repeating such conduct in the future.” 
b.
Page 16, paragraph 67, which reads in pertinent part: “Therefore, Plaintiff is
entitled to recover an award of punitive damages in order to deter and punish
Defendant from repeating such conduct in the future.” 
c.
Page 31, paragraph 15[sic], which reads in pertinent part: “For recovery of
punitive damages, as appropriate;” 
2.
All references to alleged complaints by unknown persons who are not parties to
this action: 
a.
Page 7-8, paragraph 43 in its entirety. 
b.
Page 12, paragraph 60(2), which reads in pertinent part: “such as early
consumer complaints regarding the price discrepancies,” 
c.
Page 15, paragraph 62(2), which reads in pertinent part: “Even if it was
unaware of the implications of such advertisement, the numerous complaints from
consumers should have already notified it about such implications.”
 
PROCEDURAL
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)):Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
Moving Papers: Notice;
Proposed Order; Yang Declaration
Opposition Papers:
Opposition; Margarian Declaration
Reply Papers: Reply
Meet and Confer
Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the
objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If an amended pleading is
filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again with the party who
filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike the amended pleading.
(CCP §435.5(a).)
The Court notes as
follows, “A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was
insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion to strike.” (CCP
§435.5(a)(4).)
Here, Defendant alleged
it met and conferred. (Yang Decl. ¶11.)
Legal Standard – Motion to Strike
Any party, within the
time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion
and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a
court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the
claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].)
The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice.  (Code. Civ. Proc. § 437; Turman v. Turning
Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges
read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all
parts in their context, and assume their truth”].)  

Punitive
Damages
In an action for the
breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover
damages for the sake of example by way of punishing the defendant. (Cal. Civ.
Code §3294(a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (CCP §3294(c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. (CCP §3294(c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (CCP §3294(c)(3).)
TENTATIVE RULING
As a preliminary matter,
to the extent that Defendant seeks to strike all references to punitive damages
in the Complaint without limitation to the paragraphs enumerated in the notice
of the motion, the Court will not search the Complaint for those allegations. It
is up to the Defendant to identify to the Court what it wants stricken.
The
Court will hear argument as to the motion to strike.  The Court’s tentative is to GRANT the motion
to strike.