 Case Number:  BC550144    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 02/02/2024  – 8:30am  Case No: BC550144  Trial Date: 05/13/2024  Case Name: ARMAN YEGIYANTS v. HAGOP BARDAKJIAN et al. TENTATIVE RULING ON  MOTION TO DISQUALIFY Moving  Party: Defendant, Hagop Bardakjian Responding  Party: Defendants/Cross-Complainants, 703 E. Angeleno, LLC, a Wyoming limited  liability company; 707 E. Angeleno, LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company;  Commercial Funding, LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company; and Jamal Dawood Moving  Papers: Notice/Motion; Proposed Order; Request for Judicial Notice; Proof of  Service; Ferris Abassi Declaration; Joshua P. Friedman Declaration; Hagop  Bardakjian Declaration;  Opposing  Papers: Opposition; Mitchell B. Ludwig Declaration; Jimmy Dawood Declaration; Request  for Judicial Notice;  Reply  Papers: Reply; Abassi Declaration; Proof of Service;  [On  1/26/2023, Opposition Defendants submitted an objection to the Abassi  Declaration. This document does not state if it is objecting to the Abassi  Declaration in the moving papers or the Abassi declaration in the Reply.] Proof  of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok  16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok  Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok RELIEF  REQUESTED Defendant  Hagop Bardakjian (“Bardakjian”) will move the Court for an order of  disqualifying Mitchell B. Ludwig and the law firm of Knapp, Petersen &  Clarke pursuant to Rules of Professional Conduct, Rules 3-310, Cal Corp Code §  17701.10 and State Bar Opinion 1994-137, on the grounds that: (1) Bardakjian  purchased and acquired the full right, title and interest of the entities known  as 703 E Angeleno, LLC and 707 E. Angeleno, LLC, as further detailed in Los  Angeles County Superior Court Case Number 23BBCV01829, and Bardakjian  terminated the services of Mitchell B. Ludwig and the law firm of Knapp,  Petersen & Clarke; and (2) Mitchell B. Ludwig and the law firm of Knapp,  Petersen & Clarke, who purport to represent 703 E Angeleno, LLC, 707 E.  Angeleno, LLC, Commercial Funding, LLC, and Jamal N. Dawood (“Dawood”), cannot  simultaneously represent (a) Jamal N. Dawood, who claims an ownership interest  in the entities known as 703 E Angeleno, LLC and 707 E. Angeleno, LLC, (b) the  entities known as 703 E Angeleno, LLC and 707 E. Angeleno, LLC themselves, and  (c) Commercial Funding, LLC, an entity 100% owned by Dawood and which claims a  lien on the properties owned by 703 E Angeleno, LLC and 707 E. Angeleno, LLC,  and an unpaid debt owed by 703 E Angeleno, LLC and 707 E. Angeleno, LLC.   LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION TO DISQUALIFY General Legal Standard Code  of Civil Procedure section 128(a)(5) authorizes the Court to control in  furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all  other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in  every matter pertaining thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd.  (a)(5).)  This authority necessarily includes disqualifying an  attorney. (Metro-Goldwyn Mayer, Inc. v. Tracinda Corp. (1995) 36  Cal.App.4th 1832, 1837–1838.) The issue of disqualification ultimately  involves a conflict between the clients’ right to counsel of their choice and  the need to maintain ethical standards of professional responsibility. (Id.)    The paramount concern, though, must be the  preservation of public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and  the integrity of the bar. (Metro-Goldwyn Mayer, Inc. v. Tracinda Corp.  (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1832, 1838.) The recognized and important right to  counsel of one’s choosing must yield to considerations of ethics that run to  the very integrity of our judicial process. (Id.) Whether an attorney  should be disqualified is a matter addressed to the sound discretion of the  trial court. (Henriksen v. Great Am. Sav. & Loan (1992) 11  Cal.App.4th 109, 113.)  In exercising that discretion, the trial court is  required to make a reasoned judgment which complies with the legal principles  and policies applicable to the issue at hand. (Id.) TENTATIVE RULING Defendant,  Hagop Bardakjian’s, motion to disqualify Mitchell B. Ludwig and the law Firm of  Knapp, Petersen & Clarke is DENIED. Moving, opposing, and reply papers make extensive  allegations of fact and are presented in a manner that renders both parties’  arguments somewhat unclear.  Not only is it unclear as to what the legally relevant  issues of fact are here, it appears to the Court that, broadly speaking, the  crux of the dispute in this motion may be the basis of the entire lawsuit in 23BBCV01829.  The Court will hear argument on this point. Hagop requests judicial notice of the Complaint in  23BBCV01829. Judicial notice is GRANTED. Opposition requests judicial notice of 14 different  documents. The Court will hear argument. The Court is inclined to decline the  request because Movant did not meet its burden to show why disqualification is  appropriate. Further, the Opposition is also borderline incomprehensible and  therefore the relevance of the requests for judicial notice are not entirely  clear.Hearing Date: 02/02/2024
– 8:30am
Case No: BC550144
Trial Date: 05/13/2024
Case Name: ARMAN YEGIYANTS v. HAGOP BARDAKJIAN et al.

TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE

Moving
Party: Plaintiffs, Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce LLC

Responding
Party: Defendant, Hagop Bardakjian

Moving
Papers: Notice/Motion; Memorandum; Gamzo Declaration; Proof of Service;
Proposed Order

Opposing
Papers: Hagop’s Opposition; Proof of Service

Opposition
Papers: Defendants/Cross-Complainants 703 E. Angeleno LLC, 707 E. Angeleno,
LLC, and Jimmy Dawood

Reply
Papers: Reply; Proof of Service; Request for Judicial Notice

Proof
of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok

RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiffs
Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce, LLC (together, “Plaintiffs”), will, and
hereby do, move for an order:

 

(A)
reassigning that case entitled Hagop Bardakjian v. Jamal Dawood et al.,
Case No. 23BBCV01829 in the Superior Court of California for the County of Los
Angeles, currently assigned for all purposes to Department A of the Burbank
Courthouse, the Honorable Frank M. Tavelman presiding (the “LLC Ownership
Dispute Action”), to Department E of the Glendale Courthouse; and 

 

(B)
consolidating, for all purposes, the LLC Ownership Dispute Action with that
case entitled Arman Yegiyants v. Hagop Bardakjian et al., Case No.
BC550144 in the Superior Court of California for the County of Los Angeles
currently assigned for all purposes to Department E of the Glendale Courthouse,
the Honorable Ashfaq G. Chowdhury presiding (the “Lien Action”)



 

ANALYSIS

 

PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS

Under California Rules of Court Rule
3.350(a)(1), a notice of motion to consolidate must: (A) List all named
parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names of
their respective attorneys of record; (B) Contain the captions of all the cases
sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown first; and (C) Be
filed in each case sought to¿be consolidated.

 

Under California Rules of Court Rule
3.350(a)(2), the motion to consolidate: (A) Is deemed a single motion for the
purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums,
declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest
numbered case; (B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all non-represented
parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and (C) Must have a
proof of service filed as part of the motion.¿ 



California Rules of Court, Rule
3.350(a)(1)

3.350(a)(1)(A) – A notice of motion to consolidate
must: List all named parties in each case, the names of those who have
appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record;

As to the
Lien Action, BC550144, Plaintiffs state:

“Remaining
parties in Lien Action 2 all of whom have appeared and are
represented by counsel

(A)  Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants
Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce, LLC, represented by Hayim M. Gamzo of The
Gamzo Law Firm, APC;

(B)  Defendant Hagop Bardakjian,
represented by Joshua P. Friedman of Joshua P. Friedman and Associates (“Mr.
Friedman”); 

(C)  Defendant Hratchia Bardakjian,
represented by Brandon C. Fernald of Fernald & Zaffos (“Mr. Fernald”); 

(D)  Defendant John M. David,
represented by Dennis P. Wilson of Law Office of Dennis P. Wilson; 

(E)  
Defendants
and Cross-Complainant 703 E. Angeleno, LLC, 707 E Angeleno, LLC, and Commercial
Funding, LLC, and Defendant Jamal N. Dawood aka Jim Dawood, represented by
Mitchell B. Ludwig of Knapp, Petersen & Clarke; and 

(F)  
Defendant
703 707 Angeleno, LLC, represented by Robert Gevorkian.”

[The Court
notes that Footnote 2 states, “The following parties have been dismissed from
the action: Defendants Oscar Yongwhan Choi and Sako Talib; and Cross-Defendants
Christine Armani Dawood, Colony Capital, LLC, CA REO Properties, LLC, MMC
Capital Fund, and City National Finance. The Court also entered the default of
Defendant S.B.S. Trust Deed Network.”]

As to the
LLC Ownership Dispute Action, 23BBCV01829, Plaintiffs state:

“Parties
in LLC Ownership Dispute Action 

(A)
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Hagop Bardakjian, who has appeared, represented
by Mr. Friedman; 

(B)
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Jamal Dawood, who has appeared, represented by
Candice M. Bryner of Bryner Crobsy, APC (“Ms. Bryner”); and 

(C)
Nominal Defendant Fares Salman Abbasi, who has not yet appeared.”

 

Thus,
Plaintiffs appear to have satisfied this requirement.

3.350(a)(1)(B) – A notice of motion to consolidate
must: Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the
lowest numbered case shown first; and

Here, Plaintiffs met this requirement. Plaintiffs
listed the lowest numbered case first, BC550144 and then listed the higher
numbered case sought to be consolidated with which is 23BBCV01829

3.350(a)(1)(c) – A notice of motion to
consolidate must: Be filed in each case sought to be consolidated


Here,
Plaintiffs do not appear to have met this requirement as the Court does not see
a notice of motion to consolidate in 23BBCV01829.

California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.350(a)(2)

3.350(a)(2)(A) – The motion to
consolidate: Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the
appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting
papers must be filed only in the lowest numbered case;

Here, Plaintiffs appeared to have met this requirement
by filing the moving papers in the lowest numbered case.

3.350(a)(2)(B) – The motion to
consolidate: Must be served on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented
parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and

Here, Plaintiffs did not appear to comply with this
requirement. 

Plaintiffs allege service of this motion via
electronic service.

As to Defendant Hratchia Bardakjian, the email
addresses on the Proof of Service do not match the email addresses on eCourt
for Hratchia’s counsel. Plaintiffs are to address this issue.

As to Defendant 703 707 Angeleno, LLC represented by
Robert Gevorkian, Plaintiffs’ proof of service alleges service on
RobertGevorkianesq@gmail.com; however, eCourt lists Gevorkian’s email address
as Robert.Gevorkianesq@gmail.com. Plaintiffs are to address this issue.

As to the Defendant Jamal Nathan Dawood in 23BBCV01829,
Dawood’s counsel’s email address is listed as cbryner@oplawyers.com; however, Plaintiffs’
proof of service does not allege service at that email address. Plaintiffs are
to address this issue.

Further, Plaintiffs list Nominal Defendant Fares
Salman Abassi in 23BBCV01829; however, the Court does not see that this motion
was served on that Defendant. Plaintiffs are to address this issue.

3.350(a)(2)(C) – The motion to
consolidate: Must have a proof of service filed as part of the motion.

Here, this requirement appears to be met.

SUBSTANTIVE
ARGUMENTS
Arguments asserted by Moving Plaintiffs
Plaintiffs
argue as follows:

As this Court knows,
prior to Plaintiffs Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce, LLC’s (“Plaintiffs”)
obtaining leave to file their First Supplemental Complaint, this action (the
“Lien Action”) primarily was a real property ownership dispute between
Plaintiffs Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce, LLC (“Plaintiffs”, on the one
hand, and 703 E. Angeleno, LLC and 707 E. Angeleno, LLC (together, the
“Angeleno LLCs”), on the other.1 

 

But, a dispute has
recently arisen as to the ownership of the Angeleno LLCs: on the one hand,
Jamal Dawood claims ownership of the Angeleno LLCs, and, on the other, Hagop
Bardakjian (“Hagop”) claims ownership. Hagop has filed a separate action (the
“LLC Ownership Dispute Action”), to enforce his claim to the Angeleno LLCs. 

 

Because the dispute over
ownership of the Angeleno LLCs will affect discovery and trial in the Lien
Action, Plaintiffs obtained leave of court to file a supplemental complaint for
declaratory relief as to the ownership of the Angeleno LLCs. 2 And,
now that the discovery for and trial of Plaintiffs’ First Supplemental Cause of
Action will directly overlap with the LLC Ownership Dispute Action, and because
resolution of the LLC ownership dispute will affect resolution of the property
ownership dispute, Plaintiffs respectfully request consolidation of the two
actions.

 

[Footnote 1 states, “There
is also a secondary dispute about a lien put on the properties.” Footnote 2
states, “In the First Supplemental Complaint, Plaintiffs also added several
causes of action in the alternative.”]

 

(Pl. Mot. p. 2.)

 

Further, Plaintiffs argue:

 

Here, the central issue
in the LLC Ownership Dispute Action—ownership of the Angeleno LLCs, not only
involves common questions of law and fact, but directly overlaps with
Plaintiffs’ First Supplemental Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief as to the
ownership of the Angeleno LLCs. Due to the substantially similar factual issues
involved in both actions, discovery conducted in these actions will be very
similar and, in many respects, identical. Indeed, consolidating the actions
will avoid duplicative written discovery and avoid deponents being subject to
multiple depositions regarding the same issues. Thus, consolidating the actions
will prevent unnecessary duplicative discovery. 

 

In addition, Plaintiffs
should be privy to discovery in the LLC Ownership Dispute Action, in which they
are not currently parties, as it would lead to discoverable evidence regarding
Plaintiffs’ First Supplemental Cause of Action. 

 

Moreover, at trial,
consolidation will avoid duplication of evidence on issues common to the
actions and will promote judicial efficiency and economy. Requiring the parties
to discover and present much of the same evidence and witnesses in separate
actions will be a waste of time and money. To avoid that outcome, the Court
should consolidate the two cases to promote trial economy and avoid
inconsistent findings, and to reduce court time and litigation costs. 

 

Consolidation here is
further appropriate because the question of the ownership of the Angeleno LLCs
will impact discovery and trial on the central issue in the Lien Action—who
owns the Angeleno Properties. Without resolution of the LLC ownership question,
discovery and trial on the property ownership likely cannot proceed.

 

(Pl. Mot. p. 3.)

 

Arguments in Hagop Bardakjian Opposition
Opposition
argues:

However, the two lawsuits at issue in the
instant matter do not include common questions of law nor do they involve
common questions of fact (one is based on quiet title and lien issues while the
other involves ownership of limited liability companies). While there is no
doubt the outcome of the Ownership Dispute Action will impact the instant
matter, that is not the legal standard the Court is to use when determining
whether or not to consolidate two separate lawsuits.

 

(Hagop Oppo. p. 2.)

 

Opposition also argues:

 

Defendant’s motion
is fatally flawed. 

 

Plaintiff relies
on their claim that the First Supplemental Cause of Action tethers the two
cases together and therefore creates a common question of fact and law. 

 

There is no doubt
that Plaintiff is correct. Plaintiff’s fatal flaw, however, is that Plaintiff’s
Verified First Supplemental Complaint is not currently at issue. Worse yet,
Plaintiff’s First Supplemental Cause of Action is subject to demurrer, which
Defendant Hagop Bardakjian (“Bardakjian”) intends to bring before the Court
when the time is appropriate – a demurrer at the current stage is premature
prior to the Court ruling on Bardakjian’s pending anti-SLAPP motion. But as a
precursor to the demurrer, which will be filed shortly: 

(1) The Ownership
Dispute Action, which was filed prior to Plaintiff’s Verified First
Supplemental Complaint, involves identical parties and causes of action. The
Court handling the Ownership Dispute Action has exclusive jurisdiction over
those causes of action and therefore Plaintiff’s First Supplemental Cause of
Action is subject to abatement via demurrer. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §430.10(c).
Generally, a demurrer under former CCP §430, subd 3 (see now CCP §430.10(c)),
on the ground that there is another action pending between the same parties for
the same cause, will be granted if there is another action pending between the same
parties in which the issues are the same. Kamei v. Kumamoto (Cal. App. 2d Dist.
1967), 256 Cal. App. 2d 381. 

 

(2) Plaintiffs do
not have standing to bring forth their First Supplemental Cause of Action or
intervene in the Ownership Dispute Action. Plaintiffs are not the real parties
in interest with respect to the relief being sought in either their First
Supplemental Cause of Action or intervene in the Ownership Dispute Action.
Plaintiffs do not hold title to the claim or property involved. Plaintiffs are
not claiming an interest in the two relevant limited liability companies.
Plaintiffs just want a legal determination of the ownership of the companies,
and that is not a claim Plaintiffs own or have a legal right to pursue in their
own names.

 

(Oppo. p. 2-3.)



TENTATIVE RULING

“Code of Civil Procedure
section 1048 grants discretion to the trial courts to consolidate actions
involving common questions of law or fact. The trial court's decision will not
be disturbed on appeal absent a clear showing of abuse of discretion.” (Todd-Stenberg
v. Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-79.)

As
stated in CCP § 1048:

a) When actions involving a common question of
law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial
of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.

 

(b) The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States.

 

(CCP §1048(a)-(b).)

 

The Court will hear argument.

Movants’ arguments are confusing as to how
consolidation is appropriate. However, the Opposition seems to attack issues
that are not before this Court, or it is entirely unclear as to how the issues
brought up in Opposition are currently before this Court. The Opposition is
also equally as confusing as the moving papers. 

The Reply does little to help clarify, in any type of
understandable or digestible manner, as to how consolidation is appropriate.
Further, the Reply appears to attack many of the substantive matters not before
this Court that the Opposition brought up.

Overall, the Court is inclined to think that
Plaintiffs have a slightly more persuasive argument--based in part on the
Opposition’s general failure to address the substance of this motion and the
Opposition’s efforts to attack issues not before this Court on this present
motion. 

Also submitted to the Court on 1/22/2024 was a notice
stating, “Defendants and Cross-Complainants 703 E. Angeleno, LLC’, 707 E. Angeleno,
LLC’s and Defendant Jamal Jimmy Dawood (the “Dawood Parties”) do not oppose the
consolidation of Hagop Bardakjian, v. Jamal Nathan Dawood etc. et al, LASC Case
No. 23BBCV01829 (“2023 Action”) with Case No. BC550144. The Dawood Parties
believe that the adjudication of the 2023 Action should be tried first and to
that end, the instant case, BC 550144 should be stayed pending the
determination of the 2023 Action.”

The Court will hear argument.

Plaintiffs are to address the procedural issues noted
above.

If the motion is granted, Plaintiffs are strongly
encouraged to comply with the Code of Civil Procedure, the California Rules of
Court, and the Los Angeles County Rules of Court.

In particular, the Court notes the following:

“An order granting or denying all or part of a motion
to consolidate must be filed in each case sought to be consolidated. If the
motion is granted for all purposes including trial, any subsequent document
must be filed only in the lead case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.350(c).)

“All documents filed in the consolidated case must
include the caption and case number of the lead case, followed by the case
numbers of all of the other consolidated cases.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.350(d).)

 

Further the Court
notes that Under the Los Angeles County Court Rules, rule 3.3(g):

 

(1) Cases may not be consolidated unless they are in
the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more cases may be noticed
and heard after the cases, initially filed in different departments, have been
related into a single department, or if the cases were already assigned to that
department. (2) Upon consolidation of cases, the first filed case will be the
lead case, unless otherwise ordered by the court. After consolidation, all
future papers to be filed in the consolidated case must be filed only in the
case designated as the lead case. (3) Before consolidation of a limited case
with an unlimited case, the limited case must be reclassified as an unlimited
case and the reclassification fee paid.

 

(Los Angeles County Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g)(1)-(3).)

Further, Plaintiffs are to address rule 3.3(g) because
both cases do not appear to be related into a single department. The instant
two cases are in different departments.



 

The Court will hear argument as to Plaintiffs’ request
for judicial notice submitted in Reply.