 Case Number:  23GDCV01297    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 02/02/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 23GDCV01297
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: 
Complaint: HAIRUN INVESTMENT, INC., a California
corporation; and YUKE HOU, an individual v. YI WANG; LEI ZHANG; HEDI WANG, and
DOES 1-50
Cross-Complaint: YI WANG, an individual; v. HAIRUN
INVESTMENT, Inc., a California Corporation; YUKE HOU, an individual; and DOES
1-50
[TENTATIVE
RULING– MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT]
Moving Party:  Cross-Defendants, Hairun Investment,
Inc. and Yuke Hou
Responding Party: Cross-Complainant, Yi Wang
 
RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 
Cross-Defendants,
Hairun Investment, Inc. and Yuke Hou will move for orders for relief from
default and for filing of a proposed answer under Code of Civil Procedure §
473(b) (attorney affidavit of fault).
 
Procedural
16/21
Day Lapse (CCP §12c and §1005(b): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a): Ok
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion
Opposition Papers: Opposition; Jin Declaration; Proof
of Service
Reply Papers: Reply
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs,
Hairun Investment, Inc. and Yuke Hou filed a Complaint against Yi Wang, Lei
Zhang, and Hedi Wang on 06/21/2023. Yi Wang filed an Answer to the Complaint on
08/14/2023. Further, on 08/14/2023, Yi Wang filed a Cross-Complaint against
Hairun Investment, Inc. and Yuke Hou. 
 
On
11/21/2023, the Court signed Cross-Complainant, Yi Wang’s, Request for Entry of
Default on the Cross-Complaint filed on 8/14/2023.
 
This
motion seeks relief from the default entered on the Cross-Complaint.
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION TO SET ASIDE
DEFAULT
CCP
§ 473(b) states as follows:
The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken. However, in the case of a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding determining the ownership or right to possession of real or
personal property, without extending the six-month period, when a notice in
writing is personally served within the State of California both upon the party
against whom the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding has been
taken, and upon his or her attorney of record, if any, notifying that party and
his or her attorney of record, if any, that the order, judgment, dismissal, or
other proceeding was taken against him or her and that any rights the party has
to apply for relief under the provisions of Section 473 of the Code of Civil
Procedure shall expire 90 days after service of the notice, then the
application shall be made within 90 days after service of the notice upon the
defaulting party or his or her attorney of record, if any, whichever service
shall be later. No affidavit or declaration of merits shall be required of the
moving party. Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court
shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after
entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall,
whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties. However, this section shall not lengthen the time within
which an action shall be brought to trial pursuant to Section 583.310.
 
(CCP § 473(b).)
 
Further, Carmel, LTD. v. Tavoussi sheds
further light on CCP § 473(b):
 
Section 473,
subdivision (b), authorizes the trial court to relieve a party from a default
judgment entered because of the party's or his or her attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The section provides for both mandatory and
discretionary relief. Mandatory relief is available “whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect ....” (§ 473, subd.
(b).) “[I]f the prerequisites for the application of the mandatory provision
of section 473, subdivision (b) exist, the trial court does not have
discretion to refuse relief.” (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001)
89 Cal.App.4th 603, 612, 107 Cal.Rptr.2d 489 (Leader ).)
Thus, to the extent that the applicability of the mandatory relief provision
does not turn on disputed facts, but rather, presents a pure question of law,
it is subject to de novo review. (Ibid.) Where the facts are
in dispute as to whether or not the prerequisites of the mandatory relief
provision of section 473, subdivision (b), have been met, we review the
record to determine whether substantial evidence supports the trial court's findings.
(See Howard v. Owens Corning (1999)
72 Cal.App.4th 621, 631, 85 Cal.Rptr.2d 386 [findings of fact
reviewed for sufficiency].) Evidence is substantial when it is of “ ‘
“ponderable legal significance,” ’ ” reasonable, credible, and of solid
value. (Ibid.)
 
“The ‘attorney
fault’ language was added to section 473 in 1988. Prior to that time,
a litigant who suffered a default or default judgment due to inexcusable
attorney error could only obtain relief if he or she could persuade the
court that counsel's behavior amounted to ‘total abandonment’ of the client;
otherwise attorney conduct that was ‘simply inexcusable’ fell between the two
poles and provided no basis for relief. [Citation.] The amendments were clearly
designed to fill this gap. The purpose was threefold: to relieve the innocent
client of the consequences of the attorney's fault; to place the burden on
counsel; and to discourage additional litigation in the form of malpractice
actions by the defaulted client against the errant attorney.” (Solv–All
v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1003, 1009, 32
Cal.Rptr.3d 202 (Solv–All ).) But the mandatory provision
of section 473, subdivision (b), “protects only the innocent client [and]
provides no relief for the culpable client who participates in conduct which
led to the default....” (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225,
1251–1252, 92 Cal.Rptr.2d 322 (Lang ).) If the trial court
finds that the moving party's misconduct was a contributing cause of the
default, that party “cannot rely on the mandatory relief provision
of section 473.” (Lang, at p. 1252, 92 Cal.Rptr.2d 322.)
 
(Carmel, Ltd.
v. Tavoussi (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 393, 399-400.)
 
“The range of attorney conduct for which relief can be
granted in the mandatory provision is broader than that in the discretionary
provision, and includes inexcusable neglect. But the range of adverse
litigation results from which relief can be granted is narrower. Mandatory
relief only extends to vacating a default which will result in
the entry of a default judgment, a default judgment, or an entered dismissal.”
(Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603,
616.)
ANALYSIS
Movants
request relief under the mandatory relief provision of CCP § 473(b). Movants
state that the Cross-Complaint was served on August 14, 2023 and that on
November 1, 2023, Cross-Defendants’ attorney received an email from
Cross-Complainant’s attorney Bruce Fields asking Cross-Defendants to respond to
the Cross-Complaint by November 3, 2023. 
Movants argue that because of an office-routing
mistake, the email did not come to counsel’s attention and a request to enter
default was made November 21, 2023.
Cross-Defendants’ counsel, Stephen J. Thomas,
submitted an affidavit of fault attesting to his mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. (Thomas Decl. ¶2.) Further, Thomas stated that the fault
was his and his alone, and that his clients bear no responsibility. (Thomas
Decl. ¶3.) Further, Movants submitted a proposed answer to the Cross-Complaint.

Opposition argues that Cross-Complainant sent numerous
emails over the two-month period in order to resolve the dispute between the
parties, but Cross-Defendant selectively ignored most of them. Opposition
argues there is reason to believe that the Cross-Defendant’s omission is not an
honest mistake, but strategically planned to drag this case longer and cause
Cross-Complainant to incur unnecessary legal cost.
Opposition also argues that Cross-Complainant did not
file request for default as soon as the answer on cross-complaint is due. Opposition
argues that Cross-Complainant waited and gave Cross-Defendant ample time to
respond, but Cross-Defendant nonetheless failed to be responsive and failed to
conduct any meaningful settlement negotiations with Cross-Complaint. 
Opposition argues that the Court should impost a
penalty of $1,000.00 against Cross-Defendant pursuant to CCP § 473(c)(1).
Reply argues that Cross-Complainant briefed the issues
of lack of excusable neglect, surprise, or mistake, which is irrelevant.
Reply argues that Opposition didn’t address relief from attorney fault under § 473(b).
Reply argues that excusable neglect is not a requirement under the attorney
affidavit of fault language.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Cross-Defendants’
motion to set aside/vacate default of the Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Here, it appears that under Carmel, Ltd. v.
Tavoussi (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 393, the mandatory relief provision of
473(b) is applicable. Movants submitted an attorney affidavit of fault wherein
Thomas attested to his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, neglect, and that the
fault was his and not his clients’. Movants submitted a proposed answer to the
Cross-Complaint. Further, the default was entered on 11/21/2023, and this
motion was made on 12/05/2023; therefore, the six month timeliness requirement
was complied with.
 
Sanctions
Opposition
requests the Court to impose a penalty of $1,000.00 against Cross-Defendants
pursuant to CCP § 473(c)(1).
 
The Reply does not make any arguments about why the
Court should not impose sanctions.
 
CCP § 473(c) states:
 
“(c) (1) Whenever the court grants relief
from a default, default judgment, or dismissal based on any of the provisions
of this section, the court may do any of the following:
(A) Impose a penalty of no greater than one
thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending attorney or party.
(B) Direct that an offending attorney pay an
amount no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the State Bar Client
Security Fund.
(C) Grant other relief as is appropriate.
(2) However, where the court grants relief from a
default or default judgment pursuant to this section based upon the affidavit
of the defaulting party’s attorney attesting to the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, the relief shall not be made conditional
upon the attorney’s payment of compensatory legal fees or costs or monetary
penalties imposed by the court or upon compliance with other sanctions ordered
by the court.”
 
The issue of sanctions will be taken up at the
hearing.
 