 Case Number:  23TRCV00287    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable
Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                      Tuesday, June 25, 2024 
Department
M                                                                                                        Calendar No. 11
 
 

PROCEEDINGS
 
Crystal
Linares, et al. v. Cecil Motley, Jr., et al. 

23TRCV00287
1.      Cecil Motley, Jr.’s Motion to Stay
Execution Pending Appeal  
2.      Geoffrey Davis’ Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Cecil Motley
3.      Geoffrey Davis’ Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Etheylyn Motley

TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Cecil
Motley Jr.’s Motion for Stay of Execution Pending Appeal is denied. 
 
            Geoffrey
Davis’ Motions to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendants Cecil Motley Jr. and
Ethelyn Motley are conditionally granted.
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs’
Complaint was filed on February 2, 2023. Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
was filed on May 9, 2023. Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint was filed on
July 24, 2023. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs allege
unlawful detainer of residential property as to 4609 Palos Verdes Dr. North
Rolling Hills Estates, Ca. 90274. 
 
            Motion
for Stay of Execution 
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1176(a) states:
            “An appeal taken by the defendant
shall not automatically stay proceedings upon the judgment. Petition for stay
of the judgment pending appeal shall first be directed to the judge before whom
it was rendered. Stay of judgment shall be granted when the court finds that
the moving party will suffer extreme hardship in the absence of a stay and that
the nonmoving party will not be irreparably injured by its issuance. If the
stay is denied by the trial court, the defendant may forthwith file a petition
for an extraordinary writ with the appropriate appeals court. If the trial or
appellate court stays enforcement of the judgment, the court may condition the
stay on whatever conditions the court deems just, but in any case it shall
order the payment of the reasonable monthly rental value to the court monthly
in advance as rent would otherwise become due as a condition of issuing the
stay of enforcement. As used in this subdivision, “reasonable rental value”
means the contract rent unless the rental value has been modified by the trial
court in which case that modified rental value shall be used.” Thus, whether a
stay order will be granted turns on a weighing of the relative hardships and
prejudice. 
 
             The
motion is denied. 
 
            Defendant fails to establish the
necessary extreme hardship to justify a stay of execution. Defendant contends
that he will suffer extreme hardship in needing to relocate his medical device
development company. No corroborating evidence was provided to support the
self-serving conclusion of extreme hardship. In addition, by utilizing a
residential property, Defendant presumably knew the potential consequences to
his business should he ultimately default on his rental obligations. In
addition, Plaintiff has alleged irreparable injury in the form of $533.33 in
daily damages until Defendant evacuates the premises.
 
            The Court also notes that Defendant
filed this motion, in pro per, when technically he is still represented by an
attorney.
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the ruling denying the motion for stay of execution.
 
            Motions
to be Relieved as Counsel
 
            Counsel
states, in the declaration, valid reasons for withdrawal. Counsel states that
there has been a breakdown in the relationship of the parties. The Court finds
that the attorney has filed and served upon the client a declaration.  The Court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reasons why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted and why the attorney brought a motion under Code of Civil Procedure §
284(2) instead of filing a consent under section 284(1). The Court finds that
the attorney served the proposed order upon the client as required by Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d)(1).
 
            However,
counsel’s proof of service indicates that only the Motleys were served notice
of the motion and motion, supporting declaration, and proposed order.  Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d)(1) requires,
in pertinent part, that the moving papers must be served “on all other parties
who have appeared in the action.”  Thus,
subject to Plaintiffs’ counsel waiver of notice, the motions to be relieved are
conditionally granted.  
 
            The
attorney is relieved as counsel of record for the clients effective upon the
filing of the proof of service of the signed order upon the clients, subject to
the above discussion.  
 
            Geoffrey
Davis is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling on the motions to be
relieved as counsel.
 
 
       