  Case Number:  22STCV39957    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV39957




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 5, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Enforce Subpoena and Compel
Deposition
Moving Party: Plaintiffs Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas and
Alma Delia Llamas
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     THE MOTION TO ENFORCE SUBPOENA AND COMPEL
DEPOSITION IS CONTINUED TO NOVEMBER 19, 2024 AT 9:00AM. 
 
PLAINTIFFS TO FILE A PROOF OF SERVICE OF THE MOTION ON BRADESKOVAL NO
LATER THAN NOVEMBER 12, 2024.
 
Plaintiffs TO
NOTICE.  
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers. No
opposition has been recieved. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 13, 2023, Plaintiffs Rodolfo
Garcia-Rosas and Alma Delia Llamas filed the operative first amended complaint
against Defendants Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al., asserting causes of
action for (1) negligence; (2) strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict
liability – design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied
warranties; and (6) loss of consortium. Plaintiff alleges he developed
silicosis and consequential injuries through his employment working with stone
products manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by Defendants.
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP § 1987.1 provides, “[i]f a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.”
 
Plaintiffs move
to compel the deposition of a person most knowledgeable at Plaintiff
Garcia-Rosas's third-party employer Bradeskoval.
Plaintiffs served the subpoena on July 31, 2024; Bradeskoval failed to appear
at the September 5, 2024 deposition. Plaintiffs assert Bradeskoval has critical
knowledge about Plaintiff’s employment history, the products and brands he
worked with from 2013 to 2022, and information about Plaintiff’s job
responsibilities. This information is relevant and discoverable. 
 
It is unclear from the papers if Bradeskoval has
been served with this motion. Counsel’s declaration states that Bradeskoval
will be served after the motion is filed but there is no proof of service on
Bradeskoval attached to the motion. 
 
The motion to enforce subpoena and compel
deposition is CONTINUED to November 19, 2024 at 9:00 am. Plaintiffs to file a
proof of service of the motion on Bradeskoval no later than November 12, 2024.


 