 Case Number:  22STCV25754    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  CARL NERSESIAN and LIDIA NERSESIAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  EMANUEL SOLT, LLC, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV25754  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 4, 2023  I. Background On August 10, 2022, Plaintiffs, Carl Nersesian and Lidia Nersesian (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendant Emanuel Solt (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle incident. On October 11, 2022, Defendant filed his Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.  On August 16, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion seeking leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff for indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. Any opposition was due on or before November 17, 2023. The motion is unopposed.    II. Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint  A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the complaint or cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 412.20(a)(3), 428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a trial date.  (CCP §428.50(b).)    If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file the cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith. (Silver Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of justice. (CCP §428.50(c).) Where the proposed cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction as plaintiff’s claim, the court must grant leave to file the cross-complaint so long as defendant is acting in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.)  Here, Defendant argues through the course of discovery, Defendant’s deposed a witness to the incident on March 1, 2023, which provided Defendant the grounds to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff. Defendant also conducted the deposition of Plaintiffs on July 31, 2023, and aver they ascertained liability was disputed and the necessity of a cross-complaint. Defense counsel reached out to Plaintiff’s counsel regarding a stipulation for leave to file a cross-complaint, but Plaintiff’s counsel did not agree. Defendant contends there will be no prejudice to Plaintiff. Based on the foregoing, and the lack of opposition by Plaintiff, the Court finds the absence of bad faith.   The motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is therefore GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to file its proposed cross-complaint within ten (10) days of the date of this Order.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 1st day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   