  Case Number:  21STCV11745    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  B Judge/Dept.: Judge Karen Moskowitz / Dept. B
Hearing Date: Wednesday, July 10, 2024
Motion Type: Motion to Bifurcate
Case Number: 21STCV11745

Case Name: Nelson
Rosales vs. Nurban R. Lopez, Maie Chung, and Young Chung
Trial Date:  Tuesday, July 23, 2024

­­­­­­­­BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff
Nelson Rosales (“Rosales”) filed his Complaint on March 26, 2021 for property
and personal injury damages arising out of a three-car collision with
Defendants Nurban R. Lopez (“Lopez”); and Defendants Maie Chung and Young Chung
(collectively “Defendant Chung”). On July 2, 2021, Defendants Maie and Young
filed their cross-complaint against Defendant Lopez for equitable indemnity,
contribution, and declaratory relief. Plaintiff alleges he was stopped at a red
light when Defendant Chung and a Defendant Navas (now deceased) collided into
the intersection. Plaintiff alleges that the collision was caused by Defendant
Lopez’s vehicle (owned by Lopez but being driven by Defendant Navas on the day
of the collision) being pushed into Plaintiff’s vehicle. Plaintiff has already
settled with Defendants Navas and Lopez. Thus, Defendant Chung is the only
remaining defendant. 
            On May 30,
2024, Defendant Chung filed a Motion to Bifurcate the liability and remedies
portion of this Trial, pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedures, Section
598, and 1048(b). On September 11, 2023, the parties learned that Defendant
Navas had passed away. Thus, Defendant Chung contends that the jurors may now
be swayed after hearing of Plaintiff’s extensive injuries to place blame on the
only remaining Defendant, Maie Chung. Accordingly, Defendant Chung now moves
the Court to bifurcate the liability and remedies portion at Trial to avoid
prejudice to Defendant Chung and promote judicial efficiency. 
            On June 25,
2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition. 
            On July 1,
2024, Defendant Chung filed their Reply.
LEGAL STANDARD
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 598 provides in pertinent part that, “[t]he court may, when
the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a
party, after notice and hearing, make an order . . . that the trial of any
issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any
part thereof.” Similarly, CCP § 1048(b) provides in pertinent part that, “[t]he
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial
of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a
cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues.” 
The Court’s discretionary authority
to sever claims and try them separately may also be employed to avoid undue
prejudice to a party. (Stencel Aero Engineering Corp., v. Superior Court
(1976) 56 Cal.App.3d 988.) Courts have inherent power to regulate the order of
trial, and therefore can entertain a motion to bifurcate at any time—even
during the trial itself. (McLellan v. McLellan (1972) 23 Cal.App.3d 343,
353.) 
The discretion of the trial court
to bifurcate claims and try them separately is broad and will not be disturbed
on appeal, except for abuse. (National Electric Supply Co. v. Mt. Diablo
Unified School Dist. (1960) 187 Cal.App.2d 418; see Buran Equip. Co. v.
H & C Investment Co. (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 338, 343-344 [commending the
trial court for bifurcating the trial and ordering a specific issue be tried
first, “since, if it had been correctly decided, trial would not have been
required of any other issues.”].)
ANALYSIS
            Defendant
Chung requests bifurcation of the liability phase of the trial from the
remedies of the trial.
             Trial courts are authorized to order
bifurcation of a “liability trial” and then, if necessary, a “damages trial”. (Horton
v. Jones (1972) 26 Cal. App. 3d 952, 953-954, 957.) The Supreme Court
stated the rationale for separating liability and damages issues in Foreman
v. Clark Corp. (1971) 3 Cal; 3d. 875, 888, fn. 8: “[A] separate trial of
the liability issue was considered desirable to avoid wasting court time in
cases where the plaintiff loses on the liability issue, to promote settlements
where the plaintiff wins on the liability issue, and to afford a more logical
presentation of the evidence, thus simplifying the issues for the jury.”
            Plaintiff
Rosales opposes on the basis that the instant motion is untimely. (Opp., pgs.
2-3.) Plaintiff contends that given the Final Status Conference between the
parties is set for July 9, 2024 and the trial date is set for July 23, 2024,
Defendant’s motion does not comply with Cal. Civ. Proc. § 598. (Id.)
Plaintiff argues that given the hearing on the instant motion is not until July
10, 2024 (despite the final status conference being on July 9) and is also less
than thirty (30) days before the trial date, Defendant’s motion violates the
timeliness requirements of § 598. (Id.) Section 598 provides:
“The Court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the
ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would
be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an
order, no later than the close of pretrial conference in cases in which such
pretrial conference is to be held, or, in other cases, no later than 30
days before the trial date, that the trial of any issue or any part thereof
shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case,
except for special defenses which may be tried first pursuant to Sections 597
and 597.5.” 
Secondly, Plaintiff Rosales argues
that Defendant Chung had ample opportunity to bifurcate this trial and
Defendant’s failure to bring the instant motion sooner will result in high
costs being incurred if the Court grants the bifurcation, given parties and
experts would be required to testify twice. (Opp., pg. 3.) Specifically, both
Plaintiff and Defendant have hired accident reconstructionist experts and
Defendant has additionally hired a biomechanics expert. (Id.) Plaintiff
asserts that such experts will be required to testify in both trials as the
testimony relates to liability, as well as the forces in the accident
pertaining to causation. (Id.) As such, Plaintiff will be prejudiced by
incurring double the costs. Further, Plaintiff and Defendant will both be
required to testify twice which would result in wasted time, inefficiency, and
potential confusion for the jury. Finally, the trial is not extremely complex
or complicated and is anticipated to last no more than five (5) to seven (7)
days.
In Reply, Defendant Chung argues
that Defendant’s Motion for Bifurcation was filed and served twenty-six Court
days before the July 10, 2024, hearing date, giving Plaintiff ample time to
draft and file his opposition. Thus, the motion was timely filed. Moreover, the
Court can make an order at any time to bifurcate liability and damages because
it can do so on its own motion. However, in consideration of the foregoing,
Defendant now requests the Final Status Conference be moved to July 11, 2024 or
July 12, 2024, so that the parties can present their arguments on the issue of
bifurcation. 
Here, the Court finds that although
it may make an order at any time to bifurcate liability and damages, this
applies when the Court does so on its own motion. The motion presently before
the Court is Defendant’s motion to bifurcate, not the Court’s. Consequently,
the Court finds that Defendant’s motion is untimely because the instant hearing
is on July 10 and the pretrial conference is scheduled for July 9. Thus, the
Court is not scheduled to hear the instant motion to bifurcate before the
pretrial conference, as provided in § 598. Moreover, the instant hearing on
July 10 does not result in the issue of bifurcation being heard at least thirty
(30) days prior to the commencement of trial. Defendant had ample opportunity
to bring the instant motion in a timely manner and did not do so (the Court
notes here that trial was continued at the final status conference on 7/9/24
but only expert witness designation and discovery cut-offs were extended
accordingly, not fact discovery or motion cut-off dates). In consideration of
the prejudicial effect of increased costs, and in the interest of judicial
economy, the Court denies Defendant’s instant Motion to Bifurcate.
 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s
Motion to Bifurcate is denied. Defendant to give notice. 