 Case Number:  22STCV11951    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  B HEARING DATE:    Wed.,
July 10, 2024                            JUDGE /DEPT:        Moskowitz/Dept. B
CASE NAME:           Byron
Walker v. Sebastian Huesca, et al.
CASE NUMBER:     22STCV11951                                    

                                                            

 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND PRODUCTION;
REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
(CCP § 2025.450)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff Byron Walker’s Motion to
Compel Deposition of Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s Person Most Qualified
and Requests for Production of Documents and Request for Monetary Sanctions is
DENIED.
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
On April 7, 2022, Plaintiff Byron Walker (“Walker”) filed
an action against Defendants Sebastian Huesca, Luis Daniel Huesca, Uber
Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC, Uber, Portier, LLC, Uber Eats,
Postmates, Inc., Postmates, LLC, Postmates, and City of Rancho Palos Verdes
(collectively “Defendants”) for (1) negligence, (2) negligent
hiring/retention/supervision/training, (3) statutory liability/dangerous
condition of public property, and (4) negligence-premises liability arising out
of an alleged motor vehicle collision that took place on March 10, 2021.
 
On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to
Compel Deposition of Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s Person Most Qualified
and Requests for Production of Documents and Request for Monetary Sanctions
(“Motion”).  Defendant filed an
Opposition on June 26, 2024, and Plaintiff filed a Reply on July 2, 2024.
 
            On June 6,
2024, the matter was assigned to Judge Karen Moskowitz in Department B of the
Van Nuys Courthouse East.
 
II.                
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure §
2025.450(a) provides:
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”
 
The motion shall “(1) set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice” and “(2) be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030(a) provides, in
pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction on a party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.  A misuse of the discovery process includes
failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010(d).)  In addition, a court shall impose monetary
sanctions if a motion to compel a deposition is granted unless “the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code. Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(g)(1).)
 
III.             
Discussion
 
Here, Plaintiff Walker moves for an order compelling
Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s (“Uber Tech”) Person Most Qualified to
appear for a deposition on a date determined by the Court and for an order
imposing sanctions in the amount of no less than $2,460. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Uber Tech is vicariously
liable for the automobile collision between Plaintiff Walker and Defendant Sebastian
Huesca because Defendant Sebastian Huesca was operating the vehicle in the
course of providing food delivery services for Defendant Uber Technologies,
Inc. and other related entities named as Defendants.  (Cole Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)  In order to
investigate the
relationships between Defendants, policies and procedures related to
hiring/retaining/training/supervising delivery drivers, and other pertinent
facts, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Defendant Uber Tech’s Person Most
Qualified.  (Ibid. ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff also requested the production of
documents relevant to these issues.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff states that he has been attempting
to depose the instant witness “for some time.” 
(Ibid. at ¶ 6.)  On April
10, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant with the Second Amended Notice of
Deposition, setting the deposition of the Person Most Qualified for May 13,
2024.  (Ibid. at ¶ 6, Ex. A.)  Prior to setting the deposition, defense
counsel provided May 13, 2024, as an available date, reassured that the
deposition would take place, and served responses and objections to the
deposition.  (Ibid. at ¶ 7, Ex.
B.)  Less than a week before the
deposition, counsel for deponent indicated lack of availability due to a
different trial.  (Ibid. at ¶ 8.).
Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to meet and confer via telephone calls and
emails.  (Ibid. at ¶ 8.)  On the day of the deposition, a Certificate
of Non-Appearance was taken by the court reporter.  (Ibid.)  Although defense counsel did provide an
alternative date for the deposition, Plaintiff proceeded with the instant
Motion “given the proximity of trial and the prior refusals to produce this
witness.”  (Ibid. at ¶ 9.)
 
Plaintiff also requests sanctions in the amount of no less
than $2,460.00 as follows: six (6) hours to prepare the Motion and Reply and
attend the hearing, at the hourly rate of $400, plus a $60 filing fee.  (Ibid. at ¶ 10.)  Plaintiff will provide additional details
regarding costs associated with the May 13, 2024, deposition date at the
hearing.  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant opposes the Motion.  Defense counsel explains that he offered the May
13, 2024, date in a good faith effort after Plaintiff erroneously served the first
Notice of Deposition to Defendant’s former attorneys.  (Doody ¶ 7.) 
Defense counsel received the initial Notice setting the deposition date
for March 21 on March 18, 2024, and could not make the witness available within
three days.  (Ibid.)  On May 9, 2024, Plaintiff served written
discovery requests containing 134 requests for production to each entity
related to Uber Tech.  (Ibid. at ¶
10.)  On May 7, 2024, defense counsel
informed Plaintiff’s counsel that he would be unavailable on May 13 due to
another ongoing trial.  (Ibid. at ¶ 11,
Ex. B.)  Counsel served timely written objections
to the Notice of Deposition on May 8, 2024. 
(Ibid. at ¶ 13, Ex. C.)  A
Certificate of Non-Appearance was taken as Plaintiff proceeded with the
deposition on May 13, 2024.  (Ibid.
at ¶ 14.)  Defense counsel provided
availability for June 20, 2024, and after Plaintiff noticed the deposition,
Defendant served timely written objections on June 17, 2024.  (Ibid. at ¶ 14.)  As soon as he learned that he would have to
move forward with another trial at the U.S. District Court, defense counsel
informed Plaintiff’s counsel that he would be unavailable on June 20, 2024.  (Ibid. at ¶ 15.)
 
Defendant opposes the Motion on the following grounds.  First, the Second Amended Notice of
Deposition makes requests that are beyond the scope of permissible discovery as
it contains 39 topics of examination and 69 requests for production that are
beyond what is relevant to the matter. 
This request is so broad and vague that compliance is both impracticable
and burdensome for Defendant.  Plaintiff
has also propounded 134 requests for production on each entity related to Uber
Tech, for a total of 536 requests for production.  Many of the discovery requests in the Notice
of Deposition duplicate the 536 requests for production.  Second, Defendant’s requests for postponement
have stemmed from its counsel’s involvement in other ongoing trials; counsel
has timely notified Plaintiff’s counsel of these conflicts prior to the dates
set for deposition.  Although,
Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that other attorneys at the firm can defend the
deposition, Plaintiff has demanded 39 topics of examination and 69 requests for
production, which require the attorney who is most familiar with the file and
discovery in this matter.  Therefore,
defense counsel has “acted with substantial justification in reasonably
requesting Plaintiff postpone the deposition.” 
(Oppos. p. 6.)
 
In his Reply, Plaintiff states that he has made reasonable
efforts to accommodate defense counsel’s schedule.  However, he believes that “this pattern of
agreeing to a deposition date, followed by a unilateral cancellation of the deposition
is a litigation tactic designed to frustrate [his] ability to conduct
discovery.”  (Reply p. 2.)  Plaintiff also contests Defendant’s
contention that the requests exceed the scope of permissible discovery and are
not directly relevant to the matter.
 
The Court makes the following findings.  The parties do not contest that Defendant has
served valid objections to the Notices of the Deposition pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 2025.410.  Given these
objections, Plaintiff has not demonstrated that the Court may compel the
deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified.  Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel and the accompanying request for monetary sanctions.
 
IV.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons,
 
Plaintiff Byron Walker’s Motion to
Compel Deposition of Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s Person Most Qualified
and Requests for Production of Documents and Request for Monetary Sanctions is
DENIED.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 