 Case Number:  20STCV45654    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MARCELA ELIDET MARTINEZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  LILIANA CRUZ, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV45654  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  September 21, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff Marcela Elidet Martinez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Liliana Cruz (“Defendant”) alleging that Defendant physically assaulted and beat Plaintiff in a public parking lot. Plaintiff alleges she was walking with a group of people near Defendant’s husband when Defendant ran toward Plaintiff, screaming insults at Plaintiff, and punched Plaintiff in the face multiple times. The operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleges causes of action for assault, battery, and intentional infliction of emotion distress (“IIED”). Plaintiff previously moved for summary judgment on December 8, 2022, which the Court denied on February 27, 2023. (Min. Order, Feb. 27, 2023.) At this time, Plaintiff again moves for summary judgment on substantively the same grounds, and minor changes based upon the Court’s prior ruling. The motion is unopposed.  II. Request for Judicial Notice Plaintiff requests the Court to take judicial notice of two case law opinions: (1) Thomas v. Doorley (1959) 175 Cal. App 2d 545, and (2) People v. Moody (1943) 62 Cal. App. 2d 18. The request is granted only to the extent that the court can take judicial notice of the existence of judicial opinions and verdicts from other cases, but not of the truth of hearsay statements from them.  (Johnson & Johnson v. Sup. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 768.)  III. Motion for Summary Judgment  A party seeking summary judgment has the burden of producing evidentiary facts sufficient to entitle him/her to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c).)  The moving party must make an affirmative showing that they are entitled to judgment irrespective of whether or not the opposing party files an opposition.  (Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 742-743.)  Thus, “the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (citing Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.).  When a plaintiff seeks summary judgment, the plaintiff must produce admissible evidence on each element of each cause of action on which judgment is sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).)  The moving party’s “affidavits must cite evidentiary facts, not legal conclusions or ‘ultimate’ facts” and the courts must construe the evidence in support of the opposing party, resolving any doubts in favor of the opposing party.  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639; Scalf, 128¿Cal.App.4th at 1519; Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) A plaintiff moving for summary judgment must show that there is no defense to any of the asserted causes of action and do so by proving each element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (a)(1), (p)(1).)  Assault, Battery and IIED The Court previously only addressed Plaintiff’s damages. However, as Plaintiff has brought the motion once more on substantially the same grounds, with the only changes being the amount of damages, the Court will address the motion anew.  “The elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) the defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch the plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) the plaintiff reasonably believed he was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to the plaintiff that the defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) the plaintiff did not consent to the defendant’s conduct; (4) the plaintiff was harmed; and (5) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm”  (Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890; see also Kiseskey v. Carpe’ters’ Trust for So. Cal. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 222, 232 [“The tort of assault is complete when the anticipation of harm occurs.”].)    The elements of a civil battery are (1) the defendant intentionally did an act which resulted in a harmful or offensive contact with the plaintiff's person, (2) the plaintiff did not consent to the contact, and (3) the harmful or offensive contact caused damage to the plaintiff.  (Fluharty v. Fluharty (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 484, 497.)    The elements of a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant, (2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress, (3) severe emotional suffering, and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress.  (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 617.) In this case, Plaintiff recites the allegations of the SAC in her separate statement that Defendant assaulted and battered Plaintiff by punching Plaintiff in the face, and that the harmful and offensive conduct caused damage amounting to oppression, malice, and punitive damages. In support of Plaintiff’s allegations, Plaintiff relies upon the SAC, photographs of Plaintiff’s alleged injury to the face, Plaintiff’s medical records, Plaintiff’s declaration regarding the statement of damages, the declaration of witness Elissa Burgos (“Burgos”), a screenshot of a text message exchange allegedly between Burgos and Defendant’s husband, and a redacted Downey Police Department crime report. However, the majority of the evidence Plaintiff relies upon are inadmissible hearsay, and Plaintiff has not demonstrated any hearsay exceptions. Burgos’ sworn statement as a witness to the alleged event, alone, is insufficient. When a plaintiff seeks summary judgment, the plaintiff must produce admissible evidence on each element of each cause of action on which judgment is sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).) In terms of reliance upon Plaintiff’s SAC, complaint allegations are not evidence, because pleadings are merely formal allegations. (San Diego Police Officers Assn. v. City of San Diego (1994) 29 Cal. App. 4th 1736, 1744;  Cassady v. Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP (2006) 145 Cal. App. 4th 220, 241.) Furthermore, the contents of the redacted Downey Police Department crime report and the redacted witness admonition of photo show-up are inadmissible, because Plaintiff offers it in support of the truth of the matters asserted – that Plaintiff was assaulted and battered by Defendant. “Hearsay is defined in [Evidence Code] section 1200 as ‘evidence of a statement that was made other than by a witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the matter stated.’”  (Jazayeri v. Mao (2009) 174 Cal. App. 4th 301, 316.) Plaintiff’s medical records are also inadmissible because it seeks to prove the truth of the matters asserted – that Plaintiff was injured, and the injuries were caused by Defendant. Furthermore, the medical records are also inadmissible because they are not authenticated. Additionally, the screenshot of a text message exchange allegedly between Burgos and Defendant’s husband regarding a request for a person’s name in order to file a police report lacks proper foundation and relevance. Plaintiff’s single black and white photograph of her face also lacks foundation and its relation to the matter. Lastly, Plaintiff’s declaration attesting to her damages lacks the proper evidentiary support because the evidence proffered in support thereof are inadmissible for the reasons previously stated.  Accordingly, Plaintiff has not proved each element of her causes of action with admissible evidence for the Court to be able to grant her motion.    IV. Conclusion  Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.   Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 20th day of September 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    