 Case Number:  21STCV33179    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MARIA L. BARRERA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  IN-N-OUT BURGERS, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV33179  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  September 21, 2021  I. Background Plaintiff, Maria L. Barrera (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant, In-N-Out Burgers (“Defendant”) alleging causes of action for negligence and premises liability. The complaint alleges that Plaintiff tripped and fell on a curled-up carpet as Plaintiff was exiting the restaurant. (Compl. p. 4.)   Defendant now moves for summary judgment. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and Defendant filed a reply.    Moving Argument  Defendant argues it is entitled to summary judgment because the condition and placement of the mat did not constitute a dangerous condition.  Defendant asserts the mat was only about 10 months old, and the surveillance videos and photographs from the incident demonstrates no curled up corners, wrinkles, or wear and tear on the mat. Defendant argues the photograph of the mat, taken after Plaintiff tripped and fell, reveals no curled edges or wrinkles, and that approximately 480 customers traversed the mat during the hour prior to Plaintiff’s incident without issue. Defendant further argues that the mat was open and obvious, and that at most, the mat would constitute a trivial defect.    Opposing Argument Plaintiff asserts the photographs submitted by Defendant of the mat, taken immediately after Plaintiff tripped and fell, demonstrates a curled-up/wrinkled area on the side of the mat. Furthermore, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s surveillance video is a distance away from the mat at issue, and the mat itself is partially blocked by a part of the building. Furthermore, Plaintiff contends that the 480 individuals walking over the top of the mat is not the area which Plaintiff claims caused her fall, wherein Plaintiff’s foot caught on the side of the mat that was curled-up/wrinkled. After Plaintiff’s fall, Defendant’s employees removed the mat.  Reply Argument Defendant contends Plaintiff has not provided responsive evidence, and therefore fails to create a triable issue of material fact. Further, Defendant contends its employees removing the mat from the dining room after the fall is a subsequent remedial measure, which is inadmissible to prove negligence pursuant to Evidence Code § 1151. Defendant also argues that Plaintiff fails to provide any evidence of a curled-up/wrinkled mat, that her claims are speculative, and Plaintiff has not provided any expert opinions.   II. Motion for Summary Judgment Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.”  (Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)   The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66, [A] defendant may simply show the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation), a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)  Thus, a moving defendant has two means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute: “The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  (Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.)  Until the moving defendant has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)  Open and Obvious  The elements of a negligence and premises liability cause of action are the same: duty, breach, causation, and damages.  (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)  Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.  (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  To determine the existence and scope of duty, courts consider the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the closeness of the connection between the defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant’s conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, and the extent of the burden to the defendant of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for breach.  (Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 113.) “Generally, if a danger is so obvious that a person could reasonably be expected to see it, the condition itself serves as a warning, and the landowner is under no further duty to remedy or warn of the condition.”  (Krongos v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 387, 393.)  The Court may, in appropriate circumstances, determine a condition is open and obvious where “photographs prima facie established the obviousness” of the condition.  (Martinez, supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at p. 1184.)  In examining photographs, the court should consider: (1) the photograph’s subject (i.e., its focal point); (2) the view of the subject (e.g., close-up, distant isolated, in context); (3) the photograph’s perspective (e.g., eye-level, overhead, ground-level); (4) the use of any plain-view altering devices (e.g., camera color filter, fish-eye lens, computer-manipulation); (5) the characteristics of the photograph (e.g., sharp and clear, blurry, grainy, color or black and white); (6) whether the photograph was taken under identical or substantially similar conditions (e.g., timing, lighting, weather); and (7) any other relevant circumstances (e.g., addition of extrinsic aids, such as a ruler or pointer).  (Kasparian v. AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 11, 24-25.)  Trivial Defect A “dangerous condition” is a condition of property that creates a substantial risk of injury when such property is used with due care in a manner which is reasonably foreseeable.  Ordinarily, the existence of a dangerous condition is a question of fact.  However, it can be resolved as a question of law if reasonable minds can come but to one conclusion.  It is for the Court to determine whether, as a matter of law, a given defect is not dangerous because property owners should not become insurers against injuries arising from trivial defects.  (Davis v. City of Pasadena (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 701, 704.) The rule which permits a court to determine “triviality” as a matter of law rather than always submitting the issue to a jury provides a check valve for the elimination from the court system of unwarranted litigation which attempts to impose upon a property owner what amounts to absolute liability for injury to persons who come upon the property.  “[W]hen a court determines whether a given defect is trivial, as a matter of law, the court should not rely merely upon the size of the depression. While size may be one of the most relevant factors to the decision, it is not always the sole criterion. Instead, the court should determine whether there existed any circumstances surrounding the accident which might have rendered the defect more dangerous than its mere abstract depth would indicate.”  (Fielder v. City of Glendale (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 719, 734; see also Ursino v. Big Boy Restaurants (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 394, 398-399; Kasparian v. AvalonBay Communities (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 11, 27.)    Discussion On October 4, 2019, Plaintiff and her husband Vicente Barrera visited the In-N-Out restaurant located at 6000 Pacific Blvd., Huntington Park, CA ("Store #74). (UMF 1.) Plaintiff and Mr. Barrera entered through the only doorway at Store #74 and, without incident, walked across a black floor mat that was placed inside the front door. (UMF 2.) Plaintiff did not observe any issues with the mat before she fell. (UMF 3.) After finishing their meal, Plaintiff and Mr. Barrera walked towards the doorway to Store #74. Mr. Barrera walked ahead of Plaintiff and across the mat, without incident. (UMF 5.) Plaintiff attempted to exit the restaurant after Mr. Barrera, and while older customers were attempting to enter the restaurant through the same door, Plaintiff did not look down at the mat, and tripped and fell before exiting the restaurant. (UMF Nos. 6-9.) Immediately after the incident, In-N-Out took pictures of the condition of the mat that Plaintiff alleges she tripped on. (UMF 11.) The photographs In-N-Out took immediately after the incident of the mat accurately reflect what the mat looked like at the time of the incident. (UMF 12; Exhs. D and E.) The Court reviewed Defendant’s surveillance video and photographs submitted with the motion. The video itself is not in real time, choppy, and not definitive due to the distance and angle of the camera. The video quality and distance does not render the mat’s details distinguishable, and the Court is unable to clearly discern the condition of the mat from the footage. The video, therefore, does not support Defendant’s contention that there were no curled-up edges on the mat. Further, the two photographs taken by Defendant’s employee, Claudia Hachee, of the mat Plaintiff tripped upon while waiting for the ambulance to arrive demonstrates a raised portion on the center edge of the mat (Def. Compendium of Evidence, Exhs. D and E.). It is an undisputed fact that these photographs accurately depict the mat at the time of the incident. (UMF 12.) Plaintiff testified at her deposition she tripped because her “foot got stuck” against the mat (Def. Compendium of Evidence, Exh. B; Plaintiff’s Depo. p. 32, lines 5-10), that “[t]he mat was a little folded, and that’s where I tripped” and the fold was located “on the edge of the mat” (Id. at p. 33, lines 17-21.).  Consequently, Defendant does not meet its burden that there was no existence of a dangerous condition. Furthermore, as to the affirmative defenses, Defendant does not meet its burden that the condition was open and obvious, because the photographs and video on which Defendant relies upon does not establish the obviousness of the condition such that Plaintiff could have expected to see the raised edge prior to her trip and fall. Additionally, Defendant’s triviality argument is premised upon the notion that the mat’s corners were not turned up, and that the mat was lying flat without curled edges and wrinkles. However, as previously stated, the photographs clearly demonstrate that the center edge of the mat was raised.  Because Defendant has not discharged its burden of proof that there are no triable issues of material fact, Plaintiff has no burden to come forward with any evidence.   III. Conclusion  Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.   Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 20th day of September 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   