


[1]
To date, the putative class is uncertified. 
The motion applies to Plaintiff’s individual claims.
 


[2]
Plaintiff deposed Dr. Elizabeth Chan and Dr. Elana Hadar-Schwartz.  (See Supp. Opposition, p. 2.)
 

Spornik (19STCV10434)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
 
Date:                           3/21/24
 
Time:                          10:30
am
 
Moving Party:           Advanced Critical Care, Emergency and
Specialty Services – San Fernando Valley, et al. (collectively “Defendants” or
“ACCESS”) 
 
Opposing Party:        Natalia Spornik (“Plaintiff”)
 
Department:              11        
 
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication is denied in full as to the San Fernando Valley hospital and granted
in full as to Dr. Richard Mills.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants own and operate
veterinary hospitals that provide emergency services and specialty care.  Plaintiff brought her cat Ozzie to one of
Defendants’ hospitals for treatment.  She
alleges that non-board-certified vets treated Ozzie despite Defendants’
representation that they only employ board-certified vets.  (See, e.g., Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”),
¶¶ 2-4, 29-54.)  She seeks to represent a
class of similarly situated customers. 
(See id. at ¶¶ 55-63.)
 
Defendants move for summary
judgment or summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s first (Unfair Competition Law
(“UCL”)) and second (False Advertising Law (“FAL”)) causes of action.[1]
 
On 9/20/23, the Court continued
the hearing pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(h) to give
Plaintiff a chance to depose the treating vets.[2]
 
On 12/4/23, Plaintiff filed her
supplemental opposition.
 
On 1/16/24, Defendants filed
their reply.
 
On 1/17/24, Plaintiff filed a
late supplemental separate statement.
 
On 1/29/24, the Court heard
Defendants’ motion.  The Court denied
summary judgment, granted summary adjudication as to the Los Angeles and
Torrance hospitals, and continued the hearing as to the other Defendants to give
Defendants an opportunity to respond to the late supplemental separate
statement.
 
On 2/28/24, Defendants filed
their response. 
 
Now, the Court must consider the
parties’ briefs.
 
LAW
 
Summary
Judgment
 
A defendant or
cross-defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action.
 
(Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
“The ‘tried and true’ way for defendants to meet their burden
of proof on summary judgment motions is to present affirmative evidence
(declarations, etc.) negating, as a matter of law, an essential element of plaintiff's
claim.”  (Edmond & Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2023 Update)
¶ 10:241, emphasis in original.)  “A
cause of action ‘cannot be established’ if the undisputed facts presented by
defendant prove the contrary of plaintiff's allegations as a matter of law.” 
(Id. at ¶ 10:241.10, emphasis in original.)  “The moving party's declarations and evidence
will be strictly construed in determining whether they negate (disprove) an
essential element of plaintiff's claim ‘in order to resolve any evidentiary
doubts or ambiguities in plaintiff's [opposing party's] favor.’”  (Id. at ¶ 10:241.20.)
 
A second way to meet the initial burden “is to ‘show’ that an
essential element of plaintiff's claim cannot be established.”  (Id. at ¶ 10:242.)  “Defendant does so by presenting evidence that plaintiff ‘does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence . . . .”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)  The moving party must present evidence
of discovery admissions and/or factually devoid “all facts” discovery
responses.  (See id. at ¶¶
10:244-10:245.27.)
 
The third way is to show a
complete defense.  (See id. at ¶
10:246.)  “To ‘show’ a complete defense, defendant must present
admissible evidence of each essential element . . . upon which it bears the burden of proof at
trial.”  (Id. at ¶ 10:247, emphasis in
original.)  “Thus, where a defense has
several elements, lack of substantial evidence on any element bars relief, ‘even if the plaintiff failed to introduce a
scintilla of evidence challenging
that element.’”  (Ibid., emphasis in
original.)
 
Once met, “the burden shifts to plaintiff to prove the existence of a triable issue of
fact regarding that element of its cause of action or that defense.  If plaintiff is unable to do so, defendants
are entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Id. at ¶ 10:240, emphasis in original.) 
 
Summary
Adjudication
 
“A motion for summary adjudication asks the court to adjudicate the merits of a particular
cause of action, affirmative defense, issue of duty or claim for damages,
including a punitive damage request.” 
(Id. at ¶ 10:1, emphasis in original.)
 
A defendant (or
cross-defendant) moving for summary [adjudication] must “show” that either:
 
* one or more elements of
the “cause of action … cannot
be established”; OR
 
* there is a complete defense to
that cause of action. [Citation.]
 
This means that where
plaintiff has the burden of proof at trial by a preponderance of evidence,
defendant “must present evidence that would require a reasonable trier of
fact not to find any underlying material fact more likely
than not—otherwise, he [defendant] would not be entitled to judgment as a matter of law, but
would have to present his evidence to a trier of fact.” [Citation.]
 
The import of “more likely
than not” in the foregoing quote is that a moving defendant must generally
present evidence that, if uncontradicted, “would constitute a preponderance of
evidence that an essential element of the plaintiff's case cannot be
established … The same is true when a moving defendant seeks to secure
dismissal of the complaint based on an affirmative defense.” [Ciation.]
 
. . . Once defendants meet this burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to prove the existence
of a triable issue of fact regarding that element of its cause of action or
that defense. If plaintiff is unable to do so, defendants are entitled to
judgment as a matter of law. [Citations.] 
 
. . . If defendants fail to meet their burden, their motion
must be denied; plaintiff need not make any showing at all. [Citation.]
 
(Id. at ¶ 10:240, emphasis
in original.)
 
UCL
 
“[T]he
UCL permits a cause of action to be brought if a practice violates some other
law.  In effect, the ‘unlawful’ prong of
§ 17200 makes a violation of the underlying law a per se violation of §
17200.”  (Stern,
Business and Professions Code Section 17200 Practice (The Rutter Group 2022) ¶
3:53.)  “Virtually any law or regulation —
federal or state, statutory or common law — can serve as predicate for a §
17200 ‘unlawful’ violation.  Thus, if a ‘business
practice’ violates any law — literally — it also violates § 17200 and may be
redressed under that section. [Citation.] As the California Supreme Court has
said, § 17200 ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful
practices independently actionable under § 17200.”  (Id. at ¶ 3:56.)
 
“The
second ‘wrong’ proscribed by § 17200 is ‘unfair’ business practices.  Because § 17200's definition of the five
proscribed ‘wrongs’ is set forth in the disjunctive, a business practice can be
‘unfair’ — and violative of § 17200 — even if it is not ‘deceptive’ and even if
it is ‘lawful.’”  (Id. at ¶ 3:112.)  “The ‘unfair’ standard is intentionally
broad, allowing courts maximum discretion to prohibit new schemes to
defraud.”  (Id. at ¶ 3:113.)
 
“The third type of conduct proscribed by § 17200 is
‘fraudulent’ business practices.”  (Id.
at ¶ 3:153.)  “A business practice is ‘fraudulent’
within the meaning of § 17200 if ‘members of the public are likely to be
deceived.’”  (Id. at ¶ 3:154.)  “An advertisement's potentially deceptive
effect is measured by the audience to which it is addressed.  Under the UCL and False Advertising statute,
this will usually be the ‘reasonable person’ standard.”  (Ibid.)
 
Proposition
64 limits “private standing . . . to any ‘person who has suffered injury in
fact and has lost money or property’ as a result of unfair competition
[citations].”  (Kwikset Corp. v.
Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310 320-321.)  “The intent of
this change was to confine standing to those actually injured by a defendant's
business practices and to curtail the prior practice of filing suits on behalf
of clients who have not used the defendant's product or service, viewed the
defendant's advertising, or had any other business dealing with the defendant.
. . .”  (Id. at 321, internal quotation
marks omitted.)
 
FAL
 
The
FAL bans “deceptive, false and misleading advertising[,]” but it is narrower
than the UCL.  (Id. at ¶ 4:5.) “Section
17500 applies only to advertising” whereas the UCL “also forbids ‘fraudulent
business acts or practices’ unconnected with advertising.” (Id. at ¶ 4:6.) “A
defendant's (or its employees’) knowledge of wrongdoing or of the falsity of
the advertisement is not an element” of an FAL claim since the FAL “prohibits
negligent as well as intentional dissemination of misleading advertising.”  (Id. at ¶ 4:4, emphasis in original.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Summary
Judgment and Summary Adjudication Re: Los Angeles and Torrance Hospitals
 
The
prior rulings – denying summary judgment and granting summary adjudication as
to the Los Angeles and Torrance hospitals – stand.
 
Summary
Adjudication Re: San Fernando Valley Hospital
 
Facts
 
There are three ACCESS vet
hospitals.  They are located in Los
Angeles, San Fernando Valley, and Torrance. 
(See Mills Decl., ¶¶ 3-4; see also Opposition Separate Statement, p. 2,
Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 1.)  It
is undisputed that Plaintiff only took Ozzie to the San Fernando Valley
hospital.  (See id. at p. 2, UMFs 4-5, p.
7, UMFs 25-26.)
 
The first time Plaintiff went to
the San Fernando Valley hospital was in October 2017. (See Plaintiff Decl., ¶
2.)  She ended up going there multiple
times for treatments until Ozzie passed away on 4/2/18.  In total, she paid $17,726.00 for vet
services.  (See id. at ¶¶ 14-15.)
 
Plaintiff’s primary vet referred
her to the San Fernando Valley hospital. 
(See Opposition Separate Statement, pp. 1-2, UMFs 3-5; see also
Plaintiff Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)  Plaintiff “knew
nothing about ACCESS” prior to going there, she “did not look up ACCESS on the
internet[,]” except to find the address, and she “did not look at any other
potential hospital[.]”  (Opposition
Separate Statement, pp. 2-3, UMFs 6, 7, 8; see also Leifer Decl., Ex. 14, pp.
47-48.) 
 
Notably, she “never received an
email or communication from any Defendant saying that . . . Ozzie would only be
seen by a board-certified veterinarian specialist[.]”  (Opposition Separate Statement, UMF 9.)  And the three ACCESS hospitals “never
represented that they exclusively employ board-certified” vets.  (Moving Separate Statement, UMF 2; see also
Opposition Separate Statement, UMF 2; Mills Decl., ¶ 8; Plaintiff Decl., ¶ 10
[generally claiming “the branding for the [San Fernando Valley] hospital represents
that it performs ‘specialty’ services for patients on a referral basis” but
failing to highlight any specific advertisement, communication, or statement
that says ACCESS only uses board-certified vets to treat pets].)
 
Defendants
 
Defendants contend summary
adjudication should be granted because:
 
* Plaintiff did not rely on
ACCESS’s branding before she took Ozzie to the San Fernando Valley
hospital.  (See Motion, pp. 15-17; see
also Reply, pp. 8-9.)
 
* She did not lose money or
property and, thus, did not suffer an injury-in-fact.  (See Motion, pp. 17-19; see also Reply, pp.
4-6; Supp. Reply, pp. 4-6.) 
 
* ACCESS’s branding was truthful
and unlikely to deceive a reasonable consumer. 
(See Motion, pp. 19-24; see also Reply, pp. 6-8.)
 
* The operative complaint fails
to allege a material omission by Defendants. 
(See Motion, p. 24.)
 
* ACCESS disclosed that not all
vets were board certified.  (See id. at
pp. 24-25; see also Reply, p. 11; Supp. Reply, pp. 6-9.)
 
* ACCESS did not have a duty to
disclose further information.  (See
Motion, pp. 25-26.) 
 
* Plaintiff did not rely on a
material omission.  (See id. at p. 26.)
 
* She fails to identify a
violation of the UCL’s unlawful or unfair prong.  (See id. at pp. 27-28.)
 
* Her arguments concerning Dr.
Elizabeth Chan and Dr. Bena Tan are immaterial. 
(See Supp. Reply, pp. 6-9.)
 
Plaintiff
 
Plaintiff asserts:
 
* Judge Jones rejected
Defendants’ reliance argument at the demurrer stage.  Defendants claim Plaintiff did not rely on
Defendants’ branding prior to bringing Ozzie to the San Fernando Valley
hospital.  Plaintiff contends Judge Jones
found the claim unavailing since Plaintiff made numerous visits for specialty
care over a period of months.  She also
contends the complaint alleges that she relied on Defendants’ representations
of being specialists. (See Opposition, pp. 3-4.)
 
* Defendants’ injury-in-fact
argument is based Plaintiff’s objections to discovery requests.  Plaintiff claims Defendants cannot rely on
objections to shift the burden, and she declares that she would not have purchased
the services absent the alleged misrepresentations.  (See id. at pp. 4-5.)
 
* There is a triable issue as to
whether reasonable consumers would have been deceived by Defendants’ branding
and marketing.  (See id. at pp. 5-8
[asserting that the logo refers to ACCESS as a “Specialty Animal Hospital,” the
current website mentions “board-certified veterinarians,” and, in March 2019,
the website stated that “your pet will be evaluated and treated by highly
trained specialists”].)  
 
* Defendants’ product-labeling
authorities are distinguishable. (See id. at pp. 8-9.)
 
* Defendants’ attacks on
Plaintiff’s motives should be disregarded. 
(See id. at pp. 9-10.)
 
* Defendants’ moving brief cites
to the separate statement sporadically, making it difficult for Plaintiff to
respond.  (See id. at p. 10.)
 
In the supplemental opposition,
Plaintiff adds:
 
* Dr. Chan held herself out as an
“Internal Medicine Fellow.”  Her use of
the term “Fellow” suggested to Plaintiff that she was a specialist.  In truth, she was not a “Fellow” or involved
in any fellowships when she treated Ozzie. 
(See Supp. Opposition, pp. 2-3.)
 
* Plaintiff’s expert, Dr. Beth
Parvin, declares that Dr. Chan misled pet owners by calling herself a
“fellow.”  (Id. at p. 3.)
 
* Defendants’ marketing deceived
primary vets, leading them to refer customers to Defendants for what they
believed would be specialty treatments. 
(See id. at pp. 3-4 [arguing that ACCESS’s brand name – ACCESS Specialty
Animal Hospitals – led primary vets to believe that Defendants employed
board-certified vets for surgeries].)
 
* Dr. Parvin opines that a
consumer in Plaintiff’s shoes would have reasonably believed that the San
Fernando Valley hospital was a specialty clinic that employed specialists for
surgeries.  (See id. at p. 4.)
 
* Dr. Tan performed an ultrasound
on Ozzie, but Dr. Chan admitted that only specialists should conduct
ultrasounds.  (See ibid.)
 
* In October 2022, Defendants’
marketing materials disclosed in fine print that not all vets are
board-certified specialists.  The
decision to utilize fine print further establishes the misleading nature of
Defendants’ marketing.  (See id. at p.
5.)
 
Analysis
 
The first question is whether
Defendants shift the burden.  The answer
is yes.  “The pleadings play a key role
in a summary judgment motion.”  (Hutton
v. Fidelity National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486,
493.)  “The materiality of a disputed
fact is measured by the pleadings [citations], which ‘set the boundaries of the
issues to be resolved at summary judgment.’ 
[Citations.]”  (Conroy v.
Regents of University of California (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244,
1250.)  “Accordingly, the burden of a defendant moving for
summary judgment only requires that he or she negate plaintiff’s theories of
liability as alleged in
the complaint; that
is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical possibility
not included in the pleadings.”  (Hutton,
supra, 213 Cal.App.4th at 493, emphasis in original.)  Defendants’ UMF 2 covers all of
Plaintiff’s visits.  In support,
Defendants cite the declaration of Dr. Mills, ACCESS’s vice president, and the
declaration of Leah Basinais, ACCESS’s former chief operating officer.  Both declarations say “ACCESS has never
advertised nor represented that it employs exclusively board-certified
veterinary specialists.”  (Mills Decl., ¶
8; see also Basinais Decl., ¶ 2.)  The
statements are, in effect, undisputed. 
(See Opposition Separate Statement, UMF 2; see also Supp. Opposition
Separate Statement, UMF 2; Plaintiff Decl., ¶ 10 [merely claiming “the branding
for the hospital represents that it performs ‘specialty’ services
for patients on a referral basis”], emphasis added.) Coupled with the fact that
the SAC fails to allege a direct misstatement by a doctor or staff member to
Plaintiff (see SAC, ¶¶ 34-54, 64-83 [discussing ACCESS’s website and logo]),
this is sufficient to shift the burden. In fact, Defendants do not need to refute hypothetical, unalleged
misstatements of ACCESS employees; it is enough that they address ACCESS’s
branding and marketing materials.[3]
 
The next question is whether
Plaintiff shows a triable issue of fact. 
 
Plaintiff’s Initial
Evidence
 
Plaintiff submitted two pieces of
evidence with her initial opposition – her counsel’s declaration and her
own.  
 
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration
discusses past discovery proceedings, nothing else. (See Pomerantz Decl., ¶¶
1-5.) 
 
Plaintiff declares that her
primary vet referred her to the San Fernando Valley hospital “for a higher
level of care.”  (Plaintiff Decl., ¶
3.)  Importantly, the declaration does
not state that the primary vet referred her to a specific doctor or told her
that ACCESS only employs board-certified vets. 
(See id. at ¶¶ 3, 10.)  And even
if she had said that to Plaintiff, a representation by a primary vet is not a
representation by ACCESS.   
 
Plaintiff’s declaration
additionally points to two logos.  She
claims one appeared on Ozzie’s veterinary records and the other appeared on the
front of the San Fernando Valley hospital building.  (See id. at ¶¶ 22-23.)  The logos state:
 
ACCESS
Specialty Animal
Hospital
 
(Ibid.)  The SAC alleges that “specialist” means
board-certified (see SAC, ¶ 30), but Plaintiff fails to verify the pictures,
neither logo mentions board-certifications, and Plaintiff fails to declare that
she equated “Specialty” or “specialist” with board-certification during that
time.  
 
Plaintiff’s attempt to quote guidelines the American Veterinary Medical
Association (“AVMA”) is unavailing.  (See
SAC, ¶ 30.)  Per the SAC, the AVMA
website states: 
 
It is unethical for veterinarians to identify
themselves as members of an AVMA-recognized specialty organization if such
certification has not been awarded and maintained.  Only those veterinarians who have been
certified by an AVMA-recognized veterinary specialty organization should refer
to themselves as specialists.
 
(Ibid., bolding in original, footnote omitted.)  The website is unverified, and, regardless,
the SAC alleges that Plaintiff or her counsel viewed it in March 2019, almost a
year after Ozzie died.  (See id. at ¶ 30
n.4.) 
 
The same rationale applies to the
SAC’s March 2019 quotes from ACCESS’s website (see id. at ¶¶ 35-37; see also
Pomerantz Decl. Re: Errata to Opposition Separate Statement, ¶ 3, Ex. A),
ACCESS’s 2023 marketing materials (see Pomerantz Decl. Re: Errata to Opposition
Separate Statement, ¶ 4, Ex. B), and Plaintiff’s citation to the 2023 version
of Business and Professions Code section 4883(s).  They postdate the relevant time period.
 
To the extent Plaintiff claims
ACCESS is liable for omitting facts, the argument is unpersuasive.  The Basinais declaration shows that ACCESS’s
website disclosed vets’ credentials and bios, including board-certification
status, before and during Ozzie’s treatment. 
(See Basinais Decl., ¶¶ 4-6, Exs. 5-8; see also Motion Re: CLRA, pp.
19-20.)  
 
On balance, Plaintiff’s initial
evidence fails to raise a triable issue.
 
Plaintiff’s Supplemental Evidence

 
Plaintiff’s supplemental
declaration: Plaintiff declares that “Dr. Chan’s purported status as an
‘Internal Medicine Fellow’ [] substantially influenced [her] to continue
entrusting Dr. Chan with Ozzie’s care” and that Dr. Chan never disclosed that
she was not a fellow, board-certified, or a specialist.  (Supp. Plaintiff Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)  
 
Dr. Parvin’s declaration: Dr.
Parvin is a former vet.  From 2009
through 2021, she worked for the Veterinary Medical Board (“VMB”) and, in part,
“provided expert testimony in formal proceedings before the VMB involving the
discipline and/or licensure of veterinarians.” 
(Parvin Decl., ¶ 5.)  She opines:
 
[A] consumer in Ms.
Spornik’s position reasonably would believe that ACCESS is a specialty clinic
and that the veterinarian managing her pet “Ozzie’s” case, Dr. Chan, would be a
specialist. ACCESS prominently branded itself as a specialty clinic and positioned
itself in the veterinary industry as a referral hospital for primary
veterinarians to refer patients to specialists. In the veterinary field the use
of the term “specialty” denotes treatment by veterinary specialists.
 
(Id. at ¶ 8.)  She further states:
 
14. . . Dr. Chan
held herself out to pet owners - including Ms. Spomik - as an “Internal
Medicine Fellow.” She testified in her deposition, however, that she did not
complete any internal medicine fellowship and that this was a title created by
herself and Dr. Mills. 
 
15. In my
professional opinion, the use of this invented title was confusing and very
misleading to pet owners. Fellowships are for veterinarians who already have
completed their specialist training and board-certification but Dr. Chan had
not completed any of the requirements for board certification. Accordingly, the
use of the title of "Internal Medicine Fellow" would convince pet
owners such as Ms. Spomik that her qualifications were more significant.
 
(Id. at ¶¶ 14-15.)
 
Taken together, Plaintiff’s
supplemental declaration and Dr. Parvin’s declaration suffice to defeat summary
adjudication.  Dr. Parvin is an expert
witness.  The Court finds that her
declaration should be read broadly at this stage, especially since there has
not been an Evidence Code section 402 hearing yet.  The decision to put “Internal Medicine
Fellow” on Dr. Chan’s signature line came about from a discussion between Dr.
Chan and Dr. Mills.  (See Supp. Pomerantz
Decl., Ex. C, p. 29 [attaching Dr. Chan’s deposition transcript].)  Dr. Mills is ACCESS’s vice president, and he
is board-certified.  (See Mills Decl., ¶¶
2-4.)  Dr. Pavin claims, in the
veterinary field, “Fellow” indicates that a vet is board-certified.  Applied broadly, her declaration suggests
that Dr. Chan and Dr. Mills knew or should have known that utilizing “Fellow”
would lead customers to believe that Dr. Chan was board-certified.  Such knowledge plus Dr. Chan’s alleged
failure to inform Plaintiff otherwise (see Supp. Plaintiff Decl., ¶ 2; cf.
Reply Leifer Decl., Ex. 6, pp. 14, 29) is enough to raise triable questions as
to whether the San Fernando Valley hospital violated the UCL and FAL.
 
Indeed, the “Internal Medicine
Fellow” theory is an alleged theory. 
(See SAC, ¶ 51.)  Plaintiff’s
supplemental declaration states that “Dr. Chan’s purported status as an ‘Internal
Medicine Fellow’ [] substantially influenced” her to continue permitting
Dr. Chan to treat Ozzie.  (Supp.
Plaintiff Decl., ¶ 3, emphasis added.) 
Plaintiff declares that, “[i]f [she] had known that . . . Dr. Chan[] was
not a genuine specialist and had not undergone the training to be one, [she]
would not have continued bringing Ozzie to ACCESS.”  (Plaintiff Decl., ¶ 11.)  A reasonable argument can be made that these
statements combined with Dr. Pavin’s declaration create triable issues
concerning misrepresentation, omission, reliance, and lost money.[4]

 
The Court anticipates that
Defendants will contend Dr. Pavin’s declaration is inadequate because
Defendants and Dr. Chan never represented that Dr. Chan was board-certified,
and, by contrast, Dr. Chan’s website profile disclosed that she was only a
BVSc.  While it is true that Plaintiff
fails to cite any evidence showing an affirmative representation that Dr. Chan
was board-certified or that ACCESS solely employed board-certified vets, the
triable issue is whether calling Dr. Chan “Fellow” misled Plaintiff – and/or
would have misled an average customer – notwithstanding the BVSc
disclosure.  Viewing the evidence in
Plaintiff’s best light, which the Court is required to do, Plaintiff’s
supplemental declaration and Dr. Pavin’s declaration raise this triable
question.
 
Defendants cite Dr. Chan’s
transcript to demonstrate that she had a good-faith purpose for including
“Internal Medicine Fellow” on her email signature line.  (See Reply Leifer Decl., Ex. 6, pp. 14, 29.)  
 
The citation fails to change the
outcome.  There is no evidence that Dr.
Chan communicated her intention to customers. What she intended – silently – is
separate from what they understood.
 
Another declaration that
Defendants cite is the declaration of their expert, Dr. Stephen Ettinger.  He is a retired board-certified vet.  (See Ettinger Decl., ¶¶ 1, 5.)  He claims Ozzie’s treatment “met or exceeded
the standard [of] care for veterinarians providing medical care in
California.”  (Ettinger Decl., ¶ 13.)  The question, though, is whether Plaintiff
paid for services that she did not want due to reliance on a
misrepresentation.  To that point, Dr.
Ettinger opines that it was unreasonable for Plaintiff to assume that
Defendants’ vets were board-certified specialists.  (See id. at ¶ 32.)  
 
The Court disagrees.  Dr. Ettinger’s support for his opinion is the
AVMA’s American Board of Veterinary Specialties, which advises that “[a]
veterinarian should not be assumed to be board-certified in an AVMA-recognized
veterinary specialty unless he/she identifies that distinction.”  (Id. at Ex. 2, p. 9, emphasis added.)  Dr. Chan used “Fellow” on her email signature
line.  She discussed the decision with
Dr. Mills.  Dr. Pavin contends “Fellow”
connotes board-certification.  If these
assertions are correct, Dr. Chan and the San Fernando Valley hospital
effectively identified Dr. Chan as board-certified.  For these reasons, Dr. Ettinger’s declaration
strengthens the conclusion that triable issues exist.  
 
Plaintiff’s counsel’s
supplemental declaration: It is unnecessary to address counsel’s supplemental
declaration; however, as a matter of guidance, the Court offers the following
thoughts.
 
Exhibits A, B, H, I, and J are
pages from Defendants’ website, marketing materials, and survey results.  The Court finds the documents irrelevant
because they appear to postdate Ozzie’s death, and they do not represent that
all ACCESS vets were board-certified.
 
Exhibit C is Dr. Chan’s
deposition transcript.  Dr. Chan
testified that the decision to put “Internal Medicine Fellow” on her signature
line resulted from a discussion she had with Dr. Mills.  (See Supp. Pomerantz Decl., Ex. C, p. 29
[attaching Dr. Chan’s deposition transcript].) 
The “Fellow” theory is discussed above and creates triable issues.
 
Exhibit D is the deposition
transcript of Jillian Kassell.  Kassell
is a former ACCESS marketing executive. She testified that Defendants did some
marketing to primary vets, that she was instructed to not use the word
“specialist” in marketing materials if the doctor was not a specialist, and
that she understood the term “specialty offerings” to refer to specialists, yet
she “never once said that all of [Defendants’] doctors were specialists[.]”  (Supp. Pomerantz Decl., Ex. D, pp. 14-18,
23-24, 31-32, 42.)  Plaintiff fails to
show that the testimony pertains to any of the marketing materials that
Plaintiff’s primary vet and/or Plaintiff read.
 
Exhibits E and F are examples of
“Internal Medicine Fellow” appearing on Dr. Chan’s email signature line on
Ozzie’s records.  To repeat, the “Fellow”
theory creates triable issues.
 
Exhibit G is Dr. Hadar-Schwartz’s
deposition transcript.  Dr.
Hadar-Schwartz is a board-certified vet. 
She treated Ozzie and oversaw Dr. Chan’s treatment of him.  Her testimony states: 
 
* A consultation with “someone
with specialty training” “would be billed differently” “versus a doctor with no
residency training.”  (Id. at Ex. G, p.
19.)
 
* The emergency department’s
practice is for “[t]he emergency doctor” to tell the owner if the pet is
“transferred to a specialist.”  (Id. at
Ex. G, p. 56.)
 
* A “specialist” is “either a
practice-limited or board-certified” vet. 
(Ibid.)
 
* Dr. Tan performed Ozzie’s
ultrasound.  (Id. at Ex. G, pp.
50-51.)   
 
The transcript is unhelpful.  The excerpts fail to show interactions
between Dr. Hadar-Schwartz and Plaintiff or that Dr. Hadar-Schwartz made a
misrepresentation to her.  There is no
indication that Plaintiff relied to her detriment on anything that Dr.
Hadar-Schwartz said or did.
 
Summary:
 
Plaintiff’s evidence raises
triable issues of fact.  The Court denies
summary adjudication as to the San Fernando Valley hospital.
 
Summary Adjudication Re:
Dr. Mills
 
Defendants contend the motion
should be granted because Plaintiff had no relationship or transaction with Dr.
Mills.  (See, e.g., Supp. Reply, pp.
9-10.)
 
The Court agrees.  Although the “Fellow” statement arose from a
discussion between Dr. Chan and Dr. Mills, Dr. Chan is the one who made the
representation to Plaintiff.  There is no
evidence that Dr. Mills ever represented anything to her.  Plaintiff fails to show a basis for holding
him personally liable for what Dr. Chan said. 
Moreover, Plaintiff fails to present any admissible alter-ego evidence,
and her supplemental opposition is silent on the issue of Dr. Mills’s
liability.  Summary adjudication is granted.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


