  Case Number:  24AHCV00025    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 10/25/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 24AHCV00025
Trial Date: 06/09/2025
Case Name: NIKO VEGA, an individual v. GENERAL MOTORS LLC; and DOES 1-50,
inclusive
COMPEL
FURTHER RESPONSES 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff,
Niko Vega, filed the instant action on 1/4/2024 against Defendant, General
Motors LLC (GM or Defendant) and Does 1-50 inclusive.
The Complaint alleges five causes of action for:
(1)Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (2) Violation of
Subdivision (b) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (3) Violation of Subdivision
(a)(3) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (4) Breach of Express Written Warranty
Civil Code Section 1791.2 Subdivision (a); Section 1794, and (5) Breach of the
Implied Warranty of Merchantability Civil Code Section 1791.1; Section 1794.
Plaintiff alleges that on or about June 3, 2023,
Plaintiff leased a 2023 Chevrolet Suburban manufactured and/or distributed by
Defendant. (Compl. ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff alleges that during the warranty period, the
subject vehicle contained or developed defects, including, but not limited to
the following:
a. Defective air conditioning system; 
b. Defective interior system; 
c. Defective steering system; and 
d. Any additional complaints made by
Plaintiff, whether or not they are contained in the records or on any repair
orders. 
(Compl. ¶ 12.)
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiff,
Niko Vega, moves for an order to strike Defendant’s meritless objections and
compel further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One Nos. 7, 10, 16, 18-21, 36, and 38.
This
motion is made pursuant to CCP § 2031.310, on the grounds that Defendant has
failed to provide adequate responses to Plaintiff’s Requests, which seek
documents directly relevant to their claims under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act.
This
motion is based upon this Notice, the following memorandum of points and
authorities, the separate statement, and the declaration of Mark W. Gibson, the
pleadings and papers on file herein, and upon any other matters that may be
presented to the Court at the hearing.


Preliminary
Procedural Analysis
Moving
Party: Plaintiff, Niko Vega
Responding
Party: Defendant, General Motors LLC (GM or Defendant)
Proof
of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
Moving
Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement; Mark W. Gibson Decl.; Proposed Order
Opposition
Papers: Opposition; Separate Statement; Ryan Kay Declaration;
Reply
Papers: Reply; Evidentiary Objections to Ryan Kay Declaration

PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
45-Day Requirement
Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to
the demand. (CCP § 2031.310(c).) 
Here, Plaintiff’s motion appears to be
untimely. The Court will hear argument. 
Plaintiff’s Request for Production, Set One, was
served on May 1, 2024. (Gibson Decl. ¶ 14.) On May 30, 2024, Defendant served
its unverified responses to RFP, Set One. (Gibson Decl. ¶ 15.) On June 8, 2024,
Defendant served its signed verifications. (Gibson Decl. ¶ 16.) This motion was
filed and served on September 9, 2024, which is after 45 days of service of the
verified responses. 
However, the Gibson declaration states in relevant
part:
Attached hereto as Exhibit 7 is a true and
correct email chain in which the parties agreed to extend Plaintiff’s deadline
to file this Motion out to and including September 8, 2024, which is a Sunday,
making the deadline September 9, 2024.
(Gibson Decl. ¶ 22.)
Problematic with
Plaintiff stating that the deadline to file the motion would have been
September 9, 2024, the Court fails to see how that is the case.
The parties agreed
that the deadline would be September 8, 2024. Plaintiff provides no legal
authority that a privately agreed upon deadline between the parties is
extended when the deadline falls on a weekend. Plaintiff should be prepared to
come forward with law that states that when the parties agree to a specific
deadline to file a motion by, that agreed upon date is extended if the agreed
upon deadline falls on a weekend.
Meet and Confer
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).)
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred. (See
Gibson Decl. ¶ 18, Ex. 5.)
LEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL FURTHER – REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION
Under
CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action..., if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section specifically provides that
“[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery
or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery “may be obtained of
the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable
matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition
and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible
thing, or land or other property.”
 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that:
“(1)   A statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete.
  (2)   A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
  (3)   An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  
 
(CCP
§ 2031.310(a).)
 
Under
CCP § 2031.310(b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”  
 
“In the more
specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who
asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the
request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney
work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
TENTATIVE RULINGS
RFP 7
The
Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual published by YOU and provided to YOUR
authorized repair facility(s), within the state of California, from 2022 to the
present. [This request will be understood to include production of any and all
versions of such manual as distributed to YOUR dealerships during the relevant
time frame],
Response to RFP 7
GM
objects to this Request on grounds the terms "published" and
"provided" are vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to this Request
on grounds it is overbroad and seeks documents that are irrelevant and not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is
not limited to the SUBJECT VEHICLE at issue in this action. GM also objects to
this Request on grounds it is burdensome and oppressive, and that compliance
would be unreasonably difficult and expensive considering the needs of the
case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in
the litigation. This is a simple, individual lemon law case with limited issues
and this request violates Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff
is entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely
unrelated and incommensurate to the scope and breadth of this Request. GM also
objects to this Request to the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and
trade secret information. GM further objects to this Request to the extent it
seeks information protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or
work-product doctrine. No documents will be produced.
Tentative Ruling RFP 7
The
Court will hear argument. 
Under CCP § 2031.310(b)(1), “The motion shall set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand.”  
“In the more specific context of a demand for
production of a tangible thing, the party who asks the trial court to compel
production must show “good cause” for the request—but unless there is a
legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product, that burden is
met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services
Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
The Court will hear argument because Defendant’s
objection as to overbroad could be valid. The instant request isn’t limited to
the Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual with respect to the same make, model,
and year of the subject vehicle. In fact, this request seems like it could
pertain to any type of vehicle within the time frame in the request.  The subject vehicle in this case is a 2023
Chevrolet Suburban, but this request pertains to the “ Warranty Policy and Procedure
Manual published by YOU and provided to YOUR authorized repair facility(s),
within the state of California, from 2022 to the present.”
RFP 20
All
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning failure rates of vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE as a result of ELECTRICAL DEFECT.
Response RFP 20
GM
objects to this Request on grounds the terms "concerning,"
"failure rates" and "ELECTRICAL DEFECT" are vague and
ambiguous. GM also objects to this Request on grounds it improperly assumes
that there are alleged defects with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE, or GM
VEHICLES, generally. GM also objects to this Request on grounds it is overbroad
and seeks documents that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited to the SUBJECT
VEHICLE at issue in this action. GM also objects to this Request on grounds it
is burdensome and oppressive, and that compliance would be unreasonably
difficult and expensive considering the needs of the case, the amount in
controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. This
is a simple, individual lemon law case with limited issues and this request
violates Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff is
entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely
unrelated and incommensurate to the scope and breadth of this Request. GM also
objects to this Request to the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and
trade secret information. GM further objects to this Request to the extent it
seeks information protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or
work-product doctrine. No documents will be produced.
Tentative Ruling RFP 20
The
Court will hear argument. Defendant’s objection to “failure rates” being vague
and ambiguous could be valid. “Failure rates” does not appear to be a defined
term. 
RFP 36
All
DOCUMENTS which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to procedures used by YOU
for the handling of complaints by consumers regarding vehicles YOU manufactured
or distributed.

Response RFP 36
GM objects to this Request on grounds the terms "evidence, describe,
refer, or relate to," "handling," and "complaints" are
vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to this Request on grounds it is
overbroad, unduly burdensome, oppressive, and seeks documents that are
irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence as it is not limited to the SUBJECT VEHICLE at issue in this action.
This is a simple, individual lemon law case with limited issues and this
Request violates Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff is
entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely
unrelated and incommensurate to the scope and breadth of this request. GM also
objects to this Request to the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and
trade secret information in the form of GM's internal policies and procedures.
GM further objects to this Request to the extent it seeks information protected
by the attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine. No documents
will be produced.

Tentative Ruling RFP 36
The Court will hear argument. Defendant’s objections as to overbroad could
be valid. This request is not limited to the vehicles of the same make, model,
and year as the subject vehicle; this request is also not limited to a
specified time period.
RFP 38
All
DOCUMENTS issued by YOU or on YOUR behalf which evidence, describe, refer, or
relate to policies, procedures, and/or instructions since 2022 that YOUR
employees and agents should follow when evaluating a customer request for a
refund of the price paid for a vehicle or replacement of a new motor vehicle
manufactured or distributed by YOU.

Response RFP 38
GM objects to this Request on grounds the term "evidence, describe,
refer, or relate to" is vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to this
Request on grounds it is overbroad, unduly burdensome, oppressive, not
reasonably limited in geographic scope, and seeks documents that are irrelevant
and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence
as it is not limited to the SUBJECT VEHICLE at issue in this action. GM also
objects to this Request on grounds that compliance would be unreasonably
difficult and expensive considering the needs of the case, the amount in
controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. This
is a simple, individual lemon law case with limited issues and this Request
violates Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff is
entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely
unrelated and incommensurate to the scope and breadth of this request. GM also
objects to this Request to the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and
trade secret information in the form of GM's internal policies and procedures.
GM further objects to this Request to the extent it seeks information protected
by the attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine. No documents
will be produced.
Tentative Ruling RFP 38
The
Court will hear argument. This request is not limited to any specific type of
vehicle. Defendant’s objection as to overbroad could be valid.
Tentative Ruling RFPs 10, 16, 18, 19, and
21 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to RFPs, Set One, numbers 10, 16, 18, 19,
and 21 are GRANTED. Defendant’s objections are overruled and stricken. Defendant’s
objections were either boilerplate or not compliant with CCP § 2031.240(b)-(c).
Defendant is ordered to provide code compliant, further responses, without
objection to RFPs 10, 16, 18, 19, and 21 within 10 calendar days of the Court’s
order.
Sanctions
Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §2031.310(h).)
“The court may award
sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to
compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1348(a).) 
Here, neither party requested sanctions.