 Case Number:  23TRCV01911    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
VICTOR
  O’MARA, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01911




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
SCOTT
  PACE, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 11,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      (1), (2) Cross-defendant Jonathan
Nguyen; (3) cross-defendants Victor O’Mara and Best Equipment Services, LLC
Responding
Party:                  Cross-complainant Larry Rick Torgerson, Jr.
(1)  
Demurrer to SACC
(2)  
Motion to Strike
(3)  
Demurrer to SACC
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The demurrers to the SACC are
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first, third, fourth, and fifth
causes of action.
The demurrers to the second cause
of action are SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
BACKGROUND
            On June 13, 2023, plaintiffs Victor
O’Mara, JN Builds, Inc. and Jonathan Nguyen filed a complaint against Scott
Pace, Christian Surrett, S&P Fabrication/Services, The Steel Erection
Company, and Larry Rick Torgerson, Jr. for (1) breach of written contract, (2)
breach of fiduciary duty, (3) conversion, (4) expulsion of LLC member, (5)
intentional interference with contractual relationships, (6) intentional
interference with prospective economic relations, (7) negligent interference
with prospective economic relations, and (8) violation of Bus. and Prof. Code §17200,
et seq.
            On June 15, 2023, plaintiffs filed a
FAC.
            On September 15, 2023, the parties
stipulated and the Court ordered that plaintiff file a SAC.
            On October 3, 2023, plaintiffs filed
a SAC, adding plaintiff Best Equipment Services, LLC and defendant Benchmark
Services LLC.
            On December 13, 2023, defendant
Larry Rick Torgerson, Jr. filed a cross-complaint against Victor O’Mara,
Jonathan Nguyen, JN Builds, Inc., and Best Equipment Services, LLC for (1)
breach of contract, (2) intentional misrepresentation – fraud, (3) intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage, (4) breach of fiduciary duty,
(5) breach of fiduciary duty, and (6) professional negligence.
            On December 26, 2023,
cross-complainant Torgerson filed a FACC.
            On June 14, 2024, the court
sustained cross-defendants’ demurrers to the FACC with leave to amend as to the
first, second, third, fifth, and sixth causes of action.
            On July 24, 2024, Torgerson filed a
SACC for (1) breach of contract, (2) intentional misrepresentation, (3) breach
of fiduciary duty, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, and (5) professional
negligence. 
            On September 3, 2024, Christian
Surrett, Scott Pace, S&P Fabrication/Services, and The Steel Erection
Company filed a cross-complaint against Torgerson for contribution and
equitable indemnity.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrers
Cross-defendant Jonathan Nguyen
demurs to the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action in the
SACC on the ground that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action. 
Cross-defendants Victor O’Mara and
Best Equipment Services, LLC demur to the first, second, and third causes of
action on the ground that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action.
The SACC alleges that in 2020,
cross-complainant Torgerson had started a profitable fuel business (“fuel
business”) for boats under his business Best Equipment Services, LLC.  SACC, ¶8. 
At about the same time period, Torgerson fully intended and was in the
planning stages to start back up his crane business (“crane business”).  He had been in the crane business for about
twenty years and had an extensive book of business and clients, which he valued
as a substantial asset and kept confidential to him for his use only.  Id., ¶9. 
Cross-defendants O’Mara and Nguyen approached Torgerson regarding
partnering up with him in his crane business and fuel business.  Id., ¶10. 
At the time, Torgerson owned a 100% interest in cross-defendant Best
Equipment, which was actively operating a profitable startup fuel business and
contemplating to start the crane business back up.  Id., ¶11. 

The SACC also alleges that in inducing
Torgerson to allow them to receive a stake in Best, O’Mara and Nguyen made the
following representations to Torgerson during the first few months of 2020
before an agreement for partnership was reached in one conversation in person
at Nick Matthew’s house: 
cross-defendants would pay Torgerson a starting salary of $10,000 a
month plus benefits; cross-defendants would collectively inject approximately
$2 million in their own cash to advance the fuel business and crane business;
cross-defendants would finance acquiring cranes and other equipment necessary
to run Best’s crane business; cross-defendants would pay all of the business
operating expenses, including payroll, rent, and other expenses until Best
became cash flow positive; Torgerson did not need an attorney and could rely on
cross-defendant Nguyen for all legal advice, representations, and protection;
Nguyen would handle all of the legal affairs as well as performing other
administrative tasks for Best; cross-defendants would protect and honor
Torgerson’s trade secret and would never divulge it to other parties; and
cross-defendants would not “poach” any of Torgerson’s employees.  In return for the above consideration,
cross-defendants would receive 80% ownership of Best and have controlling
interest and would act as fiduciary to Torgerson and protect Torgerson’s
minority rights and would discharge such fiduciary duties in a competent
manner, placing Torgerson’s interest above others, since it was Torgerson who
was relying on their representations and altering his life, business plan, and
giving full control to cross-defendants for all decision making, and disclosing
his trade secrets and books, and agreeing that cross-defendants maintain and
control the bank accounts relating to Best’s business.  Cross-defendants’ bank accounts were at Chase
and Boston Private Bank. 
Cross-defendants further represented that the above representations
would be a part of their agreement, which was embodied in the operating
agreement for Best.  Prior to and shortly
after signing the modified operating agreement, cross-defendants assured that
they were excited to live up and perform their representations.  Id., ¶12. 
The SACC further alleges that
Nguyen assured Torgerson within a few days prior to sending the operating
agreement to Torgerson that all the above representations are accurate and
Nguyen, in drafting the operating agreement, had Torgerson’s interest above all
and assured Torgerson he did not need to worry about reading it and that he can
just sign it.  After Torgerson signed the
operating agreement, within a few weeks he met up with Nguyen at Level 23 where
Torgerson shared a concern that all the representations above were not
specifically embodied in the operating agreement.  Nguyen again reassured Torgerson in that as
Torgerson’s attorney, he would protect him and make sure all the promises were
delivered and that it was not needed to include everything in writing into the
operating agreement.  Torgerson indicated
that he had been ripped off before, and Nguyen reassured him that as his
attorney he would never let that happen again. 
Id., ¶12.
The SACC further alleges that the
representations identified above were false, and cross-defendants knew they
were false at the time they made them.  Id.,
¶13.  Shortly thereafter,
cross-defendants showed their true face as their conduct as different and
summarized as follows (“bad acts”): 
cross-defendants did not inject up to $2 million of their own liquid
funds and borrowed such funds at an interest rate from lenders, and required
Best to pay for the finance cost on a monthly basis, severely straining Best’s
ability to survive and to grow. 
Cross-defendants took all of Torgerson’s attention from his fuel
business and did not provide the means to promote the fuel business and killed
that business.  Cross-defendants usurped
full control over Best by way of having 80% equity and subsequently
unilaterally stopped funding the expenses. 
Cross-defendants then abruptly took possession of Best’s equipment and
sold them despite the fact that Best had paid off part of the debt and was
entitled to equity.  Cross-defendants
took one of Best’s cranes and sold it to a competitor, provided the competitor
with the trade secrets, and poached an employee.  Cross-defendants separated themselves from
Torgerson and told him that the partnership was over and terminated and that
the parties could each go their own way, with no liability to one another.  Torgerson created his own entity Benchmark
Services dba Golden State Crane to continue operating.  Id., ¶14.
 
First cause of action for breach of
contract
The SACC alleges that the parties
entered into an operating agreement. 
SACC, ¶17.  Cross-complainant
performed under the contract.  Id., ¶18.  Cross-defendants failed to perform under the
contract.  Id., ¶19.
Cross-defendant Nguyen contends
that paragraph 12 refers to representations that were made prior to the
execution of the operating agreement but that the operating agreement is an
integrated agreement.  See Operating
Agreement, at 13.1.  Nguyen argues that
if the representations are not included in the operating agreement, then the
failure by Nguyen regarding any representation not incorporated into the
operating agreement is irrelevant and cannot be the basis for breach of
contract.
Cross-defendants O’Mara and Best
contend that the operating agreement is an integrated agreement, and the
representations alleged in paragraph 12 occurred prior to the execution of the
agreement.
In opposition, cross-complainant
argues that the integration clause is not dispositive because the
misrepresentations alleged are part of the operating agreement, and the
operating agreement is silent with respect to the material terms of the
contract.  Cross-complainant argues that
the parol evidence rule allows a party to introduce evidence through oral
testimony so long as it does not squarely contradict a specific provision in
the agreement.  Cross-complainant also
asserts that he is asserting a tortious breach of contract but does not show
how he has met the elements.
In reply, Nguyen asserts that
Torgerson does not deny that the operating agreement contains an integration
clause.  Nguyen also reiterates his
argument that the SACC does not allege how the operating agreement was breached,
i.e., how cross-defendants failed to perform under the contract.  Even if the operating agreement has terms and
conditions not stated in the agreement, Nguyen contends, that does not address
the failure to explain how Nguyen did anything to breach the unstated terms and
conditions.
The Court rules as follows:  “Terms set forth in a writing intended by the
parties as a final expression of their agreement with respect to the terms included
therein may not be contradicted by evidence of a prior agreement or of a
contemporaneous oral agreement.”  Civil Code
§1856(a).  “The parol evidence rule
generally prohibits the introduction of any extrinsic evidence, whether oral or
written, to vary, alter or add to the terms of an integrated written
instrument.”  Alling v. Universal
Manufacturing Corp. (1992) 5 Cal. App. 4th 1412, 1433.  “[W]here a writing is intended by the parties
as a final expression of their agreement with respect to particular terms, it
is integrated as to those terms and they may not be contradicted by parol evidence.”  Haggard v. Kimberly Quality Care, Inc.
(1995) 39 Cal. App. 4th 508, 520 (citation omitted).
“The determination of whether the
agreement in question is an ‘integration’—that is, whether it was intended by
the parties as a final, complete and exclusive statement of their agreement
with respect to the terms included in the agreement—is a question of law to be
determined by the court.”  Alling,
supra, at 1434 (citation omitted).  “In
considering whether a writing is integrated, the court must consider the
writing itself, including whether the written agreement appears to be complete
on its face; whether the agreement contains an integration clause; whether the
alleged parol understanding on the subject matter at issue might naturally be
made as a separate agreement; and the circumstances at the time of the
writing.”  Kanno v. Marwit Capital
Partners II, L.P. (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 987, 1001.  
The operating agreement, attached
as Exh. A to the TAC, states, in part:
“This Agreement and the Certificate
constitute the complete and exclusive statement of agreement among the Members
with respect to the subject matter herein and therein and replace and supersede
in their entirety all prior written and oral agreements or statements by and
among the Members or any of them with respect to the subject matter herein and
therein.  No representation, statement,
condition, or warranty not contained in this Agreement or the Certificate will
be binding on the Members or have any force or effect whatsoever. To the extent
that any provision of the Certificate conflict with an provision of this
Agreement, the Certificate shall control.”
The Court finds that as a matter of
law, the cause of action for breach of contract is barred by the integration
clause in the operating agreement.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
            
Second cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation
The elements of fraud are:  (1) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent
to defraud or induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) damages.  See Civil Code §1709.  A fraud claim must be pled with specificity.  Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue
Cross of California (2016) 245 Cal. App. 4th 821, 837.  “The particularity requirement demands that a
plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representations were tendered.”  Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 1462, 1469.
The SACC alleges that the
representations by cross-defendants explained above were false as demonstrated
through cross-defendants’ bad acts and subsequent conduct and statements.  SACC, ¶22. 
Cross-defendants knew the representations were false when made.  Id., ¶23. 
Cross-defendants intended to induce reliance on the basis of their
representations, and cross-complainant did rely on the representations to his
detriment.  Id., ¶24.
Cross-defendants argue that the
SACC fails to allege justifiable reliance or resulting damage.
In opposition, cross-complainant
argues that the allegations are sufficient and they have been particularly
pled.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to meet the elements as cross-complaint has not
sufficiently alleged justifiable reliance or resulting damage.  
The demurrers are SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Third cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty
(against O’Mara and Nguyen)
“To establish a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must demonstrate the existence of a
fiduciary relationship, breach of that duty and damages.”  Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal. App.
4th 170, 182.  “A fiduciary relationship
is any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the
parties is in duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of
the other party.  Such a relation
ordinarily arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity
of another, and in such a relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed,
if he voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no
advantage from his acts relating to the interest of the other party without the
latter's knowledge or consent . . . .”  Wolf
v. Superior Court (2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th 625, 29-30 (citation omitted)
(internal quotations omitted).
The SACC allege that a fiduciary
relationship existed where cross-defendants took control of Best, where
Torgerson ended up a minority owner, made false representations to Torgerson
that they would put Torgerson’s interest above their interest in order to
control Best, and exercised full control over Best and practically over so many
aspects of Torgerson’s life.  SACC, ¶26.  Cross-defendants acted in a manner that
breached their duties to Torgerson.  Id.,
¶27.
Cross-defendants argue that the
claim fails because nothing that Torgerson alleges as “bad acts” constitutes a
breach of any of cross-defendants’ duties as a manager of a manager-managed
LLC, including breach of the duty of loyalty or a violation of the business
judgment rule, citing to Corporations Code §17704.9.   Further, Nguyen argues, even if some of the
“bad acts” could be deemed actionable, Torgerson as a member does not have
standing to pursue derivative claims against the managers.  “Because a corporation exists as a separate
legal entity, the shareholders have no direct cause of action or right of
recovery against those who have harmed it.” 
Grosset v. Wenaas (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1100, 1108.
In opposition, cross-complainant
argues that he has been injured individually. 

In reply, Nguyen reiterates that
the SACC fails to allege any breach of Nguyen’s statutory duties as an LLC
member/manager or any separate harm to Torgerson.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient.  As argued
by cross-defendants, as alleged, the “bad acts” do not constitute a breach of
Nguyen or O’Mara’s statutory duties as managers of a manager-managed LLC.  Further, cross-complainant has not alleged a
separate harm.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
            
Fourth cause of action for breach
of fiduciary duty
(against Nguyen)
The SACC alleges that a fiduciary
relationship existed where Nguyen acted as the attorney for Torgerson and made
representations set forth above.  SACC, ¶30.  Based on Nguyen representations, Torgerson
relied on him being his attorney, and relinquished control over his business,
business plans, trade secrets, books, and records.  Id., ¶31. 
Based on Nguyen representation that the parties were separated and were
free to go their own way, Torgerson did not take any action against
cross-defendants for their misrepresentations and bad acts and went on his way
to build his life and his crane business. 
Nguyen, as Torgerson’s attorney, made these representations and gave him
legal advice that no further steps were necessary to separate, breached his
fiduciary duty.  Now that this action is
brought, Torgerson is realizing for the first time that Nguyen’s
representations were all false at the time they were made.  Id., ¶32. 

Cross-defendant Nguyen argues that the
SACC fails to allege ultimate facts. 
Nguyen also argues that the claim is time-barred by the one-year statute
of limitations as it alleges that Nguyen provided legal services to Torgerson
in 2020 and Torgerson failed to plead the discovery rule adequately as the
allegations are conclusory as to when Torgerson realized that Nguyen’s
representations were false.
In the opposition,
cross-complainant does not address the statute of limitations.
The Court finds that the claim
appears to be barred by the one-year statute of limitations.  “An action against an attorney for a wrongful
act or omission, other than for actual fraud, arising in the performance of
professional services shall be commenced within one year after the plaintiff
discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered,
the facts constituting the wrongful act or omission, or four years from the
date of the wrongful act or omission, whichever occurs first.”  CCP § 340.6(a).  “A plaintiff seeking to utilize the discovery
rule must plead facts to show his or her inability to have discovered the
necessary information earlier despite reasonable diligence.”  Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc.
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808. 
Cross-complainant has not alleged delayed discovery.  In the opposition, cross-complainant does not
address and has not shown how he can allege sufficiently.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Fifth cause of action for
professional negligence
“The elements of a cause of action
in tort for professional negligence are (1) the duty of the professional to use
such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual
loss or damage resulting from the professional’s negligence.”  Budd v. Nixen (1971) 6 Cal.3d 195,
200.  An attorney’s duty to his or her
client depends not only on the existence of the attorney-client relationship
but also on the scope of the representation. 
Nichols v. Keller (1993) 15 Cal. App. 4th 1672, 1684. 
The SACC alleges that a fiduciary
relationship existed where Nguyen acted as the attorney for Torgerson and
discharged these duties in a negligent manner to Torgerson’s harm and
detriment.  SACC, ¶35.  Based on Nguyen representations, Torgerson
relied on him being his attorney and relinquished control over his business,
business plans, trade secrets, books, and records.  Id., ¶36. 
Based on Nguyen representation that the parties were separated and were
free to go their own way, Torgerson did not take any action against
cross-defendants for their misrepresentations and bad acts and went on his way
to build his life and his crane business. 
Nguyen, as Torgerson’s attorney, made these representations and gave him
legal advice that no further steps were necessary to separate, breached his
fiduciary duty.  Now that this action is
brought, Torgerson is realizing for the first time that Nguyen’s
representations were all false at the time they were made.  Id., ¶38. 

Cross-defendant Nguyen argues that
the claim is time-barred by the one-year statute of limitations as it alleges
that Nguyen provided legal services to Torgerson in 2020.  Nguyen also argues that the SACC pleads “mere
legal conclusions” and not ultimate facts and that the allegations are
insufficient as to the existence of an attorney-client relationship.
In opposition, cross-complainant
argues that he has specifically alleged an attorney-client relationship from
the beginning of the business relationship relating to the crane business.  He does not address the statute of
limitations.
The Court finds that the cause of
action appears to be barred by the one-year statute of limitations.  See CCP §340.6, and under the fourth cause of
action.  Cross-complainant has not
sufficiently alleged delayed discovery. 
In the opposition, cross-complainant does not address and has not shown
how he can allege sufficiently.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Motion to Strike
Cross-defendant Nguyen requests
that the Court strike “punitive damages against” Nguyen for “willfully
providing false advice” at page 12, line 3 (under fifth cause of action for
professional negligence).
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in
College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances
that are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).
A claim for punitive damages may
not be based on conclusory allegations of oppression, fraud or malice, but
instead must be based on factual allegations which support such a
conclusion.  See Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-42 (Court of Appeal
issued a peremptory writ directing trial court to issue order striking
plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages because “[t]he sole basis for seeking
punitive damages are . . . conclusory allegations” which were “devoid of any
factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice”).
Cross-defendant Nguyen argues that
the allegations are insufficient to state a claim for punitive damages as
Nguyen only alleges negligence.  
Cross-complainant did not file an
opposition to the motion to strike.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  “Inasmuch as Civil Code section 3294 requires
as a prerequisite to the recovery of punitive damages that the defendant ‘has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,’ the cases have uniformly
recognized that proof of negligence, even gross negligence, or recklessness is
insufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.”  Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal. App. 3d 82, 87 (citations omitted).
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  The Court
strikes “punitive damages against Mr. Nguyen for willfully providing false
advice.”
 
ORDER
The demurrers to the SACC are SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first, third, fourth, and fifth causes of
action.  The demurrers to the second
cause of action are SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Cross-defendants are ordered to
give notice of ruling.