  Case Number:  23TRCV00302    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  B Leon v. Alcazar Case No. 23TRCV00302
 
This action
arises from the death of Plaintiff due to an automobile incident.  Before the court is the Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Compel Defendant to Produce the Unredacted Police Report and Further Documents
which were provided to Defendant’s criminal defense attorney as part of the
criminal case discovery.  Among other
things, Defendant is being prosecuted by the District Attorney for that
accident.
In the course
of these proceedings Plaintiff has served a Document Request number 11 seeking
a copy of the police report and other materials provided to defendant's
criminal counsel as part of the discovery in the criminal matter.
Criminal
defense counsel has possession of the unredacted police report as he was
supplied it because of his representation of Defendant.  He has provided his client’s civil defense
attorney a redacted copy to be provided to Plaintiff.  Deleted are witness and victim names.  In the IDC Defendant suggested the Penal Code
section 964 prevents Defendant from providing that report.
Plaintiff contends that the material is
discoverable in this civil action.  Defendant
disagrees and contents that it may not be provided to Plaintiff in this civil
action as a result of Penal Code § 964.  That
statutes states in its entirety:
“(a) In each county, the district attorney
and the courts, in consultation with any local law enforcement agencies that
may desire to provide information or other assistance, shall establish a
mutually agreeable procedure to protect confidential personal information
regarding any witness or victim contained in a police report, arrest
report, or investigative report if one of these reports is submitted to a
court by a prosecutor in support of a criminal complaint, indictment, or
information, or by a prosecutor or law enforcement officer in support of a
search warrant or an arrest warrant.
(b) For purposes of this section,
“confidential personal information” includes, but is not limited to, an
address, telephone number, driver's license or California Identification Card
number, social security number, date of birth, place of employment, employee
identification number, mother's maiden name, demand deposit account number,
savings or checking account number, or credit card number.
(c)(1) This section may not be construed to
impair or affect the provisions of Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 1054) of
Title 6 of Part 2.
(2) This section may not be construed to
impair or affect procedures regarding informant disclosure provided by Sections
1040 to 1042, inclusive, of the Evidence Code, or as altering procedures
regarding sealed search warrant affidavits as provided by People v. Hobbs
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 948.
(3) This section shall not be construed to
impair or affect a criminal defense counsel's access to unredacted reports
otherwise authorized by law, or the submission of documents in support of a
civil complaint.
(4) This section applies as an exception to
California Rule of Court 2.550, as provided by paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a) of that rule.”
On its face, the statute does not
prohibit the disclosure of the police report in this civil action.  On the contrary, the statute seeks to have
the indicated parties and agencies establish procedures to protect privacy and
by implication, limit that which would be generally available public
information by virtue of it being filed in the public record.
Penal Code § 964 does not prohibit
disclosures such as that involved in this civil action that arose out of the
same incident that is the subject of the criminal proceeding.
This Court is empowered to enter appropriate
protective orders to safeguard the legitimate interests of victims (Plaintiff)
and third-party witnesses.  On its face,
the statute does not prohibit criminal defense counsel from complying with the
obligation imposed on his client to fulfill his civil discovery obligations.
Unfortunately, while criminal defense
counsel has indicated that he shall attend the hearing, defense has failed to
provide to the Court a proper written opposition that contains an explanation
of the information that counsel may bring to the attention of the Court.
Defendant has failed to explain how
the disclosure to Plaintiff of the police report will compromise any legitimate
interest.  While defense claims that the disclosure
to Plaintiff might adversely impact the criminal case, no facts are provided to
support that assertion.
Finally, defendant points to the
September 19, 2023 Declaration of Officer Anthony Barlin where he notes:
“Disclosure of any parts of the investigation
would severely and negatively impact the success of the investigation because such
disclosure would reveal to the suspect the amount and nature of evidence obtained
thus far, the identity of witnesses, and the methodologies used by the
Hawthorne Police Department when conducting criminal investigations.”  (Declaration ¶ 7, pg. 2:6-10.)
Whatever the merits of that assertion
in September and October 2023, those concerns are no longer valid.  Defendant has been charged and
arraigned.  Discovery, including the
police report, has been provided to criminal defense counsel.
 
Defendant also raises Penal Code § 1054.2
in support of his claim that the police report may not be provided to
Plaintiff.  That statute states:
“(a)(1) Except as provided in
paragraph (2), no attorney shall disclose or permit to be disclosed
to a defendant, members of the defendant's family, or anyone else,
the personal identifying information of a victim or witness whose name
is disclosed to the attorney pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 1054.1, other
than the name of the victim or witness, unless specifically permitted to do
so by the court after a hearing and a showing of good cause.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), an
attorney may disclose or permit to be disclosed the personal identifying
information of a victim or witness to persons employed by the attorney or
to persons appointed by the court to assist in the preparation of a defendant's
case if that disclosure is required for that preparation. Persons provided this
information by an attorney shall be informed by the attorney that further
dissemination of the information, except as provided by this section, is
prohibited.
(b) If the defendant is acting as their
own attorney, the court shall endeavor to protect the personal identifying
information of a victim or witness by providing for contact only through a
private investigator licensed by the Department of Consumer Affairs and
appointed by the court or by imposing other reasonable restrictions, absent a
showing of good cause as determined by the court.
(c) For the purposes of this section,
personal identifying information has the same definition as in Section 530.55,
except that it does not include name, place of employment, or an equivalent
form of identification.”
While this statute evidences a desire
to protect victims and witnesses, it is clearly not a blanket prohibition upon
disclosing such information.  Indeed, it recognizes
that there are legitimate reasons to allow such disclosure.  For instance, a showing of good cause
justifies the disclosure.  And it may be
disclosed to persons assisting in the investigation and preparation of the
case.
 
Plaintiff also seeks the “other
material” that Plaintiff claims that criminal defense counsel received.  Defendant has not put forth any argument
addressing those materials.
 
The Court finds that Defendant is not
precluded by statute from disclosing to Plaintiff the unredacted police report
and that good cause exists for the unredacted police report and any other
discovery materials provided to criminal defense counsel for Defendant to be
produced in this case.  Therefore
Defendant is ordered to produce to Plaintiff’s counsel a complete, unredacted
copy of the police report and the other materials provided to criminal defense
counsel.