 Case Number:  23STCV10014    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  26 The
default judgment submitted on January 26, 2024 is DENIED for the following
reasons:
 
Plaintiff
has not properly requested an entry of default judgment on a CIV-100 form
requesting Court judgment as required under the Rules of Court, Rule 3.1800.
 
 
Plaintiff
has failed to submit sufficient evidence to support the amount of wrongful
termination post-termination loss of earnings ($42,480) that Plaintiff seeks.  From the evidence presented, it is unclear how
Plaintiff arrived at this figure.  If
Plaintiff has any additional evidence pertaining as to the post-termination
loss of earnings claim that Plaintiff seeks, Plaintiff may submit it together
with a new default judgment package.
 
Plaintiff’s
claim for statutory wait time damages should include the calculations used to
reach such an amount.  From the evidence
presented, it is unclear how Plaintiff arrived at the current figure.  
 
Plaintiff
has failed to submit sufficient evidence to support the amount of emotional
distress damages ($150,000) that Plaintiff seeks. If Plaintiff has any
additional evidence pertaining to the amount of emotional distress damages that
Plaintiff seeks, Plaintiff may submit it together with a new default judgment
package.
 
 
Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees is not calculated in accordance with LASC Rule
3.214. Nor is Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees supported by a
declaration explaining why a greater amount should be awarded, including an
itemized statement of the services rendered or to be rendered. Plaintiff must
either: (1) submit a new request for default judgment (CIV-100) and new
proposed judgment (JUD-100) with an amount of attorney’s fees calculated in
accordance with LASC Rule 3.214 or (2) submit evidence and briefing justifying
a greater amount of attorney’s fees than the calculation pursuant to LASC Rule
3.214.
 
No
later than April 9, 2024, Plaintiff is to submit a new default judgment package
correcting these defects.  Failure to do
so may result in the imposition of sanctions, including monetary sanctions
and/or dismissal. The OSC re entry of default judgment is continued to April 18,
2024 at 8:30 am.
 
Court
Clerk to give notice.