 Case Number:  23SMCV03173    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  I This is the second continuation of plaintiff’s request for
entry of judgment.  The parties had
reached a settlement agreement whereby defendant was to pay certain sums at
certain times.  If defendant failed to
make the payment, plaintiff could give notice and, if the failure was not
timely cured, plaintiff could seek entry of judgment.  At issue is a payment defendant claims to
have made for $50,000.  According to
plaintiff, when plaintiff attempted to cash the check the bank refused and
advised plaintiff to contact defendant. 
Plaintiff states that it still does not have the $50,000.  Plaintiff also asserts that after the check
was tendered to plaintiff, defendant called and asked that the check not be
cashed for a while because there were insufficient funds in the account.  (Plaintiff tried to deposit the check
anyway.)  At the prior hearings,
defendant stated that in fact the check had cleared and the $50,000 had been
taken from its account.  Indeed, at the
last hearing, defense counsel said that his client was at the bank and that the
bank confirmed that the check had cleared. 
Plaintiff continues to maintain that it has not received the money.
 
The court told defendant that by this hearing defendant
needed to have evidence that the check had cleared.  Not just a statement made through counsel
that defendant had spoken to someone at the bank.  This is a bank, after all.  There are records of what happened to the
money.  The court simply does not find it
credible that defendant’s bank took the money and is just keeping it for it
self or that plaintiff’s bank took the money but won’t put it in plaintiff’s
account.  If defendant can show that in
fact the money left his account (timely) and, through no fault of his it just
never made it to plaintiff’s bank, the court would be inclined to deny the
motion, although if defendant’s bank elected to just keep the money for itself,
the court will discuss whether that is plaintiff’s problem or defendant’s
problem.  
 
On Friday, defendant submitted a declaration stating his
understanding of what happened in part based on personal knowledge and in part
based on his conversation with his bank. 
Defendant confirmed that he wrote two checks earlier this month: one for
$100,000 and one for $50,000 (the one at issue).  Defendant confirms that after writing and
delivering the checks, he called plaintiff and asked that the checks be held
due to defendant’s concern that there were insufficient funds.  Plaintiff refused to do so and cashed the
checks.  Defendant called the bank and
directed that the bank stop payment on both checks.  However, according to defendant, the call to
the bank came too late in a sense.  The
money had already been taken from his bank account and had either been paid to
or was en route to plaintiff’s bank.  As
of March 8, 2024, both checks had “cleared” defendant’s bank.  Upon learning that the checks had cleared,
defendant states that he tried to reverse the stop payments.  He was successful as to the $100,000 check,
but not as to the $50,000 check. 
Accordingly, the $100,000 has made it into plaintiff’s account—and
plaintiff does not deny that fact.  But
the $50,000 never did.  Rather, it is
being returned to defendant’s bank and from there to defendant’s account.  Defendant states that he was told by the bank
that this process can take up to 20 days.
 
The court accepts defendant’s statement as true for the sake
of argument.  Of course, the portion of
the declaration based on personal knowledge is evidence; but the part based on
the bank’s procedures and what the bank did is hearsay.  Even so, the court will assume it is correct
for these purposes given that the bank will not sign a declaration (and it is
under no compulsion to do so).  The
problem is that defendant had a duty to pay plaintiff $150,000 by a date
certain.  He did not do so.  Rather, he paid the money but asked plaintiff
not to cash the checks for a while. 
Plaintiff, of course, was under no duty to delay cashing the checks—it
is not like they were paid in advance. 
Had defendant done nothing at that point, we would not be here.  The checks would have cleared and the
payments (as it turns out) would have been made because there was, apparently,
sufficient money in the account.  But
defendant took affirmative steps to breach the contract: he directed his bank
to stop payment on the checks.  He was
able to undo that direction as to one check, but not both.  So, the bottom line is that the reason
defendant is in default is because defendant put itself there deliberately by
stopping payment on one of the checks.
 
That is in fact a violation of the settlement agreement and
the court has no discretion under those circumstances but to grant the
application and issue the judgment.  The
court would urge plaintiff to re-think this problem.  Perhaps plaintiff could required defendant to
make a “security” payment in advance that will be credited against the final
payment due (like last month’s rent) so that plaintiff would bear no risk, or
at least less risk, going forward.  The
fact remains, though, that defendant had a duty to pay by a certain date.  When plaintiff refused to allow defendant to
delay, defendant took the affirmative step of issuing a stop payment and, at
least for one check, it worked.  The
application will be GRANTED, although the court is not thrilled about it. 
 
 