  Case Number:  23STCV10522    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Raphael Cohen’s Motions to:
(1) Compel Responses to Written Discovery, (2) Deem Admitted Truth of Facts and
Genuineness of Documents in Requests for Admission, and (3) Compel Deposition
Attendance and Production of Documents of Person Most Knowledgeable
(1)
Motion to Compel Discovery Responses
            Plaintiff Raphael Cohen moves to
compel defendant BMW of North America, LLC (BMW) to respond to form
interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for production.  
When
the responding party fails to timely respond to interrogatories or requests for
production, the requesting party may move for an order compelling
responses.  (CCP §§ 2030.290(b)
[interrogatories]; 2031.300(b) [request for production].)  Failing to timely respond waives any
objections.  (CCP §§ 2030.290(a);
2031.300(a).)  
            BMW ultimately served untimely
responses to these discovery requests.  (Dao
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, Exs. A & B.)  Doing so
does not deprive the court of jurisdiction to order responses without
objections.  (Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 407-409.)  BMW’s untimely responses make
numerous objections, including improper “general objections.”  BMW waived its objections.  The court will therefore order BMW to serve
responses without objections. 
(2)
Motion to Deem Matters Admitted
Plaintiff Raphael Cohen moves for an order
deeming admitted the matters specified in requests for admission to defendant BMW
of North America, LLC.
If a party fails to timely respond to
requests for admission, “[t]he requesting party may move for an order that the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.”  (CCP § 2033.280(b).)  “The court shall make this order, unless it
finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Id., subd. (c).)
BMW served a proposed response to the
requests for admission before this hearing. 
(Dao Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)  The
proposed response substantially complies with section 2033.220.  The court therefore cannot order the matters
deemed admitted.
Plaintiff
also moves for $2,846.75 in sanctions
against BMW and its counsel, Brian M. Horn, Georges A. Haddad, C. Brian Wagner,
and Vanessa Dao of Clark Hill LLP.  “It
is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction … on the party or
attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for
admission necessitated this motion.” 
(CCP § 2033.280(c).)  Unlike the
analogous provisions for other discovery motions, this subdivision makes no
exception for a responding party who acted with substantial justification.  (See, e.g., CCP § 2031.300(c).)  The court will therefore sanction BMW and its
counsel.  Plaintiff reasonably incurred
all expenses he claims.
(3)
Motion to Compel Deposition and Production of Documents
            Plaintiff Raphael Cohen moves to
compel the deposition of defendant BMW North America, LLC’s person(s) most
knowledgeable regarding 26 matters of examination and to compel production of
41 categories of documents requested in the notice of deposition.  One
may move to compel the deposition of a party and move for production of
requested documents when that party fails to appear at deposition or produce
the requested documents “without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410.”  (CCP § 2025.450(a).)  
            Plaintiff
served notice of deposition of defendant’s person most knowledgeable and
custodian of records on August 23, 2023. 
(Saeedian Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.)  BMW
did not respond and did not serve any objections.  (Id., ¶¶ 5, 9.)  BMW did not oppose this motion.  Plaintiff is entitled to the order he seeks.
            Plaintiff
again moves for $2,846.75 in sanctions against BMW and its counsel.  “If a motion” to compel deposition “is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction … in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP §
2025.450(g)(1).)  Unlike the analogous
provisions for other discovery motions, this subdivision does not provide for
sanctions against the party’s attorney. 
(See, e.g., CCP § 2031.300(c) [“the court shall impose a monetary
sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection”].)  The court therefore will not impose sanctions
on BMW’s counsel.  The court finds BMW
did not act with substantial justification. 
Sanctions are just under the circumstances.  
            Plaintiff
did not reasonably incur all $2,846.75 in expenses he claims.  That amount includes 1.5 hours of attorney
fees at $695 per hour for time anticipated “analyzing any opposition and
preparing a reply memoranda and preparing for and attending the hearing on this
matter.”  (Saeedian Decl., ¶ 12(c).)  BMW did not file an opposition.  Plaintiff did not file a reply.  The court will therefore reduce the sanctions
by 1 hour at $695 hourly.  The court will
impose $2,151.75 in sanctions against BMW. 

Disposition
            Plaintiff Raphael Cohen’s motion to
compel responses to written discovery is granted.  Defendant BMW of North America, LLC is ordered
to serve verified responses without objections to plaintiff’s form
interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for production within 60
days.  The parties are ordered to
meet and confer within 20 days regarding whether defendant may obtain relief
from waiver of its objections.
             Plaintiff Raphael Cohen’s motion for an order
deeming matters admitted is granted in part as to sanctions only.  Defendant BMW of North America, LLC and its
counsel, Clark Hill LLP, are ordered to pay plaintiff $2,846.75 in sanctions within 60 days.  Defendant and its counsel are jointly and
severally liable for the sanctions.   
            Plaintiff Raphael Cohen’s motion to
compel deposition and production of documents of defendant’s person(s) most
knowledgeable is granted. 
Defendant BMW of North America, LLC is ordered to produce for
deposition its person(s) most knowledgeable on all 26 matters of examination
and to produce the documents requested in all 41 categories within 60
days.  Defendant BMW of North America,
LLC is ordered to pay plaintiff
$2,151.75 in sanctions within 60 days. 

 