..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24STCP01394
Plaintiff's Name: Petitioner
Defendant's Name: None
People-Names: None
Company-Names: None
Places: California
Dates:
  - Hearing Date: July 8, 2024
  - Continued Hearing Date: October 7, 2024
Events: Name Change
Money: None
Intentions:
  - Petitioner must provide identification verified by a fingerprint for criminal history assessment
  - Court will continue petition to October 7, 2024, to enable Petitioner to provide required information
  - If Petitioner fails to provide required information, petition will be denied and dismissed without prejudice
Facts:
  - Petitioner has failed to provide identification tied to a fingerprint on file
  - Probation/the Court cannot run a criminal history assessment without such identification
Disputes: None
Acts:
  - Petitioner must provide one of the following forms of identification:
    1. California driver license number or California id number
    2. Driver license number or DMV-issued id number from another state
    3. Have fingerprints taken for a California Record Review Live Scan and results sent to the Court Clerk
Agreements: None
Laws: None
Case Citations: None
Statutes: None
Roles:
  - Name Change Clerk
  - Court Clerk
Significant Statements:
  - Petitioner must provide sufficient information to run a criminal history assessment prior to the next hearing date
  - If Petitioner fails to do so, the petition will be denied and dismissed without prejudice
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The Judge's tentative ruling states that the Petitioner has failed to provide any form of identification tied to a fingerprint on file, which is necessary for the Court to run a criminal history assessment. The Petitioner is required to provide one of three options: a California driver license number or California id number, a driver license number or DMV-issued id number from another state, or have fingerprints taken for a California Record Review Live Scan and results sent to the Court Clerk. The petition is continued to October 7, 2024, to enable the Petitioner to provide the required information. If the Petitioner fails to do so, the petition will be denied and dismissed without prejudice.
