  Case Number:  21STCV40161    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  9 The parties voluntarily participated in an informal discovery conference with the Court on this date.
At the conclusion of the IDC, the parties agreed to all of the following:
No later than July 29, 2024, Defendant will voluntarily produce:
(1) the different versions of arbitration agreements that putative class members executed during the class period as set forth in the operative complaint; 
(2) exemplars of each of the different versions of arbitration agreements redacting any personal identifying information (including employee names) but differentiating between different employees by number of some other unique designation;
(3) the number of putative class members who signed each of the different versions of arbitration agreements during the class period; and
(4) the number of putative class members who opted out of the arbitration agreements during the class period.
 
Plaintiff will examine the materials voluntarily produced to determine whether and to what extent Plaintiff may be willing to dismiss class allegations without prejudice.
 
The parties will then meet and confer regarding (1) Plaintiff's potential willingness to dismiss class allegations without prejudice; and (2) Defendant's responses to requests for admission and Plaintiff's concern that such responses are not code-compliant.
No later than August 8, 2024, the parties are to file a joint status report regarding their meet and confer efforts as to both Plaintiff's potential willingness to dismiss class allegations without prejudice and the parties' disputes over whether Defendant's responses to requests for admission are code-compliant.
 
The parties have a dispute whether the deadline for Plaintiff to move to compel further responses to Plaintiff's requests for admissions has lapsed and whether any such motion would therefore be untimely.
The Informal Discovery Conference is continued until August 15, 2024 at 2 pm.
Discovery shall be stayed until August 15, 2024.
Prior to finalizing the instant minute order, the Court posted the proposed language of this minute order on the Court's tentative ruling website, and all parties stipulated and agreed that the above accurately summarizes the parties' stipulations.
Plaintiff to give notice.