 Case Number:  24STCV20508    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  9 A tentative ruling
for the CMO is hereby distributed via Case Anywhere.  The parties are welcome to provide input and
propose modification(s) to any aspect of the CMO at the December 20, 2024
Initial Status Conference.  If all
parties submit on the tentative CMO prior to the commencement of the ISC, the
Court will adopt the tentative CMO, and the parties need not appear.
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
Majid
Abdulrauf vs Behrens and Associates
 
24STCV20508
 
                                           
[TENTATIVE] CASE MANAGEMENT
ORDER
 
 
            This action has been designated as
complex pursuant to CRC 3.400(a), and thus requires exceptional judicial
management. All provisions of this CMO are deemed necessary to carry out the
purposes of Rule 3.400(a), and to promote effective decision-making by the
Court. They are based upon individual consideration of this complex action, including
the Status Conference Reports previously filed by the parties.
 
 
1.                 
Defendant
states that Plaintiff has signed an arbitration agreement and has produced the
arbitration agreement to Plaintiff.
 
2.                 
The
Parties are not currently in agreement as to whether to proceed with private
mediation at this time and on what basis. 
The Parties should continue to meet and confer regarding their
willingness to participate in private mediation.  At a status conference concurrent with any
hearing on Defendant’s anticipated motion to compel arbitration, the Parties
should be prepared to address the Court regarding their willingness to
participate in private mediation
 
3.                 
The
Court hereby lifts the stay to permit Defendant to file and serve a Motion to
Compel Arbitration. Defendant must file and serve a Motion to Compel
Arbitration or a Responsive Pleading by no later than January 17, 2025.  Before filing any motion, the moving party must
contact the Court Staff in Department 9 to obtain a hearing date and a briefing
schedule.  The Court sets a Non-Appearance
Case Review Re: Filing and Serving of Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration for
January 24, 2025, 8:30 AM, Department 9. 

 
4.                 
Phased Discovery. Discovery
shall be phased.  At this time, the parties may
conduct discovery on the arbitration issue only.  Discovery will be phased with the stay lifted
once the answer is filed and served or, if applicable, after the Court rules on
the motion to compel arbitration or pleading challenge.  At that time, the
Court will permit class certification discovery only.  Informal discovery
is permitted.  Merits-based discovery
will be allowed after a successful class certification motion. If there is a
dispute concerning whether a given discovery request is arbitration based, or
certification or merits-based, the parties are to set up a telephonic
conference with the court pursuant to the instructions herein. 
 
5.                 
Class list discovery. 
The decision in In Re Insurance Installment Fee cases (2012) 211
Cal.App.4th 1395, 1426-1429, held that the notice procedure prescribed by the
trial court and followed by the defendant was necessary to protect privacy
rights under the California Constitution. 
The parties therefore shall use the procedure described in Belaire-West
Landscape v Superior Court (2008) 149 Cal.App.4th 554 to notify putative
class members, as described in the applicable paragraph of the currently
operative complaint, giving them the opportunity to opt out.  The parties must share the cost of the
procedure equally.
 
a.         Plaintiff
is to take the lead and prepare a proposed letter to be sent out by the
agreed-upon third party administrator. 
The parties must discuss and settle upon a final version.
 
b.         The
letter must be written using the administrator’s letterhead, not that of any
party.
 
c.         The
defense must turn over the contact information consisting of name, address,
phone number, and email address (if available) to the third-party
administrator.
 
d.         In the
event the putative class list is greater than 400 people, the administrator
must randomly select a sample of no more than 400.   The contact information for those persons
who did not opt out must be turned over to the plaintiff.
 
6.                 
Payroll Records Discovery. Responses to any
payroll record discovery requests must be uniquely numbered and redacted so
that putative class member’s identifying information, i.e., name, social
security numbers, etc. are not revealed. 
 
7.                 
Protective Order. 
Parties are alerted that model protective orders may be found at Los
Angeles Superior Court website at http://www.lacourt.org/division/civil/CI0043.aspx.  The parties are encouraged to use these model
orders as shown, or if modified, as a template for the modified order.  A redlined courtesy copy must be posted on
the e-service bulletin board and lodged with the court at the time of filing.
The parties must use the redlined version to identify any changes proposed to
the model order.
 
8.                 
E-service & E-filing.  Electronic service is not the same as
electronic filing.  The parties have
agreed, and the Court has signed an order authorizing Case Anywhere as the
e-service to be used in this case. 
Argument must not be posted on the bulletin board.  For information on electronic filing in the
Complex Courts, please refer to https://www.lacourt.org/division/efiling/efiling2.aspx and  http://www.lacourt.org/division/efiling/pdf/ComplexefilingFAQs.pdf.
 
9.                 
Class Certification Motion.    Class
Certification Motion filing and serving deadline is January 23, 2026. The
plaintiff is reminded that the plaintiff’s brief must contain a trial
plan.  The trial plan MUST be
filed as a separate brief.  As with all
other motions, Counsel must call the Court to obtain a hearing date and
briefing schedule PRIOR to filing and serving the motion for Class
Certification.  The Court sets a Non-Appearance
Case Review for January 30, 2026, 8:30 AM, Department 9.
 
10.             
Telephonic conferences.  The Court handles discovery motions
informally, using telephonic conferences and LA CourtConnect. Counsel must post
a message via their Electronic Service Provider to request any informal
discovery conference or other conference. The Court will either reply to the
message or issue a Minute Order setting the conference.  The telephonic conference will automatically
be taken off calendar if all relevant parties have not scheduled the telephonic
conference with LA CourtConnect.  Parties
must file and serve a 5-page joint brief two days before the conference. Since
these conferences are informal, no court reporter or audio recording is
permitted.
 
11.             
Potential Related Cases.  Counsel are ordered to file and serve a
Notice of Related Case in the instant case and in each of any potentially
related cases pursuant California Rule of court Rule 3.300, including any PAGA
case involving the same representative plaintiff.  This includes all of the other actions listed
in paragraph 7 of the Parties’ December 13, 2024 Joint Initial Status
Conference Report.  This is a continuing
obligation on both plaintiffs and defendants while this case is pending.
 
12.             
Settlement. 
File a Notice of Settlement on Judicial Council form CM-200, a mandatory
form. 
 
            a.         Consider using the form wage and hour
settlement agreements now available on the court’s website at https://www.lacourt.org/forms/all – “Civil Forms” section. 
With input and unanimous consensus from an Ad Hoc Wage and Hour
Committee, the court posted: (1) a form class action settlement
agreement, (2) a form class action/PAGA settlement
agreement, (3) and a form PAGA settlement agreement.  Using these
forms should cut down on attorney negotiation time and reduce the lag time
between a successful mediation and execution of a long form agreement.  Filing a motion that is based on a form
agreement and includes a redlined copy identifying modifications will also
expedite the court’s review process and help reduce the current backlog on
hearings. 
 
            b.         If settlement includes dismissal of
class action claims (such as a PAGA only settlement or  an individual settlement), then Plaintiff
must comply with CRC 3.769 and 3.770 in order to obtain dismissal of class
claims.  Do NOT use Judicial
Council Form Civ-110, Request for Dismissal.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to download the instant signed order from the Court’s website,
to give formal notice to all other parties, and to file proof of service of
such within five (5) days.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:         December 20, 2024     
 
                                                                                    __________________________
                                                                                    ELAINE
LU
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court