 Case Number:  23AHCV00379    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOSE RIVERA,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CALIFORNIA
   STATE LOTTERY COMMISSION,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00379
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   11, 2023




 


 


 



 
Estela S.
 Richeda seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff
 Jose Rivera on grounds that there has
 been an irreconcilable breakdown in the attorney-client relationship and
 ethical considerations require withdrawal. Absent a showing of
resulting prejudice, an attorney’s request for withdrawal should be
granted.  (People v. Prince (1968)
268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.)  
Ms. Richeda’s declaration and proposed
order make it unclear whether she has been able to confirm her client’s address
as current. Item 6 of the proposed order provides a “last known” address for
Plaintiff. However, Items 3b(1) of the declaration is checked, indicating that
Ms. Richeda has confirmed her client’s address as current by mail, return
receipt requested. At the same time, Item 3b(2)(c) of the declaration is also
checked, indicating that Ms. Richeda has been unable to confirm that the
address is current or to locate a more current address after communicating with
her client’s family member by mail and telephone. The proposed order must
accurately reflect whether Plaintiff’s address is “current” or “last known”;
the distinction is significant because it impacts the method of serving
Plaintiff after Ms. Richeda has withdrawn from the case. The proposed order is also
deficient because it does not include the case management conference schedule
for February 27, 2023 (even though it lists an OSC re: failure to file proof of
service scheduled for the same day). 
Given these deficiencies, the hearing
on this motion to be relieved is continued to _________. Plaintiff’s counsel
must submit a revised proposed order no later than 5 days before the next
hearing date. The revised proposed order should include all upcoming hearing
dates, including the hearing on defendant California State Lottery Commission’s
demurrer scheduled for March 1, 2024, which was scheduled after counsel filed
this motion to be relieved. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 11th
day of December 2023      
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot 
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 