 Case Number:  23CHCV02264    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 7/9/24
Case #23CHCV02264
 
MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Motion filed on 2/26/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Hanna
Margaret Eva Perlstein
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Zafar
Neymatov
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order granting Defendant
Hanna Margaret Eva Perlstein leave to file a
cross-complaint against Cadillac of Beverly Hills for: (1) Indemnification, (2)
Apportionment of Fault and (3) Declaratory Relief. 

 
RULING:  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a rear-end collision that
occurred on 10/13/21 on the northbound Interstate 5 involving vehicles driven
by Plaintiff Zafar Neymatov (Plaintiff) and Defendant Hanna Margaret Eva
Perlstein (Defendant).
 
On 7/31/23, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendant
for: (1) Motor Vehicle and (2) General Negligence.  On 12/29/23, Defendant filed her answer to
the complaint.  At the time Defendant
filed the answer, Defendant was unaware of facts on which to base a
cross-complaint.  After the answer to the
complaint was filed, Defendant became aware that at the time off the accident,
Plaintiff was driving a courtesy vehicle loaned to her by Cadillac of Beverly
Hills (Cadillac) which had come to a complete and sudden stop in the middle of
the interstate moments before the accident. 

 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant seeks an order granting
her leave to file a cross-complaint against Cadillac (currently not a party to
the action) for: (1) Indemnification, (2) Apportionment of Fault and (3)
Declaratory Relief.  Plaintiff has not
opposed or otherwise responded to the motion. 

 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP 428.50 provides: 
 
“(a) A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b) Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.
(c) A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one
filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave
may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.”
  
Since the proposed cross-complaint is not alleged against
Plaintiff and a trial date has not been set, Defendant was not required to
obtain leave of court to file the cross-complaint.  See CCP 428.50(b).  
 
Defendant’s citation to CCP 426.50 is misplaced.  The subject cross-complaint is not compulsory
because the related cause of action is not being alleged against
Plaintiff.  See CCP 426.30(a).
 
CONCLUSION
 
To the extent necessary, the motion is granted.  Defendant must separately file the cross-complaint.  