  Case Number:  23SMCV01711    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Rachel
Ishal v. Izhak Delshad, et al., Case No. 23SMCV01711
Hearing
Date: Wednesday, August 7, 2024
Defendant
Elat Supermarket, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Plaintiff
sued for injuries sustained when she was struck by defendant Delshad vehicle’s
in an alley next to defendant Elat Market. As to Elat, plaintiff alleges Elat
was “negligent placement of storage bins and cargo pallets…which caused Delshad
to drive in an unsafe manner.” Complaint, Prem. L-1. Elat moves for summary
judgment on the premises liability cause of action.
Request
for Judicial Notice:
Accompanying the moving papers, Elat files a Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) of
the complaint
and Elat’s answer. Granted as to the filings, but not as to the truth of the
matters stated therein.
Plaintiff objects to evidence presented via
defendant’s reply, deposition testimony from plaintiff and defendant. Such
should have been presented with the moving papers, so is disregarded. Both Code Civ.
Proc. §437c and Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 243, 252 prohibit separate statements and new evidence upon
reply.
The function
of a motion for summary judgment is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843. Code
Civ. Proc. §437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all
the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119. 
As to each
claim, a defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden
of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element or to establish a
defense. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389. Once defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to
plaintiff to show a triable issue of one or more material facts or a defense
thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.
Elat makes
three arguments: (1) Elat did not own nor manage the premises, (2) placement of
storage bins and cargo pallets in the alley did not constitute a dangerous
condition, and (3) even if they did constitute a dangerous condition, Elat had
no actual nor constructive notice. 
Plaintiff
argues (1) Elat had a duty of care, even though it did not own the premises,
(2) there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether the bins and
pallets in the alley constituted a dangerous condition, (3) Elat is deemed, by
law, to have notice and (4) there is triable issue of material fact as to
whether the dangerous condition was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s
harm.
“The elements of a
cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence:
duty, breach, causation, and damages.” Castellon
v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998. “Premises liability is
grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control
and manage the premises.” Kesner v.
Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation marks omitted.
The parties agree the
boundaries of Elat’s property do not include the public alley behind the store;
that property belongs to the City of Los Angeles. UMF 4. 
Plaintiff argues Elat
had a duty of care to refrain from doing any affirmative act which would render
the alley dangerous to the public, relying on Selger v. Steven Bros., Inc.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1585. There, an adjacent business owner did not
contribute to the creation of the hazard on the sidewalk, and the court found
no liability. Selger, supra, at 1586. The court distinguished a
circumstance where the adjacent business owner committed “an affirmative act
which would render the sidewalk dangerous to the public. Id. at 1592-3. 
Here, plaintiff argues Elat’s
placement of merchandise and pallets in the alley created a hazardous condition
to pedestrians in the alley, such that plaintiff was prevented from walking on
the safer far right side of the alley and had to walk near the center of the
alley, where vehicular traffic traveled.
Generally, a defendant
cannot be held liable for a defective or dangerous condition of property which the
defendant does not own, possess or control. Hamilton v. Gage Bowl, Inc. (1992)
6 Cal.App.4th 1706, 1711. Plaintiff contends lack of ownership of
the land where injury occurred is not dispositive of liability. The inquiry is
two-fold: whether the storage bins and cargo pallets constitute a dangerous
condition such that placement of them in the alley qualifies as a breach of
duty, and whether Elat demonstrated control of the premises sufficient to establish
liability. A “dangerous condition” is defined as a condition of property that
creates a substantial risk of injury when the property is used in a reasonably
foreseeable manner. Gov. Code §830(a). 
Plaintiff contends
placement of the items in the alley “impeded Plaintiff’s ability to be able to walk very close to
this wall at the far right side of the alley away from the path of vehicular
traffic in the alley as she was walking from Elat Market to Glatt Mart, thereby
causing her to have to walk near the center of the alley to navigate around
these stacks of items where she was struck by Delshad’s van near the center of
the alley.” Opposition, 9:2-6. 
Elat presented evidence that placement
of the bins and pallets did not constitute a dangerous condition. Keyvan Novinbakht, Elat’s co-owner, stated the alley is used to
accept deliveries of items. Novinbakht Decl., ¶6. Despite plaintiff’s argument
that Elat’s use of the alley in this manner violates Los Angeles Municipal Code
§56.08(e), Elat has never been cited for such violation in the 29 years
Novinbakht has owned Elat. Novinbakht Decl. ¶7.
 
Plaintiff’s expert engineer Brad Avrit opined Elat’s
placing obstructions in the alley constitutes a dangerous condition. Avrit
decl., paras. 12-16. He opined that Elat’s practice of placing pallets and bins
in the alley “limited the potential two-way traffic down to a single lane,” and
“violated industry standards” by creating an obstruction. Id. This conflicting
evidence raises a question of material fact as to whether storing bins and
pallets in the alley constitutes a dangerous condition. 
 
Notwithstanding
Avrit’s opinion, Elat argues plaintiff cannot establish causation. Elat
presents evidence from driver Delshad, who admits he saw plaintiff from 25 feet
away prior to the collision. UMFs 23 & 24. Delshad testified plaintiff was
in his range of view at all times from when he saw her until the collision. UMF
26. Thus, defendant argues, there is no evidence the location of the storage
bins and cargo pallets played any role in causing the incident. Defendant meets
its initial burden on the causation issue.
In response,
plaintiff argues evidence from Avrit, who opines Elat’s practice of placing
obstructions in the alley, including the pallets and bins, caused pedestrians
to have to maneuver through the alley. Avrit decl., para. 14. Regardless of
whether Delshad saw plaintiff, there is a question of material fact as to whether,
absent placement by Elat of the materials in the alley, plaintiff would have
been struck. It is a question of fact for the jury to determine whether the obstructions
placed in the alley by Elat was a causal factor in the incident and plaintiff’s
resulting injuries. Motion denied. 