  Case Number:  22STCV38667    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  45 james h. Tuggle v. kamath
 
motion for terminating sanctions
 
Date of Hearing:          1/22/25                                   Trial Date:       N/A
Department:               45                                            Case
No.:         22STCV38667
 
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant, James H. Tuggle individually, and James H. Tuggle, as Trustee,
of the James H. Tuggle Family Revocable Living Trust
Responding Party:       Unopposed
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 12, 2022, Plaintiff James
H. Tuggle, individually, and James H. Tuggle, as Trustee of the James H. Tuggle
Family Revocable Living Trust (“Plaintiffs”) brought the underlying legal
malpractice action against Defendant and Cross-Complainant Reshma Kamath
(“Defendant”) who was Plaintiffs’ prior attorney, as well as DOES 1 through 20
for the following causes of action: (1) damages for malpractice; (2) breach of
contract;  and (3) financial elder abuse.
Plaintiffs contend that in April of 2021, they engaged the services of
Defendant(s) to seek legal counsel on how to halt the foreclosure proceeding of
a hotel Plaintiffs had purchased with a note secured by a deed of trust in
2016. The foreclosure proceeding was due to alleged delinquent payments.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to secure Plaintiffs any of the relief
sought and consequently committed malpractice.
 
On February 21, 2023, Defendant Kamath
filed the Cross-Complaint, alleging the following eleven causes of action
against Plaintiffs: (1) defamation—libel; (2) defamation per se; (3)
defamation—slander; (4) malicious prosecution; (5) abuse of process; (6) racial
discrimination; (7) gender discrimination; (8) unfair misleading business
practices, Bus & Prof. Code Section 17200; (9) breach of contract; (10)
breach of fiduciary duty; and (11) breach of covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. Defendant Kamath represents herself in propria persona.
 
On February 28, 2024, this Court
granted Plaintiffs’ special motion to strike the first through fifth causes of
action of the Cross-Complaint, and on March 26, 2024, this Court sustained the
demurrers of Plaintiffs so the sixth, seventh, eighth, tenth, and eleventh
causes of action, with leave for Defendant Kamath to amend the tenth cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty. However, Defendant Kamath never did so.
Thus, the only remaining cause of action in the Cross-Complaint is the ninth
cause of action for (9)
breach
of contract.                
 
On
November 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion for Terminating
Sanctions and Monetary Sanctions against Defendant Kamath for her Failure to
Comply with Court Order of September 30, 2024, along with the Declaration of
Plaintiffs’ attorney, Robert N. Conrad (“Conrad Decl.”). 
 
On
January 3, 2025, the underlying action was reassigned from the Honorable Mel
Red Recana to the Honorable Virginia Keeny.
 
Defendant
Kamath does not oppose and there is no reply.
 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ and
Cross-Defendants’ Motion for Terminating Sanctions and Request for Monetary
Sanctions. The Court awards Plaintiffs monetary sanctions in the amount of
$2,023.50, to be paid by Defendant Kamath. 
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
The court may impose a terminating
sanction after considering the totality of the circumstances. That is, the
court must consider the willfulness of the actions, the detriment to the
propounding party, and the number of attempts to obtain discovery. (Lang v.
Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.) Courts are justified in imposing
a terminating sanction where a “violation is willful, preceded by a history of
abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce
compliance with the discovery rules. (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.) 
 
If appropriate, the court may impose a
terminating sanction against the party misusing the discovery process by one of
the following orders: (1) striking the pleadings or parts of the pleadings, (2)
staying further proceedings until the discovery order is obeyed, (3) dismissing
the action, or any party of the action, (4) rendering judgment by default, or
(5) imposing a contempt sanction. (CCP § 2023.030 (d).
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Procedural
History
 
On March 25, 2024, Defendant filed a
Notice of Filing a Lawsuit against Rolf M. Treu, Mel Red Recana, James H.
Tuggle, and Robert Conrad wherein she set forth that according to her prior
notification, she had filed a federal lawsuit against the Honorable Rolf M.
Treu:
 
Amongst other
things, as RESHMA KAMATH had prior notified ROLF M. TREU there will now be a
FEDERAL LAWSUIT against MR. TREU for his racism as a judicial officer in the
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – with his White compatriots, JAMES TUGGLE, MELVIN
TEITLEBAUM, SUE BALISTOCKY AND ROBERT CONRAD, and his racist staff members in
his courthouse. Many other LA Court judges will be named in that lawsuit for
their disdainful behavior and omissions. Sadly, some more White judges will
rule on this. The number of White judges and their pro-White judges of color
who rule fairly are rare. The pro-White or pro-Male attitude in California
courthouses will keep going. Younger White females are treated ever so special
like daisies in a garden. Racial Misogyny is so present in California courts –
that even the White and/or Female Judges of Color who were picked by a White
governor are equally racially misogynistic. 
 
(3.25.24 Notice, pgs. 1-2.)
 
Defendant Kamath further provided as follows
regarding her future engagement in this case:
As RESHMA
KAMATH has stated neither will she pay a penny to this Court or the
racist White people in this case, nor will she further litigate this matter.
RESHMA KAMATH will not waste time litigating this case, because it will
be thrown out shortly. 
(Id., pg. 2.)
 
On April 9, 2024, Defendant filed a “Notion Re:
Federal Case Filed Against Defendant—Judicial Officer Rolf M. Treu” which similarly
set forth as follows:
Goes without
saying, RESHMA KAMATH will not appear again in this case, not file
any pleading/opposition, not pay any racist sanctions (to keep giving White
people free money for no work and for violating the law is more racist
White/non-White behavior), and just not litigate this matter anymore. 
(4.9.24. Notice, pgs.
1-2.)
On May 8, 2024, Plaintiffs served his first set of
demands for production of documents (“First Set of Demands”) on
Kamath—pertaining to Kamath’s remaining cause of action (9) for breach of
contract.
 
On September
30, 2024, the Honorable Mel Red Recana ruled as follows with respect to
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Kamath to Respond to the First Set of Demands for
Production of Documents, to Produce Documents, and for Sanctions:
 
The court GRANTS Plaintiffs' motion to compel responses from Defendant
for Requests for Production of Documents (Set One). The court orders
Defendant to serve responses, without objections, this discovery request within
30 days of the date of this ruling. 
 
The court GRANTS Plaintiffs' request for monetary sanctions against
Defendant in the reduced amount of $3,023.50 in attorney's fees and costs and
mandatory sanctions pursuant to section 2023.050. The court orders Defendant
to pay $3,023.50 to Plaintiffs within 20 days of the date of this hearing. 
 
(Mot., Conrad Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) 
 
Terminating
Sanctions
 
Conrad declares that as of the date of writing the instant motion
(November 12, 2024), he has yet to receive any response to any of the foregoing
discovery requests or the production of a single document (Conrad Decl., ¶ 4.)
Given Judge Recana already ordered Defendant Kamath to respond and to pay
monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,023.50 in attorneys’ fees and costs
within twenty days (20)—and that Defendant has failed to tender payment or
respond to discovery—the Court agrees that Defendant is now violating Court
orders. Furthermore, the Court notes Defendant has declared she will no longer
further litigate this matter and will not appear in this case again or pay
sanctions. While Defendant sets forth her reasoning for no longer appearing in
the instant action in her prior filings, the Court finds such reasoning
deficient. 
 
First, Defendant’s federal action or any other action does not automatically
stay the instant case; moreover, Defendant does not request that any
other actions stay the instant case pending resolution. 
 
Second, Defendant’s preemptive argument is insufficient to oppose a
Court order, especially given Defendant sets forth no concrete instances,
evidence, or authoritative argument to substantiate her claims of
prejudice.  Defendant had the opportunity
to oppose Plaintiffs’ prior motion to compel and be heard: she chose not to
appear or oppose. The same is true of the instant motion. The Court cannot
consider Defendant’s prior and conclusory statements which she asserted before
the instant motion was filed. As an attorney, Defendant surely has a working knowledge
and appreciation of the relevant rules and procedures governing this Court. If
Defendant is affirmatively choosing not to avail herself to the opportunity of
opposition, she cannot simply carve out her own procedure instead. 
 
Thus, in weighing the totality of these circumstances, the Court finds
Defendant is willfully violating Court orders, as evidenced by her prior
statements and that she is doing so to the detriment of Plaintiffs, as the
propounding parties. Furthermore, this is not Plaintiffs’ first attempt to
obtain discovery. There is currently a motion on calendar to deem RFAs admitted
which is scheduled to be heard on February 5, 2025. Finally, it is clear that
less severe (monetary) sanctions were ineffective in producing Defendant’s
compliance with the discovery rules. 
 
As such, the Court finds the imposition of terminating sanctions
justified, as Defendant is failing to comply with the Court’s September 30, 2024,
Order. 
 
Plaintiffs are requesting that Defendant / Cross-Complainant’s ninth
cause of action for breach of contract be stricken pursuant to CCP §§
2031.300(c), 2023.010(g), and 2023.030. The Court finds such request
appropriate and will issue an order striking Defendant Kamath’s ninth and only
remaining cause of action for breach of contract. 
 
Monetary
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs request monetary
sanctions in the sum of $2,023.50 pursuant to CCP §§ 2023.010(g), and
2031.300(c) against defendant. Plaintiffs correctly predicted Defendant would
not oppose the instant motion so no further monetary sanctions are warranted
for any time reviewing an opposition or drafting a reply. Counsel’s 3.3 hours
spent preparing this motion at an hourly rate of $595 is reasonable, plus the
$60 filing fee cost. 
 
Thus, monetary sanctions are
awarded in the total sum of $2,023.50 against Kamath for the instant motion.
This is in addition to sanctions in the sum of $3,023.50 which Defendant was already
ordered to pay in the September 30, 2024, order. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Court
hereby GRANTS Plaintiffs’ and Cross-Defendants’ Motion for Terminating
Sanctions and awards monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,023.50 to be paid
by Defendant / Cross-Complainant Kamath within 20 days.   