 Case Number:  22STCV18812    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  June 8, 2022, Plaintiff Giovanni Contaldo (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants James G. Wiley Company, James Guyton  Wiley, Jr. (“Wiley”), and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and general  negligence.  On  July 21, 2022, Defendants James G. Wiley Company and Wiley (“Defendants”)  filed an answer.  On  May 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Wiley to attend a deposition and produce documents.  Plaintiff also asked the Court to impose sanctions.  The  motion was set for hearing on June 28, 2024. The Court continued the hearing to July 18, 2024.  On June 20, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition.  On July 11,  2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.  Trial  is currently scheduled for January 14, 2025.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Plaintiff  asks the Court to compel Wiley to appear for a deposition and produce documents.  Plaintiff also asks the Court to impose  sanctions on Wiley.  Defendants  ask the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD   Code  of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in  part:  “(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party  to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,  or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section  2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails  to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection  any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in  the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order  compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for  inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible  thing described in the deposition notice.  “(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with  both of the following:  “(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing  good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,  electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the  deposition notice.  “(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and  confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to  attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored  information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration  stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the  nonappearance.  * * *  “(g) (1) If a motion under  subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed  the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is  affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g)(1).)  DISCUSSION  A.   Chronology  1.    First deposition notice  On  or about July 11, 2023, Plaintiff noticed Wiley’s deposition for August 7,  2023.  Wiley did not serve objections,  did not appear at the August 7, 2023 deposition, and did not provide alternative  deposition dates.  (Nguyen dec. ¶ 3.)   2.    Second deposition notice  On  September 6, 2023, Plaintiff noticed Wiley’s deposition for September 19, 2023.  On September 12, 2023, Wiley’s counsel objected that the deposition was unilaterally  noticed and Wiley’s counsel were not available on September 19, 2023.  Wiley’s counsel also asked to meet and confer  about scheduling Wiley’s deposition.  In  response, Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to meet and confer with Wiley’s counsel  but Wiley’s counsel did not respond to Plaintiff’s counsel’s meet and confer  effort.  (Nguyen dec. ¶ 4.)  3.    Third deposition notice  On  October 20, 2023, Plaintiff noticed Wiley’s deposition for November 16, 2023.  Wiley objected “on the grounds of witness  unavailability.”  On November 1, 2023 and  November 6, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel asked Wiley’s counsel to provide dates  when Wiley was available for a deposition.   Wiley’s counsel did not provide dates.  (Nguyen dec. ¶ 5.)  4.    Fourth deposition notice  On  or about February 14, 2024, Plaintiff noticed Wiley’s deposition for February  29, 2024. On February 28, 2024 (one day before the deposition), Wiley’s counsel  objected that the deposition was unilaterally noticed and Wiley’s counsel was  not available on February 29, 2024.   Wiley’s counsel also asked to meet and confer about scheduling Wiley’s  deposition.  In response, Plaintiff’s  counsel attempted to meet and confer with Wiley’s counsel and asked for dates  when Wiley was available for a deposition. Wiley’s counsel did not respond to  Plaintiff’s counsel’s request for dates on which Wiley was available for  deposition. (Nguyen dec. ¶ 6.)  5.    Fifth deposition notice  On  or about April 11, 2024, Plaintiff noticed Wiley’s deposition for April 24,  2024.  Wiley’s counsel objected that the  deposition was unilaterally noticed and Wiley’s counsel was not available on  April 24, 2024.  Wiley’s counsel asked to  meet and confer about scheduling Wiley’s deposition.  Plaintiff’s counsel tried to meet and confer  with Wiley’s counsel and asked for dates when Wiley was available for a  deposition.  In response, Wiley’s counsel  asserted that Wiley could not appear for unspecified “medical reasons.”  (Nguyen dec. ¶ 7.)  B.   Plaintiff’s motion  Based  on the chronology set forth above, Plaintiff asks the Court to order Wiley to  attend a deposition under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 because Wiley  has failed to appear for examination and failed to produce for inspection  documents described in the deposition notices without having served valid  objections.  C.   Wiley’s opposition  Wiley  argues that on April 23, 2024, his counsel informed Plaintiff’s counsel that  Wiley could not adequately appear for deposition testimony because he had short  term and long term dementia.  (Opposition  p. 3 & Capell dec. ¶ 1.) Wiley also asserts that on May 23, 2024 – after Plaintiff filed this motion – Wiley’s  counsel produced a physician’s letter from Wiley’s physician regarding ongoing  treatment for dementia.  (Capell dec. ¶  2.)  The April 26, 2024 letter is attached as Exhibit C to  Wiley’s opposition and states:  “To Whom it May Concern: “James Wiley Jr is under my medical care. We have been  monitoring him regarding both short and long term memory loss due to dementia.  “If you have any questions or comments, please do not  hesitate to call my office.”  The letter does not state that Wiley cannot appear for his deposition.  The name of the doctor is obscured and the letter contains no contact information. Wiley asks the Court to “order the parties to submit to an informal discovery conference or alternatively continue this hearing until a determination can be made on Defendant’s forthcoming Motion for Protective Order and appointment of a guardian.”  (Opposition p. 2.) Wiley  also argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to sanctions because Plaintiff did  not comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (b)(2),  before filing his motion.  D.   Analysis  1.    Plaintiff was not required to participate in an informal  discovery conference  Plaintiff  was not required to schedule or participate in an informal discovery  conference.  The Court’s Eighth Amended Standing  Order requires the parties to participate in an informal discovery conference before a hearing on a motion to  compel further discovery responses.  Plaintiff  cites no authority requiring an informal discovery conference before a hearing  on a motion to compel a party’s deposition.  2.    Plaintiff complied with Code of Civil Procedure  section 2025.450, subdivision (b)(2)  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision  (b)(2), provides in part:  “(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with  both of the following:  * * * “(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and  confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to  attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored  information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration  stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the  nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,  subd. (b)(2).)            Plaintiff has submitted the Nguyen declaration, which describes Plaintiff’s counsel's efforts to  meet and confer with Wiley’s counsel.   Wiley has not refuted Nguyen’s assertion that Wiley’s counsel did  not respond to Plaintiff’s counsel’s meet and confer efforts.  3.    Plaintiff has established entitlement to relief under  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450  Despite  Plaintiff’s repeated attempts beginning in July 2023 to conduct Wiley’s  deposition, Wiley has failed to participate in his deposition and has failed to  respond to Plaintiff’s requests to provide dates on which Plaintiff could take  Wiley’s deposition.    Months  later, on April 23, 2024, Wiley asserted that he had dementia and therefore could not appear at his deposition.  Yet he has  failed to provide evidence supporting this assertion.  The letter attached to Wiley’s opposition as  Exhibit C states that Wiley is under a doctor’s medical care is and being  monitored “regarding both short and long term memory loss due to dementia.”  However, the letter does not state that Wiley  cannot participate in a deposition.  In  addition, the doctor’s name is obscured and the signature is unreadable.  (Wiley also cites an Exhibit A, but the  opposition does not include an Exhibit A.)  According  to Wiley, the Court should continue the hearing to allow Wiley to file a motion  for a protective order and seek appointment of a guardian ad litem.  The Court declines to delay the relief to  which Plaintiff has shown he is entitled based on Wiley’s speculation about possible  future proceedings.  4.    Plaintiff is entitled to sanctions  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (g)(1), provides:  “ If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the  court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section  2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the  deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court  finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification  or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Wiley  has failed to establish substantial justification for (1) failing to provide  alternative dates for his deposition between August 2023 and April 2024 and (2)  failing to respond to Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts.  Imposition of sanctions is not unjust.  Plaintiff  requests $4,200.00 in sanctions based on six hours of attorney time at a rate  of $700.00 per hour.  Counsel spent  approximately three hours preparing the motion and anticipated spending two  hours reviewing Wiley’s opposition and preparing a reply and approximately one  hour attending the hearing.  The Court  grants $750.00 in sanctions based on three hours of attorney time at a  reasonable rate of $250.00 per hour.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS Plaintiff Giovanni Contaldo’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant  James Guyton Wiley, Jr.  The Court orders  Defendant James Guyton Wiley, Jr. to appear for a deposition within 30 days of  the hearing on the motion.  The  Court GRANTS Plaintiff Giovanni Contaldo’s request for sanctions and orders Defendant James Guyton Wiley, Jr. and his counsel to pay Plaintiff Giovanni Contaldo  $750.00 in sanctions within 30 days of the hearing on the motion.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days. 