 Case Number:  23STCV27916    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 14, 2023, Plaintiff Ardemis Yarijanian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Abbas Arefadib, Meheggar Ronaghi, Alireza Arefadib, and Does
1-25 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
January 4, 2024, Defendants Abbas
Arefadib, Meheggar Ronaghi, and Alireza Arefadib filed an answer. 
On
May 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a first amended complaint.  The motion was set for hearing June 28,
2024.  The Court continued the hearing to
July 18, 2024. 
Trial
is currently set for May 13, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to grant leave to file a first amended complaint that adds a
strict liability claim. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ” (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.    The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
“On
or about August 10, 2022, Plaintiff was at defendants' home for a routine
social service visit when she was attacked by a dog on the premises. As a
direct and proximate result of defendant's negligence, failure to maintain safe
conditions on subject property, and/or failure to warn of unsafe conditions,
Plaintiff sustained multiple bodily injuries on the premises. 
“Further,
as a direct and legal result of the hereinabove alleged negligence of the
Defendants, and the injuries caused thereby, Plaintiff was forced to incur, and
will continue to be forced to incur, various medical costs and expenses as
special damages in an amount to be determined at the time of trial herein.
Defendant acted in such conscious disregard of Plaintiffs rights and safety,
Plaintiff is entitled to compensatory damages in an amount to be determined at
trial.” 
B. Plaintiff’s motion
to file a first amended complaint 
Plaintiff
asks for leave to file a first amended complaint adding a claim for strict
liability because Plaintiff inadvertently omitted the claim from the original
complaint. 
The
Court grants the motion.  The new claim
is based on the facts previously alleged. 
Defendants have not asserted they will suffer prejudice as a result of
the new claim. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Ardemis Yarijanian’s motion
to file a first amended complaint.   Plaintiff Ardemis Yarijanian is ordered to file and serve a first amended complaint within
30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.