..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: [not specified]
Plaintiff's Name: Steven Ibarra
Defendant's Name: Vons
People-Names: Steven Ibarra
Company-Names: Pollard Firm, APC
Places: [not specified]
Dates: July 1, 2020, August 22, 2019, August 21, 2024
Events: Filing of complaint, filing of second amended complaint, demurrers, motions to strike
Money: [not specified]
Intentions: Vons intends to dismiss the complaint; Plaintiff intends to add new causes of action
Facts: The original complaint was filed, then a second amended complaint was filed, and a stipulation and order was filed regarding the second amended complaint
Disputes: Whether the second amended complaint is an operative pleading, whether the new causes of action are properly alleged
Acts: Filing of documents, demurrers, motions to strike
Agreements: Stipulation and order regarding the second amended complaint
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court
Case Citations: Trafton v. Youngblood (1968) 69 Cal.2d 17, 31
Statutes: [not specified]
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, attorneys
Significant Statements:
* Vons' motion is treated as a motion to strike with a request for dismissal.
* The court will refer to the 8/21/24 filing as the "proposed amended complaint".
* The court will provide a consolidated analysis of the arguments.
* Plaintiff did not seek clarity or leave to amend during the hearing.
```

As for the English text summary, here it is:

This tentative ruling addresses Vons' motion to strike and request for dismissal. The court notes that Vons' motion is primarily a motion to strike, with a request for dismissal. The plaintiff had filed a second amended complaint (SAC) which contained new causes of action (COAs). However, the SAC was not properly pleaded, as it did not include negligence and premises liability COAs which were pleaded in the initial complaint. The court will treat the SAC as a "proposed amended complaint" for purposes of these motions. The court will provide a consolidated analysis of the arguments and will not consider Plaintiff's contention that the SAC was not an operative pleading.
