  Case Number:  21STCV10352    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
DEFENDANT SLX PROPERTIES, LLC’S MOTION TO STRIKE
PLAINTIFF’S THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT (ERRONEOUSLY TITLED SECOND VERIFIED
COMPLAINT); AND REQUEST FOR DISMISSAL WITH PREJUDICE is GRANTED. 
(2)  
DEFENDANT THE VONS COMPANIES, INC.’S MOTION TO
DISMISS THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT (ERRONEOUSLY TITLED SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT);
AND REQUEST FOR DISMISSAL WITH PREJUDICE; MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND AUTHORIES is
GRANTED.[1]

 
KCAL’s joinder is also
granted; The court requests KCAL to file a proposed order. The case is
dismissed WITH prejudice.
 
Background
 
This case arises from a slip and fall case. 
 
On
March 17, 2021, Plaintiff Joseph Manuel Macias filed suit against
Defendants Albertsons Companies, Inc.; KCAL P&C Insurance (“KCAL”); and
Services SLX Property, LLC (“SLX”) for negligence and premises liability from
injuries arising from an August 22, 2019 accident. 
 
On April 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed his first amended
complaint (FAC) for (1) general negligence and (2) premises liability (wherein
he slipped water that was draining from the building pipes located/near the
store).[2]
 
On April 23, 2021, Plaintiff filed an amendment to complaint
naming the Vons Companies, Inc. as Doe 1. 
 
On May 6, 2021, Plaintiff dismissed Albertsons Companies,
Inc.
 
On May 17, 2021, Defendant KCAL filed its answer and that
same day filed a cross-complaint (CC) against SLX for EXPRESS INDEMNITY;
EQUITABLE INDEMNITY; CONTRIBUTION; BREACH OF IMPLIED WARRANTY AND DECLARATORY
RELIEF.
 
On June 7, 2021, Vons filed its answer to the FAC and that
same day filed a CC against KCAL, SLX, Jose Percy Sam; and Yuet Ngan Yuen De
Sam for equitable indemnity.
 
On July 29, 2021, KCAL filed its answer to Vons’ CC.
 
On August 30, 2021, SLX filed its answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC.
 
On October 29, 2021, SLX filed its answer to Vons’ CC and
that same day filed a CC against KCAL for (1) CONTRIBUTION (2) EQUITABLE
INDEMNITY (3) IMPLIED INDEMNITY (4) EXPRESS INDEMITY.
 
On February 3, 2022, SLX filed its answer to KCAL’s CC.
 
On December 6, 2023, SLX filed an MSJ (ISSUE 1 – KCAL has a
duty to defend SLX against the claims of Plaintiff as alleged in the 2nd
COA for Express Indemnity against KCAL in SLX's Cross-Complaint; MSJ p. 2).
(The hearing is set for 12/10/2024.) 
 
On
January 2, 2024,[3]
Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (SAC)[4]
wherein, seemingly dismissing his negligence based COAs, asserts the following
two COAs:[5]
 
1.    
Unruh Civil Rights Act 
2.    
Violations of the Disabled Persons Act (Civ. Code, §
54.1 et seq).[6]
 
On March 27, 2024, Vons filed the instant DEMURRER TO
PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT x MTS. That same day, SLX filed a demurrer
x MTS to the SAC.
 
On April 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a consolidated
opposition ‘PLAINTIFF’S NOTICE OF OPPOSITION AND OPPOSITION TO DEMURRERS OF
DEFENDANTS SLX PROPERTY, LLC AND THE VONS COMPANIES, INC.’ 
 
On
April 15, 2024, KCAL filed a ‘NOTICE OF JOINDER IN DEFENDANT THE VONS
COMPANIES, INC.’ AND SLX PROPERTY, LLC ’S NOTICES OF DEMURRER AND DEMURRERS AND
MOTIONS TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT.’  
 
On April 17, 2024, SLX and Vons filed their respective
replies to each of their respective demurrers and motions to strike.
 
On April 23, 2024, KCAL filed its opposition to the SLX’s
MSA.
 
On June 24, 2024, the court held oral arguments on the
demurrers x MTS.
 
On
August 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint (erroneously filed
and captioned as a second amended complaint)[7]
alleging causes of action for: 
 
1.     Premises liability
2.     Negligence
 
On September 23, 2024, the court held its CMC;
Plaintiff’s counsel did not make an appearance.
 
On September 25, 2024, SLX filed the instant motion. 
 
On September 30, 2024, Vons filed its instant motion.
 
On October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition to SLX’s
motion. 
 
On October 16, 2024, KCAL filed a notice of joinder to SLX’s
and Vons’ motions. That same day, SLX filed its reply.
 
On
October 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition to Vons’ motion.
 
On October 21, 2024, Vons filed its reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Defendants move to strike the proposed amended complaint
pursuant to Section 436(b) and California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1320(i) and to
dismiss the action under Section 581(f)(2). 
 
Under section 436: “The court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [allowing motions to strike], or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: [¶] ... [¶] (b)
Strike out all ... of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with ... an
order of the court.” (§ 436; see also Richard v. Grobstein, Goldman,
Stevenson, Siegel, LeVine & Mangel (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 157, 162.) A
pleading filed in violation of prior court order/ruling may be stricken. (Leader
v. Health Industries of American, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 613; Morales
v. Camello (1970) 12 Cal.App.3d 370 372.) 
 
When such a belated amended pleading is made, CRC Rule
3.1320(i), entitled ‘Motion to strike late-filed amended pleading,’ mandates
the relief must be obtained by noticed motion. In this scenario, a trial
court may strike the amendment as untimely and thereafter entertain
the motion to dismiss. (Gitmed v. General Motors Corp. (1994) 26
Cal.App.4th 824, 827-829.) 
 
In turn, under section 581,
subdivision (f)(2), the court may dismiss the complaint when “after a demurrer
to the complaint is sustained with leave to amend, the plaintiff fails to amend
it within the time allowed by the court and either party moves for
dismissal.” (§ 581, subd.
(f)(2).)  “The phrase ‘may dismiss’ means discretionary dismissal.” (Cano v. Glover (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 326, 329 (Cano).) However, if a court exercises discretion to
dismiss, it must do so with prejudice. (Id. at pp. 329–330.)
 
Discussion[8]
 
The parties move to strike the amended complaint and dismiss
the case on the following grounds: 
 
1.    
Plaintiff failed to file an amended complaint within
the time period ordered by the Court on June 24, 2024 but did not file it until
five weeks later, on August 21, 2024.
2.    
Plaintiff failed to request permission from the Court
to file his amended complaint beyond the date ordered by the Court.
3.    
Plaintiff’s amended complaint (TAC) failed to comply
with the Court’s June 24, 2024 Order that Plaintiff was permitted to re-allege
the premises liability and negligence causes of action as set forth in his
original complaint and First Amended Complaint. Instead, Plaintiff alleged new
facts which he had pled in support of his previously filed Second Amended
Complaint which the Court had stricken.
 
For
reasons to be discussed below—namely that the lack of adherence to certain
rules and deadlines besets the action—the court strikes the proposed amended
complaint and subsequently dismisses the action. 
 
On June 24, 2024, the court issued a nine-page
ruling. The court carefully distinguished the FAC from the SAC and the
court provided a thorough discussion of the relevant authority. The tentative
ruling provided, in relevant part, the following:
 
[T]he SAC alleges that Plaintiff’s
injuries were (largely) caused by ARCHITECTURAL DEFECTS/BARRIERS (i.e.,
INSTRUMENTALITY) concerning the patio conversion and uneven surface in the
parking lot. Accordingly, while the complaints may all reference a shopping
cart and a water leakage, the slope is an entirely NEW INSTRUMENTALITY,
unrelated to the water alleged in the FAC. There are no allegations
in Plaintiff’s original Complaint/FAC regarding any sloping or defect in the
pavement of the disabled parking area or sidewalk where Plaintiff fell which
would provide any notice to Defendant of potential violations of the Unruh
Civil Rights Act, Disabled Persons Act, or any ADA violations. (See 6/24/24
Ruling, emphasis original.)
 
Accordingly, even though the
“Unruh Civil Rights Act and Disabled Persons Act are time-barred and thus may
not be asserted,” in the interest of justice and fairness, the court allowed
for “Plaintiff to amend his complaint to re-allege his previous causes of
action for negligence and premises liability as set forth in his original
complaint and FAC. According to the minute order, an amended complaint was
“due on or before July 15, 2024.” (See 6/24/24 Minute Order.) However, by July
15, 2024, Plaintiff did not file an amended complaint nor did Plaintiff heed to
the prescribed scope of leave to amend. 
 
A.    
Indifference to Deadlines/Diligence 
 
Plaintiff filed an amended
complaint on 8/21/24, not by 7/15/24. Plaintiff offers no explanation in his oppositions as to
the untimely filings and made no noticed motion for permission to file
an amended complaint. (Leader v. Health Industries of American, Inc. (2001)
89 Cal.App.4th 603, 612-613.) Such indifference to deadlines is not only
exhibited in this motion, but in other parts of the litigation.  
 
First, in opposition to the
demurrers and motions to strike to the SAC, Plaintiff asked the court to
provide a “flexible approach to statutory deadlines.” (6/24/24 Ruling p. 7 of 9
of PDF.)
 
Second, this action was filed
in March of 2021, over three and a half years ago. It is Plaintiff’s
obligation to timely a prosecute a case, but the case is still at the
pleading stage. 
 
Third, the basis for the demurrers
and motions to strike the SAC was based upon lack of due diligence/timeliness:
the injury happened on 8/22/2019 such that any Unruh or ADA violations
must have been asserted by 2/22/22, but they were instead filed on 1/2/24.

 
All in all, Plaintiff has not
adhered to deadlines/scheduling in this case. 
 
B.    
Scope of Amendment 
 
In his amended complaint,
Plaintiff did not revert to the original basis of the FAC predicated upon a
slippery surface caused by a pipe leak, but again referenced architectural
barriers. (See e.g., Amended Complaint ¶16 [“The plaintiff fell and was injured
while traversing the converted handicap parking stalls, which were not built
pursuant to the pertinent commercial building codes.”].) In fact, in further
circumvention of the court’s order wherein, when read in totality, the
amended complaint not only keeps allegations about architectural
barriers, but those alleged defects have also now become the proximate causes
of the negligence and premises liability COAs. (See e.g., ¶17 [“DEFENDANTS
failed to alter, convert, remodel, and renovate the former patio area in
compliance with proper standards and/or violations. This failure was the direct
and proximate cause of Plaintiff’s injuries.”]; ¶25 [“As a direct and proximate
cause of the Defendants’ violation of the applicable building and safety codes,
as alleged above, Plaintiff suffered bodily injury when using and traversing
Defendants’ non-compliant reconverted patio, as well as difficulty, discomfort,
and embarrassment.”].) 
 
The court’s ruling did not merely
state “leave to amend is granted”; it narrowed the scope of leave to amend.[9]
 
To the extent that Plaintiff
argues that the court’s ruling never said anything about factual allegations
but about the COAs, that shows a misunderstanding of the relation back doctrine.
The relation back doctrine—which was the fundamental issue in the
6/24/24—requires an assessment of the facts. So, when the court ruled
that Plaintiff can only plead the negligence and premises liability COAs, that inherently
denotes that only facts previously asserted can be pled in the
amended complaint. For Plaintiff to “interpret” otherwise is disingenuous. 
 
Moreover, “[i]t is an elementary principle of
modern pleading that the nature and character of a pleading is to be determined
from its allegations, regardless of what it may be called….” (Jaffe v.
Carroll (1973) 35 Cal.App.3d 53, 57.) Thus, regardless of what Plaintiff
labels his causes of action, the nature and character of the proposed
amended complaint focuses on alleged Unruh Civil Rights Act and Disabled Person
Act violations. 
 
Lastly, three of the parties
understood the court’s scope of leave to amend, as evidenced by the motions and
KCAL’s joinder.
 
C.   
Motion to Strike
 
Based thereon—the lack of
adherence to deadlines in the case and exceeding the scope of leave to
amend—the court grants Defendants’ Motion to Strike the proposed amended
complaint. (See Leader, supra, 89 Cal.App.4th at p. 613 [“Indeed, “by
virtue of its inherent power
to prevent abuse of its processes,” a trial court may strike an amended
complaint “filed in disregard of established procedural processes,” and may
strike an amended pleading “because no request for permission to amend was
sought.”].) 
 
D. Request for
Dismissal 
 
Based thereon-- the lack of
adherence to deadlines in the case and exceeding the scope of leave to
amend—the court grants Defendants’ request to dismiss the entire complaint as
to Defendants.  
 
To the extent that Plaintiff is
arguing a separate motion must be filed, that concern was addressed by
the Leader court.
 
Plaintiffs' reliance on Gitmed v. General Motors Corp., supra, 26
Cal.App.4th 824, 31 Cal.Rptr.2d 625 (Gitmed) for this proposition is misplaced … Here,
recognizing that the court could allow the amended complaint to be filed,
defendants moved both to strike the pleading
and to dismiss the action. The court expressly granted the motion to strike,
then ordered the action dismissed. This satisfies the procedural concerns
of Gitmed. No reason appears in this case to require
that additional time and expense be incurred in filing a separate motion to
dismiss after the court has ordered the amended complaint stricken. (Id. at
p. 614.) 
 
Similarly, the court has first ruled
on the motion to strike (supra) and subsequently ruled on the request
for dismissal. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues
that the meet and confer effort pertained to the motion to strike and that
Defendants “escalated to seeking dismissal” (Opp. p. 8:20-22), the court’s
review of the meet and confer correspondence does not support such a
characterization. (See e.g., SLX Motion, Exs. 7-8, starting p. 64 of 77 of
PDF.) In an email from Plaintiff’s Counsel Ibarra to Defense Counsel Kim on
9/14/24, Counsel Ibarra states that he finds the “request for dismissal
unwarranted and kind of offensive”—showing that the intentions of dismissing of
the action were made known to Plaintiff. Moreover, even assuming the parties
could have engaged in more meet and confer efforts, that would be futile
as Counsel Ibarra’s vehemently maintains that Defendants misinterpret the
court’s ruling. 
 
Conclusion
 
In sum, the proposed amendment
complaint is not one that merely seeks to add additional facts to make the
complaint “better” or to provide a “complete statement of the case.” (SLX Opp.
p. 9:16-18, quoting La Jolla Village Homeowners’ Assn. v. Superior
Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1131, 1143.)[10]
Instead, Plaintiff is keeping the same facts and relying on those facts as the operative facts to serve as the basis for its action despite
a clear court order saying that Unruh and ADA-based COAs—and
the respective facts—are time barred. While Plaintiff
argues that precluding such facts would “undermine the fundamental
principles of fairness and justice,” (SLX Opp. p. 9:23-27), as stated before,
fairness is not one sided: Defendants are also entitled to timely notice
of the claims asserted against them. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the
motions to strike the proposed amended complaint are granted and, consequently,
the Plaintiff’s complaint against the three defendants are dismissed.  


