


[1] Though
Vons’ motion is entitled as a ‘motion to dismiss,’ and there are other
references to a ‘motion to dismiss’ (e.g., Vons Motion p. 3:8; p. 3:16; p.
8:6), the predominant grounds for the motion itself is a motion to
strike, as evidenced by the numerous references to a motion to strike and the
legal authority cited. Thus, the court will treat Vons’ motion as a motion to strike
with a request for dismissal. 


[2] The FAC contained
the same COAs against the same Defendants but changed the date of the incident
from July 1, 2020 (original complaint p. 4 of 5 of PDF) to August 22,
2019. 


[3] For emphasis, nearly
three years after filing the original complaint, Plaintiff filed a SAC. 
 


[4] In the court docket,
it is labeled as ‘Stipulation and Order Stipulation and Order RE
Second Amended Complaint.’ The SAC is found as Exhibit A starting on p. 6 of 16
of PDF. 
 


[5] The opposition
heavily references the ADA, but the ADA is not an asserted COA. Additionally,
the SAC states that the new COAs are “being alleged and added to the already
existing causes of action for negligence and premises liability, both of which
are plead within Plaintiff’s initial complaint” when the SAC does not list
negligence and premises liability. (SAC p. 2.) In its opposition to the MTS,
Plaintiff states that such omission was an inadvertent error and that “all
parties [were] aware that Plaintiff never intended to dismiss” the negligence
and premises liability COAs. (Opp. p. 4.) Regardless of intent, the COAs must
be found within the four corners of the operative pleading. 
 


[6] The complaint and
SAC were both filed by Steven Ibarra, though the Pollard Firm, APC also became
associated with the case as of the filing of the SAC. 
 


[7] Plaintiff contends that Defendants’ contention that
the current complaint is erroneously pled as a third amended complaint is
“misplaced” because it was never considered an operative pleading. (Opp. p.
4:11-13.) If the SAC was not an operative pleading, then it is unclear why
Plaintiff did not argue that the demurrers and motions to strike to the SAC were
moot. That said, for purposes of these motions, the court will refer to the
8/21/24 filing as the “proposed amended complaint.” 


[8] The court will provide a consolidated analysis as the
arguments are similar. 


[9] Should
Plaintiff had sought clarity, Plaintiff could have clarified leave to amend
during the hearing but did not so.


[10] Trafton v. Youngblood (1968) 69 Cal.2d 17, 31
is equally inapplicable to these facts. 

