 Case Number:  22STCV14153    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  B HEARING DATE:    Thurs.,
July 11, 2024                          JUDGE /DEPT:        Moskowitz/Dept. B
CASE NAME:           Diana
Bernabe v. Walgreen Co.
CASE NUMBER:     22STCV14153                                    
 
PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE
 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendant
Walgreen Co.
RESP. PARTY:         None
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE
(CRC Rule 3.1332)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Walgreen Co.’s Motion to Continue Trial Date is
GRANTED.
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
On April 28, 2022, Plaintiff Diana Bernabe (“Bernabe”)
filed an action against Defendant Walgreen Co. (“Walgreen”) for premises
liability arising out of an alleged slip and fall accident.
 
On July 12, 2023, pursuant to the Stipulation of the
parties, the Court continued the trial date from October 26, 2023, to February
23, 2024.  On January 3, 2024, pursuant
to the stipulation of the parties, the Court once again continued the trial
date from February 23, 2024, to August 12, 2024. 
 
On May 30, 2024, Defendant Walgreen filed the instant
Motion to Continue Trial (“Motion”).
 
            On June 6,
2024, the matter was assigned to Judge Karen Moskowitz in Department B of the
Van Nuys Courthouse East.  Plaintiff was
ordered to give notice to all parties in this action within 10 days of service
of this notice and file proof of service thereof within 12 days of this
notice.  The Court notes that Plaintiff
has failed to file proof of service of the Notice of Case Reassignment.
 
II.                
Legal Standard
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request
for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (Ibid.)  Good cause includes the unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness, party, or trial counsel; “the substitution of
trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the
substitution is required in the interests of justice;” the addition of a new
party; a party’s excused inability to obtain evidence; or a significant,
unanticipated change in the case.  (Ibid.)
 
Furthermore, the Court may look to the following factors in
determining whether a trial continuance is warranted:
 
(1) The proximity of the trial
date;
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;
(4) The availability of alternative
means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5) The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7) The court's calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8) Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial;
(9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;
(10) Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11) Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)
 
III.             
Discussion
 
Defendant Walgreen moves for an order continuing the trial
date from August 12, 2024, to October 29, 2024, or any other date thereafter.
 
Defense counsel explains that the assistant manager of the
Walgreen store where the incident occurred is an essential witness, who will be
unable to travel to Los Angeles until the end of September.  (Raskin ¶¶ 2-3.)  Moreover, Kevin Ehrhart, M.D., a medical
expert retained by Walgreen will be out of state until October 25, 2024.  (Ibid. at ¶ 5.)  Counsel has spoken to Plaintiff, who has
informed him that she does not intend to oppose the Motion.  (Ibid. at ¶ 7.)  Defendant adds that due to a change in Plaintiff’s
medical condition, Defendant needs additional time to obtain Plaintiff’s
medical records and depose her new treating physicians.  (Mot. p. 2.)
 
The Court considers the circumstances of the instant case
and the arguments presented in the Motion. 
Although the trial date has been continued on two previous occasions,
due to the unavailability of essential witnesses, the proximity of the trial
date and the brief continuance requested, as well as Plaintiff’s lack of
opposition, and the need for additional discovery, the Court finds that there
is good cause to continue the trial.
 
 
IV.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons,
 
Defendant Walgreen Co.’s Motion to Continue Trial Date is
GRANTED.
 
The Court
continues the trial date to _[date on or after 10/29/24], at 9:30am in
Department B at the VAN NUYS COURTHOUSE EAST(“VNE”).  Final Status Conference is continued to
[date/time/dept].  Motion and
discovery cut-off dates are to follow the new trial date.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 