 Case Number:  21STCV39173    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  B HEARING DATE:    Thurs., July 11, 2024                          JUDGE /DEPT:        Moskowitz/Dept.
B
CASE NAME:           Alicia
Huitron, et al. v. Iesha Catherine Gabriel
CASE
NUMBER:     21STCV39173                                    COMPL. FILED:      10-25-21
PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
 
MOVING PARTY:   Counsel
Kate Jamsheed/KJ Injury & Accident Lawyers, PC
RESP. PARTY:         None
 
MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
(CCP § 284, CRC rule 3.162)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Counsel Kate Jamsheed/KJ Injury & Accident Lawyers,
PC’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel as to Plaintiff Melody
Tejeda-Huitron is GRANTED.  “After the
order is signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on
all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e).)  The Order on this Motion
will not be effective “until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” (Ibid.)
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
On October 25, 2021, Plaintiffs
Alicia Huitron (“Huitron”) and Melody Tejeda-Huitron (“Tejeda-Huitron”)
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed an action against Defendant Iesha Catherine
Gabriel (“Gabriel”) for motor vehicle and general negligence.
 
            On May 22, 2024, Counsel Kate
Jamsheed/KJ Injury & Accident Lawyers, PC (“Jamsheed”) filed the
instant Motion to be Relieved as Counsel (“Motion”) as to Plaintiff Melody
Tejeda-Huitron.
 
            On June 7,
2024, the matter was assigned to Judge Karen Moskowitz in Department B of the
Van Nuys Courthouse East. 
 
II.                
Legal
Standard
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 284 states that “the attorney in an action…may be changed at
any time before or after judgment or final determination, as follows: (1) upon
the consent of both client and attorney…; (2) upon the order of the court, upon
the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one to the
other.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 284; CRC
3.1362.)  The withdrawal request may be
denied if it would cause an injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the
court's discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably.  (See Mandell
v. Superior (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert v. Superior Court (2003)
112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.)
 
            In making a
motion to be relieved as counsel, the attorney must comply with procedures set
forth in Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362. 
The motion must be made using mandatory forms:
 
1.     
Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
directed to the client – (MC-051);
2.     
Declaration “stating in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” the
reasons that the motion was brought (MC-052);
3.     
Proposed Order (MC-053).
 
(Ibid.)  The
forms must be timely filed and served on all parties who have appeared in the
case.  (Ibid.)  If these documents are served on the client
by mail, there must be a declaration stating either that the address where
client was served is “the current residence or business address of the client”
or “the last known residence or business address of the client and the attorney
has been unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable
efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(d)(1).)
 
III.             
Discussion
 
The Court finds that Counsel Jamsheed
has properly filed a Notice of Motion and Motion (MC-051).  Counsel has also filed a Declaration in
Support of the Motion (MC-052) stating that “There has been a breakdown
in attorney-client communication such that continued representation is no
longer feasible. We have been unable to have the client sign the substitution
of attorney.”  (MC-052 ¶ 2.)  Counsel has confirmed within the past 30 days
that the address is current through “TLO.” 
(Ibid. at ¶ 3b(1)(d).)  Counsel has also filed a Proposed
Order, Form MC-053.
 
All documents were served on Plaintiff
via mail on May 22, 2024, at her last known address.  Defendant has not yet been served with the
Summons and Complaint.
 
            The Court
finds that all procedural requirements have been satisfied and there is no
showing that withdrawal would
cause injustice or undue delay in the proceedings.
 
            Counsel Jamsheed’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel as to Plaintiff Melody Tejeda-Huitron is GRANTED.
 
IV.             
Conclusion & Order
 
For the foregoing reasons,
 
Counsel Kate Jamsheed/KJ Injury & Accident Lawyers,
PC’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel as to Plaintiff Melody
Tejeda-Huitron is GRANTED.  “After the
order is signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on
all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e).)  The Order on this Motion
will not be effective “until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” (Ibid.)
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice. 
 