 Case Number:  22STCV14705    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  B  
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



LATANNYA BANKS and LELAH BANKS, a
  minor by and through her Guardian Ad Litem, LATANNYA BANKS,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
INNES HEIGHTS APARTMENTS, BARKER
  MANAGEMENT, INC., DIONNE JUPITER, and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


Case No.: 22STCV14705
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT AND MOTION
  TO STRIKE
 
Dept. B
1:30 p.m. 
July 11, 2024



 
 
1. Background
            On
April 27, 2022, Plaintiffs LATANNYA BANKS and LELAH BANKS, a minor by and
through her Guardian Ad Litem, LATANNYA BANKS (“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants INNES HEIGHTS APARTMENTS (“Innes HA”), BARKER MANAGEMENT,
INC. (“Barker Management”), DIONNE JUPITER (“Jupiter”), and DOES 1 through 20
(collectively, “Defendants”), inclusive for: (1) Battery; (2) Negligence; (3)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4) Statutory Breach of Warranty
of Habitability – Civ. Code §§ 1941 and 1941.1; (5) Tortious Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability; (6) Violation of Business & Professions Code §
17200 et seq; (7) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (8) Violation of Civil
Code § 1941.3; (9) Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4; (10) Negligent Violation
of Statutory Duty to Maintain Habitable Conditions; (11) Private Nuisance; (12)
Public Nuisance; and (13) Breach of Contract. 
Barker Management,
at this time, demurs to the Complaint and moves to strike portions of the
Complaint. Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer and motion to strike, and Barker
Management filed a reply. 
 
2. Meet and
Confer
Prior to filing a
demurrer or motion to strike, the demurring/moving party is required to meet
and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
demurrer/motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement
can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer/motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.41, 435.5.)¿¿¿ 
The Court finds that
Barker Management has not fulfilled this requirement prior to filing the
instant demurrer. (See Matta Decl., ¶¶2-5, Ex. A.) However, the Court
notes that Barker Management attempted to meet and confer but received no
response from Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Id.) Thus, the Court will exercise
its discretion and rule on the merits below. 
 
3. Demurrer to Complaint
a. Legal Standard
“The primary
function of a pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may prepare
its case [citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly
notifies a party cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v.
City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)¿¿¿ 
            “A¿demurrer¿tests the legal sufficiency of the factual
allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9
Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to whether “the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to state a cause of action or discloses a complete defense.” (Id.)
The Court does not “read passages from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a
ruling on a demurrer, we read the complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their
context.’ [Citation.]” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court “assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded
factual allegations, facts that reasonably can be inferred from those expressly
pleaded and matters of which judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra,
56 Cal.4th p. 240.) “The court does not, however, assume the truth of
contentions, deductions or conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer
may be brought under Code of Civil Procedure Section 430.10, subdivision (e) if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted or under
section 430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds
listed in Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are
special demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction
courts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92(c).)¿¿¿ 
            Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)¿¿ 
 
b. Discussion
            Barker
Management demurs to the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth,
ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth causes of action on the grounds
that (1) they fail to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action and
(2) are uncertain. 
 
First Cause of
Action for Battery
“The essential
elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff,
or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff;
(2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended
by defendant's conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff's position
would have been offended by the touching.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212
Cal.App.4th 652, 669.)
The Complaint alleges
as follows:
On or about April
26, 2020, Plaintiffs began their lease at Innes Heights Apartments, where they
were provided Unit #206. (Compl., ¶14.) Immediately after moving into the unit,
Plaintiff LELAH BANKS was bitten by an unknown pest, but Plaintiffs were unsure
of what exactly was occurring in their unit or the cause of the bites. (Id.
at ¶15.) Nonetheless, Plaintiff LATANNYA BANKS reported the pest problem to the
property manager, Defendant JUPITER. (Id.) Despite the report, no
inspection of the apartment was made. (Id.) Plaintiffs later discovered
at the end of May that these bites were from carpet beetles upon discovering
them. (Id. at ¶16.) Subsequently, Plaintiffs sought medical care for
their injuries at an urgent care facility and were both prescribed topical
creams and oral antibiotics for their carpet beetle injuries. (Id. at
¶17.) Furthermore, despite multiple requests of assistance, Defendant JUPITER
did not send an exterminator to the apartment for over six months. (Id.
at ¶18.) Approximately six months after Plaintiffs’ first request for carpet
beetle treatments, Defendant JUPITER finally sent an exterminator to the
Plaintiffs’ home. (Id. at ¶19.) However, the apartment management did
not adequately treat Plaintiffs apartment and the pest issues have persisted as
of the date of this Complaint. (Id.) Also, because the exterminator
visits were scheduled on such short notice, Plaintiffs were unable to prepare
their home for the treatments, so the exterminator did not properly address the
carpet beetle infestation. (Id.) Moreover, the exterminator only set up
traps around the apartment and did not spray the unit. (Id.)
On or about
November 5, 2020, Plaintiff LATANNYA BANKS reported the pest infestation
to the Health Department to which
Defendant JUPITER scheduled an inspection with the Health Department with
canines regarding bedbugs not carpet beetles. (Id. at ¶¶20-21.) As such,
Plaintiff LATANNYA BANKS independently hired a pest control company and on or
about November 10, 2020, they found evidence of carpet beetles and spiders and scheduled
the carpet beetle extermination for November 11, 2020. (Id. at ¶22.) Pest
control services returned once a month to perform
three treatments. (Id. at
¶23.) Likewise, Plaintiff LATANNYA BANKS repeatedly requested for the carpeting
in the apartment to be removed, however, Defendant JUPITER did not comply with
the Plaintiff’s request and  denied the
existence of carpet beetles. (Id. at ¶24.) Defendant JUPITER also
claimed that she contacted the pest control company that the Plaintiffs had
independently used to treat the apartment and that the company did not find
carpet beetles in the apartment, even though the pest control company’s report
states otherwise. (Id. at ¶26.)To this day, the apartment management has
not removed the contaminated carpeting in Plaintiffs’ home and Plaintiff
LATANNYA BANKS frequently finds dead carpet beetles when she vacuums her
apartment. (Id.)
On or about June
of 2021, housing case manager Heather Hampton, a representative of the APLA
Health agency, sent two notices to Defendant JUPITER regarding the substandard
living conditions of the Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs’ request to remove the
carpeting in the apartment. (Id. at ¶27.) Defendant JUPITER did not
respond to either notice. (Id.) The carpet beetle issue at the
Plaintiffs’ home is still ongoing as Plaintiffs still receive fresh bites to
this day. (Id. at ¶28.) “As a result of these multiple incidents,
Plaintiffs incurred various expenses, including medical costs, contaminated
food, independently purchased foggers, pesticide sprays, at home essential oil
remedies, hotel costs, the cost of their monthly rent while living in an uninhabitable
residence, bedding, a newly purchased violin, the replacement cost of their
furniture and clothing, along with other belongings exposed to the infestation
at the Apartment, and other costs.” (Id. at ¶29.)
Here, the Complaint
does state sufficient facts to support the battery cause of action. Plaintiffs
allege Defendants conduct of failing to address the carpet beetle issue for
months caused intentional and reckless unconsented harmful or offensive contact
with Plaintiffs’ persons. (Id. at ¶41.) Such contact was the proximate
and legal cause of Plaintiffs’ injuries and damages. (Id. at ¶43-45.)
The Complaint also specifically alleges that Plaintiffs injuries resulted in
Plaintiffs seeking medical intervention, where they were given medications for
the carpet beetle bites and have been placed on breathing machines. (Id.
at ¶40.) As such, Defendants have been put on adequate notice of the battery
claim Plaintiffs have brought against them. 
Therefore, the
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action.
 
Third Cause of
Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
“The elements of a
cause of action for IIED are as follows: (1) defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous
conduct (conduct so extreme as to exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized
community) with the intent to cause, or with reckless disregard to the
probability of causing, emotional distress; and (2) as a result, plaintiff
suffered extreme or severe emotional distress.” (Berry v. Frazier (2023)
90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273.)
Here, the
Complaint does state sufficient facts to support the IIED cause of action.
Plaintiffs allege Defendants’ conduct in failing to adequately address the
carpet beetle issue for six months and more despite being shown photographs of
the pest issue, receiving medical documentation concerning the bites caused by
the carpet beetles, and being given notices from the Health Department to
address the issue was extreme and outrageous. () Plaintiffs further allege
Defendants’ conduct caused them severe emotional distress. Thus, Defendants
have been put on adequate notice of the IIED claim Plaintiffs have brought
against them. 
Therefore, the
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third cause of action. 
Fourth, Fifth,
and Tenth Cause of Actions Re: Breach of Warranty of Habitability
The Court notes
that Defendants combine their arguments for the fourth, fifth, and tenth causes
of action. Thus, the Court addresses them all at once below. 
 
Pursuant to Civil
Code Section 1941, “The lessor of a building intended for the occupation of
human beings must, in the absence of an agreement to the contrary, put it into
a condition fit for such occupation, and repair all subsequent dilapidations
thereof, which render it untenantable, except such as are mentioned in section
nineteen hundred and twenty-nine.” (Cal. Civ. Code, § 1941.)
“A dwelling shall
be deemed untenantable for purposes of Section 1941 if it substantially lacks
any of the following affirmative standard characteristics or is a residential
unit described in Section 17920.3 or 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code....”
(Cal. Civ. Code, § 1941.1(a).) “Any building or portion thereof including any
dwelling unit, guestroom or suite of rooms, or the premises on which the same
is located, in which there exists any of the following listed conditions to an
extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of
the public or the occupants thereof shall be deemed and hereby is declared to
be a substandard building: [¶](12) Infestation of insects, vermin, or rodents
as determined by a health officer or, if an agreement does not exist with an
agency that has a health officer, the infestation can be determined by a code
enforcement officer, as defined in Section 829.5 of the Penal Code, upon
successful completion of a course of study in the appropriate subject matter as
determined by the local jurisdiction.” (Cal. Health & Safety Code, §
17920.3(a).)
 “The elements of such an affirmative claim are
the existence of a material defective condition affecting the premises'
habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time
after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the landlord was given a
reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting damages.” (Erlach
v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)
Here, the
Complaint does state sufficient facts to support the fourth, fifth, and tenth causes
of action. Plaintiffs allege they were still subject to substandard living
conditions in Unit #206 due to the infestation of carpet beetles as of the date
of the Complaint. (Compl., ¶¶Id.16-29, 72.) Plaintiffs also allege the
pest control services report found evidence of carpet beetles and spiders. (Id.)
Plaintiffs further allege she sent photographs of the carpet beetles to
Defendant. (Id.) Plaintiffs allege they sent medical documentation
regarding the carpet beetles to Defendants and Defendants were sent two notices
from the Health Department to remove the carpet because of the infestation. (Id.)
As such, Defendants have been put on adequate notice of the breach of
habitability claims Plaintiffs have brought against them. 
Therefore, the
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fourth, fifth, and tenth causes of action. 
 
Sixth Cause of
Action for Violation of Business & Professions Code §§ 17200 et seq.
“To bring a UCL
claim, a plaintiff must show either an (1) ‘unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent
business act or practice,’ or (2) ‘unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising.’” (Adhav v. Midway Rent A Car, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th
954, 970.)” A plaintiff alleging unfair business practices under these statutes
must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory
elements of the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)
Here, the
Complaint fails to state sufficient facts to support the unfair business
competition law cause of action. Plaintiffs merely allege Defendants’ conduct
has the capacity to deceive consumers. (Compl., ¶116.) Plaintiffs further
allege it was unlawful and unfair for Defendants’ to collection rent payment
from them. (Id. at ¶ 114.) However, Plaintiffs fail to allege facts
demonstrating/explaining the manner in which Defendants’ conduct constitute
unfair, unlawful, and deceptive business practices. As such, Defendants have
not been adequately put on notice in regard to this claim to properly defend
against it. 
Therefore, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days Leave to Amend as to the sixth cause
of action. 
 
Seventh Cause
of Action for Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
“In the absence of
language to the contrary, every lease contains an implied covenant of quiet enjoyment,
whereby the landlord impliedly covenants that the tenant shall have quiet
enjoyment and possession of the premises.” (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates
(2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588.) “The covenant of quiet enjoyment “insulates
the tenant against any act or omission on the part of the landlord, or anyone
claiming under him, which interferes with a tenants right to use and enjoy the
premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.” (Id.)
Here, the
Complaint does state facts sufficient to support the breach of covenant of
quiet enjoyment cause of action. Plaintiffs allege the carpet beetle issue
caused them and their guests respiratory problems and severe allergies.
(Compl., ¶24.) Plaintiffs have to rely on breathing machines. (Id.)
Plaintiffs guest experienced coughing and wheezing due to the condition of the
Unit. (Id.) Plaintiffs also allege having to replace furniture, food,
stay in hotels, and clothing due to the carpet beetle infestation. (Id.
at ¶29.) Plaintiffs further allege these damages and injuries were caused by
Defendants failure to eradicate the carpet beetle issue after Plaintiffs made
numerous complaints. (Id. at ¶124.) As such, Defendants have been put on
adequate notice of the breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment claim Plaintiffs
have brought against them. 
Therefore, the
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the seventh cause of action. 
 
Eighth Cause of
Action for Violation Civil Code § 1941.3 
“On and after July
1, 1998, the landlord, or his or her agent, of a building intended for human
habitation shall do all of the following: (1) Install and maintain an operable
dead bolt lock on each main swinging entry door of a dwelling unit…(2) Install and
maintain operable window security or locking devices for windows that are
designed to be opened. Louvered windows, casement windows, and all windows more
than 12 feet vertically or six feet horizontally from the ground, a roof, or
any other platform are excluded from this subdivision…(3) Install locking
mechanisms that comply with applicable fire and safety codes on the exterior
doors that provide ingress or egress to common areas with access to dwelling
units in multifamily developments. This paragraph does not require the
installation of a door or gate where none exists on January 1, 1998.”
In their
opposition, Plaintiffs have admitted the Complaint does allege allegations to
support this cause of action. However, Plaintiffs’ counsel contends the cause
of action cites the wrong Civil Code Section due to counsel’s error and seeks
leave to amend. Plaintiffs’ counsel purports the eight cause of action should
by for violation of Civil Code Section 1942.3. 
Therefore, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days Leave to Amend as to the eighth cause
of action. 
 
 
Ninth Cause of
Action for Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4
“A landlord of a
dwelling may not demand rent, collect rent, issue a notice of a rent increase,
or issue a three-day notice to pay rent or quit pursuant to subdivision (2) of
Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, if all of the following conditions
exist prior to the landlord’s demand or notice: (1) The dwelling substantially
lacks any of the affirmative standard characteristics listed in Section 1941.1
or violates Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or is deemed and
declared substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety
Code because conditions listed in that section exist to an extent that
endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or
the occupants of the dwelling.” (Cal. Civ. Code, § 1942.4(a)(1).)
Here, the
Complaint does state sufficient facts to support the ninth cause of action for
violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4. As discussed above, Plaintiffs allege
they were subjected to substandard living conditions in Unit #206 due to the
infestation of carpet beetles as of the date of the Complaint. (Compl.,
¶¶16-29, 72, 136.) Plaintiffs also allege the pest control services report
found evidence of carpet beetles and spiders. (Id.) Plaintiffs further
allege she sent photographs and medical documentation concerning the carpet
beetles to Defendants. (Id.) Plaintiffs further allege Defendants were
sent two notices from the Health Department to remove the carpet because of the
infestation. (Id.) Plaintiffs also allege despite these reports and
notices, Defendants failed to eradicate the carpet beetle issue and continued
to demand and collect rent payment. (Id. at ¶ 144.) As such, Defendants
have been put on adequate notice of this cause of action Plaintiffs have
brought against them . 
Therefore, the
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the ninth cause of action. 
 
Eleventh Cause
of Action for Private Nuisance
To establish a
cause of action for private nuisance, “First, the plaintiff must prove an
interference with his use and enjoyment of its property. Second, the invasion
of the plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial,
i.e., it caused the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage. Third, the
interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, it must
also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or
amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of
the land.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1176.)
Here, the
Complaint does state sufficient facts to support the private nuisance cause of
action. As explained above, Plaintiffs allege the carpet beetle issue caused
them and their guests respiratory problems and severe allergies resulting in
Plaintiffs reliance on breathing machines. (Compl., ¶¶24, 155.) Plaintiffs also
allege their guests experienced coughing and wheezing due to the condition of
the Unit when they would come to visit. (Id.) Plaintiffs also allege
having to replace furniture, food, stay in hotels, and clothing due to the
carpet beetle infestation due to Defendants failure to eradicate the carpet
beetle issue for more than six months after Plaintiffs made numerous
complaints. (Id. at ¶¶29, 159.) On the face of the Complaint, a jury
could reasonably infer that Defendants’ conduct was unreasonable in duration
and nature. As such, Defendants have been put on adequate notice of the private
nuisance claim Plaintiffs have brought against them. 
Therefore, the
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the eleventh cause of action. 
 
Twelfth Cause
of Action for Public Nuisance
“[I]n determining
whether a particular activity constitutes a public nuisance, a court considers
three elements: (1) the proscribed act, (2) whether the result of the act
interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, and (3) whether
the act affects a sufficient number of persons.” (People v. McDonald
(2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 521, 535.)
Here, the
Complaint fails to state sufficient facts to support the public nuisance claim.
Although Plaintiffs allege that their guests would experience coughing and
wheezing when they visited Plaintiffs’ unit, there are no facts alleging the
guests were also bitten by the carpet beetle. Similarly, there are no facts
alleging any other tenants experienced the same issue alleged in the Complaint.
Nonetheless, the pleading standard is not high and Plaintiffs have not shown
they are incapable of amending the Complaint.
Therefore, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days Leave to Amend as to the twelfth
cause of action.
 
Thirteenth Cause
of Action for Breach of Contract
“Establishing that
claim requires a showing of “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo Bros. of California v. United
Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.) “Further, the
complaint must indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral, or
implied by conduct.” (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985)
166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458–459.)
Here, the
Complaint does state sufficient facts to support the breach of contract cause
of action. Plaintiffs allege they entered into a written contract for the lease
of the Unit at Defendants’ subject property, specifically Unit #206. (Compl.,
¶¶73, 167-168.) Plaintiffs performed in accordance with the contract terms
including payment of the lease price for the unit. (Id. at ¶¶169-170.)
Defendants’ breached the lease agreement by failing to provide a habitable unit
and their breach caused Plaintiffs direct and proximate damages. (Id. at
¶¶171-172.) As such, Defendants have been put on notice of the breach of
contract claim Plaintiffs have brought against them. 
Therefore, the
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the thirteenth cause of action.
 
4. Motion to Strike 
a. Legal Standard
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion
to strike the whole or any part thereof.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b)(1).)¿The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436;¿Stafford v. Shultz¿(1954) 42 Cal.2d
767, 782.)
 
 
b. Discussion 
            Barker
Management moves to strike paragraphs 46, 64, 71, 93, 109, 129, 135, 149 of the
Complaint and the prayer for relief paragraphs 9 and 13 at pp. 30. The motion
is made on the grounds that the Complaint fails to state sufficient facts to
support a claim for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. 
            Punitive
Damages
To state a claim
for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege
specific facts showing that the¿defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression
or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)
The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory
allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A
motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support
a finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman
v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)¿¿¿

¿“Malice” is
defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with
a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
“Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting
a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that
are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v.
Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th
847, 891.)¿¿“Fraud” is defined in section 3294(c)(3) as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”¿ 
To prove that a
defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety
of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even
recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.)
Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted
in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that
he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to
others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a
reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined
as “base, vile or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.)¿ 
As discussed
above, the Complaint states sufficient facts to support the first, third,
fourth, fifth, seventh, and tenth causes of action, which relate to the cited
paragraphs for punitive damages. Plaintiffs allege Defendants were aware of the
carpet beetle infestation through Plaintiffs’ own reports, photographs, pest
control services report, medical documentation, and two notices from the Health
Department. (Compl., ¶¶16-29.) Plaintiffs further alleged as of the date of the
Complaint the carpet beetle infestation had not be abated. (Id.)
Plaintiffs also alleged they suffered bites from the carpet beetles and
respiratory issues resulting in the prescription of topical creams and reliance
on a breathing machine. (Id.) A reasonable jury could find that
Defendants’ conduct constitutes a willful and conscious disregard for the
rights of Plaintiffs. 
Therefore, the
motion is DENIED on the punitive damages ground.
 
            Attorneys’
Fees
Pursuant to Civil
Code Section 1942.4(b)(2), “The prevailing party shall be entitled to recovery
of reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of the suit in an amount fixed by the
court.” (Cal. Civ. Code, § 1942.4(b)(2).)
As mentioned
above, the Complaint alleges sufficient facts to support the ninth cause of
action for violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4. As such, Plaintiffs would be
entitled to reasonable attorneys’ fees is they ultimately prevail on this claim
at trial. Therefore, the motion is DENIED on the attorneys’ fees  ground. 
 
Moving Defendant
is ordered to give notice.
 
Dated this 11th day of July,
2024







 


 




 


Hon. Karen
  Moskowitz
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 