  Case Number:  19STCV02947    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ FRANCES ATKINS, Plaintiff(s), vs. ST. CECILIAS SCHOOL, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 19STCV02947 Hearing Date: November 19, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL  I. BACKGROUND January 28, 2019, plaintiff Frances Atkins (“Plaintiff”) filed this FEHA and Labor Code violation action against defendants St. Cecilias School, et al. alleging that, after having been employed by defendants between 1978 and 2018 and her good performance, defendants terminated her in 2018 to replace her with a significantly younger person. On March 29, 2019, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint against the same parties.  Trial is set for December 30, 2024. On October 2, 2024, defendant St. Cecilia Catholic School, erroneously sued as St. Cecilias School, (“Defendant”) filed the instant motion to continue trial by at least four months. On October 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion. On October 25, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.  II. LEGAL STANDARD Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)¿The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿ (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).) Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application. (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  III. DISCUSSION Defendant moves to continue trial on the grounds that its trial counsel is unavailable for the current trial date. Defendant argues Anthony Bellone (“Mr. Bellone”) was the lead trial counsel in the matter, and lead trial counsel in Depto v. St. Paul the Apostle Church (“Depto”), LASC case number BC691437, pending in Department 53. Because of Mr. Bellone’s serious illness, Will S. Skinner (“Mr. Skinner”) was appointed as lead trial counsel in Depto in late February 2024 prior and that the case is scheduled for trial on August 7, 2024 and then continued to January 8, 2024. Defendant avers Mr. Skinner was appointed as lead trial counsel in the instant matter in August 2024. Defendant argues that it is impossible for Mr. Skinner to attend and try two trials simultaneously. Defendant therefore seeks a four-month trial continuance in the instant matter. In opposition, Plaintiff argues the case matter is almost six years old, and that this is the fourth trial continuance. Plaintiff contends that current counsel Sara Bagheri and Mr. Skinner are also counsel in the Depto matter, and that Mr. Skinner took over the case in August 2024 knowing he had a trial conflict with Depto. Plaintiff asserts that there are two future hearing dates in the Depto Case in April 2025, and that therefore it is unlikely the Depto case will go to trial on January 8, 2025. In reply, Defendant argues Plaintiff has not demonstrated any prejudice as a result of a continuance, and that not any lawyer can substitute as lead trial counsel. Here, trial is set for December 30, 2024, which is approximately one month and eleven days away from the hearing date. There were three prior stipulations on March 18, 2020, July 22, 2020, and February 24, 2021 by the parties to continue trial, and the case matter is now nearly five years and ten months old to date. While the Court understands Defendant’s contention that its current lead trial counsel Mr. Skinner will be engaged in another trial that is scheduled to proceed on January 8, 2025, the Court would like more certainty that trial will proceed as expected in the Depto case before making a finding that there exists an actual trial calendaring conflict between the two matters.  IV. CONCLUSION Accordingly, defendant St. Cecilia Catholic School’s motion to continue trial is DENIED without prejudice.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: November 18, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 