  Case Number:  23STCV24849    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  34 Counsel for Plaintiff Black Brewed Coffee LLC’s (i.e., Jenner & Block LLP)
Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel is GRANTED, effective upon the filing of a proof of service showingvservice of the signed order upon the Client at the Client’s
last known address. Before the court grants the motion, it will continue the
hearing to August 14, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
Background
Plaintiff Black Brewed Coffee LLC
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that it was denied insurance coverage.
On October 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a complaint, asserting causes of action against Berkshire Hathaway Direct
Insurance Company (“Defendant”) for:
1.              
Declaratory Relief;
2.              
Breach of Contract; and,
3.              
Insurance Bad Faith.
A Final Status Conference is
scheduled for February 25, 2025 and a Jury Trial is scheduled for March 10,
2025.
Discussion[1]    
Jenner & Block
LLP (“Firm”) seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff (“Client”).
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See
Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.)
California
Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion
directed to the client (made on the Notice
of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
Attorney David Kroeger (“Kroeger”) represents that “Plaintiff has
ceased communicating with its attorneys. Plaintiff's attorneys have made
numerous attempts to contact Plaintiff, including sending email correspondence
to Plaintiff's current email address and calling Plaintiff's last known phone
number multiple times. Plaintiff's attorneys are severely limited in their
ability to act on behalf of Plaintiff without the Plaintiff's active
participation in the litigation.”
The court
determines that the requirements of Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 enumerated above have been
sufficiently met.
Accordingly, the
motion is granted, effective upon the filing of a proof
of service showing service of the signed order upon
the Client at the Client’s last known address. However, given the notice issue, the matter is continued.
 


