  Case Number:  23STCV09723    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant Rena Aminpour’s Demurrer to the Complaint is
OVERRULED. Defendant to answer within 30 days.
 
I.               
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311:
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we
give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its
parts in their context.” (Id. at
p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Defendant Rena Aminpour demurrers to the first and second
causes of action alleged against her for fraud and breach of fiduciary duty on
the grounds that all promises and breaches alleged by Plaintiff Roxbury20 BC,
LLC (Plaintiff) were committed by Defendant Felix Pena (Pena). (Demurrer at pp.
4–5.) Plaintiff in opposition contends that the Complaint includes an
allegation that Aminpour participated in the alleged breaches by telling Pena,
when asked whether she would give up her share of the commission as Pena had
promised Plaintiff, Arminpour had told Pena, “Tell them to go fuck themselves,”
and that “if they sue us, the agency will protect us so don’t worry.”
(Complaint ¶ 16.)
 
“The elements
of a claim
for breach of fiduciary duty are (1)
the existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2)
its breach,
and (3) damage
proximately caused
by that breach.” (O'Neal v. Stanislaus
County Employees' Retirement Assn. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.)
The Complaint here alleges that after Plaintiff retained
Pena to represent it as a broker in a real property purchase transaction, Pena
convinced Plaintiff to go through with the purchase despite severe
reservations, on the promise that Pena would refund half of his commission and
make other payments for the repair of the property. (Complaint ¶¶ 9–11.)
Plaintiff alleges that Pena brought Arminpour into the transaction on the
promise that this would not add to Plaintiff’s expenses, and that Arminpour’s compensation
would be “my [Pena’s] problem.” (Complaint ¶ 9.) Yet after the purchase, Pena
failed to abide by his promises, and told Plaintiff that he could not turn over
half the commission, as he had already paid half to Arminpour. (Complaint ¶
13.) Pena later committed to paying Plaintiff his own half, and told Plaintiff
that when he asked Arminpour to return her half, she refused. (Complaint ¶¶
14–15.) The Complaint also alleges that Arminpour advised Pena not to return
his share of the funds, because their agency would protect them if Plaintiff
sued. (Complaint ¶ 16.)
The Complaint alleges a basis to find Arminpour liable for
fraud and breach of fiduciary duty, even though Pena is alleged to have
breached his promises to Plaintiff. Specifically, the Complaint alleges that
Arminpour advised Pena not to pay Plaintiff what he promised, and that Pena
followed this advice. Civil liability may “imposed on one who aids and abets
the commission of an intentional tort if the person (a) knows the other's
conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or
encouragement to the other to so act.” (Stueve Bros. Farms, LLC v. Berger
Kahn (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 303, 324.) That is effectively what Plaintiff
alleges here.
The demurrer is therefore OVERRULED. 