 Case Number:  BC722308    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
Nike USA, Inc.’s Motion for Protective Order is DENIED
 
I.               
MOTION FOR
PROTECTIVE ORDER
“The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)
Plaintiff Nike USA, Inc.
(Plaintiff) seeks a protective order preventing the taking of a second session
of deposition for Gil Blank, Nike’s Director of Brand Imaging. Blank’s
deposition took place in person on August 11, 2023, and Plaintiff contends that
at the deposition, counsel for Defendants 5860 West Jefferson LLC and Samitaur
Constructs (Defendants) wasted deposition time by asking Blank questions
concerning the lease and the construction at issue, matters for which he had no
personal knowledge. (Sanders Decl. ¶¶ 6–7.) Defendants presented Blank
with a lease document he had not previously read, and for which he spent 40
minutes on the record reading to himself. (Sanders Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff
contends that Blank’s personal knowledge related to this action is limited to
how Defendants’ breaches affected Plaintiff’s brand imaging operations.
(Sanders Decl. ¶ 5.) After Defendants terminated the deposition 53 minutes
early due to a health issue asserted by Defendants’ counsel, Defendants
corresponded with Plaintiff attempting to secure a second session of
deposition, for which Plaintiff now seeks a court order to prevent. (Sanders
Decl. ¶¶ 9–11.)
Plaintiff has not shown good
cause for the protective order sought. “[A] deposition examination of the
witness by all counsel, other than the witness' counsel of record, shall be
limited to seven hours of total testimony.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290, subd.
(a).) It is undisputed that the first session of deposition at issue was
shorter than this seven-hour limit by 53 minutes. And although Plaintiff
contends that time was wasted regarding the examination of documents and
questioning concerning irrelevant matters, the excerpt of the deposition
presented by Defendants in opposition suggests that the delay in examining
documents was at least partly caused by Blank’s decision to review the entire
document prior to questioning, rather than review relevant portions as they
became relevant. (Evans Decl. Exh. A at pp. 89–90.) Moreover, Defendants’
counsel offers a declaration stating that the deposition was suspended with
time remaining in order to accommodate his hypo-glycemia, resulting from
surgeries undertaken to address esophageal cancer. (Evans Decl. ¶¶ 4–5.) The
parties agree that Blank has knowledge of Defendants’ alleged breaches and the
consequences thereof, at least as regards Nike’s branding operations, and
Defendants present evidence that Blank was involved in the design of the
building in question. (Evans Decl. Exh. A at pp. 101–102.) Defendants may
accordingly seek to take the remaining 53 minutes of Blank’s deposition only.
The motion for protective order
is DENIED.