 Case Number:  22STCV18610    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV18610




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion to Reopen Discovery 
(2)
  Motion to Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Azad Sipilian




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Margo Elizabeth Stilley



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On June 7, 2022, Plaintiff
Azad Sipilian (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Margo
Elizabeth Stilley (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 30 for negligence related to a
motor vehicle accident. Trial was originally set for December 5, 2023. 
 
            Defendant’s answer was filed on July
29, 2022. 
 
            On October 26, 2023, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related dates to April 25, 2024.

 
            On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motions to reopen discovery and continue trial. 
 
            On April 11, 2024, the Court granted
in part Plaintiff’s ex parte application advancing the hearings on the instant
motions. On the Court’s own motion, the final status conference and trial set
for April 25, 2024 was advanced to that date and vacated. The Court then scheduled
a trial setting conference for May 8, 2024. All discovery remains closed, and
the pre-trial motion cut off remains in effect pending further Court order.
(Min. Order, 4/11/24.) 
 
            Defendant opposes the motion to
reopen discovery and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
According to the Declaration of Kaelan T. Nielsen, “[p]rior to filing
this motion, Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred with Defense counsel via
email to request a continuance of the trial date to extend discovery given the
ongoing discovery disputes and pending motions to compel further responses.
Defense counsel indicated that she would not be stipulating anything.” (Nielsen
Decl. ¶ 14.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement is satisfied.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff
requests that discovery be reopened in this case once a new trial date is set. Plaintiff
argues that substantial discovery still needs to be completed. On August 30,
2023, Plaintiff propounded written discovery on Defendant. (Nielsen Decl. ¶ 2.)
On October 16, 2023, Defendant provided responses. The parties then met and
conferred to resolve issues around the deficiency of the responses, and
repeatedly extended the deadline to file motions to compel further. (Nielsen
Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
On January 26,
2024, Plaintiff scheduled an informal discovery conference (“IDC”). An IDC was
held on February 20, 2024 and the issues were resolved. (Min. Order, 2/20/24.)
On March 6, 2024, Defendant provided supplemental responses that Plaintiff
believed to be deficient. Defendant asserted that she would provide no further
responses without a Court order. Plaintiff then scheduled an IDC for the
earliest available date: April 9, 2024. (Id. ¶ 9.) 
 
Defendant
did not agree to extend the deadline to file a motion to compel further or for
a trial continuance. (Nielsen Decl. ¶ 11.) On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff’s ex
parte application to continue trial past the IDC and motions to compel further
was denied. The Court noted that no discovery motions had been filed yet. (Min.
Order, 3/14/24.) 
 
On March
21, 2024, Plaintiff filed four motions to compel further responses to
discovery. On March 25, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s second ex parte
application to continue trial, noting that no motion to reopen discovery was
filed. On April 9, 2024, the IDC was called to hearing but not held because
discovery was closed. 
 
On April 9,
2024, Plaintiff also filed the instant motions to reopen discovery and continue
trial.  On April 11, 2024, the Court
granted in part Plaintiff’s ex parte application advancing the instant motion
and continuing the motions to compel further responses to May 25, 2024. The
trial date was vacated. 
 
Plaintiff
argues discovery should be reopened because he has worked to resolve the
discovery disputes without court intervention and the discovery is necessary to
present his case at trial. Plaintiff asserts that Defendant has not cooperated
during the discovery process by refusing to produce certain documents and by not
providing complete answers. Plaintiff contends he did not seek court
intervention sooner because the parties were attempting to settle the case.
(Motion, 4.) Plaintiff also asserts Defendant will not be prejudiced by
reopening discovery since she would also benefit from additional evidence. 
 
In
opposition, Defendant contends the parties have completed written discovery,
depositions, and exchanged expert information. (Margaryan Decl. ¶ 15.)
Defendants argue Plaintiff has not been diligent in pursuing discovery in this
case. Defendant also argues that the discovery Plaintiff seeks is irrelevant to
this action and at the February 20, 2024 IDC, the Court instructed Plaintiff to
schedule a second IDC and provide case law to support his position—which he did
not complete. (Id. ¶ 11–13.) 
 
In reply,
Plaintiff asserts the discovery is relevant to Defendant’s affirmative defense
that Plaintiff is responsible for any delay in the repair of his vehicle. In
response to this, Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s insurer, acting on behalf
of Defendant, unreasonably refused to pay for the repairs and led to a further
deprivation of his vehicle. (Reply, 2.) 
 
Based on
the information above, it appears Plaintiff acted diligently to obtain the
discovery at issue, by meeting and conferring with Defendant and scheduling
IDCs. Plaintiffs contend the motions are necessary for proving damages at trial.
However, given the number of issues in the various motions, the motions would
benefit from an IDC. The parties are ordered to file an IDC statement that
succinctly summarizes the categories of issues in dispute and sets forth the
legal authority for their positions.
 
Though
Defendant unsuccessfully opposed this motion, the Court declines to award
sanctions, finding she acted with substantial justification. 
 
Because
trial in this case was vacated on April 11, 2024, the motion to continue trial
is denied as moot. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to reopen discovery is GRANTED. Discovery is reopened for the limited
purpose of hearing the discovery motions currently scheduled for May 24, 2024.
 
The motions are scheduled for an IDC on June 12, 2024 at 11:00 a.m. in
Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
To the extent the issues remain unresolved, the hearings on the
motions to compel further are continued to June 25, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in
Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. Any oppositions must be filed by
June 14, 2024 and any reply briefs must be filed by June 18.
 
A trial setting conference is set for June 25, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in
Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. In the alternative, the parties
may stipulate to a new trial and Final Status Conference date and submit a
joint stipulation and proposed order for the Court’s consideration.
 
Plaintiff’s motion to continue trial is DENIED as moot. 
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 