  Case Number:  20STCV34789    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV34789




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Approval of Compromise for Person with Disability




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Erez Illouz




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the revised
petition filed on April 16, 2024 by Petitioner Erez Illouz (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Natalie Illouz, age 39. The Court conditionally GRANTS the petition pending a change in the
proposed order, as described below. 
 
On December 16, 2022, the Court granted Plaintiff Natalie
Illouz’s motion to substitute Erez Illouz as Plaintiff’s new guardian ad litem.
Petitioner states that Claimant was injured after being hit by a motor vehicle
while crossing an intersection as a pedestrian. Claimant suffers permanent
injuries and requires caregiver services. (Attach. 8.)
 
The Court finds Petitioner has cured the defects
identified in the previous petition.
 
Petitioner proposes to deposit the entire net settlement
proceeds ($283,691.72) into a pooled SNT for the benefit of Claimant. 
 
The Court finds the proposed trust instrument meets the
requirements set forth in California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 7.903(c)
and LASC rule 4.116(b). Petitioner has also provided proper notice. The Court
specifically finds the following:
 

The SNT beneficiary has a
     disability which substantially impairs the individual’s ability to provide
     for her own care or custody and constitutes a substantial handicap;
The SNT beneficiary is likely to
     have special needs that will not be met without the trust; 
The money to be paid to the trust
     does not exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to meet the
     SNT beneficiary’s special needs.

 
Petitioner does not request or calculate a bond in the petition
but states a $328,000 bond in section 11 of the proposed order, presumably in
response to the Court’s April 10, 2024 minute order. The Court requires the $328,000 bond to be submitted by the
trustee to this department (which will later be resubmitted to the Probate
court in any trust supervision action). 
 
The Order
requires first trust accounting in one year and states that it is due in 14
months.  (Order pdf, p. 7, para. 3.)  The Court suggests the order be revised to
reflect a July 8, 2025 due date. Petitioner shall serve and file a revised
order within 5 days. 
The Court sets an Order to Show Cause
re: Settlement in Department 32 at the Spring Street Courthouse, on July 9,
2024 at 8:30 a.m. to ensure funding of the settlement, submission of the bond
ordered and fixed in item 11, and filing of LASC Form PRO 044 to open the trust
supervision action in the Probate Division of this Court. 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 
 