 Case Number:  24STCV16447    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  55 24STCV16447
Lesser v. Department of Public Health, et al. 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Establishing Admissions and
for Sanctions
On December 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed this this motion to
have the RFAs deemed admitted and for sanctions. On December 13, 2024,
Defendant served objections and responses to the RFAs. Defendant therefore no
longer seeks to have the RFAs deemed admitted but still requests monetary
sanctions. Defendant opposes the motion.
CCP Section 2033.280(c) provides that if a party does not
timely respond to RFAs, it is “mandatory” that the Court impose a monetary
sanction on the responding party. Here, the parties agreed to several
extensions for Defendant’s response to the RFAs. The last agreed-upon extension
was to December 10, 2024. It is undisputed that Defendant did not serve the RFA
responses on December 10. Defense counsel instead informed opposing counsel in
an email that Defendant required “a few additional days to serve verifications
to verified our written discovery responses.” Don Decl., Ex. F. Defense counsel
did not request any specific extension of time and thus Plaintiff’s counsel had
no extension of time to consider. Defendant’s later service of the RFA
responses may have saved Defendant from having the matters deemed admitted but the
late responses does not save Defendant from the mandatory monetary sanction. 
Contrary to Defendant’s contention, Plaintiff had no
obligation under the CCP to meet and confer with Plaintiff prior to filing a
motion to have the RFAs deemed admitted. Defendant had an agreed-upon deadline
to serve the responses and when it did not do so, Plaintiff had the right to go
ahead and file the motion without meeting and conferring on the lack of
responses. The plain language of Section 2033.280(c) makes clear that mandatory
sanctions against a party who fails to serve timely RFA responses applies even
when that party eventually serves compliant responses. 
The Court therefore grants the motion’s amended request for
sanctions against Defendant and its counsel.
Plaintiff requests $1,995 in fees and costs, based on an
hourly rate of $550. The Court concludes that 1.5 hours for each brief (motion
and reply) is a reasonable amount of time spent on the motion, which totals
$1,720 (3 hours plus $70 in costs). Defendant and its counsel shall pay those
sanctions to Plaintiff within 30 days.
The Court notes that Defendant’s late responses improperly
contained objections along with substantive responses. CCP Section 2033.280(a) provides
that a party who fails to serve a timely response waives objections to the RFAs.
The Court may relieve a party from the waiver if the party subsequently serves
substantially compliant responses and the failure to serve timely responses is
due to mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. While Defendant did serve verified,
substantive responses to the RFAs, Defendant has made no showing of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect as the reason for the untimely responses. Defense
counsel cavalierly pronounced to Plaintiff’s counsel that the responses would not
be served on the agreed-upon deadline. Defense counsel did not ask or receive
any specific extension of time. Defense counsel knew or should have known that
no agreement existed to serve the responses past December 10. Thus, failure to
serve the responses timely was not a mistake, or inadvertent, or the result of
neglect. It was a choice made by counsel and they must live with the consequences.
The Court therefore denies any request by Defendant for relief from the waiver,
and Defendant must also serve supplemental verified responses to the RFAs with
no objections within 30 days. 