  Case Number:  22STCV08236    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JO A. SAINT-GEORGE, et al.  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CEDARS-SINAI MEDICAL CENTER., et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.
 





      CASE NO.: 22STCV08236
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT OR ALTERNATIVELY MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Date:  June 26, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: September 16, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Jo A Saint-George and Steven Saint-George
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers, opposition
papers and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
            On March 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Jo A. Saint-George (“Ms.
Saint-George”) and Steven Saint-George (“Mr. Saint-George”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) initiated this action against Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center (“Defendant”), alleging the following causes of action: (1) medical
malpractice; and (2) loss of consortium.  As alleged in the complaint, Ms. Saint-George
presented herself to Defendant for surgery and related medical procedures on
March 12, 2021 through March 28, 2021. (Compl. ¶ 9.)  While in the ER or from the ER to post surgery
ICU, Plaintiffs allege that she developed paralysis “of her right face, right
arm, entire thigh, lower leg, intracranial mass, with other injuries.” (Ibid.)
 It is further alleged that Defendant was
negligent in “furnish[ing] ancillary surgical treatment and/or post-surgical
medical services, assistance and cared so as to avoid permanent injury.” (Id.
at ¶ 10.) 
 
            On May 17, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion for summary
judgment or alternatively motion for summary adjudication (the “Motion”) on the
ground that there are no triable issues of material fact concerning Plaintiffs’
first and second causes of action because they are meritless as a matter of
law.  In the alternative, Defendant seeks
summary adjudication on the following issues: (1) that the care provided by the
physicians, nurses and staff of Defendant was appropriate and at all times
complied with the standard of care during the care and treatment of Ms.
Saint-George; and (2) to a reasonable degree of medical probability, no act or failure
to act by the physicians, nurses and staff of Defendant caused, contributed to
or was a substantial factor in causing Ms. Saint-George’s injuries, or Plaintiffs’
alleged damages.
 
            On May 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition to the
Motion and on May 31, 2024, Defendant filed its reply.
 
On
June 4, 2024, the Court issued a Minute Order noting certain specific procedural
defects in Plaintiff’s opposition papers, and continuing the motion to June 26,
2024, so that the procedural defects could be corrected.  Plaintiffs were ordered to file their
corrected opposition papers by June 12, 2024.
 
On
June 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an Ex Parte Application Request for Continuance
of the June 12th Deadline. 
The Court, in its Minute Order dated June 12, 2024, granted Plaintiff’s ex
parte application to the extent that it allowed Plaintiff to submit the
signature page of Dr. Samuel Potolicchio’s declaration by June 18, 2024.  The Court specifically ruled that no other
late papers would be accepted.
 
On
June 18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed “corrected” opposition papers, and submitted,
among others, the signature page of Dr. Samuel Potolicchio’s declaration.  Defendant filed a reply to the “corrected”
opposition papers on June 20, 2024. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
Defendant’s Objection to Plaintiffs’ Evidence:
·      
Declaration of Kristine
Recine, R.N., BSN - sustained in its entirety (Plaintiffs did not have
leave to add, supplement or otherwise modify their original opposition papers,
except to address the noted procedural defects in the Court’s June 4, 2024
Minute Order)
 
Plaintiffs’ Objections to
Defendant’s Evidence:
·       Declaration of Patrick Joseph, M.D. - overruled
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of
a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
 
As to each
claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment
must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an
essential element, or to establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto.  
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the
party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
In ruling on a
motion for summary judgment, the Court is bound by the issues framed the
complaint.  “The pleadings play a key
role in a summary judgment motion.  ‘The
function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the
scope of the issues’ and to frame ‘the outer measure of materiality in a
summary judgment proceeding.’”  (Hutton
v. Fidelity National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493; Conroy
v. Regents of University of California (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1250 [“The
materiality of a disputed fact is measured by the pleadings [citations], which
‘set the boundaries of the issues to be resolved at summary judgment.’  [Citations.]”].)  “Accordingly, the burden of a defendant
moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she negate plaintiff’s
theories of liability as alleged in the complaint; that is, a moving party need
not refute liability on some theoretical possibility not included in the
pleadings.  [Citations.]”  (Hutton, supra, 213 Cal.App.4th at p.
493.)
 
DISCUSSION
Medical Malpractice/Negligence
“The elements
of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Chakalis
v. Elevator Solutions, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.) 
 
“‘The standard
of care against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter
peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a
malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony (citations),
unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the
common knowledge of the layman.’” (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal. 3d
399, 410.) 
 


 
A.   
Standard
of Care – Breach of Duty
Defendant provided the declaration of Patrick Joseph, M.D. (“Dr. Joseph”)
to support the conclusion that Defendant complied with the applicable standard
of care.  Specifically, Dr. Joseph opined
that “the care and treatment rendered by the physicians, nurses and staff of
Defendant to Ms. Saint-George was at all times appropriate and within the
applicable standard of care.”  (Declaration
of Patrick Joseph, M.D. (“Joseph Decl.”), ¶ 22.)  Dr. Joseph stated that “Citrobacter koseri
is a recognized post-operative risk that can occur absent any negligence”, and that
an “infection resulting from endonasal procedure is a recognized complication,
which occurred in this case absent any negligence.”  (Id., ¶ 23-24.)  Dr. Joseph concluded that “[t]o a reasonable
degree of medical probability,… no act or failure to act by the physicians,
nurses, and/or staff of [Defendant] in any way caused, contributed to, or was a
substantial factor in causing Ms. Saint-George’s subsequent injuries, or
plaintiffs’ alleged damages.”  (Id.,
¶ 26.)  Further, Dr. Joseph opined that the
Ms. Saint-George’s “development of right-sided hemipeglia was not caused by Citrobacter
koseri meningitis.  (Id., ¶
27.)  
 
Thus, Defendant
has met its initial burden of negating breach of duty by demonstrating, through
Dr. Joseph’s declaration, that the care and treatment provided by Defendant to
Ms. Saint-George was within the standard of care.  The burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to
demonstrate that there is a triable issue of material fact. 
 
In opposition
to the Motion, Plaintiffs submitted the affidavit of Dr. Samuel Potolicchio
(“Dr. Potolicchio”), among others, to support the position that Defendant
breached the standard of care in its care and treatment of Ms. Saint-George.  The Court notes that the Court initially
declined to consider Dr. Potolicchio’s affidavit given that it was not sworn
under penalty of perjury; that is, Dr. Potolicchio did not attest or declare,
under penalty of perjury, that his statements contained in the affidavit were
true and correct.  This defect has now
been cured by the subsequent submission of the signature page of Dr.
Potolicchio’s signed affidavit stating that it was “made under penalty of
perjury of the State of Maryland and California.”  (Affidavit of Dr. Samuel Potolicchio
(“Potolicchio Affid.”)  In his affidavit,
Dr. Potolicchio opined that “the pre-Surgical and/or post-surgical sanitation
care provided by Cedars medical staff before performing the insertion of the
Lumbar Catheter drain equipment and/or the pre-sanitation care of the
transsphenoidal equipment before endoscopic nasal brain surgery fell below
CDC/CMS standards of sanitation/sterilization care” and that the surgical
procedures done on Ms. Saint-George “where [sic] the only way that the
nasty feces bacteria Citrobacter koseri could have infected Ms. Saint-George’s cerebral
spinal fluid.”  (Potolicchio Affid., ¶¶
102-104.)  He noted that “[i]t is impossible
for such a gross infection to occur in the cerebral spinal fluid by a feces bacteria
Citrobacter Koseri resulting in Meningitis absent a breach in the sanitation or
sterilization standards for surgical rooms. 
(Id., ¶118.)  Dr.
Potolicchio further noted that “Cedars [sic] delay in collecting the CSF
fluid from the Lumbar Catheter that was already in Ms. Saint-George’s back was
a gross breach in the standard of care for a Brain Code process”  and that “[t]he 24-hour delay in securing the
CSF culture and the failure to obtain follow-up CT scans particularly after the
Citrobacter Koseri was identified was a breach of the standard of care…”  (Id., ¶ 167, 171.)  Dr. Potolicchio also concluded that “[t]here
is no other evidence in Ms. Saint-George’s Cedars Medical records that could
have been the cause of her right sided paralysis stroke injury and other
injuries other than the feces Citrobacter Koseri bacterial Meningitis.”  (Id., ¶191.)  
 
Thus, there is
here a dispute between the expert opinions as to whether Defendant complied
with the applicable standard of care and whether Defendant’s conduct caused Ms.
Saint-George’s injury.  These are triable
issues of fact on which a reasonable jury might differ.  
In its reply,
Defendant pointed out that in the declarations submitted by Plaintiff, the
witnesses did not attest or declare, under penalty of perjury, that their
individual statements are true and correct. 
As noted above, this defect in Plaintiffs’ opposition papers has now
been cured by the submission of the signature page of Dr. Potolicchio’s
affidavit stating that it was “made under penalty of perjury of the State of
Maryland and California.”
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs
have met their burden in establishing the existence of a genuine dispute of
material fact on the issue of breach of duty. 
 
B.   
Causation
            As
noted above, Defendant and Plaintiffs submit opposing expert declarations as to
causation. Causation stems from a breach of duty of the applicable standard of
care.  As Plaintiffs met their burden on
the issue of breach of duty, so too have they met their burden in establishing
the existence of a genuine dispute of material fact on the issue of causation.
 
 Loss of Consortium
“There are four
elements to a cause of action for loss of consortium: (1) a valid and lawful
marriage between the plaintiff and the person injured at the time of the
injury; (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff’s spouse; (3) loss of consortium
suffered by the plaintiff; and (4) the loss was proximately caused by the
defendant’s act.” (Vanhooser v. Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th
921, 927, italics, quotation marks, and paragraph breaks omitted.) Notably,
“[a] loss of consortium cause of action is triggered by the spouse’s injury.  A cause of action for loss of consortium is,
by its nature, dependent on the existence of a cause of action for tortious
injury to a spouse.”  (Ibid.,
citations and quotation marks omitted.)  “Without
injury to the spouse, the plaintiff has no loss of consortium claim.” (Id.
at p. 928.)
It is not
contested that Mr. Saint-George is the husband of Ms. Saint-George.  His cause of action for loss of consortium is
dependent on whether Ms. Saint-George was injured by Defendant.  Because there is already a genuine dispute of
material fact on the issues set forth above as to the cause of action for
medical malpractice, the Motion as to the loss of consortium claim will also be
denied.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
            Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is DENIED. 
 
Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication on the issues of standard of care and causation
is DENIED.
 
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
      

   Dated
this 26th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



