 Case Number:  22STCV29999    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 





MARKELLA
  THANOU, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BEVERLY HILLS REHABILITATION CENTRE, LLC,
  et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV29999
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO
REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION, SET ONE
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS,
  SET ONE
 
  
 
Date: June 26, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:
Defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Centre, LLC (“BHRC”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
None
 


 
BACKGROUND
            This case arises from a complaint filed by Plaintiff Markella Thanou
(“Plaintiff”) against Defendants BHRC; Rehab Centre of Beverly Hills; and Roger
T. Wang, MD, on September 14, 2022.  The
complaint asserts causes of action for (1) general negligence; (2) professional
negligence; (3) wrongful death; (4) elder abuse; and (5) violation of the
Eighth Amendment. 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES
TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
The Court
considered the moving papers filed.  The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section
2030.290, subdivision (b), when a party directs interrogatories towards a party,
and that party fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)  A party who fails to provide a
timely response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the
interrogatories were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to
respond to the interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the
court to compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 906.)  “The court shall impose a
monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
Here, BHRC
served Special Interrogatories, Set One (“SIs”) upon Plaintiff on January 16,
2024.  (Declaration of Christina E.
Batshoun in Support of Motion to Compel Responses to SIs, Set One (“Batshoun SIs
Decl.”), ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff did not serve
responses to the SIs as of the date of filing of this motion on March 15, 2024.  (Batshoun SIs Decl., ¶ 5.)  BHRC now moves for an order compelling Plaintiff
to serve responses to the SIs.
 
Accordingly, BHRC’s motion to compel responses to the SIs is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is
ordered to submit complete, Code-compliant and verified responses to the SIs,
without objections, within 20 days of this order.  Since no request for sanctions was made in
the motion, no sanctions are imposed.
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
The Court
considered the moving papers filed.  The
motion is unopposed.
 
As noted
above, when a party directs interrogatories towards a party,
and that party fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)  A party who fails to provide a
timely response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the
interrogatories were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to
respond to the interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the
court to compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 906.)  “The court shall impose a
monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
Here, BHRC
served Form Interrogatories, Set One (“FIs”) upon Plaintiff on January 16, 2024.
 (Declaration of Christina Batshoun in
Support of Motion to Compel Responses to FIs (“Batshoun FIs Decl.”), ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff did not serve responses to the FIs
as of the date of filing of this motion on March 15, 2024.  (Batshoun FIs Decl., ¶ 5.)  BHRC now moves for an order compelling Plaintiff
to serve responses to the FIs.  
 
Accordingly,
BHRC’s motion to compel responses to the FIs is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is
ordered to submit complete, Code-compliant and verified responses to the FIs,
without objections, within 20 days of this order.  Since no request for sanctions was made in
the motion, no sanctions are imposed.
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION, SET ONE
The Court
considered the moving papers filed.  The
motion is unopposed.
 
If a party
to whom requests for admission (“RFAs”) are served fails to provide a timely
response, the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections,
including based on privilege or the work product doctrine.  (CCP § 2033.280(a).)  The requesting party can move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the request be deemed admitted.  (CCP §
2033.280(b).)  The court shall issue this
order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in
substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion.  It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction… on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.  (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).); Cal.
Rules of Court R. 3.1348(a) (the court can award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party seeking to compel discovery even though no opposition
was filed, the opposition was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was
provided to the moving party after the motion was filed).)
 
Here, BHRC served
RFAs upon Plaintiff on January 16, 2024.  (Declaration of Christina Batshoun in Support
of Motion to Compel Responses to RFAs (“Batshoun RFAs Decl.”), ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff did not serve responses to the RFAs
as of the date of filing of this motion on March 15, 2024.  (Batshoun RFAs Decl., ¶ 5.)  No opposition was filed to the Motion to Compel
RFAs as of the date of this Order.  
 
BHRC now
moves for an order to deem the matters specified in the RFAs as admitted.  BHRC requests sanctions in the amount of $900,
claiming that it incurred the following expenses as a result of Plaintiffs’
failure to respond:





















 
 
 
 
 
Batshoun RFAs Decl., ¶ 7.  The Court considers the amount of requested monetary
sanctions to be reasonable.
 
Accordingly, BHRC’s motion to compel responses to the RFAs is
GRANTED.  The truth of the matters
specified in the RFAs is deemed admitted.  Further, Plaintiff is ordered to pay $900 in
monetary sanctions to BHRC within 20 days of the date of this Order.

 
MOTION TO COMPEL
RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE
The Court
considered the moving papers filed.  The
motion is unopposed.
 
When a
party fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand, the party
making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the inspection
demand.  (CCP § 2031.300, subd. (b).)  A party who fails to provide a timely response
waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (a).)  “[T]he court
shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., §
2031.300, subd. (c).)
 
Here, BHRC served
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One (“RFPs”) upon Plaintiff on January
16, 2024.  (Declaration of Christina Batshoun
in Support of Motion to Compel Responses to RFPs (“Batshoun RFPs Decl.”), ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff did not serve responses to the RFPs
as of the date of filing of this motion on March 15, 2024.  (Batshoun RFPs Decl., ¶ 5.)  BHRC now moves for an order compelling Plaintiff
to serve responses to the RFPs.  
 
Accordingly,
BHRC’s motion to compel responses to the RFPs is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is
ordered to submit complete, Code-compliant and verified responses to the RFPs,
without objections, together with all responsive documents, within 20 days of
this Order.  Since no request for
sanctions was made in the motion, no sanctions are imposed.
 
BHRC is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 26th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 