  Case Number:  22SMCV00141    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           1850
Westwood LLC v. Grabarasky, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV00141
MOTION:                  Motion
to Vacate Default/Default Judgment
HEARING DATE:   10/4/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
In addition to any other grounds for vacating a
default judgment, the court has power to set aside a judgment that is void as a
matter of law. (CCP § 473(d).)  Unlike
the other methods of service, publication of summons in a newspaper of general
circulation has additional jurisdictional requirements. For example, the
plaintiff must obtain a court order before attempting service by this method
and the declaration for publication of summons must be executed by a person who
is a competent witness to the proof of facts. (CCP § 415.50(a).) This method of
service is strictly construed. (County of Riverside v. Sup.Ct. (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 443, 450 [“If there is any situation in which strict compliance can
reasonably be required, it is that of service by publication.”].) The
declaration requirements are also jurisdictional in nature. Unless the
declaration contains the requisite factual allegations by a person competent to
testify thereto, the court has no power to order service by publication of
summons. (Olvera v. Olvera (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 32.) Any service based
on an improper declaration would be ineffective, and any resulting default
judgment would be void. (Id.) 
 
The declaration must show reasonable diligence in attempting
service by other authorized methods. (CCP § 415.50(a).) Service by publication
is not adequate notice for defendants whose whereabouts are known and could be
notified by personal service or mail. (Mennonite Bd. of Missions v. Adams
(1983) 462 US 791.) Indeed, service by mail, coupled with acknowledgment of
receipt, is another manner of service within the meaning of § 415.50. (Transamerica
Title Ins. Co. v. Hendrix (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 740, 745 [affidavit stated
defendant's address was “unknown” but plaintiff admittedly knew defendant had a
post office box in California at which it could be served by mail].) Therefore,
if defendant's mailing address in California is known, reasonable attempts must
be made to serve defendant by mail pursuant to section 415.30 before seeking an
order for publication of summons. (Id.) Moreover, if the factual
allegations of the declaration are proved false, an order for publication based
on it must be set aside, invalidating any default judgment obtained against the
defendant. (Id. at 746.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendants demonstrate that
Plaintiff's affidavit is defective as a matter of law. The declaration itself
shows, and Defendants’ own sworn statements confirm, Plaintiff knew Defendants’
correct address at the start of its the service efforts. Plaintiff was therefore
required to exhaust all other methods, including service by mail with return
receipt requested, before being permitted to go to the last resort of notice by
publication. Plaintiff submitted its "Application for Publication"
with a form affidavit. The form affidavit attests that the summons "could
not be served by any of the following methods for the reason shown" and
includes various other methods of service, including service by first class
mail under Code of Civil Procedure § 415.30 (or by certified mail under CCP §
415.40). Despite this averment, the application itself shows that the process
server only made unsuccessful attempts at personal service. There is no
evidence that Plaintiff attempted to serve Defendants at the known mailing
address. The declaration for publication therefore fails to demonstrate the required
reasonable diligence. The resulting default judgment is therefore void on its
face.
 
Additionally, Plaintiff did not
mail the requested default or default judgment to Defendants’ known address. (CCP
§ 587.) Plaintiff’s counsel checked the box stating that a copy of the entry of
default was mailed to Defendants. However, the form's box 6(b), where the
declarant is to state the address to which the required mailing was sent, states
"SERVED BY PUBLICATION" as to each Defendant. This implies that they
were not mailed the entry of default form as represented. Plaintiff’s failure
to mail the entry of default provides additional reasons to set aside the void default
judgment.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.  The May 15, 2023, answer filed by Defendants
is the operative answer.