 Case Number:  22STCV04600    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
 



RICHARD RUBIO

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
WEI HAN YOUNG

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.
 


Case No. 22STCV04600




 




Department 45




 




 




[Tentative] RULING




 




 




Action Filed: 02/07/22




Trial Date: 03/10/25
 



 
Hearing Date:             April 3, 2024
Moving Parties:          (1) Timothy J. Kodani, Counsel for Plaintiff,
Richard G. Rubio
                                    (2) William
E. Gilg, Counsel for Plaintiff, Richard G. Rubio
                                    
Responding Party:      None
 
(1)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Richard G. Rubio
(2)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Richard G. Rubio
 
The court has
considered the moving papers.  No
opposition was received.
The court GRANTS Counsel Kodani’s motion to be
relieved as counsel on condition that Counsel Kodani submits a revised proposed
order providing all future hearing date information, including the date, time,
and place. Counsel Kodani shall be relieved as counsel of record effective upon
the filing of the proof of service of the signed order on Plaintiff Richard
Rubio.
The court GRANTS Counsel Gilg’s motion to be
relieved as counsel on condition that Counsel Gilg submits a revised proposed
order providing all future hearing date information, including the date, time,
and place. Counsel Gilg shall be relieved as counsel of record effective upon
the filing of the proof of service of the signed order on Plaintiff Richard
Rubio.
 
Discussion
Timothy J. Kodani
(“Counsel Kodani”) and William E. Gilg (“Counsel Gilg”) each move to be
relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Richard G. Rubio (“Plaintiff”).[1]
The court has
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be
granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the client and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.
App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.)
CRC, Rule 3.1362
(Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to
be directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general
terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client
relationship why a motion under CCP § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under CCP § 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3) service of the
notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who have
appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on
the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-053)).
Here, Counsel Kodani
and Counsel Gilg complied with CRC, Rule 3.1362 for their motions for Plaintiff.
The motion papers, supporting declarations, and proposed orders were served on
Plaintiff at his current address, and proofs of service of each document were
filed with the court. Prof. Conduct,
Rule 1.16(b)(10) provides that a permissive request for withdrawal may be
properly granted where an attorney believes that the tribunal will find good
cause for withdrawal. In the attorney declarations (Form MC-052),
Counsel Kodani and Counsel Gilg indicate Counsel Kodani is unable to communicate
with Plaintiff because irreconcilable differences have arisen between them. (Kodani
Decl., ¶ 2; Gilg Decl., ¶ 2.) Counsel Gilg indicates that he is associated
counsel with primary duties of research and writing. (Gilg Decl., ¶ 2.) This is
a proper basis for withdrawal.
Further, trial is
still several months away on March 10, 2025. There is no reason to believe that
Counsel Kodani’s and Counsel Gilg’s withdrawal will prejudice Plaintiff. The
court does note, however, that the proposed orders filed with the court do not
provide the time or place for the pending trial. (Proposed Orders, ¶ 9(b).)
Nevertheless, this can easily be remedied by submitting corrected proposed
orders.
Accordingly, the
court GRANTS Counsel Kodani’s
motion to be relieved as counsel on condition that Counsel Kodani submits a
revised proposed order providing all future hearing date information, including
the date, time, and place. Counsel Kodani shall be relieved as counsel of
record effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed order on
Plaintiff Richard Rubio.
The court also GRANTS Counsel Gilg’s motion to be
relieved as counsel on condition that Counsel Gilg submits a revised proposed
order providing all future hearing date information, including the date, time,
and place. Counsel Gilg shall be relieved as counsel of record effective upon
the filing of the proof of service of the signed order on Plaintiff Richard
Rubio.
 
It is so ordered.
 
Date:   April 3, 2024
 
______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the Superior
Court


