 Case Number:  24SMCV04108    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January
  21, 2025




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV04108




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Subpoena




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Michael Carbajal




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Nadia Heshmati



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from allegations of cyberbullying.  On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff Nadia Heshmati
(“Plaintiff” or “Heshmati”) filed suit against Defendants Dennis Howard Wilen
(“Wilen”) and Michael Carbajal (“Carbajal”) (together, “Defendants”) alleging
six causes of action for (1) defamation per se; (2) defamation per quod libel;
(3) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (4) invasion of privacy (CC
1708.85); (5) intentional interference with economic advantage; and (6) assault
and battery. 
 
Defendant Carbajal now moves to quash a third-party subpoena propounded
to Google for the production of business records pertaining to the email
activities of user Jessica Gonzales.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Carbajal replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
If a subpoena requires the production of documents, the court may
quash the subpoena entirely or modify it. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd.
(a).) 
 
            Carbajal has not provided any
evidence in support of the motion, but argues that Plaintiff served a subpoena
to Google LLC in Sacramento for the production of business records concerning
the email activities of user Jessica Gonzales with an email address
jessicagonzales2001@gmail.com.  Carbajal
argues this subpoena is improper because (1) they concern records of a
non-party to this litigation and (2) the request violates the Electronic
Communications Privacy Act.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff clarifies
that the subpoena actually seeks records pertaining to “All email accounts
registered under the User in addition to 
jessicakgonzales2001@gmail.com” (not jessicagonzales2001@gmail.com),
because that email address sent SWEA an email on September 21, 2024 that
plaintiff is a dangerous individual. 
Plaintiff further argues the purpose of the request is to identify the
individual behind that email address and whether they are already a defendant
in this lawsuit.
 
            In reply, Carbajal urges the Court
to quash the subpoena to prevent Plaintiff’s fishing expedition.
 
As for Carbajal’s first argument, discovery of third-party records is
generally permitted.  As such, the fact
that “Jessica Gonzales” is not a named party to this litigation is not, in
itself, a basis to quash a subpoena seeking her records.  
 
            As for Carbajal’s second argument,
Carbajal argues the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (“ECPA”) prevents an
entity from releasing stored communications or electronic records without
the appropriate legal process and protects against overbroad requests, such
as the one at issue.  (emphasis
added.)   
 
            The subpoena process, in connection
with any required notices to consumer, is the appropriate legal process to
obtain these records.  Further, the Court
does not find the request seeking to identify other accounts associated with
jessicakgonzales2001@gmail.com to be overbroad. 
Therefore, Carbajal’s second argument similarly does not provide a basis
for the Court to quash the subpoena.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court denies Carbajal’s Motion to Quash
in its entirety.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file the notice
with a proof of service forthwith. 
 
 
 
DATED:  January 21, 2025                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 