 Case Number:  24SMCV04965    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January
  21, 2025




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV04965




MOTIONS


Demurrer
  & Motion to Strike Answer




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Artur Shahinyan




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  Mercedes-Benz USA LLC



 
MOTION
 
On October 11, 2024, Plaintiff Artur Shahinyan (“Plaintiff”) filed
suit against Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA LLC (“Defendant”) for restitution and
damages under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  On November 21, 2024, Defendant answered the
Complaint by way of a general denial and asserted forty-four affirmative
defenses.
 
Plaintiff now demurs to the following affirmative defenses for failure
to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense because they are barred by
collateral estoppel:
 

Second Affirmative Defense for Breach of
     Condition Precedent

 

Twelfth Affirmative Defense for Failure to Comply
     with Statutory Requirements

 

Thirteenth Affirmative Defense for Failure to
     Allow a Cure

 

Fourteenth Affirmative Defense for Release and
     Settlement

 

Seventeenth Affirmative Defense for Substantial
     Impairment

 

Nineteenth Affirmative Defense for Failure to
     Give Proper Notice

 

Twenty-Seventh Affirmative Defense for Purchase
     Outside of California

 

Thirty-Seventh Affirmative Defense for
     Defendant’s Good Faith

 

Thirty-Eighth Affirmative Defense for Failure to
     Comply with Civil Code section 1794, subd. (e)(3)

 

Thirty-Ninth Affirmative Defense for Unnecessary
     Attorneys’ Fees, Costs, and Expenses

 

Fortieth Affirmative Defense for Excuse from
     Performance

 

Forty-First Affirmative Defense for Excuse from
     Performance

 

Forty-Second Affirmative Defense for No
     Entitlement to Pre-Judgment Interest

 

Forty-Third Affirmative Defense for Prompt
     Repurchase Offer Precludes Civil Penalty

 

Forty-Fourth Affirmative Defense for Arbitration
     and Award

 
Plaintiff also moves to strike these affirmative defenses for
containing irrelevant, false and/or improper matter.
 
Defendant opposes both motions and Plaintiff replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests
the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a [pleading].”  (Lewis v.
Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the
sufficiency of the allegations, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts
properly pled and matters which may be judicially noticed but disregard
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  [A court also gives] the complaint a
reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their
context.”  (290 Division (EAT), LLC v.
City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned
up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280
[“in considering the merits of a demurrer, however, “the facts alleged in the
pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].)
 
A plaintiff may demur to an
answer if: “(a) The answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense.  [¶]  (b) The answer is
uncertain. As used in this subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and
unintelligible.  [¶]  (c) Where the
answer pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the answer whether the
contract is written or oral.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20.)  “Code of
Civil Procedure section 431.30, subdivision (b) provides that an answer to the
complaint shall contain, in addition to a “general or specific denial” of the
complaint's allegations, a statement of any new matter constituting a defense.
It has long been held that if the onus of proof is thrown upon the defendant,
the matter to be proved by him is new matter.” 
(Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 239
[cleaned up].)  
 
The Appellate Court has
explained, as “[t]o the allegations of new matter, [n]umerous defenses were
purportedly raised by defendants’ allegations of affirmative defense.  Most of these allegations fail to state a
defense even when liberally construed in defendants’ favor. Some are simply
immaterial.  For example, defendants
allege as a conclusion that plaintiff's claim is barred by laches, an equitable
defense that has no application to the plaintiff's legal claim.  All of the allegations are proffered in the
form of terse legal conclusions, rather than as facts averred as carefully and
with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and are
alleged in the complaint. The only affirmative defenses that are mentioned in
the summary judgment proceedings, fraud in the inducement and failure of
consideration, are not well pled, consisting of legal conclusions, and would
not have survived a demurrer.”  (FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384 [cleaned up];
see also Quantification Settlement Agreement Cases (2011) 201
Cal.App.4th 758, 813 [“affirmative defenses cannot be pled as mere legal
conclusions but must instead be alleged with as much factual detail as the
allegations of a complaint”]; Department of Finance v. City of Merced
(2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 286, 294, fn. 6 [boilerplate affirmative defenses without
factual support are deficient].)  
 
1.    
Timeliness of Demurrer
 
            “A
party who has filed a complaint or cross-complaint may, within 10 days after
service of the answer to his pleading, demur to the answer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.40, subd. (b).)  Further, the Code of Civil Procedure
requires:
 
The
parties shall meet and confer at least 5 days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least 5 days
before the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be
granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a responsive
pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer
would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith
attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties
could not meet and confer.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)
 
Here, the Answer was filed and
electronically served on November 21, 2024. 
Ten days after service is Sunday, December 1, which extends to Monday,
December 2, by operation of Code of Civil Procedure section 12a.  Further, because service was made
electronically, the time to file a demurrer or to challenge the Answer is
extended by two court days to Wednesday, December 4.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd.
(3)(B).)  
 
On November 27, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel. Christopher R. Hunt, filed a declaration of demurring
party in support of an automatic extension, which provides:
 
Upon receiving Defendant
Mercedes-Benz USA LLC's Answer, I reviewed the document and assessed grounds
for a demurrer hereto. I thereafter contacted Defendant's counsel to articulate
Plaintiff's grounds for a demurrer and to inquire as to counsel's availability
to meet and confer. Unfortunately, because Plaintiff's demurrer is due on
December 2, 2024, there is insufficient time to meet and confer five days
before the date when the responsive pleading is due.
 
The Court acknowledges that
ten days is a very tight turnaround time to analyze forty-four affirmative
defenses in anticipation of a demurrer and Plaintiff satisfied the requirements
of Section 430.41 to obtain an automatic extension.
 
Thirty days following December
4 makes the deadline to file a demurrer or challenge the Answer is Friday,
January 3, 2025.  Plaintiff filed the
instant demurrer and motion to strike on December 16, 2024.  Thus, the motions are timely.
 
2.    
Meet & Confer
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing
a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject
to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (See also Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5 [analogous
meet and confer requirement for motions to strike].)
 
Moreover, “As part of the meet
and confer process, the demurring party shall identify all of the specific
causes of action that it believes are subject to [demurrer/motion to strike]
and identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(1)
[demurrer]; § 435.5, subd. (a)(1) [motion to strike].)  “The party who filed the complaint,
cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for its position that
the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative, how the complaint,
cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any legal
insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The [demurring/moving] party
shall file and serve with the [demurrer/motion to strike] a declaration stating
either” the means by which the parties met and conferred, or that the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer
request.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41,
subd. (a)(3) [demurrer]; § 435.55, subd. (a)(3) [motion to strike].)  
 
Here, Plaintiff has advanced
the Declaration of Christopher R. Hunt, which provides:
 
8. Before resorting to Court
intervention, Plaintiff made a good faith effort to resolve the issues
informally with MBUSA. On November 27, 2024, Plaintiff wrote to MBUSA and
requested an extension to potentially file a Demurrer. On the same date,
Plaintiff filed and served his Declaration of Demurring or Moving Party in
Support of Automatic Extension. On December 11, 2024, Plaintiff wrote to MBUSA
to meet and confer regarding the Demurrer and to discuss his concerns with the
affirmative defenses in MBUSA’s Answer. See December 11, 2024 meet and confer
correspondence, a true and correct copy of which is incorporated by reference
and attached hereto as Exhibit E. Plaintiff proposed that the parties meet and
confer regarding these issues via telephone or video conference pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. Plaintiff also asked Defendant to
propose some potential dates/times for a conference. Plaintiff requested that
MBUSA withdraw the insufficient defenses and file an amended answer. MBUSA, however,
failed to respond.
 
(Hunt Decl. ¶ 8.)  Similarly, the Declaration of Kainoa Aliviado,
counsel for Defendant, provides:
 
13. On November 27, 2024 at
4:05 p.m., a full week before Plaintiff’s deadline to bring a demurrer to the
Answer, Plaintiff’s Counsel sent a single email stating the following: 
 
Counsel: 
 
Due to the upcoming holiday, I
write to request a two-week extension on Plaintiff’s deadline to file a demur
to Defendant’s Answer. That would make the new deadline Dec 16. Please advise
if Defendant is agreeable to the proposed extension. 
 
Thanks, 
Christopher R. Hunt, Esq.
 
14. Attached hereto as Exhibit
A is a true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s Counsel’s November 27, 2024 email. 
 
15. Also on November 27, 2024,
at 4:11p.m., Plaintiff filed and served a declaration pursuant to CCP section
430.41(a)(2) on Defense Counsel, for an automatic 30-day extension to bring a
demurrer to the Answer. 
 
16. Attached hereto as Exhibit
B is a true and correct copy of the service email electronically serving
Plaintiff’s Declaration for Extension of Time Pursuant to CCP section
430.41(a)(2), as well as a true and correct copy of the Declaration. 
 
17. Prior to the November 27,
2024 email, Plaintiff’s Counsel never mentioned an intent to file a demurrer to
the Answer or motion to strike. 18. Plaintiff’s Counsel sent a single letter on
December 11, 2024, and then filed this demurrer and motion to strike 5 days
later on December 16, 2024.
 
(Aliviado Decl. ¶¶ 13-17.)
 
Thus, the parties appear in
agreement that they did not properly meet and confer in good faith either
telephonically or in person prior to the filing of the demurrer and motion to
strike.  However, “A determination by the
court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to
overrule or sustain a demurrer.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)  
 

CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court continues the hearing on the demurrer and motion
to strike to March 5, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207, the same date and
time as the hearing on Defendant’s pending motion to compel arbitration, to
allow the parties to meaningfully meet and confer and potentially stipulate to
an amended answer or otherwise resolve some or all of the issues raised prior
to resorting to Court intervention.
 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference from February 11, 2025 to March 5, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.  All parties shall comply
with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and
Further Case Management Conferences.  In
particular, all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724)
and to the requirement to prepare and file Case Management Statements (Rule
3.725).  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 
 
 
DATED:  January 21, 2025                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 