 Case Number:  21STCV23428    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  C ESPINOZA v. LAKEWOOD REGIONAL
MEDICAL CENTER, INC. 
CASE NO.:  21STCV23428 
HEARING:  02/01/24
 
#3
 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant BHAVIK THAKKAR, M.D.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ Complaint is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
This medical malpractice action was filed by Plaintiffs
DOLORES ESPINOZA and AGUSTIN ESPINOZA (collectively “Plaintiffs”) against
Defendants LAKEWOOD REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER, INC. and RADOSLAV RAYCHEV, I, M.D.
and Does 1 to 100 on June 24, 2021. On June 17, 2022, Lakewood Regional Medical
Center, Inc. filed a Cross-Complaint against various cross-defendants,
including Moving Party Defendant/Cross-Defendant BHAVIK THAKKAR, M.D. (“Dr.
Thakkar” or “Defendant”). On July 24, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Doe Amendment
naming Dr. Thakkar as a defendant in the Complaint. 
 
Plaintiffs’ allege that Defendants breached their duty of
care by negligently treating Plaintiff Dolores Espinoza’s medical condition
while she was a patient at Lakewood Regional Medical Center. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Form Complaint asserts claims for Negligence and
Loss of Consortium. 
 
Dr. Thakkar specially and generally demurs to Plaintiffs’
Complaint. 
 
Uncertainty – Negligence and Loss of Consortium 
 
Dr. Thakkar argues that Plaintiffs’ claims for medical
negligence and loss of consortium are uncertain and do not state facts
sufficient to constitute causes of action because Plaintiffs’ Complaint does
not specifically mention him, except for alleging the negligence cause of
action against all Doe defendants. 
 
The elements of a claim for professional negligence are:
“(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as
other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of
that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and
the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the
professional’s negligence.” (Borrayo v. Avery (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 304,
310.) 
 
A married person may recover for loss of consortium when his
or her spouse has been injured by the negligence of a third party. (See Zwicker
v. Altamont Emergency Room Physicians Medical Group (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th
26, 31.) The elements for a loss of consortium cause of action are: (1) a valid
and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the person injured at the time of
the injury; (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff’s spouse; (3) loss of
consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and (4) the loss was proximately caused
by the defendant’s act. (See Vanhouser v. Sup. Ct. (2021) 206
Cal.App.4th 921, 927.) 
 
Plaintiffs allege “that defendants, Lakewood Regional
Medical Center, Inc. Radoslav Raychev, I, M.D. and Does 1 to 100… owed
plaintiff a duty of care to provide her with competent and adequate medical
care and services. [¶] Plaintiff further alleges that during said period of
time, said Defendants, and each of them, breached said duty of care by
negligently treating plaintiff’s medical condition.” (Complaint, p. 4.) 
 
In ruling on demurrers, courts must treat “the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded,” but  do not “assume the truth of contentions,
deductions or conclusions of law.” (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 5 Cal.4th 962, 967.) 
 
The Court finds both claims are uncertain as to Dr. Thakkar.
Plaintiffs do not mention Dr. Thakkar specifically in the Complaint, except as
a Doe Defendant. No facts are alleged pertaining to Dr. Thakkar’s alleged role
in Plaintiff Dolores Espinoza’s care, or what Dr. Thakkar’s purported
negligence was during Plaintiff’s hospital stay. Plaintiffs fail to adequately
allege how Dr. Thakkar breached his duty and was the proximate cause of
Plaintiff’s injuries and damages. 
 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend.  
 
Relation- Back Doctrine 
 
Dr. Thakkar also argues that Plaintiffs’ claim against Dr.
Thakkar is time-barred because Plaintiffs did not file a Doe amendment naming
Dr. Thakkar until July 24, 2023—which is more than two years after this action
was filed, and about 2 years after the Subject Incident occurred. 
 
Under the
relation-back doctrine, an amendment relates back to the original complaint if
the amendment (1) rests on the same general set of facts; (2) involves the same
injury; and (3) refers to the same instrumentality. (Pointe San Diego
Residential Community, L.P. v. Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP
(2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 265, 276.) Doe amendments are governed by the
relation-back doctrine. “The general rule is that an amended complaint that
adds a new defendant does not relate back to the date of filing the original
complaint and the statute of limitations is applied as of the date the amended
complaint is filed, not the date the original complaint is filed. [Citation.] A
recognized exception to the general rule is the substitution under section 474
of a new defendant for a fictitious Doe defendant named in the original
complaint as to whom a cause of action was stated in the original complaint.
[Citation.] If the requirements of section 474 are satisfied, the amended
complaint substituting a new defendant for a fictitious Doe defendant filed
after the statute of limitations has expired is deemed filed as of the date the
original complaint was filed.” (Woo v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th
169, 176.) 
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that the issue of whether Plaintiffs’ claims for medical
negligence and loss of consortium are time-barred is inappropriately resolved
at the demurrer stage. 
 
The four walls of
Plaintiffs’ operative pleading do not conclusively establish that Plaintiffs were
aware of Dr. Thakkar’s identity and role in Plaintiff Dolores Espinoza’s
alleged injuries at the time the initial Complaint was filed. Because this
element of knowledge is required to bar the application of the relation-back
doctrine, the Court cannot grant sustain the demurrer on this basis. (See Fuller
v. Tucker (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 1163, 1170.) The Court cannot sustain a
demurrer based on a statute of limitations defense unless the allegations of
the Complaint demonstrate that the claims are necessarily time-barred. The Demurrer
is not sustained on this basis. 
 