 Case Number:  22STCV09050    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  C AVALOS v. PACIFIC
GAS AND ELECTRIC COPMANY 
CASE NO.:  22STCV09050
HEARING:  2/1/24
 
#5
 
     I.       
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories (set one) is DENIED as MOOT. 
 
    II.       
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Responses to
Special Interrogatories (set one) is DENIED as MOOT. 
 
  III.       
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Responses to
Request for Production of Documents (set one) is DENIED as MOOT. 
 
 IV.       
No Sanctions are ordered.  
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories and document demands are directed
fails to respond at all, the propounding party’s remedy is to seek a court
order compelling answers thereto. (CCP §§ 2030.290, 2031.300.) All that needs
to be shown is that the discovery was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. The moving party is not required to show a reasonable and good faith
attempt to resolve the matter informally before filing this motion. A motion to
compel initial discovery responses need not show good cause, meeting and
conferring, or timely filing, and need not be accompanied by a separate
statement. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The failure to timely respond
also waives all objections. 
 
Here, Defendants have shown that Form Interrogatories (set one), Special
Interrogatories (set one), and Request for Production of Documents (set one)
were served on January 26, 2023. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff indicates that Responses were (untimely) served
on January 12, 2024. Plaintiff maintains that responses were untimely served
because Plaintiff’s Counsel mistakenly assumed that a mutual agreement to
extend the time to respond to discovery was in place. 
 
The Motion is DENIED as MOOT. 
Sanctions
may be awarded against a party who fails to oppose a motion to compel, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
after the motion was filed. (C.R.C 3.1348(a).). 
It
is undisputed that responses were untimely served. However, the Court finds it
reasonable to believe that Plaintiff would think that an extension of time
between the parties to respond to discovery would be mutual.  Accordingly, the Court declines to order
sanctions.  
 