 Case Number:  21STCV12006    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Be Relieved as CounselCase Name: Christina Aragon v. Orlando Garcia, et al.Moving Party: Attorney Ronnivashti Whitehead of The Barnes Firm (“Attorney”)Responding Party: N/ATentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis is a car accident case wherein Plaintiff alleges the vehicle she was a passenger in was negligently owned, operated, entrusted, and maintained, causing a collision with another vehicle, injuring her. (Complaint, p. 4.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONAttorney submits this request to be relieved as counsel, citing a significant breakdown in the relationship between counsel and client. (Declaration in Support of Motion, p. 1.)OPPOSITIONNo opposition was filed in response to this motion. ANALYSISCode of Civil Procedure section 284 states that an attorney in an action may be changed at any time before or after judgment: (1) upon the consent of both client and attorney; or (2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one to the other. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284; Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1362.)  The court has power to permit withdrawal of an attorney within its sound discretion.¿(Jones v. Green¿(1946) 74 Cal.App.2d 223, 230.) An attorney may withdraw without cause as long as the withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s interest – i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point, but if the case is not at a critical point withdrawal is permitted because the client will not be prejudiced.¿(Ramirez v. Sturdevant¿(1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) The court has discretion to deny the withdrawal request when withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in proceeding; but the court’s discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably.¿(See Mandell v. Superior¿(1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)  Counsel must make a motion to be¿relieved¿as attorney of record. The form, content and service of such motion are governed by the Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362. The motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be¿Relieved¿as Counsel – Civil (MC-051), Declaration (MC-052), and Proposed Order (MC-053).Attorney here has properly filed and served Plaintiff with the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, the Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, and the proposed Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. Attorney’s declaration asserts the underlying reason for this Motion is that “the attorney-client relationship has completely broken down and cannot be re-established.” (Declaration in Support of Motion, p. 1-2) (additionally noting Attorney made every reasonable effort to establish contact with Plaintiff but has not received any responses.) Plaintiff has not raised any formal objections to this withdrawal or alleged that significant prejudice would result from the withdrawal. Because no prejudice to Plaintiff is anticipated due to this withdrawal, the Court finds granting the motion is appropriate. RULINGThis Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED. Attorney is ordered to provide notice to Plaintiff and the parties. 