  Case Number:  20STCV48317    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to BifurcateCase Name: Toni Dee Strimple v. City of Los Angeles, et al.Moving Party: Defendant City of Los Angeles Responding Party: N/ATentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis is a personal injury case arising from injuries incurred when Plaintiff was struck in the head by a hose being used to fight an active house fire.  Plaintiff’s operative complaint alleges three causes of action against Defendant: (1) Dangerous Condition of Public Property; (2) Negligent Act or Omission of Govt. Employee; and (3) General Negligence. (declaration of Patty Thammalaiviroj, Exhibit A.) MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendant argues the interests of economy, efficiency, and “the ends of justice” would be promoted by bifurcating this trial — particularly arguing Defendant’s immunity defense should be tried separately and first. (Motion to Bifurcate, p. 3-4.) NON-OPPOSITION Plaintiff agrees with Defendant that the first phase of the trial be held as a bench trial. (Non-opposition, p. 1.)ANALYSISCalifornia Code of Civil Procedure section 1048(b) provides that “[t]he court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action . . . of any separate issue or any number of causes of action or issues. . .” The Court also has the power to “provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it,” and to “amend and control its processes and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice.” (Civ. Proc. Code § 128(a)(3), (8).) Intrinsic to the Court’s power to regulate the order of trial is its power to bifurcate at any point during proceedings, including even during the trial itself. (See McLellan v. McLellan (1972) 23 Cal.App.3d 343, 353.) Under the Code of Civil Procedure section 1048(b), the court can bifurcate trial to address specific issues “to avoid prejudice.” One objective of Code of Civil Procedure section 597 is “avoidance of waste of time and money caused by the trial of issues which may be rendered moot.” (Bedolla v. Logan & Frazer (1975) 52 Cal.App.3d 118, 135.) Code of Civil Procedure section 1048(b) similarly provides courts authority to order a separate trial of any issue for furtherance of convenience, or to avoid prejudice or where separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy. Moreover, courts have discretion under Evidence Code section 320 to regulate the order of proof. There is good cause to bifurcate the trial, as doing so serves the interests of economy, efficiency, and the ends of justice. Namely, bifurcating the trial to first address Defendant’s argument that it is immune to liability under Government Code section 850.4. Whether Defendant is immune in this case is highly impactful on the length and expense of a full trial adjudicating the remaining issues, as prevailing would dispose of the case against Defendant completely. Bifurcation would permit the issue of liability to be tried prior to the issue of damages — which is highly desirable in this instance "to avoid wasting court time in cases where the plaintiff loses on the liability issue” in addition to promoting settlement Plaintiff prevails on the liability issue. (Id. at fn. 8.) Thus, bifurcation would allow the parties to resolve the pivotal issue of liability with the expectation the parties will resolve remaining disputed issues by agreement. (Sagi Plumbing v. Chartered Construction Corp (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 443, 449.) As a result, the Court finds it is appropriate to grant Defendant’s motion. RULINGDefendant’s Motion to Bifurcate is GRANTED.