 Case Number:  24NNCV02798    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to StayCase Name: Ashley Sanchez v. Josh Adam KlinghofferMoving Party: Defendant Josh Adam KlinghofferResponding Party: Plaintiff Ashley Sanchez, in her individual capacity and as Successor in Interest to Israel SanchezTentative Ruling: GRANT IN PARTBACKGROUNDThis is a wrongful death case in Plaintiff alleges a car driven by Defendant struck and killed Decedent Israel Sanchez (“Decedent”). Following the accident criminal charges were brought against Defendant for Vehicular Manslaughter Without Gross Negligence and are still pending in the Alhambra Courthouse under case number 24AHCM01336-01. (Motion to Stay, p. 3.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendant argues that the interests of justice require that this Court stay the civil proceedings pending the final determination of the criminal action. Defendant argues a stay will not prejudice Plaintiff, that Defendant will be unable to defend the civil action while the criminal proceedings are pending, and that there are no additional persons with an interest in the lawsuit who are not parties. Defendant also argues it is in the interest of the public to stay proceedings to prioritize the government's allocation of resources to prosecute its criminal action rather. (Motion to Stay, p. 5.)OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues the interests of justice would be undermined by imposing a blanket stay on this matter, as it would bar Plaintiff from conducting basic discovery into non-privileged matters. (Opposition, p. 4.)REPLYDefendant argues that it is in the interest of justice that this Court stay the civil proceedings pending the final determination of the criminal action because Plaintiff will not be prejudiced by a stay of the civil proceeding or a stay of discovery directed at Defendant, whereas Defendant will be prejudiced by having to defend a civil matter and criminal matter simultaneously. (Reply, p. 2.)ANALYSISI. Motion to Stay Proceedings“Trial courts generally have the inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.” (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.) In deciding whether to stay proceedings when a civil defendant faces parallel criminal charges, courts consider: “(1) the interest of the plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or any particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on defendants; (3) the convenience of the court in the management of its cases, and the efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending civil and criminal litigation.” (Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal. App. 4th 876, 885.) “[T]he privilege is properly invoked whenever the witness’s answers ‘would furnish a link in the chain of evidence needed to prosecute’ the witness for a criminal offense.” (People v. Cudjo (1993) 6 Cal.4th 585, 617.) “[I]t need only be evident from the implications of the question, in the setting in which it is asked, that a responsive answer to the question or an explanation of why it cannot be answered might be dangerous because injurious disclosure could result.” (Id.) A court may stay civil proceedings pending the outcome of parallel criminal proceedings in its own discretion based on the particular circumstances and competing interests involved. (Klein v. Sup. Ct. (Thomas) (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 894, 905); (see Avant! Corp. v. Sup.Ct. (Nequist) (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885 (enumerating various factors to be considered).) The court may also stay discovery until disposition of any pending criminal proceedings so that defendant can no longer claim a Fifth Amendment privilege. (Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686, 689.) The Avant! case provides factors to consider on a motion to stay, including: (l) the interest of the opposing party to proceed expeditiously with litigation or potential prejudice to them caused by delay; (2) the burden any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on moving party; (3) the convenience of the court and the efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending civil and criminal litigation. (Avant! Corp. v. Sup.Ct. (Nequist) (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885.) Applying the Avant! factors, the Court finds that a stay of discovery directed to Defendant is appropriate to safeguard Defendant’s Fifth Amendment interest.The first Avant! factor disfavors staying proceedings, as doing so imposes risks that witnesses’ memories fade, or they may relocate or become unavailable during the intervening time. (Opposition, p. 4.) Plaintiff here identifies her foremost concern is in establishing insurance coverage and the potential civil liability of Doe defendants, “which will [be] [sic] the major liability fight in this case.” (Id. at 4-5.) Plaintiff cites the need to conduct discovery into “any and all avenues of potential direct and vicarious liability theories that do not bear on Klinghoffer’s individual criminal liability,” suggesting that ongoing investigation and discovery is necessary in order to timely establish the basis for additional liability theories and to identify additional defendants.  This information could indeed become more difficult to obtain with the passage of time.  The Court thus concludes that Plaintiff would be prejudiced by a complete stay of the case.The second Avant! factor strongly weighs in favor of granting a stay, at least with regard as to discovery directed to Defendant. Courts have held that civil defendants facing possible criminal prosecution involving the same facts as the civil action have no obligation to disclose to the Plaintiffs information they reasonably believe might be used against them in the criminal proceeding. (Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686). Notwithstanding that this case considers an actual criminal prosecution, the discovery requests Plaintiff has served Defendant undoubtedly implicates his Fifth Amendment. Notable here is that many of Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions relate to Defendant’s fault, negligence, causation of injuries, alleged violations of various vehicle codes, or other facts relating to the accident that can potentially implicate Defendant criminally. (See Reply, p. 24, Decl. Kendall Craver Para. 2, Ex. “A.”) The Special Interrogatories include questions of what drugs Defendant was took at the time, alongside other questions with clear implications on his criminal liability. (See Reply, p. 20, Decl. Kendall Craver Para. 2, Ex. “A”) The Form Interrogatories seek information concerning Defendant’s investigation of the incident, factual contentions, and proof of affirmative defenses. (See Decl. Kendall Craver ¿2, Ex. “A.”) The Requests for Production seek all statements given about the incident, all investigation reports in connection with the incident, the event data recorder and all documents concerning the incident. (See Decl. Kendall Craver Para. 2, Ex. “A.”) Plaintiff’s discovery forces Defendant into a predicament wherein fully engaging with Plaintiff’s discovery would risk implicating Defendant criminally, as engaging with discovery requests can waive Fifth amendment privilege. (Brown v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701) (holding that civil defendants waived their Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination by failing to raise it as an objection to interrogatories within the prescribed 30-day period.) As a result, not granting a stay would burden Defendant significantly — requiring him to choose between waiving his Fifth Amendment privilege or accepting the civil consequences of invoking it and remaining silent. (See Blackburn v. Superior Court, 21 Cal.App.4th 414.) The remaining Avant! factors — the efficient use of judicial resources, the interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation, and the public interest in the pending civil and criminal litigation — are less significant here. The judicial economy is not served by a stay, as the case will ultimately need to be litigated and it will not necessarily be more efficient to manage the case at a later date.  The interests of people who are not parties to the civil action, namely the family members Plaintiff, does weigh against granting a stay, but not so strongly to overcome the prejudice to Defendant a stay would cause. The public interest here both favors granting a stay in proceedings to allow Defendant to first litigate his criminal case and denying the stay in order to allow Plaintiff to prosecute the civil matter. While the Avant! factors favor granting a stay, a full stay of proceedings is not appropriate. Rather, staying discovery directed to Defendant pending the final determination of the criminal action provides a tailored remedy that balances the interests at stake. Doing so safeguards Defendant’s Fifth Amendment interests in the pending the criminal action without preventing Plaintiff from engaging in discovery directed at other parties before memories fade and collecting evidence before it can be lost to time.  The Court thus finds staying discovery as to Defendant until the conclusion of the criminal action is appropriate.Defendant’s alternative proposed interests do not convince the Court otherwise. Defendant’s argument that defending two cases simultaneously would divide Defendant’s resources is not convincing, as Defendant’s concern is largely ameliorated by the fact that it is his attorneys, not Defendant himself, who will be primarily responsible for defending the civil suit.  Though Defendant may occasionally be involved in assisting counsel is not so substantial a burden on Defendant’s time or resources to prevent him from defending the criminal action. The Court therefore declines to stay all proceedings on this basis. The Court accordingly finds that staying discovery directed toward Defendant pending the final determination of the criminal action is appropriate. RULINGDefendant’s motion to stay is GRANTED IN PART, as to discovery directed at Defendant pending the final determination of the criminal action.