  Case Number:  24STCV06042    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative RulingMOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Junkers2Jewels, LLC and Matthew Pelanne.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant La-Doris
McClaney, Trustee of the La-Doris McClaney Family Trust
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/11/24: Complaint filed.
·        
03/25/24: Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
breached a purchase agreement for a parcel of real property by unilaterally
cancelling escrow. 
 
Plaintiffs move to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories propounded to Defendant La-Doris McClaney,
Trustee of the La-Doris McClaney Family Trust.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
            
Plaintiffs move to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories propounded to Defendant La-Doris McClaney,
Trustee of the La-Doris McClaney Family Trust.
 
            Although Plaintiffs seek to compel further responses to requests for
production to which Defendant has objected, Plaintiffs have not included a sworn
declaration describing any efforts to informally resolve this dispute, as
required by Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310. Nor have Plaintiffs
provided a Separate Statement in support of the motion, as required by
California Rule of Court 3.1345(c) describing each request, each response, and
the factual and legal reasons why a further response is required.Further, the motion lacks a proper Notice
of Motion setting forth the date and time of the hearing, the nature of the
order sought, and the grounds for the order sought, as required by Rules of
Court 3.1110 and 3.1112(a). In fact, Plaintiffs’ motion is entirely unsupported
by evidence and does not provide the interrogatories and responses that are at
issue, instead offering argumentative summaries in the body of the moving
papers. Indeed, Defendant has objected to the motion as improper based on these
extensive procedural deficiencies. Moreover, although Plaintiffs have attempted
to address these deficiencies in their reply brief, Plaintiffs offer no
explanation for the failure to meet these basic procedural requirements in
their moving papers. The Court is therefore not inclined to excuse the failure
to provide proper notice to Defendant of the issues raised in the motion.
 
            Even if Plaintiffs had complied with
other procedural requirements, Plaintiffs’ moving papers suggest that the
motion is not timely brought. A motion to compel further responses to
interrogatories must be served “within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).) The 45-day requirement is
mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) Plaintiffs’ moving papers did not indicate when the
special interrogatories were served on Defendant. Defendant’s opposition states
that the responses were served on July 18, 2024, referencing an exhibit which
was apparently not included with Plaintiffs’ filings. (Opposition p.5:7-8.)
Thus, the time to bring this motion ordinarily expired on September 4, 2024.
While Plaintiffs’ counsel asserts in reply that the parties agreed in writing
to “pause” the motion deadline during the pendency of settlement negotiations,
he has not offered any supporting correspondence as evidence. (See Declaration
of Phoenix Thottam ISO Reply ¶ 2.) 
 
            In sum,
Plaintiffs have failed to comply with the most basic procedural requirements
for a motion to compel further responses and have failed to demonstrate that
the motion was timely brought such that the Court has jurisdiction to grant the
relief sought. Plaintiffs are therefore not entitled to an order compelling
further responses.
 
As a final matter, Defendant
requests sanctions against Plaintiffs and their counsel for bringing an
unmeritorious motion to compel further responses. Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 authorizes the Court to impose
monetary sanctions on any attorney engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process by requiring that attorney to pay the reasonable expenses incurred by
anyone because of that conduct. Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(d)
requires the Court to impose sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. Here, Defendant’s
counsel states that he has incurred 2.5 hours of attorney time at his billed
rate of $985 per hour. (Declaration of Paul Seeley ISO Opp. ¶¶ 3, 5.) However,
Defendant is seeking only $2,000 in sanctions, which would be equivalent to just
over 2 hours of attorney time at the same rate. The Court finds this request
reflects the reasonable expenses incurred in opposing a motion of this nature
and will therefore award the sanctions sought. Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is DENIED.
 
Defendant’s request for sanctions
is GRANTED against Plaintiffs and their counsel, jointly and severally, in the
amount of $2,000. Payment to be made to Defendant’s attorney within 20 days of
this order.
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 21,
2024                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 