 Case Number:  BC545169    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative RulingMOTION
TO DISQUALIFY RICHARD SHERMAN & JOHN BEGAKIS AS COUNSEL FOR DEFENDANTS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Cenigent Health Enhancement Medical Institute
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Dan
Mintz, Bing Wu, DMB Entertainment and H2F Entertainment, Inc. 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/08/14: Complaint
filed. 
·        
05/06/16: First
Amended Complaint filed. 
·        
09/06/16: Second
Amended Complaint filed. 
·        
11/17/17: Case stayed
pending arbitration. 
·        
01/14/19: Arbitration
ordered terminated. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            Plaintiff allegedly provided medical
treatment and medical research services to Defendants. Defendants have not paid
outstanding invoices for such services totaling over $1.5 million. 
 
            Plaintiff
moves to disqualify Richard Sherman of Sherman Law Group, APLC; and John
Begakis, of Altview Law Group, LLC, as counsel for Defendants. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Disqualify is
DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to disqualify Richard Sherman of
Sherman Law Group, APLC; and John Begakis, of Altview Law Group, LLC, as
counsel for Defendants on the basis. that Attorney Sherman is in
possession of confidential documents received from Plaintiff for a previous
consultation which pertain to Plaintiff’s claims in this action. 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
128(a)(5) states that “[e]very court shall have the power...to control in
furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all
other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in
every matter pertaining thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(5).) “‘A trial
court's authority to disqualify an attorney derives from the power inherent in
every court [t]o control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its
ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a
judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto.
[Citations.]’ [citation] ‘. . . The paramount concern must be to preserve
public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of
the bar. The important right to counsel of one's choice must yield to ethical
considerations that affect the fundamental principles of our judicial process.’
[citation]” (Kirk v. First American Title Ins. Co. (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 776, 791-792.) 
 
In ruling on a motion to
disqualify, the court should weigh: (1) the party's right to counsel of choice;
(2) the attorney's interest in representing a client; (3) the financial burden
on a client of change of counsel; (4) any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification
motion; and (5) the principal that the fair resolution of disputes requires
vigorous representation of parties by independent counsel. (Mills Land &
Water Co. v. Golden West Refining Co.  (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 116,
126.) Whether an attorney should be disqualified is a matter addressed to the
sound discretion of the trial court. (Henriksen v. Great American Savings
& Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.) 
 
Material Factual
History
 
            During the pendency of this action,
Plaintiff has various attorneys and firms as counsel of record. As of the
filing of the Second Amended Complaint, Plaintiff was represented by Lewis
Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith, LLP. (See SAC.) During the course of LBBS’s
representation, the parties were in mediation with the Hon. Candace Cooper
(Ret.) (Declaration of Lida Ghaderi ISO Mot. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff contends that, as
part of that mediation, LBBS prepared a “Confidential Mediation Brief” for
submission to the mediator, which was not shared with Defendants or their
counsel. (Id.) LBBS eventually sought to be relieved as counsel, and the
Court granted that relief, over Plaintiff’s objection, on February 27, 2019.
(See Ruling on Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.) Plaintiff then retained Mark
Anchor Albert & Associates as counsel as of April 5, 2019. (Notice of
Appearance filed April 5, 2019.) Plaintiff’s CEO, Lida Ghaderi, states that on
May 13, 2021, Attorney Jason Riddick of Albert & Associates sent Plaintiff
a case analysis memorandum, which purportedly summarized the case and the
evidence acquired to that point. (Ghaderi Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
            On July 20, 2021, Albert & Associates moved to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiff, citing irreconcilable differences and a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship.
(Declaration In Support of Motion to be Relieved filed July 20, 2021 ¶ 2.) In
response, Dr. Ghaderi contacted Attorney Steve Glickman later that same day to
discuss a potential legal malpractice claim against Albert & Associates. (Id.
¶ 5.) As part of those discussions, which occurred over email and telephone
into the next day, Dr. Ghaderi sent an email to Attorney Glickman regarding her
theory of the malpractice claim and including the Mediation Brief and Case
Analysis Memorandum as context. (Id.) Attorney Glickman referred Plaintiff
to Sherman Law Group for representation in the underlying case against
Defendants. (Id. ¶ 6.) 
            Dr. Ghaderi contacted Sherman Law
Group on July 21, 2021 and had three telephone conversations with Attorney
Sherman on that date. (Ghaderi Decl. ¶ 7.) The first conversation at 3:00 p.m. lasted
for approximately one minute before dropping, apparently due to poor connection
on Dr. Ghaderi’s cell phone. (Id.) The second call was made at 3:01 p.m.
and lasted approximately 10 minutes. (Id.) The third call took place
immediately after the second call, following a switch from Dr. Ghaderi’s cell
phone to a land line, and lasted approximately 23 minutes. (Id.) Dr.
Ghaderi contends that she discussed this case, provided details regarding the
claims and defenses, and raised possible issues created by Plaintiff’s prior
counsel. (Id.) Dr. Ghaderi states that Attorney Sherman requested a copy
of the Second Amended Complaint, the Mediation Brief, and the Case Analysis
Memorandum. (Ghaderi Decl. ¶ 8.) As of December 5, 2023, Attorney Sherman had
little recollection of the telephone conversation, but “believe[d]” that it was
concerned with a separate matter, and not the instant litigation. (Ghaderi
Decl. Exh. B. ¶ 7.) Regardless, Dr. Ghaderi provided those documents by email
using a revision of the email to Attorney Glickman, with the subject line “From
Dr. Ghaderi – seeking representation legal malpractice.” (Id. ¶ 9.) Dr.
Ghaderi contends this subject line is erroneous. (Id.) 
 
            On July 21, 2021, at 6:54 p.m., Attorney Sherman
responded, stating his estimated time to review the documents and informing Dr.
Ghaderi that Attorney Sherman would have to charge for the time if he were to
review the materials. (Ghaderi Decl. ¶ 10.) In response, Dr. Ghaderi did not
expressly agree and instead inquired about Sherman Law Group’s fee structure
and whether, if the firm accepted the case, the representation would be on a
contingent fee basis. (Id. ¶ 11.) Separately, at 6:21 p.m., Dr. Ghaderi
sought Attorney Sherman’s advice regarding a proposed approach to a pending ex
parte hearing on July 22. (Id. ¶ 12.) At 6:47 p.m., Attorney Sherman
responded to Dr. Ghaderi’s proposed approach with “yes that is all good.” (Id.)
Dr. Ghaderi states that later that night, on July 21, she received Defendants’
opposition to Plaintiff’s pending ex parte and emailed Attorney Sherman
seeking further guidance. (Id. ¶ 13.) The next day, July 22, 2021, Dr. Ghaderi,
having not heard back, followed up regarding the ex parte and asked
Attorney Sherman to disregard her request regarding consultation for the ex
parte hearing because she was driving to the courthouse and unable to
access email. (Id. ¶ 14.) After the hearing, Dr. Ghaderi and Attorney
Sherman spoke for approximately four minutes regarding the ex parte hearing.
(¶ 15.) Dr. Ghaderi also states she asked again about Attorney Sherman’s fee
structure, to which Attorney Sherman did not respond. (Id.) On July 23,
2021, Dr. Ghaderi again emailed Attorney Sherman, repeating her inquiry
regarding fee structure (i.e., whether the representation would be contingent.)
(Id. ¶ 16.) Plaintiff
does not directly describe the conclusion of those discussions, but on November
5, 2021, Plaintiff filed a substitution of attorney naming Doyle Schafer
McMahon, LLP as counsel of record. (November 5, 2021 Substitution of Attorney.)

 
            On August 30, 2022, Attorney John
Begakis of Altview Law Group substituted into this action as counsel of record
for all Defendants. (August 30, 2022 Substitutions of Attorney.) Defendants
filed a Notice of Association of Counsel naming Richard Sherman and Sherman Law
Group as co-counsel on July 20, 2023, nearly two years to the day from
Plaintiff’s first correspondence with Attorney Sherman. (July 20, 2023 Notice
of Association of Counsel.) 
 
Analysis of Basis
for Disqualification
 
            Plaintiff contends that (1) Sherman
Law Group had access to confidential or privileged material regarding the same
matter precluding it from representing Defendants; and (2) that
disqualification is imputed vicariously to Attorney Begakis and Altview Law
Group. 
 
As Plaintiff states, a lawyer has an absolute duty to “maintain inviolate
the confidence, and at every peril to himself or herself to preserve the
secrets, of his or her client. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 6068(e)(1).) Under Rule
of Professional Conduct 1.18(b) “[e]ven when no lawyer-client relationship
ensues, a lawyer who has communicated with a prospective client shall not use
or reveal information protected by Business and Professions Code section 6068,
subdivision (e) and rule 1.6 that the lawyer learned as a result of the
consultation,” except in the same manner as would be permissible for a former
client. (Cal. R. Prof. Conduct Rule 1.18(b).) Further, a lawyer subject to
paragraph (b) of Rule 1.18 “shall not represent a client with interests materially
adverse to those of a prospective client in the same or a substantially related
matter if the lawyer received from the prospective client information protected
by Business and Professions Code section 6068, subdivision (e) and rule 1.6
that is material to the matter[.]” (Cal. R. Prof. Conduct Rule 1.18(c).) Any
prohibition from representation is imputed to any lawyers in the same firm with
which the prohibited lawyer is associated. (Id.) Representation of the
affected client is permissible notwithstanding the prohibition if either (1)
both the affected client and prospective client give informed written consent;
or (2) “the lawyer who received the information took reasonable measures to avoid
exposure to more information than was reasonably necessary to determine whether
to represent the prospective client; and (i) the prohibited lawyer is timely
screened from any participation in the matter and is apportioned no part of the
fee therefrom; and (ii) written notice is promptly given to the prospective
client to enable the prospective client to ascertain compliance with the
provisions of this rule.” (Id. Rule 1.18(d).) 
 
            Plaintiff contends that the duty of
confidentiality attached because Plaintiff sought and received legal advice
from Attorney Sherman regarding a portion of this action, notwithstanding the
inability of Plaintiff and Sherman Law Group to agree on a fee arrangement.  As stated by the California Supreme Court: 
 “‘The fiduciary relationship existing between
lawyer and client extends to preliminary consultations by a prospective client
with a view to retention of the lawyer, although actual employment does not
result.’ (Westinghouse Elec. Corp. v. Kerr-McGee Corp. (7th Cir. 1978)
580 F.2d 1311, 1319, fn. omitted.) ‘When a party seeking legal advice consults
an attorney at law and secures that advice, the relation of attorney and client
is established prima facie.’ (Perkins v. West Coast Lumber Co. (1900)
129 Cal. 427, 429 [62 P. 57].) 'The absence of an agreement with respect to the
fee to be charged does not prevent the relationship from arising.’ (Miller
v. Metzinger (1979) 91 Cal. App. 3d 31, 39 [154 Cal. Rptr. 22].)”
 
The primary concern is whether and to what
extent the attorney acquired confidential information. (See Henriksen v.
Great American Savings & Loan (1992) 11 Cal. App. 4th 109, 113-114 [14
Cal. Rptr. 2d 184].) That question is not necessarily answered by the amount of
time involved. “Even the briefest conversation between a lawyer and a client
can result in the disclosure of confidences.” (Novo Terapeutisk, etc. v.
Baxter Travenol Lab. (7th Cir. 1979) 607 F.2d 186, 195.) Consequently, a
formal retainer agreement is not required before attorneys acquire fiduciary
obligations of loyalty and confidentiality, which begin when attorney-client
discussions proceed beyond initial or peripheral contacts. An attorney
represents a client-for purposes of a conflict of interest analysis when the
attorney knowingly obtains material confidential information from the client
and renders legal advice or services as a result. (See Beery v. State Bar,
supra, 43 Cal.3d at p. 812; Henriksen v. Great American Savings &
Loan, supra, 11 Cal.App.4th at pp. 113-114; Miller v. Metzinger
(1979) 91 Cal. App. 3d 31, 39-40 [154 Cal. Rptr. 22].)
 
(People ex rel
Dept. of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc (1999) 20 Cal.4th
1135, 1147-48 (“SpeeDee”) [quoting Beery v. State Bar (1987) 43
Cal.3d 802, 811-12].) Plaintiff also relies on Westinghouse Elec. Corp. v.
Kerr McGee Corp., cited in SpeeDee, as bearing on whether a client
had a reasonable expectation of an attorney client relationship. (See Westinghouse
Elec. Corp. v. Kerr-McGee Corp. (7th Cir. 1978) 580 F.2d 1311.) This
opinion, which does not concern California law and originated in a separate
jurisdiction, is of limited persuasive force. 
 
            Plaintiff contends that the undisputed facts establish
that Dr. Ghaderi approached Attorney Sherman to discuss his representation of
Plaintiff in this action, provided Attorney Sherman with confidential
information in the form of a Mediation Brief and Case Analysis Memorandum, during
which time she sought—and obtained—legal advice regarding how to conduct
herself at an ex parte hearing. In opposition, the Sherman Firm contends
that, first, Plaintiff was seeking assistance regarding a potential legal
malpractice claim, and not the instant action. This claim is not supported by
competent evidence beyond the subject line in Dr. Ghaderi’s July 21, 2021 email,
as, by his own admission, Attorney Sherman does not recall the specifics of his
conversation with Dr. Ghaderi. (Declaration of Richard Lloyd Sherman ISO Opp. ¶
3; Exh. A. ¶ 7.) Moreover, a legal malpractice
claim regarding failures of prior counsel in the instant case is, on its face,
a substantially related matter, as a critical element of any malpractice claim
with respect to causation and damages is the case-within-a-case analysis, i.e.,
whether “but for the alleged negligence of the defendant
attorney, the plaintiff would have obtained a more favorable judgment or
settlement in the action in which the malpractice allegedly occurred.” (Viner
v. Sweet (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1232, 1241 [emphasis in original].) The Court is therefore not persuaded by
Defendants’ attempts to distinguish the malpractice issue from the underlying
litigation. 
Defendants also dismiss the substance of Dr. Ghaderi’s statements as
hearsay to claim that Plaintiff’s motion is not supported by admissible
evidence. Leaving aside the failure to formally object to Plaintiff’s evidence,
Defendants’ objection is not well-taken, as the statements described by Dr.
Ghaderi are being offered to establish that they were made, not to demonstrate
the truth of their contents. (Evid. Code § 1200.)
 
            More persuasively, Defendants
contend that, by Plaintiff’s admission, Attorney Sherman indicated that he
would not review any of the documents provided by Dr. Ghaderi without payment
in advance, and the continued discussions regarding fee structure demonstrate
that he was not paid. (See Ghaderi Decl. ¶ 10.) Indeed, Attorney Sherman
categorically denies reading the materials sent by Dr. Ghaderi. (Sherman Decl.
¶ 3.) Thus, Defendants argue they did not obtain any material confidential
information that led to them providing legal advice. As Defendants state, “[m]ere
exposure to the confidences of an adversary does not, standing alone, warrant
disqualification.” (Oaks Mgmt. Corp. v. Superior Ct. (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 453, 467.) Although Plaintiff contends that Oaks is
factually distinguishable, that contention is not material to Defendants’
argument. Moreover, Plaintiff’s assertion that Attorney Sherman’s denial that
he read the information is immaterial is not supported by the authority on
which Plaintiff relies. In Yorn v. Superior Court (1979) 90 Cal. App. 3d
669, the attorney against whom disqualification was sought in a criminal
prosecution admitted that he had advised one defendant on matters related to
the charges and that the former client had confided potentially relevant
information, before representing the other defendant in the proceeding. (Yorn
v. Superior Court (1979) 90 Cal. App. 3d 669, 672-73.) Nothing in Yorn
establishes that the exposure of confidential materials to an attorney which
are not reviewed is sufficient to warrant disqualification. 
 
In response, Plaintiff
contends that, because a “substantial relationship” exists between the prior
consultation and the instant action, the Court must conclusively presume that
Attorney Sherman had access to material confidential information and order
disqualification. The Court is not persuaded. Plaintiff’s contention rests on authority
concerning the “substantial relationship” test with respect to conflicts of
interest as to past and current clients. (See, e.g., Henriksen v. Great
American Savings & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113-114;
Kirk v. First American Title Ins. Co (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 776, 796-797.) Plaintiff
is neither: Plaintiff is a former prospective client who is asserting
that the duty of confidentiality has attached based on the prior consultation. Plaintiff,
in order to demonstrate this attachment, must establish that Attorney Sherman
had access to material confidential information so as to substantively create an attorney-client relationship in that respect. To presume that
access on the basis that Plaintiff’s consultation was an attorney-client
relationship with a substantial relationship to this action is to offer a
circular argument. What is more, the only advice referred to involves Attorney
Sherman’s suggestion that Dr. Ghaderi tell the Court she had a scheduled
appointment with a new attorney. This does not constitute substantive advice
but rather nothing “beyond initial or peripheral contacts.” (SpeeDee, supra,
at pp. 1147-1148.) 
In summary, the Court concludes, despite Attorney Sherman’s conclusory
denials, that the July 2021 preliminary consultation pertains, at minimum, to a
matter which is substantially related to this one, but that Plaintiff has not
demonstrated that Attorney Sherman had access to material confidential
information so as to create a duty of confidentiality which warrants his
disqualification. 
 
Because Plaintiff has not demonstrated that Attorney Sherman should be
disqualified, it has also failed to demonstrate that Attorney Begakis should be
disqualified. Even if disqualification were warranted as to Sherman Law Group,
Plaintiff cites absolutely no authority, and the Court is aware of none, which
establishes that attorneys working for separate firms, rather than the same
firm, should be vicariously disqualified in the event that one attorney has
access to material confidential information. (See National Grange of Order
of Patrons of Husbandry v. California Guild (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 706, 709
[disqualification affirmed based on law firm’s hiring of an attorney who
had previously represented adverse party]; Pound v. DeMera (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 70, 76 [disqualification imputed to entire firm employing
attorney].) Thus, even if Plaintiff had carried its burden as to Attorney
Sherman and his firm, Plaintiff would not be entitled to disqualification as to
Attorney Begakis. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Disqualify is DENIED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 21,
2024                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later
than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing. All interested parties must be
copied on the email. It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative
ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By
submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be
present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt
the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in
whole or in part.