  Case Number:  19STCV11399    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  X Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 8, 2024                                        TRIAL DATE: N/A 
                                                           
CASE:                         SHIN YANG, et al. vs
KAZN AM 1300, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV11399
 
 
 
MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT
 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Shin P. Yang, Esq.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendants KAZN AM 1300, Yvonne Liu, and Arthur
Liu
 
SERVICE:                              Electronic service
on April 18, 2024 (untimely; service no later than April 16 for May 8 hearing)
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Plaintiff seeks to enforce an oral settlement
with Defendants that was put on the record on March 19, 2024.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Defendant’s alleged breaches
of advertising and interview contracts.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s motion to enforce settlement
is DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
As a preliminary matter, Plaintiff’s
April 18, 2024 motion was not timely served and filed for the May 8, 2024 hearing
date.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd.
(b) [service at least sixteen court days before the hearing].)  Although Defendants object to the late filing
(Opposition at p. 5), no prejudice is shown, and Defendants were able to thoroughly
oppose the motion on the merits.
 
Plaintiff seeks to enforce an oral settlement
with Defendants that was put on the record on March 19, 2024.  During jury deliberations, Plaintiff and
Defendants orally settled this matter and the terms of the settlement were placed
on the record.  The parties exchanged drafts
of a written settlement and release, but Defendants asserted that Plaintiff had
breached the agreement and therefore they would not perform the terms of the settlement.  (Yang Decl. ¶¶ 4-5; Lee Decl. ¶¶ 11-12.)
 
A court may enter judgment pursuant
to the terms of a settlement when the settlement is in writing and signed by the
parties or was made orally before the court. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (a).) 
Strict compliance with the statutory requirements is necessary before a court
can enforce a settlement agreement.  (Sully-Miller
Contracting Co. v. Gledson/Cashman Construction, Inc. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th
30, 37.)  The party seeking to enforce a settlement
“must first establish the agreement at issue was set forth ‘in a writing signed
by the parties’ (§ 664.6) or was made orally before the court.  [Citation.]” 
(Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 304.)
 
Defendants argue that the Court lacks
jurisdiction to enforce the settlement because Plaintiff did not abide by the Court’s
March 19, 2024 order, which stated, “For the Court to retain jurisdiction pursuant
to the Code of Civil Procedures section 664.6 the settlement must be filed with
the court and placed under seal.”  (Opposition
at pp. 5-6.)  However, the Court has not yet
lost jurisdiction.  This action is still pending
and has not been dismissed.
 
According to Plaintiff, “It is evident
that the Parties/litigants stipulated and entered the essential terms of the settlement
contract: 1. Paying $250,000 to Plaintiff within 30 days (of March 19, 2024), and
2. Providing one year free radio advertisement to Plaintiff per the same terms of
the 2019 contracts.”  (Motion at p. 4.)  The proposed judgment is for $250,000.00 in damages,
prejudgment interest at a rate of ten-percent, and “defendants provide plaintiff
1 year free radio ads per exh. 2 and exh. 6.” 
The proposed judgment does not attach Exhibits 2 and 6.
 
Plaintiff has not sufficiently established
the terms of the oral settlement.  Plaintiff
purports to provide “the reporter’s transcript reflecting an oral stipulation in
the court settlement proceeding.”  (Yang Decl.
¶ 3; id., Ex. 1.)  This exhibit is
not a certified copy of the transcript.  Instead,
it is an email from the court reporter to Joseph Pierry, James Pierry, and Ginam
Lee.  It contains text that resembles the
format of a reporter’s transcript, but it is not actually a certified copy, despite
being sent by the court reporter. 
Plaintiff was not a party to this email and has not properly authenticated
it.
 
Even assuming that this email accurately
sets forth the terms that were made orally before the Court, Plaintiff’s proposed
judgment does not contain the correct terms.
 
According to the transcript, Plaintiff’s
then-counsel (Mr. Pierry) stated that the terms were a $250,000 payment within 30
days, “and one year free advertising pursuant to the same terms of the contract
that was in effect that Mr. Yang entered into. 
It’s the advertisement, not the infomercial contract.”  Defendants’ counsel added, “the advertising will
include Mr. Pierry’s office and Mr. Yang s office.  That’s a condition.”  Plaintiff’s current counsel (Mr. Carleo) added,
“Also confidentiality.”
 
Plaintiff curiously argues that “the
defendants’ requested ‘confidentiality’ clause should be denied.”  (Motion at p. 5.)  But when placing the terms on the record, it was
Plaintiff’s current counsel—who also filed this motion—who interjected with, “Also
confidentiality.”  Additionally, the Court’s
March 19, 2024 order states that “the terms of the confidential settlement are placed
on the record by plaintiff’s counsel.”
 
Plaintiff also argues that the free
advertising includes both Exhibit 2 (advertisement) and Exhibit 6 (interview).  (Motion at pp. 6-7.)  Again, this argument is puzzling when it was Plaintiff’s
then-counsel who clarified, “It’s the advertisement, not the infomercial contract.”  When the Court repeated the terms, both Plaintiff’s
and Defendants’ counsel confirmed that it was free advertising under the terms of
only “Contract Two.”  (Yang Decl., Ex. 1 at
p. 2.)
 
Plaintiff’s proposed judgment, which
omits the confidentiality term and improperly includes Exhibit 6 as part of the
free advertising, is not a judgment in accordance with the terms of the oral settlement
made before the Court.
 
The motion to enforce settlement is denied.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s motion to enforce settlement
is DENIED.
 
 
            
Dated:   May 8, 2024                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court