  Case Number:  22STCV13629    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
            



JANET
  HAYWOOD, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
STEPHEN
  CHO, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV13629 [c/w 20STCV34671]




Hearing Date:


October 31, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
SPECIAL MOTION
  TO STRIKE



 
Background
On April
25, 2022, Plaintiffs Janet Haywood and 8424 Western Plaza LLC filed this action
against Defendants Stephen Cho and Creative Recovery Concepts (jointly, “Defendants”).

On
February 9, 2023, Janet Haywood (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) in this action against Defendants, alleging causes of action
for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, and (3) conspiracy to commit fraud.   
In FAC,
Plaintiff alleges that in 2017, she retained Stephen Cho to represent her in a
lawsuit filed in the Los Angeles County Superior Court known as “Genus v. Haywood,” a dispute arising out of an improved parcel of
residential property owned and/or controlled by Plaintiff and located at 10427
S. Denker Avenue, Los Angeles, California (the “Denker Property”). (FAC, ¶ 7.) Plaintiff
alleges that Stephen
Cho “aggressively litigated the case, in the
process conducting elaborate unnecessary Discovery as well as engaging in
unnecessary litigation activities that were not prudent given the ‘big picture’
economic constraints of the litigation, with the legal fees increasing
exorbitantly with the passing of each month…” (FAC, ¶ 8.) 
            Plaintiff alleges
that Stephen Cho “pressured and coerced [Plaintiff] to participate…in a
Settlement Conference,” and that during the Settlement Conference, Plaintiff
“caved into the active efforts of [Stephen Cho] to induce if not compel [Plaintiff]
to settle the dispute…” (FAC, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff further alleges that Stephen Cho
falsely informed Plaintiff that she “faced the prospect of being incarcerated
by the trial judge” if Plaintiff did not relinquish her interest in the Denker
Property for the amount of $650,000.00. (FAC, ¶ 12.) 
In addition, Plaintiff alleges that after the
settlement was memorialized, Stephen Cho “passed off his large Bill for
attorneys fees to [Creative Recovery Concepts], who aggressively sought payment
of the attorneys fees from [Plaintiff]…” (FAC, ¶ 14.) Plaintiff alleges that
“[t]he Draconian collection actions of [Creative Recovery Concepts] confirmed [Plaintiff’s]
suspicions that the reason that [Stephen Cho] racked up such and [sic]
exorbitant amount of unnecessary attorneys fees when he intended to induce
settlement was because [Stephen Cho] was overtly engaging in actions to
manifest the and act out a [conspiratorial scheme] to use [Creative Recovery
Concepts] to collect aggressively his exorbitant and worthless attorneys fees…”
(FAC, ¶ 15.) 
On July 6, 2023, M. Stephen Cho, Esq.,
erroneously
sued as Stephen Cho (herein, “Cho”) filed a
special motion to strike pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16. The motion is
unopposed. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The Court grants Cho’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibits A, B,
and D-Q. The Court denies Cho’s request as to Exhibit C. 
Discussion
The
anti-SLAPP statute is “a
mechanism through which complaints that arise from the exercise of free speech
rights can be evaluated at an early stage of the litigation process and
resolved expeditiously.” (Simmons
v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1073 [internal quotations omitted].) Courts use a two-step process for determining whether
an action is a strategic lawsuit against public participation, or a SLAPP.
First, the court determines whether the defendant has established that the
challenged claim arises from protected speech. (Equilon
Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.) If such a showing has been made, the court “determines
whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the
claim.” (Ibid.)
A.    Cho’s Assertion that the FAC is a Sham Complaint
As an initial matter, Cho argues in the
instant motion that “the FAC should be disregarded because it is a sham
Complaint.” (Mot. at p. 11:2-3.) Cho argues that “[t]he plaintiff
has not (because she cannot) explained why she has changed the theories of
liability and omitted harmful allegations in the FAC as compared to the
original complaint. As such, Mr. Cho submits that the court should disregard
the FAC in its entirety or in the alternative read the malpractice and
conversion/illegal levy allegations into the FAC.” (Mot. at p. 11:22-26.) 
As
an initial matter, it is unclear on what legal basis Cho is requesting that the
Court “disregard the FAC in its entirety or in the alternative read the
malpractice and conversion/illegal levy allegations into the FAC.” (Mot. at p.
11:23-26.) As set forth above, the instant motion is captioned as a “Special
Motion to Strike,” and Cho states that “[t]he motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16 on the grounds that
the conduct giving rise to complaint is admittedly protected under § 425.16(e) and further that Plaintiffs cannot
establish a probability of prevailing on their claims.” (Notice of Motion at p.
2:4-6.) As discussed above, “Section 425.16, subdivision (b)(1) requires the
court to engage in a two-step process. First, the court decides whether the
defendant has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected activity. The
moving defendant's burden is to demonstrate that the act or acts of which the
plaintiff complains were taken ‘in furtherance of the [defendant]’s right of
petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection
with a public issue,’ as defined in the statute. (§
425.16, subd. (b)(1).) If the court finds such a showing has been made, it
then determines whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of
prevailing on the claim.” (Equilon
Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc., supra,
29 Cal.4th at p. 67.) Thus, the Court does not see how Cho’s
assertion that the “FAC should be disregarded because it is a sham Complaint”
is relevant to the Court’s analysis of a special motion to strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16. Accordingly,
the Court declines to “disregard” the FAC. 
B.    
Cho’s Arguments Concerning the Original Complaint 
The Court
also notes that Cho’s motion contains a section entitled “Application of
Anti-SLAPP Statute to Original Complaint.” (Mot. at p. 14:8-9.) Cho asserts
that “since
the FAC is a sham complaint, the court
would be correct in ruling that the 2nd c/a for conversion in the original
complaint should be stricken.” (Mot. at p. 15:25-16:2.) 
As
set forth above, the FAC is the operative complaint in this matter. The Court
notes that “[a]n amendatory pleading supersedes the original one, which
ceases to perform any function as a pleading. The amended complaint furnishes
the sole basis for the cause of action, and the original complaint ceases to
have any effect either as a pleading or as a basis for judgment…Because there
is but one complaint in a civil action…the filing of an amended complaint moots
a motion directed to a prior complaint…” (JKC3H8 v. Colton (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 468, 477
[internal quotations and citations omitted].) In addition, “[s]o too
does an amended complaint render moot an anti-SLAPP motion directed to a prior
complaint, with the following caveat: A plaintiff or cross-complainant may not
seek to subvert or avoid a ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion by amending the
challenged complaint or cross-complaint in response to the motion.” (Id. at
pp. 477-478.) 
Here,
Cho does not argue that Plaintiff is seeking to avoid a ruling on the instant
anti-SLAPP motion by amending the original Complaint in response to the instant
motion. The instant motion was filed on July 6, 2023, after the operative FAC
was filed on February 9, 2023. Thus, to the extent Cho is requesting that the
Court strike the second cause of action of the original Complaint, the Court denies
such request as moot.  
C.    
Prong One – Arising from Protected Activity
As to the
FAC, Cho asserts that “in
the event that the court determines that the First Amended Complaint is not a
sham complaint (it is), the 3rd cause of action in the FAC is subject being
stricken.” (Mot. at p. 16:5-7.) 
“[T]he only
thing the defendant needs to establish to invoke the protection of the SLAPP
statute is that the challenged lawsuit arose from an act on the part of the
defendant in furtherance of her right of petition or free speech.” (Fox
Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 307.)           
An act in
furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech includes the
following:
 
(1) any written or oral statement or
writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement
or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place
open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public
interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
In
determining whether a cause of action arises from protected conduct, the court
focuses on “the allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that provides
the foundation for the claims.” (Castleman v.
Sagaser (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 481, 490-491.) “[T]he critical consideration is whether the cause of action
is¿based on¿the defendant’s protected free speech or petitioning
activity.” (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89 [emphasis in
original].) In making this determination, the Court considers “the pleadings,
and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the
liability or defense is based.” (Ibid.) “The anti-SLAPP statute should
be broadly construed and a plaintiff cannot avoid operation of the anti-SLAPP
statute by attempting, through artifices of pleading, to characterize an action
as a garden variety tort claim when in fact the liability claim is predicated
on protected speech or conduct.” (Ramona Unified School Dist. v. Tsiknas (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 510, 519 [internal citations
omitted].) 
Here,
in the third cause of action of the FAC for “conspiracy to defraud,” Plaintiff
alleges that “[Plaintiff] and [Cho] entered into a contract in which [Cho]
promised to provide useful and valuable legal services in exchange for
[Plaintiff’s] promise to pay him legal fees and costs for those useful and
valuable legal services.” (FAC, ¶ 23, p. 7, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[i]n reality, the decision by [Cho] and DEFENDANT CREATIVE
RECOVERY was an overt act that manifested the purpose of their CONSPIRACY TO
DEFRAUD in which [Plaintiff] was their victim.” (FAC, ¶ 21, p. 7, emphasis
omitted.) 
Plaintiff
further alleges that “[Cho] engaged in overt acts in furtherance of this
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD by racking up exorbitant unnecessary attorneys fees while
knowing full well that he intended to settle the litigation, and that such
legal efforts were superfluous and unnecessary, but [Cho] relentlessly pursued
and charged these fees because he knew that most if not all of them would be
collected by DEFENDANT CREATIVE RECOVERY, which engaged in overt acts in
furtherance of the CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD by acting as [Cho’s] ‘in house’
COLLECTION STRONG ARM, with DEFENDANT CREATIVE RECOVERY’s sole purpose to
collect aggressively most if not all of the exorbitant and unnecessary legal
fees racked up by [Cho] on cases that he intended to settle despite incurring
unnecessarily the fees and expenses normally only expended for cases that
actually must be taken to trial.” (FAC, ¶ 22, pp. 7-8, emphasis omitted.) In
addition, in the “factual background” section of the FAC, Plaintiff alleges
that “with the ink barely even dry on the legal documents memorializing the
settlement, [Cho] passed off his large Bill for attorneys fees to DEFENDANT
CREATIVE RECOVERY, who aggressively sought payment of the attorneys fees from
[Plaintiff], even going so far as to commence litigation against [Plaintiff] as
well as engage in overly aggressive efforts to obtain a ‘silent’ Default
Judgment against [Plaintiff] that DEFENDANT CREATIVE RECOVERY used to levy the
bank accounts of [Plaintiff] and her immediate family…” (FAC, ¶ 14, pp. 4-5.) 
Plaintiff
asserts that the “gravamen of the 3rd c/a is that Mr. Cho conspired with CRC to
file the collection complaint.” (Mot. at p. 17:1-2.) Plaintiff cites Applied
Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 511, where the California Supreme Court noted
that “[s]tanding alone, a conspiracy does no harm and engenders no
tort liability. It must be activated by the commission of an actual tort. A
civil conspiracy, however atrocious, does not per se give rise to a cause of
action unless a civil wrong has been committed resulting in damage. A bare
agreement among two or more persons to harm a third person cannot injure the
latter unless and until acts are actually performed pursuant to the
agreement. Therefore,
it is the acts done and not the conspiracy to do them which should be regarded
as the essence of the civil action.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) Cho asserts that here, “[u]nder Applied, it is the acts
done and not the conspiracy to do them which should be regarded as the essence
of the civil action. Here, the act done, was the filing of the collection
complaint.” (Mot. at p. 17:3-5.) 
Cho
further asserts that “the filing of the collection complaint is protected
conduct.” (Mot. at p. 17:2.) Cho cites to Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th
1048, 1056, where the
California Supreme Court noted that “[u]nder Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16 ‘[a] cause of action against a person arising from any
act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free
speech … shall be subject to a special motion to strike…‘A cause of action
‘arising from’ defendant’s litigation activity may appropriately be the subject
of a section 425.16 motion to
strike.’…‘Any act’ includes communicative conduct such as the filing, funding,
and prosecution of a civil action. This includes qualifying acts committed by attorneys in
representing clients in litigation.” (Internal citations omitted.) 
As set forth
above, Plaintiff does not oppose the instant motion, and thus does not dispute
that the third cause of action of the FAC arises from
protected activity for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Cho has established that Plaintiff’s third cause of action arises
out of protected activity for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute. The first
prong of the two-step anti-SLAPP analysis is thus satisfied, and the burden now
shifts to Plaintiff on prong two.  
A.   
Prong Two –
Probability of Prevailing 
“[P]laintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is
both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of
facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the
plaintiff is credited.” (Premier
Medical Management Systems, Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 464, 476 [internal
quotations omitted].) In
making the prong two determination, “the court shall consider the pleadings,
and supporting¿and opposing¿affidavits stating the facts upon which the
liability or defense is based.”¿(Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2).)
“The court does not, however, weigh [defendant’s]¿evidence against the
plaintiff’s, in terms of either credibility or persuasiveness.¿Rather, the
defendant’s evidence is considered with a view toward whether it defeats the
plaintiff’s showing as a matter of law, such as by establishing a defense or
the absence of a necessary element.”¿(1-800
Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 568, 585.) 
            Cho asserts that the litigation privilege bars
Plaintiff’s third cause of action. Civil Code section 47 provides
in part that, subject to certain exceptions, “[a]
privileged publication or broadcast is one made…(b) In any…(2) judicial
proceeding.” (Ibid.,
§ 47.) 
Cho cites to Rusheen v.
Cohen, supra, 37 Cal.4th at page 1057, where the California Supreme Court noted
that “[t]he
privilege recognized in section 47 derives
from common law principles establishing a defense to the tort of defamation. Although originally enacted with reference to defamation…the
privilege is now held applicable to any communication, whether or not it
amounts to a publication…and all torts except malicious prosecution…Further, it
applies to any publication required or permitted by law in the course of a
judicial proceeding to achieve the objects of the litigation, even though the
publication is made outside the courtroom and no function of the court or its
officers is involved…The usual formulation is that the privilege applies to any
communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by
litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the
objects of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or logical
relation to the action. Thus, communications with some relation to
judicial proceedings are absolutely immune from tort liability by the
litigation privilege. It is not limited to statements made
during a trial or other proceedings, but may extend to steps taken prior
thereto, or afterwards.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) “The [p]leadings and process in a case
are generally viewed as privileged communications.” (Id. at p. 1058 [internal quotations omitted].) 
As discussed, Cho asserts that here, “[t]he gravamen
of the 3rd c/a is that Mr. Cho conspired with CRC to file the collection
complaint.” (Mot. at p. 17:1-2.) As set forth above, Plaintiff alleges in the
third cause of action that “[Cho] engaged in overt acts in furtherance of this
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD by racking up exorbitant unnecessary attorneys fees while
knowing full well that he intended to settle the litigation, and that such
legal efforts were superfluous and unnecessary, but [Cho] relentlessly pursued
and charged these fees because he knew that most if not all of them would be
collected by DEFENDANT CREATIVE RECOVERY, which engaged in overt acts in
furtherance of the CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD by acting as [Cho’s] ‘in house’
COLLECTION STRONG ARM, with DEFENDANT CREATIVE RECOVERY’s sole purpose to
collect aggressively most if not all of the exorbitant and unnecessary legal
fees racked up by [Cho] on cases that he intended to settle despite incurring
unnecessarily the fees and expenses normally only expended for cases that
actually must be taken to trial.” (FAC, ¶ 22, pp. 7-8, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiff
further alleges that “[Cho] passed off his large Bill for attorneys fees to
DEFENDANT CREATIVE RECOVERY, who aggressively sought payment of the attorneys
fees from [Plaintiff], even going so far as to commence litigation against
[Plaintiff] as well as engage in overly aggressive efforts to obtain a ‘silent’
Default Judgment against [Plaintiff] that DEFENDANT CREATIVE RECOVERY used to
levy the bank accounts of [Plaintiff] and her immediate family…” (FAC, ¶ 14,
pp. 4-5.) 
As discussed, Plaintiff
does not oppose the instant motion and thus does not dispute that the
litigation privilege bars the third cause of action of the FAC. Based on the
foregoing, the Court does not
find that Plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the third
cause of action of the FAC.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Cho’s
special motion to strike as to the third cause of action of the FAC. Cho’s
motion is otherwise denied.   
Cho is ordered to give notice of
this ruling. 
 
DATED:  October 31, 2023                            
________________________________
Hon.
Rolf M. Treu
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 