

Hearing Date:              August
2, 2024
Case Name:                 CEP Fickett, LLC, a
California limited liability company v. Fire Net, a California corporation, and
Does 1-10, inclusive
Case No.:                    24STCV02167
Motion:                       Demurrer
with Motion to Strike
Moving
Party:             Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Fire Net

Responding Party:      Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant CEP Fickett,
LLC


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Defendant’s Demurrer to
the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action is overruled.  Defendant’s Demurrer to the sixth cause of
action is sustained.
                                    Defendant’s Motion
to Strike is denied.
 

 
On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff CEP
Fickett, LLC (“CEP”) filed this action against Defendants Fire Net (“Fire Net”)
and Does 1-10 arising out of a dispute related to construction service
performed by Defendants.  On April 12,
2024, CEP filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  Following a stipulation by the parties, CEP
filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Fire Net on May 22, 2024, for
(1) negligence, (2) violation of Business and Professions Code § 7160, (3)
intentional misrepresentation, (4) negligent misrepresentation, (5) breach of
contract, and (6) breach of implied covenant to perform work in a good and
competent manner.
 
On March 29, 2024, Fire Net filed a
Cross-Complaint and on June 5, 2024, it filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint against
Foundation Builders Corporation (“Builders”), David Martinez (“Martinez”), CEP,
First Republic Bank (“Bank”), and Roes 1-100 (collectively “Cross-Defendants”) for
(1) breach of written contract, (2) open book account, (3) account stated, (4)
reasonable value, (5) foreclosure of mechanics’ lien, and (6) claim on
mechanics’ lien release bond.  
 
On June 12, 2024, Fire Net filed the
instant Demurrer (“Demurrer”) and Motion to Strike (“MTS”) portions of the
SAC.  On July 24, 2024, CEP filed an
Opposition and on July 26, 2024, Fire Net filed a Reply.
 
Legal
Standard
 
A.    Demurrer
 
A demurrer is a pleading that may
be used to test the legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in the
complaint.  (Code of Civ. Proc. §
430.10.)  There are two types of demurrers – general demurrers and special
demurrers.  (See McKenney
v. Purepac Pharmaceutical Co. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 72, 77.)
 
General demurrers can be used to
attack pleadings for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action or for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e); McKenney,
167 Cal.App.4th at 77.)  Such
demurrers can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable; evidence or extrinsic matters are not
considered.  (Code of Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30,
430.70; Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the Court admits “all material facts
properly pleaded” and “matters which may be judicially noticed,” but does not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.
[Citation].”  (Blank, 39 Cal.3d at
318.)  It gives these facts “a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.”  (Ibid.)  At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis
for the claim against him.  (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) 
The face of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the
complaint.  (Frantz v. Blackwell
(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.)  "If
facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those alleged, the facts in the
exhibits take precedence."  (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447.)
 
Special demurrers can be used to
attack the pleadings on grounds that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, and
unintelligible, or in a contract case, for failure to allege whether a contract
is oral or written.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10(f).) 
 
Moreover, Code of Civil Procedure § 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.41(a).)  The parties are to
meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is
due.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the demurring
party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer
efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(3).)
 
When a demurrer
is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility
that the defect can be cured by amendment. 
(Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set
of facts upon which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the
plaintiff an opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be
deprived of his right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings
were defective for lack of particulars.” 
(Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892, 900.)  Generally, the court will allow leave to
amend on at least the first try, unless there is absolutely no possibility of
overcoming the issue.  (See Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227 ("Denial of
leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion unless the complaint shows on
its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in
permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect
has not been given.").)
 
 
 
 
 
B.    Motion to Strike
 
According
to Code of Civil Procedure section 436:
 
The court
may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
 
(a) Strikeout any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
 
The Code of Civil Procedure also
authorizes the Court to act on its own initiative to strike matters, empowering
the Court to enter orders striking matter “at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)
 
Furthermore, section 435.5
requires that “[b]efore filing a motion to strike pursuant to this chapter, the
moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to
be raised in the motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).) 
 
Discussion
 
A.    Meet
and Confer Requirement
 
Defense counsel
has submitted Form CIV-140 indicating that at least five days prior to the date
the responsive pleadings were due, the parties met and conferred by telephone
regarding the instant Demurrer and Motion to Strike but were unable to reach an
agreement.
 
Plaintiff states
that it has already amended its complaint twice in a good faith attempt to
resolve Defendant’s concerns without court intervention.  Prior to the filing of the instant Demurrer
and MTS, Defendant sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff expressing its
intention to demur to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of
action.  However, Defendant has demurred
to all causes of action and has failed to meet and confer regarding the first
and sixth causes of action, thus, the Court should overrule the Demurrer to
those causes of action.
 
The Court finds
defense counsel’s declaration to be sufficient evidence of its efforts to meet
and confer prior to filing the instant Demurrer and Motion to Strike.
 
B.    Demurrer
 
a.      Entire
Second Amended Complaint
 
Defendant Fire
Net demurs to the entire Second Amended Complaint on the basis that it is
uncertain, vague, and unintelligible, and fails to state facts to constitute
causes of action against Defendant.  Fire
Net argues that Plaintiff refers to a contractual agreement throughout the SAC
but presents four tort-based causes of action and an unclear breach of contract
cause of action.  Moreover, Fire Net argues,
the entire SAC is ambiguous as it alleges causes of action that do not apply in
this case.
 
Fire Net agrees
to stipulate to the filing of a Third Amended Complaint to allow Plaintiff to
clarify its allegations and its request for punitive damages.
 
As discussed in
the next sections, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to all but the
sixth cause of action.  Thus, the
Demurrer to entire Second Amended Complaint is also overruled.
 
b.     First
Cause of Action – Negligence
 
“The essential
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) the defendant's legal
duty of care toward the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's breach of duty—the
negligent act or omission; (3)¿injury to the plaintiff as a result of the
breach—proximate or legal cause; and (4) damage to the plaintiff.”  (Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.)   Owing a duty of care to
the plaintiff is an indispensable prerequisite to the imposition of liability
for negligence.  (Richards v. Stanley
(1954) 43 Cal.2d 60, 63.)  A duty is an
“obligation, recognized by the law, requiring the actor to conform to certain
standard of conduct, for the protection of others against unreasonable
risks.”  (Hilyar v. Union Ice Co.
(1955) 45 Cal. 2d 30, 36-37.)
 
Fire Net demurs
to the negligence cause of action for failure to state a cause of action.  Fire Net argues that the negligence cause of
action arises out of a purported agreement; however, the SAC does not clarify
whether the agreement was in writing, oral, or implied.  Defendant contends that Plaintiff makes
conclusory allegations regarding oppression, fraud, or malice, and its
entitlement to punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff argues
that it has properly pleaded all the elements for a negligence cause of action:
(1) Defendant owed a duty to Plaintiff to perform work on Plaintiff’s property
(SAC ¶ 22), (2) Defendant breached its duty by failing to use reasonable care
in performing the work (SAC ¶¶ 12, 23), (3) Plaintiff suffered damages,
including those to its property (SAC ¶¶ 12(h), 16, 25), (4) which were caused
directly by Defendant’s breach of duty.  Plaintiff
argues that Defendant improperly characterizes this cause of action to arise
from an agreement, however, this cause of action is based on the duty owed to
Plaintiff as a subcontractor.
 
A contractor has
“‘a general duty imposed by law to
use reasonable care to prevent damage to persons whom he may reasonably expect
to be affected by his work…’ 
[Citations.]”  (Chance v.
Lawry’s, Inc. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 368, 378.) 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant owed a duty of reasonable
care to Plaintiff, it breached this duty by performing defective work, causing
serious delays, and creating a need for subsequent repairs, as specifically
listed in Paragraphs 12 and 23 of the SAC, and as a result of the defective
work, Plaintiff suffered physical damage to the property, additional expenses
to fix the damage, and loss of income and use.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
sufficiently pleaded a cause of action for negligence.  The Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to
the first cause of action.
 
c.      Second
Cause of Action - Violation of Business and Professions Code section 7160
 
Business and
Professions Code section 7160
provides: “Any person who is induced to contract
for a work of improvement, including but not limited to a home improvement, in
reliance on false or fraudulent representations or false statements knowingly
made, may sue and recover from such contractor or solicitor a penalty of five
hundred dollars ($500), plus reasonable attorney’s fees, in addition to any
damages sustained by him by reason of such statements or representations made
by the contractor or solicitor.”
 
Fire Net demurs
to the violation of Business and Professions Code section 7160 cause of action
for failure to state a cause of action.  Fire
Net argues that the Business and Professions Code is 7160 applies only to a
home improvement business and for a person who was induced to enter into a
contract with a contractor.  Here, the
allegations are regarding the construction of 16 multi-family units and do not
fall under the Home Improvement Business. 
Moreover, Defendant was a subcontractor of the terminated Contractor,
Foundation Builders Corp., and there was no inducement between Owner and
contractor.
 
Plaintiff respondes
that the language of section 7160 includes all home improvement, including
residential buildings, as set forth in Business and Professions Code § 7151,
and includes additions and installations to real property that constitute
“improvement.”  Here, the allegations
state that Defendant was contracted to add a fire sprinkler system to a
residential building, which constitutes home improvement.  Moreover, Plaintiff maintains, Defendant
knowingly misrepresented to Plaintiff that it had completed work on the ground
floor, when it had not, in order to get Plaintiff to pay for work that was not
completed.  (SAC ¶¶ 28-32.)  In reliance, Plaintiff was induced into
contracting for and paying $12,000 directly to Defendant for work it never completed.  (SAC ¶ 33.)
 
            Defendant
argues that the Proposal presented in Exhibit 1 created a basis for a contract between
Defendant and Foundational Builders Corp., not Plaintiff, and, thus, Plaintiff
was not obligated to continue the relationship with Defendant.  There is no evidence that Plaintiff was
induced into the agreement.
 
            Here,
Plaintiff has alleged facts that fall within the scope of Business and
Professions Code section 7160.  As
defined in section 7151, “home improvement” includes “repairing, remodeling, altering,
converting, or modernizing of, or adding to, residential property,” or
“installation of home improvement goods or the furnishing of home improvement
services.”  A home improvement contract
can be an oral or written agreement between a contractor and an owner
regardless of the number of residential units. 
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7151.2.)  Moreover,
Plaintiff does allege that it was induced to pay Defendant as part of their
agreement in reliance on false representations made by Fire Net’s agents Fay
Lindemer and Eddie Amiri, who knowingly informed Plaintiff that the ground
floor work was 100% complete when it had several missing components.  (SAC ¶¶ 28-35.)
 
Defendant argues,
as it does throughout the demurrer, that there is no evidence for the claim. However,
a demurrer does not test the sufficiency of the parties’ evidence, but rather
tests whether the complaint contains sufficient allegations to apprise
Defendant of the cause of action. 
Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer as to the second cause of action is
overruled.
 
d.     Third
Cause of Action - Intentional misrepresentation
 
Fire Net demurs
to the intentional misrepresentation cause of action for failure to state a
cause of action.  Fire Net argues that Plaintiff
has failed to allege the authorized agent of CEP who relied on Defendant’s
agents.  The allegations in the SAC may
amount to a breach of contract cause of action, it contends, but there are no
allegations regarding fraud and any allegations regarding oppression, fraud, or
malice are conclusory.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that it has alleged all five elements with the necessary specificity and
has in fact identified the authorized agent of CEP, Marlen Donu.  (SAC ¶¶ 38-48.)
 
            In
its Reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to include the invoices
upon which the misrepresentations were based and to provide the requisite
details supporting the misrepresentations, as required.  Thus, the Court should dismiss the negligent
and intentional misrepresentation causes of action.
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with
knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on
the misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.)  The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  To properly allege
fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
            Plaintiff
has properly alleged the intentional misrepresentation cause of action against
Defendant and presents sufficient specific allegations to meet the heightened
pleading standard for this cause of action. 
The SAC asserts that Fire Net sent a written invoice to CEP in December
2022 claiming that 83% of the work was completed and another invoice in March
2023 claiming that 100% of the ground floor work was completed.  (SAC ¶¶ 39-40.)  Fire Net’s agents, including Fay Lindemer and
Eddie Amiri, knew these representations were false and made them to CEP’s
authorized agent Marlen Donu, knowingly with the intent to induce CEP to pay
for completed work.  (SAC ¶¶ 42-43,
48.)  Plaintiff alleges that Eddie Amiri
is “an officer, director, and/or managing agent of Fire Net.”  (SAC ¶ 3.) 
CEP relied on their representations and made the payments but later
discovered that the work was not completed as “piping was missing from the
lobby, elevator machine room, and trash rooms; there were zero sprinkler heads
installed anywhere on the entire ground floor; main drains to exterior planters
were missing; and there was no water in the sprinkler system.”  (SAC ¶¶ 41, 44.)  As a proximate result, CEP suffered damages of
no less than $12,000, the amount it paid Defendant.  (SAC ¶¶ 46-47.)
            
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled.
 
e.      Fourth
Cause of Action - Negligent misrepresentation
 
The elements of negligent
misrepresentation are “(1) the misrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3) with
intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable
reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.”  (Apollo Capital Fund LLC v. Roth Capital
Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.)  Negligent misrepresentation claims must be
alleged with the same factual specificity as intentional misrepresentation
claims.  (See Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184; Cadlo v. Owens-Illinois,
Inc. (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 513, 519.)  “To be actionable, a negligent
misrepresentation must ordinarily be as to past or existing material facts.”  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mutual Automobile
Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158.)
 
Fire Net demurs
to the negligent misrepresentation cause of action for failure to state a cause
of action.  Fire Net argues that the
allegations for negligent misrepresentation are nearly identical to those
presented in regard to intentional misrepresentation and do not comply with the
heightened requirements for this cause of action. 
 
Plaintiff argues
that it has alleged each of the required elements of negligent
misrepresentation.  Plaintiff has alleged
that “(1) in March 2023, Defendant represented to Plaintiff that the work on
the ground floor was 100% complete (SAC ¶ 51); (2) Defendant had no reasonable
grounds for believing such representation to be true (SAC ¶ 53); (3) Defendant
intended Plaintiff to rely on such representation so that it would pay
Defendant for such work (SAC ¶ 54); (4) Plaintiff believed and reasonably
relied on such representations (SAC ¶ 55); and (5) Plaintiff was harmed in the
amount of at least $12,000 due to such reliance. (¶¶ 56-57.)”  (Oppos. p. 5.)
 
            As
discussed above, in its Reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to
include the invoices upon which the misrepresentations were based and to
provide the requisite details supporting the misrepresentations. These arguments
are inappropriate for a challenge to the pleadings.
 
Plaintiff has
properly alleged the negligent misrepresentation cause of action against
Defendant and presents sufficient specific allegations to meet the heightened
pleading standard for this cause of action. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer as to the negligent misrepresentation
cause of action is overruled.
 
f.      Fifth
Cause of Action - Breach of contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of action for
breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the
plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  “A written
contract may be pleaded either by its terms – set out verbatim in the complaint
or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by
reference – or by its legal effect. [Citations.]  In order to plead a contract by its legal
effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its relevant terms.  This is more difficult, for it requires a
careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and
avoidance of legal conclusions.’ [Citation.]” 
(McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457,
1489.)
 
Fire Net demurs
to the breach of contract cause of action for failure to state a cause of
action.  Fire Net argues that Plaintiff
has alleged the existence of an agreement with Defendant, but has not clarified
whether the agreement was in writing, oral, or implied.  In Paragraph 7 of the SAC, it alleges that
Fire Net and CEP, through their authorized agents, orally agreed to the terms
of the Proposal unless modified or amended by other writings.  However, in Paragraph 9, it alleges that the
Proposal and change orders constitute the relevant agreement; it is not clear
if the agreement was in writing, oral, or implied.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the SAC makes it clear that the contract was in writing, as it
states that “together, the Proposal and the change orders constitute the
relevant agreement between CEP and Fire Net (the ‘Agreement’).”  (SAC ¶ 9.) 
Moreover, the written contract is attached as Exhibit 1.
 
            In
its Reply, Defendant argues that the Proposal was between Foundational Builders
Corp. and Defendant.  On the other hand,
the invoices upon which the breach of contract claim is based are not included.
 
            Plaintiff
has properly pleaded a cause of action for breach of contract.  The SAC states that agreement in the matter
was the combination of the Proposal, attached as Exhibit 1, along with the
change orders between CEP and Fire Net. 
Although the Proposal prepared by Fire Net is for Foundational Builders
Corp., it lists 321 S. Fickett Street, Los Angeles, CA 90033, as the property
where the listed services were to be performed. 
(Ex. 1.)  The Proposal was sent to
CEP’s agent, Brain Commie, and on June 8, 2022, Fire Net and CEP, through their
authorized agents orally agreed for the terms of the Proposal to govern their
agreement.  (SAC ¶ 7.)  Throughout the project, Fire Net submitted
change orders to CEP’s main business address, with specific attention to David
Martinez, CEP’s general contractor and Project manager.  (SAC ¶ 8.) 
Plaintiff alleges that it performed its obligations pursuant to the
Agreement by making all payments directly to Fire Net.  (SAC ¶¶ 10, 60.)  However, the pleading avers, Fire Net
breached the agreement by performing defective work, as set forth in Paragraph
12, and causing serious delays.  (SAC ¶¶
10-12, 61.)  As a proximate result of
Defendant’s breach of agreement, CEP has suffered “significant actual damages,
including but not limited to property damage, costs of repair, costs of
completion, loss of income, and loss of use in an amount to be proven at trial
but no less than $250,000.”  (SAC ¶ 62.)
 
            The
SAC pleads sufficient facts regarding the agreement, along with a copy of the
Proposal order, to apprise Defendant of the cause of action and relevant
allegations.
 
            Accordingly,
the demurrer to the breach of contract cause of action is overruled.
 
g.     Sixth
Cause of Action - Breach of implied covenant to perform work in a good and
competent manner.
 
Fire Net demurs
to the breach of implied covenant to perform work in a good and competent
manner cause of action for failure to state a cause of action.  Fire Net argues that this cause of action
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action as the previous
cause of action also fails.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action is unintelligible
and the fifth and sixth causes of action are not linked.  Plaintiff states that the sixth cause of
action is properly pleaded.
 
            In its
Reply, Defendant states that “ ‘[a]ccompanying every contract is a common-law
duty to perform with care, skill, reasonable expedience, and faithfulness the
thing agreed to be done, and a negligent failure to observe any of these
conditions is a tort as well as a breach of the contract.’  (Kuitems v. Covell (1951) 104
Cal.App.2d 482, 485.)”  (Reply p.
5.)  Thus, this cause of action is superfluous
and unnecessary.
 
      For
the sixth cause of action, the SAC asserts the same allegations regarding
Defendant’s duty to perform in a “skillful, reasonable, and workmanlike manner”
and its breach of this duty.  The Court
finds that the sixth cause of action for breach of implied covenant to perform
work in a good and competent manner is a duplicative of other causes of action
asserted in the SAC.  Claims which are
duplicative are subject to demurrer.  (Shoemaker
v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 24.)  Plaintiff
has not alleged any facts or elements that distinguish the sixth cause of
action from the other counts.
 
      Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action is sustained with leave to
amend.
 
C.   
Motion to Strike
 
“In order to survive a motion to
strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an
entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  A request for punitive damages may be made
pursuant to Civil Code section¿3294, subdivision (a) which provides that “[i]n
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.”
 
Under the
statute, malice is defined as “conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others” and oppression is defined as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 3294(c)(1),
(c)(2).)  Despicable conduct refers to
circumstances that are base, vile, or contemptible.  (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)  Also,
“[u]nder the statute, malice does not require actual intent to harm…Conscious
disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the defendant is
aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or
she willfully fails to avoid such consequences…. [Citation.]”  (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) 
 
Fire Net moves to
strike all allegations and requests for punitive damages.  It argues that the SAC contains conclusory
language regarding punitive damages that is “improper, has no factual or legal
basis and is not in conformity with the laws of CA.”  (MTS p. 2.) 
Thus, it moves to strike the following portions of the SAC:
 
1.     Paragraph
26, lines 17-20
2.     Paragraph
48, lines 6-9
3.     All
of prayer for relief of punitive damages in the first and third causes of
action.
 
Fire Net argues
that the first cause of action for negligence does not support a claim for
punitive damages, as conduct that is negligent cannot be willful.  Thus, Paragraph 26, lines 17-20 should be
stricken from the SAC.  Moreover,
conclusory allegations regarding Defendant’s conduct constituting oppression,
fraud, or malice, are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.  Here, Defendant maintains, the
allegations in the SAC fail to rise to the threshold pleading requirement for
an award of punitive damages as the SAC does not contain allegations that Fire
Net acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. 
According to Fire Net, paragraphs 23-26 and 39-48 are at most
allegations for breach of contract and not oppression, fraud, or malice
required for punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff argues
that it does not need to present evidence for an award of punitive damages at
this stage in the litigation, it must merely plead facts to support a claim of
punitive damages.  Here, it has alleged
specific details of Defendant’s fraudulent and malicious actions that warrant
an award of damages in SAC ¶¶ 12-14, 24, 26, 39-48.  Plaintiff’s third cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation sufficiently alleges fraud and fraudulent
inducement to support a prayer for punitive damages.  Defendant sent an invoice to Plaintiff in
March 2023 stating that the work on the ground floor was 100% complete when it
was missing piping, sprinkler heads, man drains, and more, and Defendants knew
that their representations regarding the status of the work were false.  Defendant knowingly made these
representations to induce Plaintiff to pay for work not performed and Plaintiff
relied on these representations and made the payments.  Once Plaintiff learned of the
misrepresentations, Defendant refused to refund or credit Plaintiff for the
fraudulent charges.  (SAC ¶¶ 38-48.)  Given that Plaintiff has clearly pleaded
“fraud” it has sufficiently pleaded its entitlement to an award of punitive
damages.  Moreover, Plaintiff has pleaded
allegations of gross negligence, which also support an inference of malice
sufficient to entitlement to an award of punitive damages. 
 
Moreover, the SAC
alleges that Defendant acted with “extreme departure from what a reasonably
careful person would do in the same situation…to the point of gross
negligence.”  (SAC ¶ 24.)  Defendant intentionally (1) failed to correct
its substandard work even after being told of the deficiencies by Plaintiff and
the city inspectors and (2) claimed to have installed fire protection equipment
that was never actually installed.  (SAC
¶ 26.)  The SAC alleges that Defendant
was aware of the probable consequences of such dangerous conduct, particularly
putting a residential building at burn risk and endangering public safety, and
yet it deliberately failed to avoid such consequences.  (Ibid.)  These allegations are sufficient to support
an inference of malice and therefore, support a prayer for punitive damages.
 
In its Reply,
Defendant argues that the “claims for punitive damages are based on invoices
that cannot be found, on statements without support or details, and for
potential harms that never occurred.”  (Reply
p. 2.)  Defendant further argues that where
there was no intent to harm, a showing of malice requires clear and convincing
evidence of despicable conduct carried on with willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others. 
Plaintiff must show that Defendant was aware of the dangerous consequences
of his or her conduct and willfully and deliberately failed to avoid these
consequences.  When such allegations are
made regarding a corporate entity, Plaintiff must establish that Defendant had
such advance knowledge and authorized or ratified the actions of an officer,
director, or managing agent acting in a corporate or employment capacity, as
required by Civil Code section 3294.
 
Civil Code section
3294 provides: “An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to
subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
 
Although
allegations for a simple negligence claim are not generally sufficient for a
request for punitive damages, wanton and reckless misconduct akin to gross
negligence justifies an award of punitive damages.  (Donnely v. Southern Pacific Co.
(1941) 18 Cal.2d 863, 869.)  In such a
case, a person may have no intent to cause harm intentionally but may perform “an act so unreasonable and dangerous
that he knows, or should know, it is highly probable that harm will
result.”  (Ibid.)
 
For both the
negligence and intentional misrepresentation causes of action, the SAC asserts
the following allegations in support of its request for punitive damages:
 
Defendants were entrusted with
ensuring the safety of the Property, its inhabitants, and the public, by
installing a fire protection service that would protect the building from fire.
Defendants’ actions as described herein actually put the building at burn risk,
endangering public safety. Defendants knowingly put the rights and safety of
others at risk by failing to correct its faulty work even after being told by
CEP and by city inspectors about the errors. Further, Fire Net knowingly put
the rights and safety of others at risk by claiming to have installed fire
protection equipment that was never actually installed. Specifically, Fire Net,
through its authorized agents Eddie Amiri and Fay Lindemer, told CEP, through
its authorized agent Marlen Donu, that they had performed work, including
installing piping and sprinklers on the ground floor, that they knew had not
actually been performed. This willful conduct, ratified by Eddie Amiri, put the
entire building, including the publicly accessible ground floor and lobby, at
serious fire and safety risk. Defendants’ conduct described herein was done
with a willful and conscious disregard for CEP’s rights, and the rights and
safety of others, such as to constitute oppression, fraud or malice under Civil
Code Section 3294. CEP is entitled to punitive and exemplary damages in an
amount appropriate to punish or set an example of Defendants.
 
(SAC ¶¶ 26, 48.)
 
            These
allegations are sufficient to support a request for punitive damages.  The SAC asserts that Defendants knowingly put
the rights and safety of others at risk by failing to correct faulty work and
falsely claiming to have installed the fire protection equipment that was
agreed upon.  Defendant’s actions could
constitute despicable conduct carried out with a willful and conscious
disregard for the safety of others.  The
allegations also assert specific conduct as Fire Net, through its agents,
knowingly misrepresented the completion of the work, directly endangering the
public.
 
            Accordingly,
the Court denies Defendant’s Motion to Strike.
 
Conclusion
 
            Defendant
Fire Net’s Demurrer is overruled as to the first, second, third, fourth, and
fifth causes of action.  The Demurrer is
sustained as to the sixth cause of action. 
Plaintiff shall have leave to file and serve an amended complaint on or
before August 23, 2024.
 
Fire Net’s Motion to Strike is denied.
 