

 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 7, 2023,
Plaintiff Alejandro Diaz (“Plaintiff”), filed a Complaint against Defendants Joseph
Sasson as Trustee of the Joseph and Rosalae Sasson Trust; SAVC, LLC; James
Reifenberg aka James C. Reifenberg (“Defendants”); and DOES 1-10, alleging a
sole cause of action for Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act – Civil Code
section 51. 
 
On February 6, 2024, this Court entered default against
Joseph Sasson as Trustee of the Joseph and Rosalae Sasson Trust (“Sasson”).
 
On February 26, 2024, this Court entered default judgment
against Defendant Sasson for $5,133.75 consisting of $4,000.00 in damages,
$800.00 in attorney fees, and $333.75 in costs. 
 
On March 14, 2024, Rosalae Sasson filed the instant Motion
to Set Aside/Vacate Default and Default Judgment. On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition. On April 2, 2024, Rosalae Sasson filed a reply. 
 
On April 16, 2024, this Court continued the motion hearing
to permit Defendant Sasson to serve and file supplemental briefing addressing
Defendant Sasson’s standing to bring this motion and authority for non-party
Rosalae Sasson to bring this motion. 
 
On April 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental
opposition. On April 26, 2024, Defendant Sasson filed a supplemental
declaration in support of the motion. 
 
 
 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Rosalae
Sasson moves for an order setting aside default entered on February 6, 2024,
and default judgment entered on February 26, 2024. The motion is made on the
grounds of inadvertence, surprise, mistake, or excusable neglect. 
 
The supplemental
declaration submitted by Defendant Sasson states his wife, Rosalae Sasson (Mrs.
Sasson) is the co-Trustee to the Joseph and Rosalae Sasson Trust. Furthermore, Mrs.
Sasson has co-equal power over the Trust and the property subject to the
complaint is owned by the Trust not by Defendant Sasson or Mrs. Sasson as
individuals. Moreover, Mrs. Sasson generally handles legal matters relating to
the Trust and its property, and the day-to-day management of the Trust assets. Similarly,
Defendant Sasson states Mrs. Sasson was handling this present matter on behalf
of the Trust. Likewise, Mrs. Sasson informed Defendant Sasson she contacted
Plaintiff’s attorney and their tenant who operates a bar on the premises
concerning the allegations in the complaint. Mrs. Sasson informed Plaintiff’s
attorney that there was no record of Plaintiff being at the bar and believed
the matter had been resolved. Mrs. Sasson also informed Defendant Sasson that
the matter had been resolved. As such, Defendant Sasson and Mrs. Sasson
mistakenly believed the case was resolved, did not get their attorney involved,
and only contacted their attorney when they learned Plaintiff’s counsel
intended to move forward with the lawsuit. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
Supplemental Opposition, Plaintiff argues neither he nor his attorney ever
represented to Defendant Sasson or Mrs. Sasson that the matter had been taken
care of or resolved. As such, Plaintiff contends Defendant Sasson and Mrs.
Sasson’s assumption that the case was resolved is unreasonable. Furthermore,
Plaintiff argues it is abuse of discretion to set aside default where a
defendant with full knowledge of the proceedings fails to take action to
protect their interests until after the default. Plaintiff also asserts the
trial court does not have authority to set aside the default simply because the
defendant did not realize the legal effect of failing to file an Answer.
Additionally, Plaintiff asserts the acts which brought about the default must
have been the acts of a reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.
Finally, Plaintiff contends the summons served on Defendant Sasson explicitly
warned him that he had thirty (30) days to file his response or he may lose the
case by default, thus his choice to ignore the lawsuit was voluntary and not an
act of a reasonably prudent person. 
 
REPLY
 
            No
sur-reply was filed by Defendant Sasson or Mrs. Sasson. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
 
I. Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default
and Default Judgment 
A.   
Legal Standard
Pursuant
the Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), a court may “relieve
a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” In addition, a court must vacate
a default or dismissal when a motion for relief under Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 473(b) is filed timely and accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit
attesting to the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect “unless
the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473, subd. (b).)   
The
party or the legal representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v.
Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than six months had
elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under section 473 was
unavailable”]; People v. The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th
712, 721 [motion for relief under section 473 must be brought “within a
reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months”]). “The six-month limit is
mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under section 473,
subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the six-month
period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
333, 340, citations omitted.) 
B.  Discussion
Here, the motion to set
aside/vacate default and default judgment is timely because it was filed a few
weeks after default judgment was entered against Defendant Sasson. Furthermore,
Defendant Sasson has demonstrated that he as the named party in this action and
Mrs. Sasson, as a non-party to this action have standing to bring the instant
motion because the complaint concerns property that belong to their Trust, they
are co-Trustees of the Trust and Mrs. Sasson handles all legal matters related
to the Trust. Moreover, both Defendant Sasson and Mrs. Sasson attest that
default and subsequently default judgment was entered against Defendant Sasson
in this present matter due to their mistaken belief that Mrs. Sasson had
informally resolved the issue. Specifically, Mrs. Sasson believed due to her
informing Plaintiff’s attorney that the bar manager found no record of
Plaintiff being on the premises on the date alleged in the complaint, that the
matter would not be moving forward. 
Although Plaintiff contends
this is not a choice that a reasonably prudent person under similar
circumstances would make and thus insufficient to show inadvertence or mistake
by Defendant Sasson and Mrs. Sasson, the law liberally construes Code of Civil
Procedure section 473 so that cases are disposed of on the merits. (Ramsey
Trucking Co. v. Mitchell (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d Supp. 862, 865.) In light of
that standard, a reasonably prudent person under similar circumstances could
assume that providing information negating a major part of an underlying claim
would put the other party on notice that no actual dispute exists for the case
to proceed. Also, Defendant Sasson relied on Mrs. Sasson’s representations that
the matter was resolved as she is the person who handled all legal matters for
the Trust, despite not being a named party to the case. 
Therefore, the Court finds
that Defendant Sasson’s default and default judgment was entered against him
due to mistaken belief. 
II.        Conclusion

            
            Accordingly, Defendant Joseph Sasson as Trustee of the Joseph and Rosalae Sasson
Trust’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default and Default Judgment  is GRANTED.  The default entered on February 6, 2024 and
the default judgment entered on February 26, 2024 are hereby set aside and
vacated.  
            
            Defendant Joseph Sasson as Trustee of the Joseph and Rosalae Sasson
Trust’s Answer filed on February 23, 2024, is hereby accepted as the responsive
pleading, and deemed to be the answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
            Trial in
this action is reset for May 6, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.in Department 25 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Parties must comply
with the trial requirements as set forth in the court's Third Amended Standing
Order for Limited Civil Cases (effective February 24, 2020). 
 
All trial documents
are to be electronically filed at least ten (10) days prior to the trial date. 
 
Parties should be
prepared to submit a JOINT Trial Readiness Binder / Exhibit Binder, and to
personally appear on the date of trial.

  
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.          
 
 