 Case Number:  23NWCV01923    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  C Tawana Jean Cooper vs
Octapharma Plasma, Inc., et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV01923
Hearing Date: July 16, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#7 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendants’ Motion for an Order Declaring
Plaintiff to be a Vexatious Litigant is DENIED without prejudice.  
Clerk to give notice. 
 
Background 
On June 23, 2023, Plaintiff Tawana Jean Cooper, proceeding
in propria persona, filed suit against Defendants Octapharma Plasma, Inc. and Caitlin
Ryan for employment discrimination, among other causes of action, related to
her job as a part-time medical screener. 

Defendants move this Court for an order declaring Plaintiff
to be a vexatious litigant and an order that Plaintiff furnish security
pursuant CCP § 391.  In the alternative,
Defendants seek terminating sanctions or a pre-filing order pursuant to CCP §
391.7(a).  
Request for Judicial Notice 
Defendants
request judicial notice of thirty-four (34) exhibits in this action, including
various documents in the court record and documents filed in other court
proceedings.  The Court may take judicial
notice of its own court records and those of any court of this state or of the
United States. (Cal. Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) Accordingly, the Requests
for Judicial Notice are GRANTED.
Legal Standard 
As
relevant here, a “vexatious litigant” is a person who does any of the following:
 
(1)
In
the immediately preceding seven-year period has commenced, prosecuted, or
maintained in propria persona at least five litigations other than in a small
claims court that have been (i) finally determined adversely to the person or
(ii) unjustifiably permitted to remain pending at least two years without
having been brought to trial or hearing… (3) In any
litigation while acting in propria persona, repeatedly files unmeritorious
motions, pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary discovery, or engages
in other tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay. (CCP § 391, subd. (b).) 
 
Discussion

 
Plaintiff’s
Prior Litigation

 
To
qualify as a vexatious litigant under CCP § 391, subd. (b)(1), Defendants must
demonstrate that Plaintiff commenced, in propria persona, and within the past
seven years, at least five litigations (other than in small claims court) that
have been finally determined against her, or have been unjustifiably permitted
to remain pending for at least two years. 

 
Here,
Defendants have produced evidence of seven lawsuits involving Plaintiff.  However, it appears only two of these
actions (the 2018 red-light citation and the 2021 lawsuit against OptumRx) were
commenced within seven years of June 23, 2023, when the instant lawsuit was
filed.  Additionally, the red-light citation
was not commenced by Plaintiff and the action filed in 2021 is still on-going.  Therefore, neither of these cases qualify as
actions commenced by Plaintiff which have been finally determined against
her.  The Court may not declare Plaintiff
to be a vexatious litigate based upon Plaintiff’s prior litigation. 
 
Litigation
in the Current Lawsuit
 
To qualify as a vexatious litigant under CCP § 391, subd.
(b)(3), Defendants must demonstrate that Plaintiff repeatedly files
unmeritorious motions, pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary
discovery, or engages in other tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay.
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has filed nine motions to
compel discovery responses and each motion heard to date has been denied by the
Court.  Defendants also point to
complaints Plaintiff has made against former defense counsel and this
Court.  
Plaintiff disagrees with how the Court has ruled on her
discovery motions.  She argues she has a
right to preserve the record for appeal. 

At this juncture, the Court determines there is
insufficient evidence that Plaintiff meets the criteria set forth in CCP § 391,
subd. (b), to qualify as a vexatious litigant. 
In her motions to compel discovery, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’
responses were not properly verified because the oath was on a verification
page, not on the response itself.  The
Code requires a responding party to “sign the response under oath.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §2031.250, subd. (a).) In denying the motions, the Court noted that in
practice the responding party may sign a verification form as Defendants
did.  Although the Court has rejected
Plaintiff’s argument, the Court cannot determine that Plaintiff’s argument is
wholly without merit.  Defendants cite no
authority for the proposition that a non-frivolous argument may become
frivolous by virtue of being repeated. 
Moreover, the motions to compel discovery are substantially similar to
each other, and they have been met with substantially similar oppositions and rulings
by the Court.  At this time, the Court
does not find that Plaintiff has placed an unreasonable burden on the Court or
opposing counsel.  
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to declare Plaintiff a
vexatious litigant is DENIED without prejudice. 

Defendants’ requests for an order requiring Plaintiff to
furnish security and for a pre-filing order prohibiting the filing of new
litigation are dependent upon a finding that Plaintiff is a vexatious
litigant.  Accordingly, these requests
are also DENIED without prejudice.  
Defendants’ request for terminating sanctions is DENIED
without prejudice for the reasons stated above. 
