 Case Number:  22STCV21184    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  C Rankie Anthony Villaescusa vs City
of Bellflower, et al.
Case No.: 22STCV21184
Hearing Date: July 16, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#4
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant County of Los Angeles Motion for
Judgment on the Pleading is GRANTED with 30 days leave to amend. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Defendant County of Los Angeles moves for an order granting
judgment on the pleadings as to the second cause of action for negligence and the
third cause of action for negligent hiring, training, and supervision on the
grounds that Plaintiff has failed to meet the heightened pleading standard in
actions involving public entities under the Tort Claims Act. 
Background 
The operative Complaint by Plaintiff FRANKIE ANTHONY
VILLAESCUSA (“Plaintiff”) was filed on June 29, 2022. Plaintiff alleges that
“[t]his Complaint concerns an officer and/or deputy-involved incident…. On or
about May 25, 2021, Plaintiff… was approached, questioned, detained and
escorted by Defendant JOHN DOE…. Defendant JOHN DOE negligently assessed the
circumstances presented to him, and violently confronted and unjustifiably
detained Plaintiff without probable cause or reasonable suspicion that
Plaintiff had committed a crime or would commit a crime. Without warning, the
Defendant JOHN DOE detained and escorted Plaintiff with such force that
Plaintiff suffered severe injuries as a direct and proximate result of being
detained and/or escorted.” (Complaint, ¶ 11.) 
Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts the following causes of
action: (1) Battery – Civil Code §43; (2) Negligence – Cal. Gov. Code
§§850.2(a), 820(a); (3) Negligent Hiring, Training, and Supervision (Cal. Gov.
Code §§815.2(a), 820(a); and (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
On February 23, 2023, this Court SUSTAINED a demurrer as to the first and
fourth causes of action with 30 days leave to amend. (See February 23, 2023
Minute Order.) Plaintiff did not amend the complaint within the time allowed
and failed to provide an adequate explanation for the failure to do so; therefore,
the first and fourth causes of action were dismissed on Defendant’s motion.
(See November 9, 2023 Minute Order.) 
Legal Standard 
A defendant may bring a statutory motion for judgment on the
pleadings where the court has no jurisdiction over the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint or the complaint does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant. (C.C.P. §
438(c)(1)(B).) A non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made
any time before or during trial. (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100
Cal.App.4th 644, 650.) “Such motion may be made on the same ground as those
supporting a general demurrer, i.e., that the pleading at issue fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a legally cognizable claim or defense.” (Id.) 
 
“In the case of either a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the
pleadings, leave to amend should be granted if there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action.” (Gami v.
Mullikin Medical Ctr. (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 870, 876.) 
 
Public
entities cannot be liable for common law theories of general negligence. 
(Miklosy v. Regents of University of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876,
899 [“section 815 abolishes common law tort liability for public
entities”].)  Therefore, liability against a public entity must be
authorized by statute.  (Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1179; Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a) [“A public entity is
not liable for an injury . . . except as otherwise provided by
statute”].)  “Ordinarily, negligence may be pleaded in general terms and
the plaintiff need not specify the precise act or omission alleged to
constitute the breach of duty.  [Citation].  However, because under
the Tort Claims Act all governmental tort liability is based on statute, the
general rule that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity
is applicable.  Thus, ‘to state a cause of action against a public entity,
every fact material to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded
with particularity.’”  (Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist.
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795.) 
 
Government
Code section 815.2, subdivision (a) provides that a public entity is “liable
for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the
public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would,
apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that
employee or his personal representative.”  (Gov. Code, § 815.2, subd.
(a).)  
 
Meet
and Confer
 
Plaintiff
argues that the motion should be denied because Defendant failed to meet and
confer before filing the motion as required by statute. (CCP § 439, subd.
(a).)  
 
The
Court will exercise its discretion to adjudicate the motion on the merits.  
 
Discussion
 
The
second and third causes of action suffer from the same infirmities as the first
and fourth causes of action which have been dismissed.  The conclusory allegations in the
Complaint are insufficient to establish specific conduct by any County
employees to meet the heightened pleading requirements that are required for
claims against a public entity.  The
Complaint fails to allege what Defendant John Doe did to cause Plaintiff’s
injuries.  The Complaint alleges
“Defendant JOHN DOE detained and escorted Plaintiff with such force that
Plaintiff suffered severe injuries as a direct and proximate result of being
detained and/or escorted.” (Complaint, ¶ 11.) Police detain many people each
day throughout Los Angeles County. 
Plaintiff fails to allege why this particular detention should give rise
to liability.  As pled, the allegations
are insufficient to impose liability against the County pursuant to Gov. Code
§815.2.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the second and third
causes of action is GRANTED with 30 days leave to amend.  
 