 Case Number:  24NWCV00138    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  C Alliant Credit Union vs. Tong
V. Tran, et al.
Case No.: 24NWCV00138
Hearing Date: July 16, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#9
Plaintiff’s Application for Pre-Trial Writ of
Possession is GRANTED.  The Court will
hear from counsel regarding the amount of the undertaking.  
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
This action was filed on May 17, 2024, by Plaintiff Alliant
Credit Union (“Plaintiff”) against Defendant Tong v. Tran (“Defendant”). The
Complaint alleges: (1) Claim and Delivery of Personal Property, for pre-trial
writ of possession, and order directing transfer of personal property and
restraining order, and (2) Money Due on a Contract.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant purchased a
Thor Motor Coach, but defaulted on June 27, 2023, such that there is now a
total of $113,439.62 due on the contract. 
Plaintiff has filed the instant application for a pre-trial
writ of possession.   
The application is unopposed as of July 12, 2024.  
Legal Standard 
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at
any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a
writ of possession by filing a written application for the writ with the court
in which the action is brought.”  (CCP § 512.010(a).) 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 512.010(b), the application must be submitted under oath and
include: 
(1) A showing of the
basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession
of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written
instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached. 
(2) A showing that the
property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the
defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention. 
 
(3) A particular
description of the property and a statement of its value. 
(4) A statement,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is
within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a
showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located
there. 
(5) A statement that
the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a
statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff;
or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure. 
Before the hearing on the Writ of
Possession, the Defendant must be served with (1) a copy of the summons and
complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the
application and any affidavit in support thereof.  (CCP § 512.030.) 
 “The writ will be issued if the
court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid and the other
requirements for issuing the writ are established.”  (CCP §
512.040(b).)  “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely
than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on
that claim.”  (CCP § 511.090.)   
Prior to the issuance of a writ of
possession, the Plaintiff must file an undertaking “in an amount not less than
twice the value of the defendant's interest in the property or in a greater
amount.”  (CCP § 515.010(a).)   
Discussion 
 
Here, Plaintiff has stated
the basis for its claim and entitlement to possession of the Thor Motor Coach:
pursuant to a contract between Plaintiff and Defendant. (Chism Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff includes a copy of the retail
installment sales contract, which states in the third section: “We may take the
vehicle from you. If you default, we may take (repossess) the vehicle from you
. . .” (Id. at Ex. A [PDF p. 7].) Indeed, Plaintiff attests that
Decedent defaulted on June 27, 2023, and currently owes $113,439.62 under the
contract. (Chism
Decl., ¶ 12.)  
 
The contract in Exhibit A constitutes a copy of
the written instrument that the claim is based on. 
 
Plaintiff recounts that demand was made upon
defendant Tong Tran for surrender of possession of the motor vehicle to plaintiff,
but defendant has failed, refused or neglected to return possession of such
property, or any part thereof, to plaintiff. (Chism Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. C.) Thus,
the Motor Coach is being wrongfully detained.
 
Defendant entered into
a contract to purchase the Motor Coach on May 13, 2023. (Chism Decl, Ex. A.) 
 
Plaintiff has described the
property: it is a 2023 Thor Motor Coach Sequence motor vehicle,
Vehicle Identification No. 3C6MRVUG2NE129083. (Chism Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Plaintiff
states that the property has not been taken for a “tax, assessment, or fine”
nor “seized under an execution against the property of Plaintiff. (Chism Decl.,
¶ 9.) 
Plaintiff
states that the current location of the property is 10182 Roselee Dr., Garden
Grove, CA 92840.  This is the address
where Defendant Tong Tran resides. (Chism Decl., ¶ 10.)
Accordingly, the Application for
Pre-Trial Writ of Possession is GRANTED. 

Undertaking
Code of Civil Procedure section 515.010 requires an undertaking
to be filed before the writ issues in the amount of “not less than twice the
value of the defendant’s interest in the property.”  
The Court will hear from Counsel regarding the amount of the
undertaking.  
 
 