 Case Number:  21NWCV00227    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  C Ortegon vs. Cortazar, et al.
CASE NO.: 21NWCV00227 
HEARING: July 19, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#2 
Tentative Ruling 
1.    Plaintiff’s
Motion for Terminating Sanctions against Defendant Carolina Cortazar is
GRANTED.  The Motion for Evidentiary and
Monetary Sanctions and the Motion to Compel Response to Form Interrogatories
(Set Two) are MOOT.
2.    Plaintiff’s
Motions to Compel Response to Form Interrogatories (Set Two) as to Defendants
Steven Mitchell and Carlos Sandoval are GRANTED.  Sanctions are imposed
upon Defendant Steven Mitchell and Carlos Sandoval, and counsel, jointly and
severally, in the amount $1050.00, payable within 60 days.  

Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
This is a landlord-tenant dispute between Plaintiff Javier
Ortegon (“Plaintiff”) and Defendants Carolina Cortazar, Steven Mitchell, and
Carlos Sandoval (collectively “Defendants”). Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
unlawfully entered the leased property on several occasions, threatened
Plaintiff, removed Plaintiff’s personal property, and wrongfully evicted
Plaintiff.
Plaintiff moves to compel response to Form Interrogatories,
Set Two, as to each Defendant. 
As to Defendant Carolina Cortazar only, Plaintiff also
moves for an order for terminating, issue, and monetary sanctions on the
grounds that Defendant Cortazar has been misusing the discovery process. 
The motions are unopposed as of July 12, 2024.
Motion for Terminating Sanctions 
If a party fails to comply with a court order compelling
discovery responses or attendance at a deposition, the court may impose
monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc.,§
2025.450, subd. (h); § 2030.290, subd. (c); § 2031.300, subd. (c).) "To
the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method
... the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and
after opportunity for hearing, may impose ... monetary, issue, evidence, or
terminating) sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of
the discovery process... " (Code Civ. Proc.,§ 2030.030.) "Misuses of
the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following: ... (d)
Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery... (g)
Disobeying a court order to provide discovery .... " (Code Civ. Proc.,§
2030.010.)
Plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions is based upon Defendant
Cortazar’s failure to comply with this Court’s March 24, 2022, order compelling
Defendant to respond to Plaintiff’s Demand for Inspection of Premises, Set One;
February 21, 2023 order compelling Defendant to respond without objections to
Plaintiff’s Demand for Inspection of Tangible Things, Set One; December 12,
2023, order compelling Defendant to respond to Plaintiff’s Demand for
Production of Documents, Set One; March 6, 2024, order compelling Defendant
comply with Plaintiff’s Inspection of Premises, Set One; and the issuance of
monetary sanctions. (D’Amico Decl., ¶¶2-10.) 
1)   Terminating
Sanctions 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions
should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a
history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in
imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los Defensores v. Gomez (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 377, 390.) 
Here, it appears that Defendant previously served responses
to Demand for Inspection of Tangible Things, Set One on October 25, 2022. (See
March 6, 2024 Minute Order.) However, those responses were not supported by
competent evidence because they lacked foundation; further, they contained
objections. (Id.)  Defendant’s counsel
also stated that he communicated to Plaintiff’s counsel that he believed the
premises could not be inspected because a new tenant was leasing it. (Id.)  However, that communication was unresponsive
to Plaintiff’s discovery. (Id.) 
As to the Request for Production of Documents, the “Amended” Responses
that Defendant’s counsel did serve do not comply with the Court’s December 12,
2023 Order. (D’Amico Dec. ¶ 7.) Moreover, Defendant has continued to fail to
provide the premises for inspection. (D’Amico Dec. ¶ 8, Ex. 4). Plaintiff’s
counsel engaged in several email communications and a 37-minute telephone
conversation with Defendant’s counsel on March 26, 2024 regarding Defendant’s
non-compliance, but Defendant has still failed to comply as of April 4, 2024,
the date the instant motion was filed.  
This Court already imposed monetary sanctions against
Defendant Cortazar for failure to comply with discovery orders.  Moreover, Defendant was served with notice of
the instant motion and did not file an opposition.  The Court denied Plaintiff’s previous motion
for terminating sanctions on March 6, 2024, finding that Defendant Cortazar had
participated in discovery proceedings brought before the Court.  By now, however, it is clear that Defendant Cortazar
is disinterested in litigating this case. 

Accordingly, the Motion for Terminating Sanctions against
Defendant Cortazar is GRANTED.
The Court strikes Defendant Cortazar’s Answer, and
default judgment against Defendant Cortazar is entered.  
Motions to Compel Response to Form
Interrogatories, Set Two 
A party may make a demand for production of documents and
propound interrogatories without leave of court at any time 10 days after the
service of the summons on, or appearance by, the party to whom the demand is
directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.020, subd. (b); Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) 
If a party fails to timely respond to a request for
production or interrogatories, the party to whom the request is directed waives
any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.230, and waives any objection, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a); Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  
The party who propounded the discovery request may bring a
motion to compel and the court shall impose a monetary sanction against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to a demand for production of documents or interrogatories,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).) 
On July 25, 2023, Plaintiff
served his second set of form interrogatories upon each Defendant individually.
(D’Amico
Dec. ¶ 5, Ex. 1.) As of the dates the motions were filed (February 20, 2024 and
February 21, 2024), Plaintiff Javier Ortegon has received no response to these
interrogatories. (D’Amico Dec. ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Response to Form
Interrogatories, Set Two, are GRANTED as to Defendants Steven Mitchell and
Carlos Sandoval.  
Plaintiff submits three requests for sanctions, each in the
amount of $2,524.37 (4.5 hours for the preparation of each motion, including an
additional 2.5 hours anticipated for reviewing and replying to any opposition
and appearing at the hearing of each motion at $350.00 per hour, plus $74.37
for costs of filing this motion).  
The requests for sanctions are GRANTED in part.  Sanctions are imposed upon Defendants Steven
Mitchell and Carlos Sandoval, and counsel, jointly and severally, in the amount
$1050.00, payable within 60 days.  The
Court finds that the fees requested by counsel are excessinve. The motions are substantially
similar to each other, and they are relatively simple. Lastly, the motions are
unopposed.  
 