 Case Number:  24STCV05996    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Defendant Charles R. Drew University of
Medicine and Science’s Motion to Compel Arbitration to Stay Pending Litigation
The motion to compel arbitration is granted.
Plaintiff and Defendants shall arbitrate the controversies
between them, including the entire Complaint. This entire case is stayed until
such arbitration has been completed.
On 3/11/24, DIANE MARIE BRECKENRIDGE (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint against CHARLES R. DREW UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & SCIENCE,
CHARLES R. DREW UNIVERISTY [sic] OF MEDICINE & SCIENCE FOUNDATION,
STEVE MICHAEL, NICOLA MARTIN (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 to 100,
inclusive, based on Plaintiff’s employment with Defendants between April 2018
and June 2021.
The causes of action are: 1) Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy; 2) Disability and Medical Condition Based
discrimination; 3) Disability Harassment; 4) Failure to Accommodate; 5) Failure
to Engage in the Interactive Process; 6) Retaliation in Violation of the Fair
Employment & Housing Act; 7) Failure to Prevent, Investigate and/or Remedy
Unlawful Harassment, Discrimination and Retaliation; 8) Discriminatory
Termination; 9) Interfering with the Rights and Refusing an Employee’s Request
for a CFRA Family Care Leave; 10) Retaliatory Termination for Requesting and
Going on a Family Care Leave; 11) Common Law Retaliation; 12) Promissory
Estoppel; 13) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 14) Promissory
Estoppel; 15) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 16)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 17) Unfair Business Practices;
and 18) Declaratory Relief. 
On April 19, 2024, Defendant CHARLES R. DREW
UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & SCIENCE (“Moving Party”) moved to compel
arbitration. On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On July 17, 2024,
Moving Party replied.[1]
Arbitration Agreement
Moving Party argues that Plaintiff signed an
arbitration agreement (the Arbitration Agreement) that covers all of her
employment related claims, and she should therefore be required to arbitrate
all of her claims in this action. (Motion, 6:27-8:5.) Moving Party contends
there is a strong public policy favoring arbitration under the Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”), and notes that the FAA governs the enforcement of the Arbitration
Agreement. (8:17-9:21.)
In opposition, Plaintiff contends her eleventh and
seventeenth causes of action are not subject to arbitration because they seek public
injunctive relief, which cannot be compelled to arbitration. (Opp., 3:1-4:4.)
Plaintiff relies on the cases of Cruz v. PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 303 (Cruz) and McGill v. Citibank, N.A. (2017) 2
Cal.5th 945 (McGill) to support these arguments.
In reply, Moving Party contends the Ninth Circuit held
that the FAA preempts state laws shielding entire types of claims from
arbitration, citing Ferguson v. Corinthian Colleges, Inc., (2013) 733
F.3d 928 and Kilgore v. KeyBank, Nat Ass’n, (2012) 673 F.3d 947. Moving
Party further contends that Plaintiff’s claim for injunctive relief is not for
public relief because the facts of Plaintiff’s are very specific to Plaintiff.
“[T]he FAA's procedural
provisions do not apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause
expressly incorporating them. [T]he question is not whether the parties adopted
the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state's procedural
statutes apply by default because Congress intended the comparable FAA sections
to apply in federal court. The question, therefore, is whether the parties
expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural
provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman
Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345 (Victrola 89),
internal citations omitted and italics in original.) “[P]revious
cases have held that when an arbitration agreement provides that its
‘enforcement’ shall be governed by California law, the [CAA] governs a party's
motion to compel arbitration. It follows that when an agreement provides that
its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party's
motion to compel arbitration.” (Id., at p. 346.)
The Court finds that this motion to compel arbitration
is governed by the FAA since the Arbitration Agreement specifically mentions
that its enforcement is governed by the FAA. (Nagao-Bugarin Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 3; Victrola
89, supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 345.)
A party seeking to compel arbitration meets their
initial burden of establishing the existence of a valid arbitration agreement
by attaching a copy to the motion or petition to compel arbitration. (Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1060.) The Court notes that Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of
the Arbitration Agreement. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition,
Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived when a party fails to support
them with reasoned argument and citations to authority. [Citation.]”])
Accordingly, Moving Party has satisfied its burden on this point.
An arbitration agreement must not only exist; it must
also cover the disputed claims. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The Court notes that Plaintiff only contends two of her
eighteen claims are not covered by the Arbitration Agreement, and therefore
necessarily concedes that the other sixteen are covered by it. (See Opp.,
3:2-4:4.) As for the two remaining claims, the Court disagrees with Plaintiff.
Moving Party correctly notes that the FAA preempts the rule set forth in Cruz
which prohibits arbitration of claims seeking public injunctive relief. (Ferguson
v. Corinthian Colleges, Inc., supra,  733 F.3d at p. 934.) Since the subject
arbitration is governed by the FAA, the public injunctive relief rule set forth
in Cruz is preempted.
Accordingly, the Court
finds all of Plaintiff’s claims are covered by the Arbitration Agreement.
 
Unconscionability
 
Moving Party contends the
Arbitration Agreement is not unconscionable. More specifically, Moving Party
contends there is no procedural unconscionability because Plaintiff was free to
review the Arbitration Agreement at her discretion and signed a day after
receiving it. (Motion, 11:1-27.) Moving Party also argues that it contains
clear language apprising Plaintiff of the waiver of her right to a jury trial
and an opt-out provision that Plaintiff did not use. (Id.) Moving Party
also contends the Arbitration Agreement is not substantively unconscionable
because it is not one-sided, but rather requires both parties to arbitrate any
claims they may have against each other, and otherwise provides the requisite
safeguards to ensure a fair resolution. (Id., 11:1-12:18.) Moving Party
further argues the Arbitration Agreement complies with the requirements set
forth in Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, namely that it provides a neutral arbitrator, does not limit statutory
remedies, provides for the full range of discovery, requires a written
decision, and Plaintiff is not required to pay the costs associated with
arbitration.
In opposition, Plaintiff
contends the Arbitration Agreement is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. Plaintiff contends the evidence shows there was oppression, and
the arbitration clause at the end of the standardized employment contract requires
the employees to sign to be considered for employment. (Opp., 4:5-57.) Plaintiff
notes that she signed it before beginning work and did not have a choice
because the application could not be completed without agreeing to the
Arbitration Agreement. (Id.) Plaintiff argues there was
procedural unconscionability because Moving Party did not provide a copy of the
relevant FAA rules with the Arbitration Agreement. (Id., 5:8-6:2.) As
for substantive unconscionability, Plaintiff simply contends there is
significant amounts of substantive unconscionability. (Id., 5:3-8.) Plaintiff
further argues the requirements the “clear and unmistakable” test for a
delegation clause are not met, pointing to two different provisions of the
Arbitration Agreement and contending they conflict with each other. (Id.,
6:9-7:4.)
 
In
reply, Moving Party contends the Arbitration Agreement is not a contract of
adhesion since there was an opt-out provision Plaintiff never used, and
adhesion alone is insufficient to support a finding of procedural
unconscionability. (Reply, 3:3-11.) Moving Party then contends that the failure
to provide a copy of the FAA rules with the Arbitration Agreement is only a
factor in the procedural unconscionability analysis; it is not sufficient by
itself to find procedural unconscionability. (Reply, 3:12-23.) Moving Party
then argues that Plaintiff’s delegation clause argument fails because the two
clauses Plaintiff mentions do not conflict with each other. (Reply, 3:24-4:7.)
“[P]rocedural
and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102 (Armendariz).) The courts
invoke a sliding scale which disregards the regularity of the procedural
process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the
greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves,
i.e., the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa. (Id., at p. 114.)  Plaintiff bears the burden of proving that
the provision at issue is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable. 
“Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.
[Citations] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which
results in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice … Surprise
involves the extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a ‘prolix
printed form’ drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position.’
[Citations]” (Roman v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462,
1469.)
“Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results’ [Citations] that
is, whether contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively
unreasonable or unexpected manner. 
[Citation] Substantive unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but
typically is found in the employment context when the arbitration agreement is
‘one-sided’ in favor of the employer without sufficient justification, for
example, when ‘the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the
employer’s claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration.’
[Citations]” (Roman, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1469-1470.)
The
Court does not find the Arbitration Agreement unconscionable. While the
Arbitration Agreement appears to be a standardized contract, that by itself is
insufficient to render an arbitration provision unenforceable. (See Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 102; Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237, 1244.) To the extent Moving Party failed to provide a copy of the
FAA “rules” as Plaintiff contends, that is not enough either. The failure to
provide a copy of the rules of conduct is merely one factor to consider in a
procedural unconscionability analysis; it does not render an agreement
unconscionable per se. (See Pokorny v. Quixtar, Inc. (9th Cir.
2010) 601 F.3d 987, 997.) The Court also is not entirely clear as to what a
copy of the FAA “rules” would even be, since the FAA is a federal statute, not
the internal rules of an ADR service provider like JAMS or AAA. The Court
further finds Plaintiff’s argument that the evidence shows there was oppression
to be conclusory and unsupported by any references to the evidence. Finally,
the Arbitration Agreement contained an opt-out clause that Plaintiff never
used. (Nagao-Bugarin Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. A, p. 9.)
On
balance, there is some evidence of procedural unconscionability, given the
standardized contract and failure to provide a copy of any required arbitration
rules. But, there must be both procedural and substantive unconscionability for
this argument to prevail. (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc., supra, 62
Cal.4th at pp. 1243-1244.) Additionally, given the minimal procedural
unconscionability demonstrated here, Plaintiff must show even more substantive
unconscionability to prevail on this argument. (Id.)
The
Court finds the Arbitration Agreement is not substantively unconscionable.
Plaintiff’s argument that there was substantive unconscionability is conclusory
and without any evidentiary support. (See Opp., 6:3-8.) Plaintiff also did not
dispute Moving Party’s arguments that the Arbitration Agreement complies with
the Armendariz requirements, such as providing a neutral arbitrator, no
limitation on statutory remedies, full range of discovery, written decision,
and Plaintiff not being required to pay costs associated with arbitration. (See
Motion, 12:19-14:1.) The Court construes this lack of opposition as a tacit
admission that Moving Party’s arguments here are meritorious. (Sexton v.
Superior Court, supra, 58 Cal.App.4th at p. 1410; C. Opposing the
Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial
Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.
Colombo, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at p. 1215 [“Contentions are waived
when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to
authority. [Citation.]”])
Finally,
the Court finds Plaintiff’s arguments about the two purportedly conflicting
clauses from the Arbitration Agreement to be unavailing. First, there is no
conflict between those two clauses. One simply says the parties agree to
arbitrate their disputes instead of litigating them in court, while the other says
the FAA governs the substantive and procedural enforcement of the Arbitration
Agreement itself. (Nagao-Bugarin Decl., Ex. A, ¶¶ 2-3.) Second, the “clear and
unmistakable” test Plaintiff references is for questions of arbitrability,
i.e., what issues the parties agreed to have resolved by the arbitrator, such
as the enforceability of their agreement. (See B.D. v. Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (2022) 76
Cal.App.5th 931, 957.) If there was language in the Arbitration Agreement
delegating questions like the enforceability to the arbitrator, then the
arbitrator would have determined whether the Arbitration Agreement was
enforceable and not this Court. But, none of the parties have pointed to any
such language in the Arbitration Agreement, so it is not an issue here.
Based on the foregoing, the Court rejects
Plaintiff’s argument that the Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable, and
grants the motion to compel arbitration.
Conclusion
The motion to compel arbitration is granted.
Plaintiff and Defendants shall arbitrate the
controversies between them, including the entire Complaint. This entire case is
stayed until such arbitration has been completed.


