 Case Number:  BC684669    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  55 Tentative on Plaintiff’s Remaining Outstanding Motions in
Limine
At the 11/18/2022, the Court ruled on several motions in
limine filed by the parties. The Court also deferred ruling on several of the
motions in limine. The Court now tentatively rules as follows on Plaintiff’s
motions other than MIL No. 23 to Exclude any Evidence and Argument that this is
a Medical Malpractice Action, which the Court will discuss with the parties at the FSC.
The Court will issue a tentative ruling on Defendant’s remaining motions in
limine at a later date. 
 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 5 to Exclude Concealed and Untimely
Disclosed Sub Rosa is denied. The motion does not identify what specific
evidence the moving party seeks to exclude and does not contain any supporting
evidence that any such evidence even exists.
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 6 to Exclude Speculative Evidence,
Testimony, and/or References that Plaintiff’s Fall Resulted from Anything Other
than Tripping on a Crack on the Playground is denied. 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 9 to Exclude Evidence, Witnesses, and
Contentions not Disclosed in Discovery is denied.  The motion fails to identify what specific
evidence the moving party seeks to exclude, and thus the Court cannot make a
meaningful order. 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 10 to Exclude Testimony and/or Reference
to Statements Allegedly Made by Plaintiff’s Parents at Hospital and Gossip is
denied.
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 11 to Exclude Affirmative Defenses not
Asserted in Defendant’s Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is denied. This is not
a motion in limine because it does not seek exclusion or limitation of any evidence.
 Rather, the moving party seeks to
preclude the Defendant from raising arguments, but this is an improper use of a
motion in limine. 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 13 to Exclude any Reference by Defendant
and its Experts to Defendant’s Limited Funds as an Excuse for its Negligence is
granted. Defendant has not explained what relevance its financial status has
with respect to establishing liability or Plaintiff’s claims for damages. 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 14 to Exclude any Reference by Defendant
and Its Experts to Plaintiff’s Past Economic Damages Including Medical Expenses
is denied.
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 16 to Exclude any Reference to, or
Suggest that Plaintiff Experienced Head Trauma Before or After the Subject
Incident is denied.
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 21 to Exclude all Hearsay Testimony
Regarding Plaintiff’s Injury Incident is denied. 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 24 Regarding Scientific, Technical,
Medical, and/or Professional Textbooks, Articles, and/or Reference is denied. 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 26 to Exclude Defendant’s Experts from
Rendering any Improper Opinions Regarding Plaintiff Being Motivated by “Secondary
Gain” is moot because Dr. Goldberg is no longer a testifying expert witness in
this case. 
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 28 to Exclude Defendant’s Responses
Amended After the Discovery Cut-Off is denied. 