  Case Number:  23STCV07695    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Responses from EOS Organization, LLC to Requests for Production
of Documents
Plaintiffs Westside Lighting, Inc. and
Manochehr Nazarian move to compel defendant EOS Organization, LLC (EOS) to
respond to requests for production of documents, set one.  When the responding party
fails to serve a timely response to requests for production, the requesting
party may move for an order compelling a response.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(b).)  Failing to serve a timely response
also results in waiving any objections. 
(Id., subd. (a).)
EOS
failed to serve failed to serve a timely response to plaintiff’s requests for
production.  Plaintiffs served requests
for production, set one, on EOS on August 16, 2024.  (McGuiness Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 3.)  As of October 11, 2024, when plaintiffs made
this motion, EOS had not served a response. 
(Id., ¶ 8.)  Plaintiffs are
therefore entitled to an order compelling responses without objections.
Sanctions
            Plaintiffs move for $2,120 in
sanctions against EOS.  Failing to respond to an authorized method of
discovery is a misuse of the discovery process subject to monetary
sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subd. (d).)  EOS failed to respond to
plaintiffs’ requests for production.  EOS
did not act with substantial justification. 
Sanctions are just under the circumstances.  Plaintiffs reasonably incurred $2,120 in
expenses for this motion.
  Disposition
Plaintiffs Westside
Lighting, Inc. and Manochehr
Nazarian’s motion to compel responses
to requests for production is granted.  Defendant EOS
Organization, LLC is ordered to serve verified responses without objections to plaintiffs’
requests for production, set one, within 20 days.  Defendant EOS Organization, LLC shall produce
all responsive documents in its possession, custody, or control concurrently
with its written responses to the requests for production.
Defendant EOS Organization, LLC is ordered to pay plaintiffs Westside Lighting, Inc. and Manochehr Nazarian $2,120 in sanctions within
20 days.  