  Case Number:  23STCV20886    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  11 People v. Express Scripts, Inc. (23STCV20886)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Disqualify
 
Date:                           11/14/24
 
Time:                          11:00
am
 
Moving Party:           OptumRX, Inc. (“OptumRX”)
 
Opposing Party:        The People of the State of California
(“People” or “Plaintiff”)
 
Department:              11
 
Judge:                         David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court denies OptumRX’s motion to disqualify.
 
BACKGROUND
 
OptumRX and the other “Defendants are Pharmacy Benefit Managers
(‘PBMs’).”  (7/18/24 Ruling Re: Motion to
Stay Pending Appeal, p. 1.)[1]  “They ‘administer prescription-drug benefits
for health-plan sponsors, including employers, government entities, and
unions.’  [Citation.]”  (Ibid.) 
“‘When a beneficiary of a prescription-drug plan goes to a
pharmacy to fill a prescription, the pharmacy checks with a PBM to determine
that person’s coverage and copayment information.’  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid.)  “‘[T]he PBM [then]
reimburses the pharmacy for the prescription, less the amount of the
beneficiary’s copayment.’  [Citation.]”  (Ibid.) 
“‘The prescription-drug plan, in turn, reimburses the PBM.’  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid.)
 
“Plaintiff sued Defendants for their alleged contributions to the opioid
crisis.”  (Ibid.)  “Plaintiff claims Defendants created a public
nuisance.”  (Ibid.)
 
Here, OptumRX moves to disqualify Plaintiff’s co-counsel, Motley Rice LLC
(“Motley Rice”), pursuant to the California Rules of Professional Conduct
(“CRPC”).
 
DISCUSSION
 
The specific CRPC rule at issue is rule 1.11(c), which is a replica of
rule 1.11(c) of the American Bar Association (“ABA”) Model Rules of
Professional Conduct (“MRPC”).  Both
rules state:
 
Except as law may otherwise expressly permit,
a lawyer who was a public official or employee and, during that employment,
acquired information that the lawyer knows is confidential government
information about a person, may not represent a private client whose interests
are adverse to that person in a matter in which the information could be used
to the material disadvantage of that person. As used in this rule, the term
“confidential government information” means information that has been obtained
under governmental authority, that, at the time this rule is applied, the
government is prohibited by law from disclosing to the public, or has a legal
privilege not to disclose, and that is not otherwise available to the public. A
firm with which that lawyer is associated may undertake or continue
representation in the matter only if the personally prohibited lawyer is timely
screened from any participation in the matter and is apportioned no part of the
fee therefrom.
 
(CRPC, rule 1.11(c); MRPC, rule 1.11(c).) 

 
The plain language means that, “where a lawyer acquired ‘confidential
government information’ about a person during the former employment [], the
lawyer may not represent a private client whose interests are adverse to that
person in a matter in which the information could be used to the material
disadvantage of the person.”  (Tuft, et
al., Cal. Practice Guide: Professional Responsibility and Liability (The Rutter
Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 8:280.1.)
 
Four elements need to be established: 
 
(1) the lawyer used to be “a public official or employee” (CRPC, rule
1.11(c));
 
(2) during the public employment, the lawyer “acquired information that
the lawyer knows is confidential government information about a person”
(ibid.);
 
(3) the lawyer is now attempting to “represent a private client whose
interests are adverse to that person” – i.e., the person the “confidential
government information” concerns (ibid.); and
 
(4) the current representation is “in a matter in which the [confidential
government] information could be used to the disadvantage of that person.”  (Ibid.)
 
First Element
 
Motley Rice represented the Hawaii Attorney General, the District of
Columbia Attorney General, and Chicago, Illinois in investigative matters
against OptumRX.  (See Motion, pp.
6-8.)  Government subpoenas were issued,
and OptumRX produced documents to Motley Rice in response to the
subpoenas.  (See ibid.; see also Caplis
Decl., ¶¶ 2-19; Grant Decl., ¶¶ 2-8.)  
 
After the government investigations, OptumRX says Motley Rice used
information from the documents to start filing opioid lawsuits against OptumRX
on behalf of plaintiffs in jurisdictions around the country, including the
People’s action.  (See Motion, pp. 8-9.)
 
OptumRX contends Motley Rice qualified as a public officer when Motley
Rice represented Hawaii, the District of Columbia, and Chicago.  (See id. at pp. 12-13.)
 
Plaintiff claims “Motley Rice was not a public official or
employee[.]”  (Opposition, p. 13; see
also id. at p. 14.)
 
In reply, OptumRX cites ABA formal opinion 509.  OptumRX asserts that a private law firm is a
public officer if the firm accepts a special government appointment – e.g., if
the firm becomes a special prosecutor. 
(See Reply, pp. 7-10.)
 
OptumRX filed an almost identical motion to disqualify in the opioid
multidistrict litigation (“MDL”) pending in Ohio.  That motion concerned rule 1.11(c) of the
Ohio Rules of Professional Conduct (“ORPC”). 
ORPC rule 1.11(c) effectively mirrors MRPC rule 1.11(c) and CRPC rule
1.11(c):
 
Except as law may otherwise expressly permit,
a lawyer having information that the lawyer knows is confidential
government information about a person acquired when the lawyer was a public
officer or employee, may not represent a private client whose interests are
adverse to that person in a matter in which the information could be used to
the material disadvantage of that person. 
As used in this rule, the term “confidential government information”
means information that has been obtained under governmental authority and that,
at the time this rule is applied, the government is prohibited by law from
disclosing to the public or has a legal privilege not to disclose and that is
not otherwise available to the public.  A
firm with which that lawyer is associated may undertake or continue
representation in the matter only if the disqualified lawyer is timely screened
from any participation in the matter and is apportioned no part of the fee
therefrom.
 
(ORPC, rule 1.11(c), emphasis in
original.)  
 
Regarding the first element, the MDL court agreed with OptumRX:
 
Motley Rice argues it was not an agent or
employee of any of the three governments, while conducting their respective
Investigations, because the retainer agreements it entered with those entities
state it was an independent contractor, subject to the governmental entity’s
control. [Citation.] In support, Motley Rice identifies specific language in
its retainer agreement with Hawaii: “[Motley Rice attorneys] are not by reason
of this Agreement, agents or employees of the State for any purpose.” [Citation.]
 
This argument elevates form over substance,
glossing over the role Motley Rice really played and the powers it deployed.
The language of the retainer agreement cannot change what Motley Rice actually
did. The unavoidable fact is that, when Motley Rice served government subpoenas and received documents in response – even if it was acting on behalf of
those governmental entities under a contingent fee, independent contractor
agreement – it had been granted authority to wield the power of the government.
In that way, Motley Rice was acting as a public officer. Whether Motley Rice
was technically a public officer or employee, under the strict legal definition
used by the hiring governmental entity or the terms of its contract, cannot
alter the reality that Motley Rice gained access to information pursuant to governmental authority. 
Thus, the Court agrees with OptumRx that Motley Rice was acting as a
public officer or employee.
 
(In Re: Nat. Prescription Opiate Litig. (N.D. Ohio Mar. 18, 2024,
No. 1:17-md-2804) 2024 WL 3387288, at *7, emphasis in original.)
 
Plaintiff contends the Court should reach the opposite conclusion
because:
 
* “[e]ach government entity’s retainer agreement specified that Motley
Rice lawyers were independent contractors, not government employees, and/or
that they worked only subject to the government entity’s control” (Opposition,
p. 13); and
 
* “[s]ubstantial authority holds that private lawyers retained by
governments on a contingency-fee basis for civil investigations and litigation are
not public officials or employees.” 
(Ibid., emphasis in original; see also id. at p. 13 n.11 [citing cases];
id. at p. 14 [quoting ABA formal ethics opinion 97-409].)
 
The Court declines.  The MDL court
considered these exact arguments and rejected them.  The Court tends to agree with the MDL court’s
analysis and with OptumRX’s reply discussion of ABA formal opinion 509 versus
ABA formal opinion 97-409.  (See Reply,
pp. 7-10.)  If it were necessary to rule
on this element, the Court would favor OptumRX’s position.
 
However, it is not necessary.  The
Court finds that OptumRX’s motion should be denied because OptumRX does not
satisfy the second and fourth elements.[2] [3]
 
Second Element
 
OptumRX asserts that Motley Rice received confidential government
information via the government investigations. 
(See Motion, p. 13; see also id. at p. 14.)
 
Plaintiff disagrees.  The People
contend OptumRX’s documents do not constitute confidential government
information because they “can be obtained through routine discovery[.]”  (Opposition, p. 6; see also id. at 7-10.)
 
OptumRX claims Plaintiff’s definition is overbroad and makes rule 1.11(c)
a nullity:
 
Under Rule 1.11(c), “confidential government
information” is information that (1) is “obtained under governmental
authority;” (2) the government “is prohibited by law from disclosing to the
public, or has a legal privilege not to disclose;” and (3) “is not otherwise
available to the public.” [Citation.] Motley Rice does not dispute that the
first two requirements are met. As government investigators wielding state
power, Motley Rice served subpoenas on OptumRx and obtained tens of thousands
of pages of confidential information about OptumRx’s business and product
offerings. Moreover, Motley Rice is prohibited from disclosing that information
to the public under the retainer agreements they executed with the governments [citations],
the confidentiality agreements they executed with OptumRx [citations], and
applicable state law [citations].
 
The only requirement in dispute is the third
– whether the information is “otherwise available to the public.” OptumRx is
not claiming that the confidential status of information under Rule 1.11(c)
turns on a confidentiality designation made by the producing party in a
government investigation. Rather, OptumRx contends that whether information is
“otherwise available to the public” under Rule 1.11(c) cannot turn on
whether the information is subject to “routine discovery,” where that term is
defined as anything that a civil litigant could obtain through discovery. [Citation.]
If that were the case, nothing could ever qualify as confidential government
information, and Rule 1.11(c) would be written out of existence. Former
government lawyers could erase their ethical violations by re-requesting copies
of documents that they first learned about through their government work. Grand
jury materials, search warrant information, regulatory information, and
information obtained through formal or informal attorney interviews – the list
goes on – is all discoverable in civil litigation from the party who produced
it to the government. According to Motley Rice, that makes it all “publicly
available.” But that is not the law. [Citations.] Moreover, what is not
“publicly available” by that standard? Motley Rice has had opportunity after
opportunity in the MDL and in this lawsuit to answer that question. It has yet
to do so.
 
(Reply, pp. 11-12, emphasis in original.)
 
To repeat, OptumRX produced documents to Motley Rice in response to the
government subpoenas.  The overarching
question for the second element is whether Motley Rice acquired confidential
government information by way of those productions.  Rule 1.11(c) defines confidential government
information as “information that has been obtained under governmental
authority, that, at the time this rule is applied, the government is prohibited
by law from disclosing to the public, or has a legal privilege not to disclose,
and that is not otherwise available to the public.”  (CRPC, rule 1.11(c).)  The acute question – the only definition
factor being challenged now – is whether the acquired information is publicly
available.  It is a “question of fact[,]”
and it depends on whether the information “can be obtained through routine
discovery[.]”  (ABA Formal Op., p. 4
[advising that, “[w]hether government information is publicly available – e.g.,
whether it can be obtained through routine discovery – will be a question of fact”].)  
 
Notably, the MDL court held that OptumRX did not meet the burden of proof
on this question.  The MDL court found
OptumRX’s experts unavailing (see In Re: Nat. Prescription Opiate Litig.,
supra, 2024 WL 3387288, at *9), noted that, sometimes, documents marked
confidential can be discovered (see id. at *9-*10), and found that OptumRX
failed to differentiate between discoverable confidential documents and
undiscoverable confidential documents. 
(See id. at *11.)
 
The Court agrees.  OptumRX is
relying on the same experts.  (See Hooker
Decl., Ex. P [attaching Montgomery and Muchman Expert Report].)  Their report continues to “paint[] with a
broad brush and fails  to distinguish
between documents [OptumRX] would produce in routine discovery (perhaps covered
by a protective order) and other information that might legitimately be deemed
true, confidential government information.” 
(In Re: Nat. Prescription Opiate Litig., supra, 2024 WL 3387288,
at *11; see also Hooker Decl., Ex. P, pp. 17-18, 30-35 [discussing complaint
allegations, subpoenas, and confidentiality agreements, not specific
documents].)  The Court finds OptumRX’s
burden unsatisfied.  
 
Two more points support this result. 
One, OptumRX’s responses to the subpoenas seem analogous to responses to
civil investigation demands (“CIDs”), which courts have held are “subject to
compulsory discovery.”  (See, e.g., Davis
v. Southern Bell Tel. & Tel. Co. (S.D. Fla. 1993) 149 F.R.D. 666, 674
[finding that the phone company’s responses to Florida’s CID requests were
discoverable and, thus, were not confidential government information].)  Two, the documents have already been produced
– and Motley Rice and all MDL plaintiffs “can use them” – in the MDL.  (In Re: Nat. Prescription Opiate Litig.,
supra, 2024 WL 3387288, at *15; see also id. at *14; Opposition, pp. 5,
9.)  The fact that they have already been
discovered establishes that they “can be obtained through routine discovery.”  (ABA Formal Op., p. 4.)[4]
 
OptumRX contends “Motley Rice’s focus on OptumRX’s documents is
misleading” because rule 1.11(c) also covers strategic insights and mental
roadmaps.  (Reply, p. 13, emphasis in
original; see also id. at p. 14.)
 
The Court disagrees.  Instead of
identifying a particular strategic insight or mental roadmap, OptumRX requests
permission to depose Motley Rice’s declarants to see if they have any
non-documentary confidential government information.  (See id. at p. 14 n.9.)  This is an admission that the contention is
speculative, vague, and amorphous.
 
For now, the Court is inclined to deny the deposition requests.  A strategic insight or mental roadmap,
assuming one exists, would most likely derive from the documents themselves, so
it is doubtful that the depositions would reveal different confidential
government information sufficient to change the outcome of the motion to
disqualify.         
 
Third Element
 
The third element is uncontested. 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff is a private client with adverse
interests.  (See Reply, p. 7 n.3.)
 
Fourth Element
 
OptumRX argues that the confidential government information could be
utilized against OptumRX here (see id. at pp. 14-15) and that “[t]here is no
way for Motley Rice lawyers to unlearn what they learned” in the government
investigations.  (Id. at p. 16; see also
Reply, pp. 15-17 [claiming certain information “is not available through the
MDL repository”].)
 
Plaintiff contends OptumRX fails to “show that Motley Rice’s access” to
the documents “could cause [a] material disadvantage” to OptumRX.  (Opposition, p. 10; see also id. at pp.
11-13.)
 
The MDL court reasoned that, because the information is available to all
MDL plaintiffs, OptumRX could not demonstrate a material disadvantage:
 
To be plain: OptumRx is required (and has
been required) to re-produce into the MDL Repository the documents it produced
in response to the subpoenas issued in the Chicago Copay Investigation, the
D.C. Price Investigation, and the Hawaii Billing Investigation.  
 
OptumRx asserts that the confidentiality
agreements Motley Rice entered into on behalf of its government clients prevent
the use of those documents in other matters, including the Opioid MDL. But the
confidentiality agreements neither convert OptumRx’s confidential documents
into confidential government information (as described above), nor prevent
their use in the Opioid MDL. The Chicago and Hawaii confidentiality agreements
each contain language expressly permitting the documents’ use pursuant to a court
order. [Citations.]   
 
The D.C. Price Investigation confidentiality
agreement does not contain the “court order” exception.  But the parties’ briefs show the documents
OptumRx produced to Washington, D.C. were the same documents it produced to
Hawaii. [Citations.] 
 
The MDL Repository Orders require OptumRx to
produce the Investigation documents in the MDL, where all other plaintiffs’
attorneys can use them.  It is obvious
that Motley Rice’s possession and knowledge of the Investigation documents
cannot, by itself, cause a material disadvantage to OptumRx, when every other
plaintiff’s attorney also has them.  No
further analysis is necessary.
 
(In Re: Nat. Prescription Opiate Litig., supra, 2024 WL 3387288,
at *14-*15; see also id. at *15 n.16 [“OptumRx’s experts miss the import of
DR-22. They state that “Plaintiffs’ argument that DR-22 requires Defendants to
produce documents previously produced pursuant to government subpoena is inaccurate.” [Citation.] In fact, that is precisely
what DR-22 requires defendants to do. The experts also opine that “confidential
government information produced under DR-22 does not lose its status as
confidential – that information can be designated as such under the protective
orders that govern the MDL.” [Citation.] This misses the point. The Court’s
existing protective order, docket no. 441, will of course appropriately protect
the Investigation documents from public scrutiny once re-produced in the MDL.
What re-production of Investigative documents into the MDL Repository does,
however, is make those documents available to all plaintiffs’ counsel. The
experts do not address this point at all.”], emphasis in original.)
 
The Court finds the MDL court’s analysis persuasive and dispositive as to
the fourth element.[5]  Motley Rice and County Counsel co-represent
the People.  (See Opposition, p.
11.)  County Counsel signed the MDL
protective order, giving the attorneys access to the documents “for use in this
case.”  (Id. at p. 11 n.7.)  Since County Counsel appear authorized to use
the documents on Plaintiff’s behalf, OptumRX cannot suffer a material
disadvantage if Motley Rice uses them too.[6]
 
Conclusion
 
OptumRX’s motion is denied.
  
 
 
 


