 Case Number:  22STCV38658    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JAIME AGUAYO, et al., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
839 S CARONDELET STREET, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV38658
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
  TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 6, 2024



 
On
December 12, 2022, Plaintiffs Jaime Aguayo and Giovani Tzul filed this action against
Defendants 839 S. Carondelet Street LLC and J.K. Residential Services Inc.
On
October 26, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to strike allegations relating
to punitive damages.  The Court found that
a jury could conclude that Defendants acted with oppression
or malice if Plaintiffs prove their factual allegations about uninhabitable
living conditions.  However, the Court also found that the
Complaint contained only conclusions, not facts, about Defendants’ ratification
of the conduct.  Accordingly, the Court granted
the motion and granted Plaintiffs leave to amend.
Thereafter,
Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”).  On January 16, 2024, Defendants filed another
motion to strike portions of Paragraphs 39, 42, 73, 100, 118, 135, 150, and the
Prayer for Relief “[f]or exemplary and punitive damages.”
A corporate employer can be liable for
punitive damages only when an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation
had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with
a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others, authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct, or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  Specific facts must be pleaded in support of punitive
damages.  (Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co.
(1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392; Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1033, 1041-1042 [conclusory allegations without sufficient facts are not enough
to support a request for punitive damages].)
The
FAC alleges that Doe 1 is “the managing director and officer of the respective companies,
with authority to engage in management duties and other responsibilities of the
home in question.”  (FAC ¶¶ 3-4, 13, 16.)  Defendants hired Doe 1 to manage, supervise, and
provide maintenance of the property.  (Ibid.)  Doe 1 “was aggressive, violent, and failed to
provide any true maintenance of the home,” and threatened Plaintiffs with eviction,
unlawful force, and other harassment.  (Ibid.)  When Plaintiffs complained to Defendants about
Doe 1’s alleged wrongful conduct, “the corporate leaders would laugh at them.”  (Ibid.)  This sufficiently alleges that Doe 1 (as a managing
director and officer of Defendants) was personally guilty of oppression or malice.
Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs’ failure to identify any name makes it impossible to ascertain
who the Doe defendant is, and “Plaintiffs need to plead these vital facts now, and
not some later time in the future.”  (Reply
at p. 3; see Motion at pp. 4-5.)  Plaintiffs explain that when they filed the
FAC, they “did not have access or knowledge of the specific names of the employees,
managing agents, and other associated individuals.”  (Opposition at p. 10.)  “The Plaintiffs believe that after discovery,
they will better ascertain names and facts to bolster their filing against the corporate
Defendants.”  (Ibid.)  At the pleading stage, there is nothing improper
about Plaintiffs using a fictitious name for a defendant.  “When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of
a defendant, he must state that fact in the complaint . . . and such defendant may
be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true name
is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended accordingly.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 474; see also FAC ¶ 11 [“The
true names and/or capacities . . . of Defendants DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
are unknown to Plaintiffs at this time”].)
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED.
Defendants
are ordered to file an answer within 10 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 6th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 