 Case Number:  22STCV00229    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  48       SUPERIOR  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE  COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT      MIHRAN HANNESYAN, et al.,                          Plaintiffs,             vs.   GENERAL MOTORS LLC,                           Defendant.   ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )            CASE NO.: 22STCV00229   [TENTATIVE] ORDER TAKING MOTION TO COMPEL    OFF CALENDAR; ISSUING ORDER RE: DISCOVERY MANAGEMENT    Dept. 48 8:30 a.m. June 6, 2024      On April 8, 2024, Plaintiffs Mihran Hannesyan  and Hannesyan Mihran dba My Ways Limousine filed a motion to compel the deposition  of Defendant General Motors LLC’s personal most knowledgeable with production of  documents. Plaintiffs  seek to compel further responses and production of documents for Request Nos. 1,  2, 3, 7, 8, 13, 18, 22, 23, 25, 31, 39, 56, 58, 64, 72, 84, 96, 108, 110, 111, 125,  126, 127, 128, 131, 132, 133, and 134.  (See  Motion at p. 1.)  Plaintiff also seeks to  compel Defendant’s PMK testimony on Subject Nos. 1-35, for which Defendant provided  objections. The  Court finds under Code of Civil Procedure section 2019.020, subdivision (b) that  the sequence and timing of discovery in this matter should be the subject of management  by the Court in the interests of justice pending a future status conference. Accordingly,  the Court issues a Discovery Minute Order (Song-Beverly Litigation Only).  All discovery in this action shall be governed  by this order effective June 6, 2024. The  Hearing on Motion to Compel Discovery is taken off calendar. Clerk  to give notice. Parties  who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org  indicating intention to submit.  If all parties  in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are  required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)  is also on calendar.             Dated this 6th day of June 2024                     Hon. Thomas D. Long Judge of the Superior    Court        MIHRAN  HANNESYAN, et al. vs GENERAL MOTORS LLC Case  No. 22STCV00229 Discovery  Minute Order (Song-Beverly Litigation Only)   1.      General Orders: a.       Absent  written agreement of the parties to the contrary, any formal discovery  propounded and currently pending or outstanding by a party in this matter prior  to the date of this Order is stayed pending further order of the Court. b.      The  Court finds under CCP § 2019.020(b) that the sequence and timing of discovery  in this matter should be the subject of management by the Court in the  interests of justice pending a future status conference, given the nature of  the allegations in the Complaint and the defenses raised in the Answer.  c.       A  party may seek to modify and/or delete any of these orders, via noticed motion,  upon showing of good cause.   2.      Production  of Documents:  Within  30 days of this order, both Plaintiff and Defendant shall provide copies of the  following documents that are in their respective possession, custody, and/or  control, to the opposing side(s): a.       Purchase  or lease contracts concerning the subject vehicle, including any associated  documents reflecting original equipment manufacturer or aftermarket equipment  installed at the dealership, extended limited warranties or service contracts,  and any other writings signed by Plaintiff at the point of sale. b.      Work  orders, repair orders, and invoices (including accounting and warranty  versions) for any maintenance, service, and repair activity concerning the  subject vehicle.  c.       Rental  car or loaner agreements regarding alternate transportation provided during  service or repair visits concerning the subject vehicle. d.      Records  of communications with dealer personnel and/or factory representatives and  Defendant’s call center or customer assistance personnel concerning the subject  vehicle. e.       Warranty  claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject  vehicle. f.         Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual or  similar policies or claim-handling procedures published by Defendant from the  date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was  filed. g.      Defendant’s  written statements of policy and/or procedures used to evaluate customer  requests for repurchase or replacement pursuant to “Lemon Law” claims,  including ones brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, from the  date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was  filed. h.      A  list or compilation of customer complaints in Defendant’s electronically stored  information database that are substantially similar to the alleged defects  claimed by Plaintiff, in vehicles for the same year, make, and model of the  subject vehicle.  A substantially similar  customer complaint would be the same nature of reported symptom, malfunction,  dashboard indicator light, or other manifestation of a repair problem as the description  listed in any work order or repair order for the subject vehicle, other than  routine or scheduled maintenance items.   The list provided by Defendant may be in a chart or spreadsheet format,  and it shall include the Vehicle Identification Number (“VIN”), date of repair  visit, dealership or other reporting location, and text of the other customers’  reported complaint, but it shall not include the other customers’ names,  addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, or other personal identifying  information. i.         Technical Service Bulletins and Recall  Notices for vehicles of the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle. j.         Copies of any repair instruction,  bulletin, or other diagnostic/repair procedure identified in any of the repair  order/invoice records for the subject vehicle. k.      Receipts  or other written evidence supporting any incidental or consequential damages  claimed by Plaintiff.   If a party believes any  of this information should be subject to a protective order, that party shall  serve and file a proposed protective order within 5 days of this order and the  parties shall meet and confer as to agreeable language for the same.  The default will be the standard Protective  Order provided by the LASC on its website. The information may be  provided to the opposing party in electronic form as a PDF at the option of the  producing party. Plaintiff and Defendant  shall serve verifications with the documents they produce.   Any additional requests  for documents may only be propounded by court order obtained by stipulation or noticed  motion upon showing of good cause. 3.      Interrogatories:  Within the time limits  allowed by law, both Plaintiff and Defendant may each propound one set of Judicial  Council Form Interrogatories and one set of a maximum of 35 Special Interrogatories.  Any additional special interrogatories may be  propounded only by a court order obtained by stipulation or by noticed motion  upon showing of good cause.   4.      Depositions:  Within the time limits allowed by law, Defendant  may depose Plaintiff, and Plaintiff may depose the person most knowledgeable (“PMK”)  of Defendant on up to 5 categories of information, plus a deposition of the PMK  as to why the subject vehicle was not repurchased, in addition to depositions  of any experts identified by the parties, after a formal demand and exchange of  expert witness information, per CCP § 2034.   Parties shall meet and confer about whether  there is a need to take any additional depositions.  Any additional depositions may only be  noticed and taken by a court order obtained by stipulation or noticed motion  upon a showing of good cause.   If a deponent resides out of state,  the deposition may be taken by video conference or telephone.  The parties will not be required to travel to  California, and the attorneys will not be required to travel out of state.    5.      Vehicle Inspection:  Within the time limits allowed by law, the  subject vehicle may be inspected by the parties at a mutually agreeable time  and place.  Unless otherwise agreed by  the parties, the vehicle inspection (“VI”) process shall be as follows: a.       Defendant  shall show Plaintiff’s representative proof of insurance for the person/company  who will be road testing the subject vehicle; b.      The  defense VI shall commence at 8:00 a.m. at an authorized service and repair  facility closest to Plaintiff’s residence, and may continue until no later than  5:00 p.m. that same day; c.       Plaintiff  shall deliver the vehicle to the noticed place of inspection.  If the subject vehicle has a dead battery,  Plaintiff’s counsel shall notify Defendant’s counsel at least one court day  before the VI, and the VI shall proceed with Defendant paying for the tow or  jump start to the place of inspection and taking reasonable steps to retrieve  stored diagnostic codes and other onboard data before the battery is recharged  or replaced. d.      Defendant  shall provide Plaintiff’s representative with duplicate copies of all paper and  electronic documents created during and because of the VI, such as test  results, the stored codes in the vehicle’s internal network or in its control  units, alignment sheets, etc.; e.       If  the subject vehicle is in then-current use by Plaintiff, and if requested in  writing within a reasonable time prior to the VI, Plaintiff shall be provided a  loaner or rental vehicle paid for by Defendant for the duration of the VI,  conditioned on Plaintiff providing standard rental car disclosures such as  proof of a current driver’s license and insurance coverage, and with Plaintiff  responsible for the loaner vehicle’s fuel.   The loaner vehicle need not be the same model or type as the subject  vehicle unless Plaintiff agrees to pay for an upgrade; f.         Defendant shall be permitted to run tests  of relevant electronic control units (“ECUs”) and components, conditioned on  Defendant maintaining, downloading, or printing out stored data on the existing  condition or historical information stored in an ECU; and g.      Plaintiff’s  representative is permitted to conduct video and audio recording of the VI.    Notice of this Minute  Order will be provided by the Court Clerk.   IT IS SO ORDERED. Dated:  ____________________                               __________________________________                                                                                     Thomas  D. Long                                                                                      Judge  of the Superior Court