  Case Number:  23STCV08305    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  73  12/23/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
KENT TRAN v. UTOMO TANI, et al. (23STCV08305)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants/moving
party:  Sally Chan (West Themis Law, PC)
Counsel for Defendants/Cross-Complainant/opposing
party: T. Randolph Catanese (Catanese and Wells)
 
PLAINTIFF
KENT TRAN’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed 05/23/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication as to the First, Second, Third, Fifth, Seventh, Ninth, Tenth,
Eleventh, Eighteenth and Twentieth Causes of Action is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication as to the Eighth, Sixteenth and Nineteenth Causes of Action is DENIED.

 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff Kent Tran
(“Plaintiff”) filed his Complaint against Defendants Utomi Tani aka Jimmy Tani
(“Jimmy”); Yong Sook Kim; Jimmy Tani, Jr.; Lan Sam; Goodland Global Farm Inc.;
JT and KT Development LLC; Maie JT & KT Development LLC; True Garlic, Inc.;
Goodland Global Mining, Inc.; and nominal Defendant Golden Partner Global
Investment, Inc. dba NBC Seafood Restaurant (“collectively Defendants”). 
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint alleging the following causes of action: 
1)     
Intentional misrepresentation/fraud 
2)     
Conversion/embezzlement
3)     
Declaratory relief
4)     
Partition by sale
5)     
Violation of Welfare and Institutions
Code § 15600 et seq – Financial Elder Abuse
6)     
Intentional
infliction of emotional distress
7)     
Breach
of fiduciary duty
8)     
Conspiracy
9)     
Fraudulent
transfer/constructive fraud
10)  Negligent misrepresentation/fraud
11)  Fraud by concealment 
12)  Breach of written contract
13)  Breach of oral contract
14)  Inspection of records 
15)  Accounting
16)  Unjust enrichment
17)  Involuntary dissolution of
corporations
18)  Fraudulent transfer
19)  CA Penal Code Section § 496(A)
20) 
Cancellation
of instrument pursuant to Civ. Code § 3412
 
The SAC alleges the
following. In or about 2008, Plaintiff and Jimmy formed several companies,
including Goodland Global Farm Inc., (“Goodland”), JT and KT Development LLC, and Maie JT and KT Development LLC. Plaintiff and Jimmy had
agreed to own the companies equally as partners. Plaintiff and Jimmy also
decided to jointly invest in another company, NBC Seafood Restaurant (“NBC”)
with Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei
Lin Zheng and Wai Hung Szeto. Plaintiff alleges that Jimmy engaged in fraud and
falsely misrepresented to Plaintiff, among other things, that Plaintiff owned 50% of the
Companies when he actually did not, that the Companies were in need of loans
and not profitable in order to induce Plaintiff to obtain personal loans, for
Plaintiff to sign documents that were related to taking out loans in 2021, and
that Plaintiff needed to vacate and sell his home to save the Companies. 
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendants (“Cross-Complainants”)
filed a Cross-Complaint against Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei Lin Zheng and
Wai Hung Szeto (collectively “Cross-Defendants”).
 
Cross-Complainants filed a Second
Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) alleging the following causes of action:
1)     
Equitable Indemnity and Contribution
2)     
Indemnity
3)     
Declaratory relief
 
Cross-Complainants,
Cross-Defendants and Plaintiff are shareholders of NBC Seafood Restaurant. The SACC
alleges that that any
liability held against them pertaining to Plaintiff’s allegations, is due to
the negligence, carelessness, acts, or omissions of Cross-Defendants. Cross-Complainants
are seeking indemnification and contribution for any loss suffered and damages
awarded to Plaintiff. Cross-Complainants also seek a declaration that Jimmy has
not violated the Bylaws of Golden Partner Global Investment, Inc., and that his
actions or omissions were ratified and consented to by Cross-Defendants.
 
On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff Kent Tran filed a Motion
for Summary Adjudication:
·       Plaintiff
Kent Tran moves for summary adjudication of the SAC’s first, second, third,
fifth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, sixteenth, eighteenth,
nineteenth and twentieth causes of action.
·       1st Cause of
Action for Intentional Misrepresentation and Fraud
o   JIMMY had
the duty to disclose to KENT the real standing of his ownership in these
companies. UMF 22.
o   Incorporating
all relevant facts above, JIMMY falsely misrepresented to KENT, and intended for KENT to believe that JIMMY can be
trusted as the CEO and CFO of NBC. JIMMY falsely represented through forgery
and fraud to KENTs representatives, CPAs at NBC that the 2-Page Summer Rolls
document was valid proof that KENT gave JIMMY KENT’s 19.4% shares in 2021 in
order to steal all of KENT’s NBC shares and all bonuses and distributions for
shareholders. UMF 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 25, 26, 27,30, 31, 32.
·       2nd Cause of
Action for Conversion/Embezzlement
o   JIMMY abused
his trusted position as the CEO and CFO of NBC, and the trusted friend
“brother” of KENT to steal KENT’s 19.4% of NBC shares plus all shareholder
payouts and distributions through the use of extensive and brazen forgery and
falsified documents, including the forged 2- page Summer Rolls Inc document
(UMF 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 25, 26, 27, 30, 31, 32) and the $15,000 forged check that JIMMY forged from
KENT’s own personal checking account. UMF 49 to 53.
·       3rd Cause of
Action for Declaratory Relief
o   KENT
requests the Court to confirm and provide an order confirming that KENT does in
fact own 19.4% of NBC from 2008 to present; to confirm that TANI’s 2-Page
Summer Rolls, Inc. (the document that serves as TANIs only proof) “proof” of
acquiring KENT’s 19.4% shares of NBC is forged, falsified, and even irrelevant,
as the 2-Page document clearly states that it is for “Summer Rolls, Inc.”,
which is not NBC. (UMF 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 25, 26, 27, 30, 31, 32)
·       4th Cause of
Action: JIMMY committed Financial Elder Abuse against Kent Tran
o   JIMMY knowingly
and willfully took business shares and money from KENT, who was at least 65
years old, without KENT’s consent. UMF 22. JIMMY embezzled, defrauded, forged,
and misappropriated property and business assets valued at a minimum of
$1,000,000 from KENT. In doing so, JIMMY deliberately engaged in elder abuse,
fraud, forgery, and theft against KENT, taking advantage of his vulnerable
physical, mental, and emotional condition following multiple major surgeries.
JIMMY was fully aware of KENT's susceptibility to undue influence and
incapacity to protect his property rights. As result, KENT suffered significant
harm. UMF 20, 21.
·       7th Cause of
Action: JIMMY Breached his Fiduciary Duty
o   IMMY was
co-officer and shareholder with KENT in NBC, GOODLAND, JT & KT, and MAIE JT
& KT. JIMMY served as KENT’s business partner in various ventures,
including JT & KT and MAIE JT & KT. JIMMY breached this duty by misleading KENT with
inaccurate information that Goodland and NBC required funding through loans to
keep them afloat. UMF 60.
·       8th Cause of
Action: There was Conspiracy to Deprive Kent Tran of his 19.4% NBC Shares
o   JIMMY and
YONG SOOK KIM were each aware of their plan to appropriate, convert, and
wrongfully transfer KENT’s properties to themselves UMF 49 to 53, 59 to 60.
·       9th Cause of
Action: JIMMY is Guilty of Constructive Fraud
o   JIMMY, as
the fiduciary, engaged in conduct that amounted to constructive fraud. He
misled KENT with inaccurate information, orchestrated property transfers
without consideration, and failed to disclose critical facts, all of which
caused significant harm to KENT.
·       10th Cause
of Action: JIMMY committed Acts of Negligent Misrepresentation
o   IMMY made
the misrepresentation that KENT still owned 50% of the companies and that they
were badly in need of funding, necessitating the securing of loans. In reality,
JIMMY made sure that he owned the companies with his conspirators, and these
companies were profitable. JIMMY was embezzling and/or misappropriating the
companies' funds for personal gain and that of his affiliates UMF 49 to 53, 59
to 60. UMF 33, 48, 52, 54.
o   KENT relied
on JIMMY’s statements and was induced to sign specific documents, provide
additional financial assistance to the companies, and even sell his residence.
·       11th Cause
of Action: JIMMY committed Fraud by Concealment
o   JIMMY failed
to disclose to KENT that invoices from Goodland were significantly higher than
the produce or supplies actually delivered, resulting in falsely inflated
expenses for years UMF 27, 67, 68, 69. JIMMY concealed crucial information
related to the operations and finances of the companies, including creating
false documents, specifically the 2-page Summer Rolls document that JIMMY
claims is proof that KENT gave up his 19.4% shares to NBC for free, in a manner
that grossly violated of NBC’s By-Laws. These actions were taken to
misappropriate company funds and profit from them at the expense of KENT. UMF
49 to 53, 59 to 60.
·       18th Cause
of Action: JIMMY is liable for Fraudulent Transfers
o   JIMMY
orchestrated substantial transfers of KENT’s including interests in JT & KT
and MAIE JT & KT, to Defendants KIM and Jimmy JR without receiving any
consideration in return UMF 49 to 53, 59 to 60. These transfers were made
during a period when JIMMY was Intended to incur, or believed or reasonably
should have believed that the debtor would incur, debts beyond the debtor’s ability
to pay as they became due. The lack of consideration for these transfers means
they were not made for reasonably equivalent value, thereby voiding them under
the Uniform Voidable Transactions Act
·       19th Cause
of Action: JIMMY is in Violation of Penal Code Section §496(A)
o   The law
clearly states that knowingly receiving or concealing stolen property is
illegal and punishable by imprisonment and restitution. The facts demonstrate
that JIMMY forged KENT’s signature, stole $15,000, and misappropriated $470,000
by issuing checks to Goodland without receiving produce in exchange.
·       20th Cause
of Action: KENT TRAN Can Move for the Cancellation of Instrument Pursuant to
Civ. Code § 3412
o   JIMMY forged
KENT's signature to steal $15,000 from KENT's personal bank account,
transferring the funds to Maie JT & KT, an LLC owned by JIMMY and his wife.
This act was done without any legitimate basis, as confirmed by JIMMY’s own
deposition UMF 52, 53.
o   KENT does in
fact own 19.4% of NBC from 2008 to present and the 2-Page Summer Rolls, Inc.
(the document that serves as TANIs only proof) “proof” of acquiring KENT’s
19.4% shares of NBC is forged and falsified.
 
On October 16, 2024, the Court continued Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication pursuant to CCP section 437c(h) and ordered the deposition of the Plaintiff
to occur on November 18, 2024. 
 
On November 19, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition,
arguing: 
·       Triable
issues of material fact exist 
o   The
declarations of Defendant Tani and James A. Black create triable issues of
material fact which require the Court to deny the Motion.
·       First Cause
of Action 
o   The TANI
Declaration controverts the claims by TRAN of fraud, namely, that TANI did not
commit the acts or omissions alleged by TRAN in his supporting declaration
o   Furthermore,
the Declaration of James A. Black confirms that the minutes of NBC Seafood
Restaurant 20 of January 1, 2021, are authentic and the signatures on the
minutes are reliable as true signatures, and also confirms that the checks
deposited into TRAN's account allegedly by Defendant TANI, were checks signed
by TRAN and not by TANI.
·       Fourth Cause
of Action
o   The TANI
Declaration creates triable issues of material fact regarding Plaintiffs
financial elder abuse claim. Namely, TANI denies that he exercised any undue
influence over Plaintiff TRAN at any time regarding any real or personal
property owned or possessed by Plaintiff TRAN. 
·       Seventh
Cause of Action
o   The TANI
Declaration and the Declaration of James A. Black each confirm that TANI acted
within proper corporate procedures regarding his acceptance of shares in Golden
Partner Global Investment, Inc. dba NBC Seafood Restaurant (hereinafter
sometimes the "Company") from Plaintiff TRAN. Moreover, the
deposition testimony of the Company accountant, Winnes Wong, CPA, also confirms
that TRAN was aware and consented to the transfer of his shares in the Company
to TANI.
·       Eighth Cause
of Action
o   The
allegations claim that TANI took advantage of TRAN in virtually all
relationships between TANI and TRAN. The TANI Declaration disputes all of these
claims and he denies under oath that any of these claims have merit. 
o   The SAC does
not state sufficient facts to show that TANI's wife was in any way involved in
the claims made in the SAC
·       Ninth Cause
of Action
o   There is no
declaration by TRAN or any other party alleging sufficient facts or any facts
to show that TANI or his wife were co-conspirators working together to take
property from TRAN
o   TANI denies
that TRAN had any business interest in Defendants JT & KT and MAIE JT &
KT.
·       Tenth Cause
of Action
o   This cause
of action like the other causes of action referenced above, in the SAC
incorporates the same set of operative facts with reference to the Motion.
Again, the declaration testimony of TANI creates a triable issue of material
fact as to the elements of this claim.
·       Eleventh
Cause of Action
o   This cause
of action like the other causes of action referenced above, in the SAC
incorporates the same set of operative facts with reference to the Motion.
Again, the declaration testimony of TANI creates a triable issue of material
fact as to the elements of this claim.
·       Eighteenth
Cause of Action
o   The
declarations by TRAN and the third parties in support of the Motion show
evidence that TRAN did not have any interest in the Defendant entities and
further that he consented to and agreed to his sale of his shares in the
Company.
o   The Declaration
of James A. Black confirms that the minutes of NBC Seafood Restaurant of January 1, 2021,
are authentic and the signatures on the minutes are reliable as true
signatures. It also confirms that the checks deposited into TRAN' s account
allegedly by Defendant TANI, were checks signed by TRAN and not by TANI.
·       Nineteenth Cause
of Action
o   The Motion
provides no evidence of a criminal intent by Defendant TANI or any Defendant
regarding this cause of action. Moreover, TANI in his declaration opposing the
Motion denies all allegations by TRAN and by the other declarants that he
engaged in any fraudulent conduct or conduct within the parameters of criminal
intent.
·       Twentieth
Cause of Action
o   Plaintiff
TRAN in the SAC argues that the board minutes of January 1, 2021, for the
Company are false and that his signature was forged on the minutes. The Declaration of James A. Black filed in support of this Opposition states that it is the
opinion of Mr. Black as an expert that Plaintiff TRAN signed the complained of
minutes dated January 1, 2021.
 
On November 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply,
arguing:
·       The declaration by James A. Black,
Defendants’ handwriting expert, fails to provide conclusive or reliable
evidence of the authenticity of the January 1, 2021, meeting minutes.
·       Under California Evidence Code § 1418,
an exemplar must either be admitted or treated as genuine by the opposing party
or otherwise proved genuine to the court's satisfaction. In this case, the
exemplars used by Mr. Black fail to meet these requirements, as they are
contradicted by substantial and unrebutted evidence that Defendants have failed
to refute in their opposition.
·       Defendants have failed to provide any
affirmative evidence to create a genuine issue of material fact. Tani’s
self-serving declaration is directly contradicted by his deposition testimony,
SBA loan filings, evidence of fabrication, and the undisputed embezzlement of
$470,000 from NBC. As such, it lacks the evidentiary weight necessary to oppose
Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment

 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Legal
Standard 
 
 “A party may move for summary adjudication of issues, either
by itself or as an alternative to summary judgment. If it appears that the
proof supports the granting of the motion for summary adjudication as to some
but not all the issues involved in the action, or that one or more of the
issues raised by a claim is admitted, or that one or more of the issues raised
by a defense is conceded, the court shall, by order, specify that those issues
are without substantial controversy. Moreover, upon a motion for summary
adjudication, the court shall, by written order or oral order recorded
verbatim, specify those issues raised by the motion for summary adjudication as
to which there exists a material, triable controversy, and shall specifically
refer to the evidence which establishes a triable issue of fact regarding each
of those issues ....”  (Cal.
Code. Civ. Proc. § 437c(f)).   
 
A plaintiff moving for summary
judgment/summary adjudication bears the initial burden of showing that “there
is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “Plaintiff's¿initial¿burden¿of proof in
moving for summary judgment, however, d[oes] not include disproving any
affirmative defenses asserted by defendants.”  (Oldcastle Precast, Inc. v.
Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co.¿(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554, 564, citing Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 853 (“Aguilar”) [“summary judgment
law in this state no longer requires a¿plaintiff¿moving for summary judgment to
disprove any defense asserted by the defendant as well as prove each element of
his own cause of action.... All that the¿plaintiff¿need do is to ‘prove[ ] each element of the cause of action’ ”])  Once Plaintiff meets its
initial burden of proving each element of the cause of action, “the burden shifts
to the defendant “to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action¿or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar, “the party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  Thus, courts usually follow a three-step
analysis: “First, we identify the issues framed by the pleadings .
. . . [¶]
Secondly, we determine whether the moving party’s showing has established facts
which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a judgment in movant’s favor.
. . . [¶] When a
. . . motion prima facie justifies a judgment, the third and final step is to
determine whether the opposition demonstrates the existence of a triable,
material factual issue.”  (Ojavan Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm.
(1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 373, 385 [citation and footnote omitted].) 
 
The California Supreme Court has
recently confirmed that the purpose of the 1992 and 1993 amendments to the
summary judgment statute was “‘to liberalize the granting of [summary judgment]
motions.’” (Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne, LLC (2017) 2 Cal.5th 536,
542.)  It is no longer called a “disfavored” remedy.  “Summary
judgment is now seen as a ‘particularly suitable means to test the sufficiency’
of the plaintiff’s or defendant’s case.”  (Ibid.) 
 
Opposing parties must present
substantial evidence in order to avoid summary judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in
probative value that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire
v. Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the
plaintiff is unable to meet her burden of proof regarding an essential element
of her case, all other facts are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts “construe the moving party's affidavits strictly,
construe the opponent's affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of granting the motion in favor of the party opposing
it.’” (Unilab Corp.v.
Angeles-IPA (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation omitted.)  “The court focuses
on issue finding; it does not resolve issues of fact. The court seeks to find
contradictions in the evidence, or inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence, which raise a triable issue of material fact.”  (Johnson v.
United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal
citation omitted.)    "[S]ummary judgment cannot be
granted when the facts are susceptible [of] more than one reasonable
inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.     
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests the Court grant
judicial notice of the following:
1.     
NBC
2023 Statement of Information from CA Secretary of State showing the NBC
Current Officers
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request
for judicial notice.  
 
C.     
Objections
to Evidence
 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s objections to Defendants’ evidence in
support of their opposition as follows:
 
Catanese Declaration 
·      
No. 1: Sustained (Evid. Code §§ 2025, 1520, 1400).
 
Tani Declaration 
·      
No. 1: Sustained (Lack of authentication).
·      
Nos. 2-5: Sustained (Improper opinion, speculation).
·      
No. 6: Overruled.
·      
No. 7: Sustained (Lack of foundation).
·      
Nos. 8-9: Overruled.
·      
No. 10: Sustained (Speculation).
Black Declaration 
·      
Nos. 1-3, 5-6: Sustained (Lack of foundation, Lack of
authentication).
·      
No. 4: Overruled.
 
D.    
Summary
of Plaintiff’s Allegations
 
In or about 2008, Plaintiff and Jimmy formed Goodland Global
Farm Inc., (“Goodland”), a wholesale produce company. (Plaintiff’s Material
Facts (“PMF”) 50.) Plaintiff and Jimmy agreed to own the company equally as
partners. (PMF 50.) Within a few years, Plaintiff and Jimmy purchased two
commercial properties in Los Angeles and these properties were owned by two
entities named after Plaintiff and Jimmy, as “JT & KT” and “Maie JT &
KT”. JT & KT and Maie JT & KT are subsidiaries of Goodland. (PMFs 50,
59.)
 
Also, around 2008, Plaintiff and Jimmy
decided to jointly invest in another company, NBC Seafood Restaurant (“NBC”)
with Kam
Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei Lin Zheng and Wai Hung Szeto. On September 2008, Golden Global Partner Investment, Inc was
formed to purchase NBC. This new NBC was owned by the six (6) men, according to
the following percentages: Lin (41.6%), Jimmy (22.2%), Plaintiff (19.4%),Chen
(5.6%), Zheng (5.6%) and Szeto (5.6%). (PMF 12.) Jimmy was elected as the CEO
and CFO of NBC. (PMF 1.) Plaintiff and
Lin personally guaranteed the NBC premise lease ($50,000 monthly lease) and
NBC’s Liquor license until present. (PMFs 13, 16, 28, 33.) 
 
NBC was able
to secure substantial covid-relief loans, and Plaintiff personally guaranteed
about 5 million in loans to NBC, with all six (6) partners verifying and
agreeing in Mid-June of 2021 in loan documents to the SBA, confirming that Plaintiff
still owned 19.4% and Jimmy owned 22.2% as of June 2021. (PMFs 1, 28, 29, 30,
33.)
 
However, around
2018 to present, unbeknownst to anyone at the time, Jimmy began defaulting on a
lot of loans, contracts, and debts, with lawsuits beginning. (PMF 2.)
Meanwhile, around 2018, Plaintiff’s age and health was deteriorating, and he
underwent several major surgeries. (PMF 33.)
 
On November
19, 2021, Jimmy suddenly demanded $500,000 or 10% commission for the 5 million
loan that NBC received, from Lin, Chen, Zheng and Szeto. (PMF 62.) After Lin, Chen,
Zheng and Szeto refused, Jimmy began harassing different people at NBC, to help
him create fake books that exaggerated the sales of NBC. (PMF 33.)
 
Then, towards
the end of 2021, Lin and Chen began to hear from NBC’s CPA that Jimmy had
“bought Plaintiff’s NBC 19.4%” shares. By the end of 2021 or beginning of 2022,
Lin received calls from Plaintiff claiming that Jimmy “stole” his shares. By
the middle of 2022, Jimmy sent Lin, Chen, Zheng and Szeto letters from Jimmy’s previous
attorney, demanding to buy all of them out of NBC at a liquidated value,
falsely accusing them of not giving Jimmy financials and for having “fake”
books. (PMF 18.) In response, Lin, Chen, Zheng and Szeto retained attorneys and
started their own investigation of Jimmy and whether Jimmy had been abusing his
position the CEO and CFO, where he had sole access and authority to the
financials of NBC from 2008. (PMF 36.) 
 
Lin, Chen, Zheng
and Szeto demanded Jimmy to produce his records and proof as to how Jimmy supports
his position for taking Plaintiff’s 19.4% of NBC. After nearly a year of
demanding, Jimmy’s attorney produced a 2-page document on January 17, 2023 (“1/1/21
Meeting Minutes Document”) which appears to be meeting minutes of a meeting
that took place on January 1st, 2021 at 11am where all six shareholders of NBC
were present and signed and agreed to allow Plaintiff to give his 19.4% shares
to Jimmy. (PMF 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 25, 26, 27,30, 31, 32.) Lin, Chen, Zheng
and Szeto examined the document,
and all unanimously agreed that they had never seen the document, that they
would not have had a meeting on that day and that they never agreed to transfer
Plaintiff’s shares to Jimmy. (PMF 18-30.)
 
Lin, Chen,
Zheng and Szeto also found that Jimmy abused
his trusted fiduciary position as the CEO and CFO of NBC and stole $470,000 by
issuing several large checks, totaling $470,000 from 2018 to 2021 to Goodland
that was not in exchange for any produce. (PMF 33, 48, 54.) All
of these checks contained 3 signatures, and all of the shareholders (other than
Jimmy) unanimously agree that they have never signed and/or agreed to issue any
one of those $470,000 worth of checks to Goodland at any time. (PMF 33, 48, 54.)
 
Plaintiff also alleges that the
shareholders discovered Jimmy was already stealing Plaintiff’s 19.4%
distributions before the alleged January 1st, 2021 meeting, and as early as
2019. (PMF 20.) In the entire year of 2019, Plaintiff received nothing from
NBC, but Jimmy issued himself a total of $82,000 from NBC when his K1 for 2019
from NBC was only $60,119. (PMF 33, 44, 46, 47.) By creating the fake 1/1/21 Meeting Minutes Document,
Jimmy issued to himself, a total of $164,000 in 2021 and $1,168,500 in 2022, by
claiming fraudulently that he received Plaintiff’s 19.4% of NBC. (PMF 33, 44,
46, 47.) Plaintiff alleges Jimmy has stolen a
total of at least $629,417.45 ($552,900 = $76,517.45) from Plaintiff by issuing
Plaintiff’s share of NBC’s distributions to himself. (PMFs 44 to 48.) Plaintiff
also alleges he found in his own personal bank account that Jimmy forged his
signature and stole $15,000 from Plaintiff’s personal bank account to Maie
Jt&KT. (PMF 52.)
 
On April 18, 2023, Lin, Chen, Zheng, Szeto and Plaintiff held a meeting for NBC in
which they voted to remove Jimmy as the CEO and
CFO of NBC April 18th, 2023, for accusations of forgery, fraud, embezzlement
that Jimmy did not deny or oppose. (PMF 42.) They also voted to correct NBC’s
ownership to the following percentages: Lin
(41.6%), Jimmy (22.2%), Plaintiff (19.4%),Chen (5.6%), Zheng (5.6%) and Szeto
(5.6%). (PMF 36.)
 
E.     
Discussion
 
Plaintiff Kent Tran moves for summary adjudication
of the SAC’s first, second, third, fifth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth,
eleventh, sixteenth, eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth causes of action.
 
a.      
First
and Tenth Causes of Action: Intentional Misrepresentation/Fraud and Negligent
Misrepresentation
 
Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to his
Intentional Misrepresentation and Negligent Misrepresentation causes of action.

 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged
fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud,
as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge
of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.”  (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.)  The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
The elements of a cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to
induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth
and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was
directed; and resulting damage.”  (Hydro-Mill
Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, cleaned up.)  The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
“California courts have recognized a cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e., a duty to communicate accurate
information, in two circumstances.  The
first situation arises where providing false information poses a risk of and
results in physical harm to person or property. 
The second situation arises where information is conveyed in a
commercial setting for a business purpose.” 
(Friedman v. Merck & Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that Jimmy falsely
represented that Plaintiff had transferred his shares of NBC to Jimmy.
Plaintiff further alleges that that the 1/1/21
Meeting Minutes Document that allegedly shows Plaintiff transferred his
shares to Jimmy, is fraudulent and forged. The 1/1/21 Meeting Minutes Document appears to be meeting minutes of a
meeting that took place on January 1st, 2021 at 11am where all six shareholders
of NBC were present and signed and agreed to allow Plaintiff to give his 19.4%
shares to Jimmy. (PMF 17.) Plaintiff alleges that the income payout
distributions that were supposed to be issued to Plaintiff were fraudulently issued
to Jimmy. Plaintiff alleges Jimmy has stolen at least $629,417.45 ($552,900 +
$76,517.45 from Plaintiff’s 19.4% shares) by issuing Plaintiff’s share of NBC’s
distributions to himself.
 
In support, Plaintiff submits the declarations
of Plaintiff, Lin, Chen, Zheng and Szeto. Plaintiff, Lin, Chen, Zheng and Szeto
state in their declarations that the 1/1/21
Meeting Minutes Document is fraudulent. Plaintiff, Lin, Chen, Zheng and
Szeto state that they never attended a meeting on January 1, 2021, that they
never agreed to transfer Plaintiff’s shares to Jimmy, and that their signatures
on the document are forged. (Pltf’s Ex. E, Plaintiff’s Decl. ¶¶ 27-29, Lin Decl. ¶¶ 12-15, Chen
Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Zheng Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Szeto Decl. ¶¶ 12-15.) 
 
Further, Plaintiff
also submits Jimmy’s deposition testimony in which he states he was not in a
meeting regarding NBC on January 1, 2021. (Tani Depo. Testimony Day 1, 23:16-19.)

 
In addition,
Plaintiff attaches emails between Jimmy and a representative from U.S. Small
Business Administration (“SBA”) relating to the Covid relief loan. In an email
dated May 15, 2021, Jimmy stated NBC’s ownership
was as follows: Lin (41.6%),
Jimmy (22.2%), Plaintiff (19.4%), Chen (5.6%), Zheng (5.6%) and Szeto (5.6%). (Pltf’s
Ex. H, pp. 3-4.) 
 
Plaintiff also
attached copies of the K1 Income Payouts of NBC that indicates checks were
issued to Jimmy from NBC in excess of his 22.2% share. (Pltf’s Ex. G, Plaintiff’s
Decl. ¶ 17.)
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently carried his initial burden. The burden
shifts to Defendants.
 
In
opposition, Defendants dispute that Jimmy had fraudulently transferred
Plaintiff’s shares of NBC to himself. 
 
In support, Defendants submit Jimmy’s declaration in which
he states that at the January
1st, 2021 meeting, Plaintiff
had transferred his NBC shares to
Jimmy by agreement and by board ratification. (Jimmy Decl., ¶ 12.) 
 
The Court
does not find Jimmy’s self-serving declaration persuasive. There
are certain circumstances in which the Court can disregard evidence. For
example, a declaration submitted in support of a motion for summary judgment
may be disregarded if it contradicts prior discovery responses. (D’Amico v.
Board of Med. Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) Another instance is when an
opposition is supported by “uncorroborated and self-serving declarations,”
which the court found insufficient to create a triable issue of material fact.
(King v. United Parcel Service, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426.) Here,
Jimmy’s declaration appears to be self-serving and uncorroborated. As
Plaintiff’s assert in their reply, Jimmy’s declaration stating that Plaintiff
transferred his shares to Jimmy at the January 1, 2021 meeting, contradicts Jimmy’s
deposition testimony in which he
states he was not in a meeting regarding NBC on January 1, 2021. (Tani Depo.
Testimony Day 1, 23:16-19.)
 
Defendants also submit the expert Declaration
of James A. Black, an examiner of questioned documents and handwriting
identification. (Black Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendants
dispute Plaintiff’s assertion that the 1/1/21 Meeting Minutes Document is fraudulent and the signatures
on the document were forged. (Def’s Ex. C.) Black states that he “reviewed
exemplars of signatures for Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Kent Tran, Wei Lin
Zheng, and Wai Hung Szeto. These exemplars included documents with signatures
of the individuals noted above which documents were filed with state government
agencies and also provided to accounting professionals working on behalf of
Golden Partner Global Investment, Inc.” (Black Decl. ¶ 3.) Black opines that the signatures
on the 1/1/21
Meeting Minutes Document were written by the same persons as the
exemplars he reviewed for those persons. (Black Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
However, the Court does not find
Black’s declaration
reliable. Evidence Code section 1401 provides that “[a]uthentication of a writing
is required before it may be received in evidence” and also “before secondary
evidence of its content may be received in evidence.” (Id., § 1401.) “Authentication of a writing means (a) the
introduction of evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that it is the writing
that the proponent of the evidence claims it is or (b) the establishment of
such facts by any other means provided by law.” (Evid. Code, § 1400.) Further,
“[t]he
genuineness of writing, or the lack thereof, may be proved by a comparison made
by an expert witness with writing (a) which the court finds was admitted or
treated as genuine by the party against whom the evidence is offered or (b)
otherwise proved to be genuine to the satisfaction of the court. (Evid. Code, § 1418.) Black states that he reviewed exemplars of documents with the
signatures for Kam Choi Lin,
Chang Ho Chen, Kent Tran, Wei Lin Zheng, and Wai Hung Szeto that “were filed
with state government agencies and also provided to accounting professionals.” (Black
Decl. ¶ 3.) However,
Black does not provide the exemplars he purportedly relied upon to compare the
signatures. As pointed out by Plaintiff, the documents relied on by Black have
not been authenticated or admitted or treated as genuine by the opposing party
or otherwise proved genuine to the court's satisfaction. Therefore, Black’s
declaration lacks sufficient support to establish how he arrived at the
conclusion that the signatures are authentic. 
 
The Court
finds that that
Defendants’ evidence fails to raise a triable issue of material fact and Defendants have failed to carry their burden. 
 
Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s first
and tenth causes of action for Intentional Misrepresentation and Negligent
Misrepresentation is GRANTED.
 
b.     
Second
Cause of Action: Conversion 
 
Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to
his Conversion cause of action.
 
“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of
dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are:
(1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.”  (Lee v. Hanley
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)
 
“The elements for a claim of unjust enrichment
are receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of
another.  The theory of unjust enrichment
requires one who acquires a benefit which may not justly be retained, to return
either the thing or its equivalent to the aggrieved party so as not to be
unjustly enriched.”  (Lyles v.
Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769, cleaned up.)
 
Plaintiff bases these claims on the allegations
that (1) Jimmy unlawfully transferred Plaintiff’s shares of NBC to Jimmy and (2)
that Jimmy had forged a $15,000 check from Plaintiff’s personal checking
account to Maie JT & KT Development LLC on September 18, 2020. (PMF 52.)
 
As to the allegation that that Jimmy had forged
a $15,000 check from Plaintiff’s personal checking account to Jimmy, Plaintiff submits
his declaration in support as well as a copy of the allegedly forged check.
(Plaintiff’s Decl. ¶ 70;
Pltf’s Ex. L.) Plaintiff states in his declaration that he had not signed the
check to Maie JT & KT Development LLC, which Jimmy claims is solely owned
by himself and his wife, and that Jimmy had forged Plaintiff’s signature. (Ibid.)

 
As to the allegation that Jimmy unlawfully
transferred Plaintiff’s shares of NBC to Jimmy, Plaintiff relies on the same
evidence as discussed above. Specifically, the declarations of Plaintiff, Lin,
Chen, Zheng and Szeto, Jimmy’s deposition testimony stating he did not attend
an NBC meeting on January 1, 2021, the SBA loan documents and the K1 Income Payouts. (Plaintiff’s
Decl. ¶¶ 27-29,
Lin Decl. ¶¶ 12-15, Chen Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Zheng Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Szeto Decl. ¶¶
12-15; Tani Depo. 23:16-19; Pltf’s Exs. E, G, H.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has carried his
initial burden.
 
In opposition, Defendants again submit the
expert Declaration of James A. Black, who opines
that the signatures on the 1/1/21
Meeting Minutes Document were written by the same persons as the
exemplars reviewed for those persons. (Black Decl. ¶ 4.) Black also states that he
reviewed the check dated September 18, 2020,
payable to "Maie JT & KT Development LLC" in the amount of
$15,000.00. (Black
Decl. ¶ 5.) He
further states “Comparing the signature on the check
to exemplars of Kent Tran it is my opinion that the signature of Kent Tran on
the check was probably written by the same person as the exemplars I reviewed
for Kent Tran.” (Black Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
As discussed above, the Court finds
that Black’s declaration lacks sufficient
support to establish how he arrived at the conclusion that the signatures are
authentic. The Court does not find Defendants have provided evidence raising a
triable issue of material fact. Thus, Defendants have failed to carry their burden. 
 
Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s second
cause of action for Conversion is GRANTED.
 
c.      
Third
Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief
 
Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to
his Declaratory Relief cause of action.
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party
would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a
proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.”  (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, cleaned up.) 
“[T]here is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are
involved.”  (Osseous Technologies of
America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357,
366, cleaned up.)
 
According to the SAC, Plaintiff seeks
declaratory relief in determining that Plaintiff is the rightful 50% owner of the
companies Goodland, JT & KT, and/or MAIE JT & KT. (SAC ¶ 91.) In
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication, he states that seeks to “confirm
that [Plaintiff] does in fact own 19.4% of NBC from 2008 to present; to confirm
that [Jimmy’s] 2-Page Summer Rolls, Inc. (the document that serves as [Jimmy’s]
only proof) “proof” of acquiring [Plaintiff’s] 19.4% shares of NBC is forged,
falsified, and even irrelevant, as the 2-Page document clearly states that it
is for “Summer Rolls, Inc.”, which is not NBC. (Motion, p. 20.)
 
In support,
Plaintiff submits his declaration. Plaintiff states that he and Jimmy had
agreed to each have 50% ownership in the companies Goodland, JT &
KT, and/or MAIE JT & KT (Tani Decl., ¶¶ 17-21.) Plaintiff
also submits the same evidence in support of his allegation that Jimmy
unlawfully transferred Plaintiff’s shares of NBC, specifically, the
declarations of Plaintiff, Lin, Chen, Zheng and Szeto, Jimmy’s deposition
testimony stating he did not attend an NBC meeting on January 1, 2021, the SBA
loan documents and the K1 Income
Payouts. (Plaintiff’s Decl. ¶¶ 27-29, Lin Decl. ¶¶ 12-15, Chen
Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Zheng Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Szeto Decl. ¶¶ 12-15; Tani Depo.
23:16-19; Pltf’s Exs. E, G, H.) The Court finds this evidence sufficient, and
the burden shifts to Defendants. 
 
First,
Defendants assert that the request for declaratory relief is not ripe because
it is in connection with past wrongs. However, Plaintiff seeks to confirm his current
share ownership, which is in the present. Therefore, this request for
declaratory relief is ripe. In opposition, Defendants
rely upon the same evidence as discussed above, specifically Jimmy’s
self-serving declaration that is uncorroborated and contradictory, and the
declaration of its expert, James A. Black. The Court finds that Defendants’
evidence fails to raise a triable issue of material fact. 
 
Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s third
cause of action for declaratory relief is GRANTED.
 
d.     
Fifth
Cause of Action: Financial Elder Abuse
 
Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to
his Financial Elder Abuse cause of action.
 
“[F]inancial abuse of an elder . . . occurs
when a person or entity does the following:”
 
(1)
Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of
an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or
both.
 
(2)
Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with
intent to defraud, or both.
 
(3)
Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking,
secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of
an elder or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.
 
(Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30(a).)
 
Plaintiff argues in his Motion for Summary
Adjudication that Jimmy knowingly and willfully took business shares and money
from Plaintiff, who was at least 65 years old, without Plaintiff’s consent. (PMF
22.)
 
For the same reasons as discussed above,
Plaintiff carries his initial burden as to his allegation that Jimmy unlawfully
transferred Plaintiff’s shares of NBC to Jimmy. Plaintiff relies on the same
evidence, specifically, the declarations of Plaintiff, Lin, Chen, Zheng and
Szeto, Jimmy’s deposition testimony stating he did not attend an NBC meeting on
January 1, 2021, the SBA loan documents and the K1 Income Payouts. (Plaintiff’s
Decl. ¶¶ 27-29,
Lin Decl. ¶¶ 12-15, Chen Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Zheng Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Szeto Decl. ¶¶
12-15; Tani Depo. 23:16-19; Pltf’s Exs. E, G, H.)
 
The burden
shifts to Defendants who have failed to establish a
triable issue of material fact. The Court
finds that Defendants’ evidence, Jimmy’s self-serving declaration and the
declaration from its expert, are not reliable. For the foregoing reasons, Defendants have not carried their
burden. 
 
Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s fifth
cause of action for Financial Elder Abuse is GRANTED.
 
e.     
Seventh
Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to
his Breach of Fiduciary Duty cause of action.
 
“The elements of a cause of action for breach
of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of
fiduciary duty, and damages.”  (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)
 
Plaintiff argues in his Motion
for Summary Adjudication that Jimmy owed Plaintiff a fiduciary duty as CEO and
CFO of NBC.  (PMF 22.) Plaintiff also contends
that Jimmy and Plaintiff were business partners in JT & KT and Maie JT
& KT. (PMF 49-53.) Plaintiff argues that Jimmy breached his fiduciary duty
by misleading Plaintiff with inaccurate information that Goodland and NBC required
funding through loans to keep them afloat (PMF 60) and that Jimmy persuaded
Plaintiff to secure personal loans, sign documents, and sell his home under the
false belief that it was necessary to rescue the companies. (PMF 58, 60.)
 
In support, Plaintiff submits his
declaration. Plaintiff states that Jimmy misinformed him that the companies
were losing money and that Plaintiff secured personal loans and sold his home
under this mistaken belief. (Plaintiff’s Decl. ¶¶ 56-58.) Plaintiff also states that
Jimmy breached the NBC By-Laws by allegedly acquiring his
19.4% shares without anything in exchange and without giving the other NBC
shareholders the opportunity to purchase. (Plaintiff’s Decl. ¶ 55.) Plaintiff also relies on the
same evidence as discussed above, specifically, the declarations of Plaintiff,
Lin, Chen, Zheng and Szeto that they never agreed to transfer Plaintiff’s share
of NBC, Jimmy’s deposition testimony stating he did not attend an NBC meeting
on January 1, 2021, the SBA loan documents and the K1 Income Payouts. (Plaintiff’s
Decl. ¶¶ 27-29,
Lin Decl. ¶¶ 12-15, Chen Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Zheng Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Szeto Decl. ¶¶
12-15; Tani Depo. 23:16-19; Pltf’s Exs. E, G, H.) The parties do not dispute
that Jimmy was CEO and CFO of NBC until April 2023. (UMF 1.) Plaintiff carries
his initial burden. 
 
In opposition, Jimmy submits his own declaration disputing
Plaintiff’s assertions. Jimmy states that he did not tell Plaintiff the
companies were losing money or that Plaintiff needed to secure personal loans
or sell his home. (Jimmy Decl. ¶¶ 62-64.) Defendants
also submit the same evidence disputing that Jimmy had unlawfully transferred
Plaintiff’s NBC shares, specifically the declaration by Defendants’ expert. As
discussed above, the Court finds Defendants’ evidence unpersuasive as Jimmy’s
declaration is self-serving and uncorroborated, and Defendants’ expert’s
declaration lacks sufficient support to establish how he arrived at the conclusion
that the signatures are authentic. Defendants fail to raise a triable issue of material fact and thus, have not carried their burden. 
 
Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s seventh
cause of action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty is GRANTED.
 
f.       
Eighth
Cause of Action: Conspiracy
 
Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to
his Conspiracy cause of action.
 
“Civil conspiracy is not an independent tort.
Instead, it is a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although
not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors
a common plan or design in its perpetration.” 
(City of Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191,
211-12, cleaned up.)  “The elements of a
civil conspiracy are (1) the formation of a group of two or more persons who
agreed to a common plan or design to commit a tortious act; (2) a wrongful act
committed pursuant to the agreement; and (3) resulting damages.”  (Id. at 212.)
 
Plaintiff argues that Jimmy and his wife Yong
Sook Kim (“Kim”) engaged in a conspiracy to deprive Plaintiff of his 19.4% NBC
shares. (Motion, p. 23.) Plaintiff asserts that according to Jimmy, Kim is the legal
co-manager and member of Maie JT & Kt Development LLC, and 50/50 owner.
Thus, Kim receives shares or interest in JT & KT LLC and JT & KT Maie
without any authorization from Plaintiff.
 
However, the Court does not find that Plaintiff
has carried his initial burden. Plaintiff fails to provide evidence of a
conspiracy between Jimmy and Kim. Plaintiff’s declaration filed in support only
asserts a conclusory allegation that Jimmy conspired with Kim. (Plaintiff’s
Decl. ¶ 4.)
A
conspiracy requires evidence that each member of the conspiracy acted in
concert and came to a mutual understanding to accomplish a common and unlawful
plan, and that one or more of them committed an overt act to further it. (IIG
Wireless, Inc. v. Yi (2018) 22 Cal. App. 5th 630, 652.) Here,
Plaintiff fails to specifically allege how Kim was involved in the conspiracy
or provide evidence in support. Thus, Plaintiff fails to carry his initial
burden as to this cause of action. 
 
Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s eighth
cause of action for Conspiracy is DENIED.
 
g.      
Ninth,
Eighteenth and Eleventh Causes of Action: Fraudulent Transfer/Constructive
Fraud and Fraud by Concealment 
 
Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to
his Fraudulent Transfer/Constructive Fraud and Fraud by Concealment causes of
action.
 
“A fraudulent conveyance claim is set
forth in the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act (UFTA), which is codified in Civil
Code section 3439 et seq. ‘A fraudulent conveyance is a transfer by the debtor
of property to a third person undertaken with the intent to prevent a creditor
from reaching that interest to satisfy its claim.’ [Citation] A transfer under
the UFTA is defined as ‘every mode, direct or indirect, absolute or
conditional, voluntary or involuntary, of disposing of or parting with an
asset…, and includes payment of money, release, lease, and creation of a lien
or other encumbrance.’ [Citation] ‘A transfer of assets made by a debtor is
fraudulent as to a creditor, whether the creditor’s claim arose before or after
the transfer, if the debtor made the transfer (1) with an actual intent to
hinder, delay or defraud any creditor [actual fraudulent transfer], or (2)
without receiving reasonably equivalent value in return [constructive
fraudulent transfer], and either (a) was engaged in or about to engage in a
business or transaction for which the debtor’s assets were unreasonably small,
or (b) intended to, or reasonably believed, or reasonably should have believed,
that he or she would incur debts beyond his or her ability to pay as they
became due. [Citations.]’ [Citations]” (Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004)
33 Cal.4th 642, 648.) (See also Civil Code §§3439.01, 3439.04, 3439.05.) A
cause of action for constructive fraudulent transfer under Civil Code §3439.05
seeks to set a side a transfer during or resulting in insolvency
 
[T]he elements of an action for fraud and
deceit based on concealment [or nondisclosure] are: (1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.’ ”¿ (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 748.)¿¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff bases these causes of action on the
same allegations as discussed above. Plaintiff alleges that Jimmy engaged in
various fraudulent activities, including unlawfully transferring Plaintiff’s
NBC shares to Jimmy, forging a check from Plaintiff’s personal account and persuading Plaintiff to secure personal loans, sign
documents, and sell his home under the false belief that the companies needed
financial assistance.
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff provides
sufficient evidence to carry his initial burden, specifically,
the declarations of Plaintiff, Lin, Chen, Zheng and Szeto that they never
agreed to transfer Plaintiff’s share of NBC, Jimmy’s deposition testimony
stating he did not attend an NBC meeting on January 1, 2021, the SBA loan
documents and the K1 Income
Payouts. (Plaintiff’s Decl. ¶¶ 27-29, Lin Decl. ¶¶ 12-15, Chen
Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Zheng Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Szeto Decl. ¶¶ 12-15; Tani Depo.
23:16-19; Pltf’s Exs. E, G, H.)
 
Also as
discussed above, Defendants fail to provide sufficient evidence to carry their
burden. Defendants dispute that Jimmy had unlawfully transferred Plaintiff’s
NBC shares by relying on Jimmy’s declaration and the declaration by Defendants’
expert. However, the Court finds Defendants’ evidence unpersuasive as Jimmy’s
declaration is self-serving and uncorroborated, and Defendants’ expert’s
declaration lacks sufficient support to establish how he arrived at the
conclusion that the signatures are authentic.
 
Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s Ninth,
Eighteenth and Eleventh Causes of Action for Fraudulent Transfer/Constructive Fraud and
Fraud by Concealment causes of action are GRANTED.
 
h.     
Sixteenth
Cause of Action: Unjust Enrichment
 
Plaintiff’s Notice of his Motion indicates that
he moves for summary adjudication as to his Unjust Enrichment cause of action.
 
However, Plaintiff’s Motion lacks argument
in support. Further, as the court in McBride
v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal. App. 4th 379, 387 stated, “[u]njust enrichment is not a cause of action, however,
or even a remedy, but rather a general principle, underlying various legal
doctrines and remedies.” California courts have held there is no freestanding
cause of action for “restitution.” (Melchior v. New Line
Productions, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793.) Common law
principles of restitution require a party to return a benefit when the
retention of such benefit would unjustly enrich the recipient; a typical cause
of action involving such remedy is “quasi-contract.” (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379,
388–389; see also Federal Deposit Ins. Corp. v. Dintino
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 333, 346, 84 Cal.Rptr.3d 38 [“Whether termed unjust
enrichment, quasi-contract, or quantum meruit, the equitable remedy of
restitution when unjust enrichment has occurred ‘is an obligation (not a true contract [citation] ) created by
the law without regard to the intention of the parties, and is designed to
restore the aggrieved party to his or her former position by return of the
thing or its equivalent in money’ ”].) Plaintiff does not provide any argument in support of
its unjust enrichment claim, or that it can be pled as an independent cause of
action. 
 
Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s
sixteenth cause of action for Unjust Enrichment is DENIED.
 
i.        
Nineteenth
Cause of Action: CA Penal Code Section §496(A)
 
Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to
his CA Penal Code Section §496(A) cause of
action.
 
Violation of Penal Code Section 496(a) refers
to the crime of receiving stolen property in California. It is illegal to
knowingly buy, receive, conceal, sell, or withhold stolen property, with
knowledge that it has been stolen. In the civil context, a plaintiff can seek
damages three times the amount of actual damages sustained, as well as costs
and attorney's fees.
 
As to this cause of action, the
SAC specifically states: “JIMMY violated California Penal Code §496(A) by
knowingly and willfully receiving unlawfully taken property, business shares,
and money from KENT valued at $1,000,000.” (SAC, ¶ 219.) 
 
In Plaintiff’s motion, he
argues “the facts demonstrate that JIMMY
forged KENT’s signature, stole $15,000, and misappropriated $470,000 by issuing
checks to Goodland without receiving produce in exchange.” (Motion, p. 30.) Plaintiff
relies on the same evidence, specifically the declarations of
Plaintiff, Lin, Chen, Zheng and Szeto that they never agreed to transfer
Plaintiff’s share of NBC, Jimmy’s deposition testimony stating he did not
attend an NBC meeting on January 1, 2021, the SBA loan documents and the K1 Income Payouts. (Plaintiff’s
Decl. ¶¶ 27-29,
Lin Decl. ¶¶ 12-15, Chen Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Zheng Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Szeto Decl. ¶¶
12-15; Tani Depo. 23:16-19; Pltf’s Exs. E, G, H.)
 
However, it is unclear how Plaintiff
calculated the value that was taken by Jimmy to be $1,000,000 as alleged in the
SAC. The Court does not find Plaintiff has submitted sufficient evidence to
support this allegation. Plaintiff fails to carry his initial burden. 
 
Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s
nineteenth cause of action for CA Penal Code Section §496(A) is
DENIED.
 
j.       
Twentieth
Cause of Action: Cancellation of Instrument Pursuant to Civ. Code § 3412
 
Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to
his Cancellation of Instrument Pursuant to
Civ. Code § 3412 cause of action.
 
Pursuant to California Civil Code § 3412, a
written instrument that may cause serious injury to a person against whom it is
void or voidable can be adjudged and ordered to be delivered up or canceled
upon the application of that person. This provision allows for the cancellation
of documents that are fraudulent, forged, or otherwise improperly created or
used.
 
Plaintiff asserts that the document asserting
to transfer Plaintiff’s 19.4% shares of NBC to Jimmy is fraudulent and forged. As
discussed above, Plaintiff provides sufficient evidence to carry his initial burden,
specifically,
the declarations of Plaintiff, Lin, Chen, Zheng and Szeto that they never
agreed to transfer Plaintiff’s share of NBC, Jimmy’s deposition testimony
stating he did not attend an NBC meeting on January 1, 2021, the SBA loan
documents and the K1 Income
Payouts. (Plaintiff’s Decl. ¶¶ 27-29, Lin Decl. ¶¶ 12-15, Chen
Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Zheng Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Szeto Decl. ¶¶ 12-15; Tani Depo.
23:16-19; Pltf’s Exs. E, G, H.)
 
Also as
discussed above, Defendants fail to present sufficient evidence disputing that the
signatures were forged. Jimmy’s declaration and Defendants’ expert fail to raise
a triable issue of material fact as to the authenticity of the signatures on
the 1/1/21
Meeting Minutes Document and the check dated September 18, 2020. Thus,
Defendants fail to carry their burden.
 
Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s
Twentieth cause of action for Cancellation of Instrument Pursuant to
Civ. Code § 3412 are GRANTED.
 
In sum, Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication of the SAC’s first,
second, third, fifth, seventh, ninth, tenth, eleventh, eighteenth and twentieth
causes of action is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication of the SAC’s eighth,
sixteenth and nineteenth causes of action is DENIED.
 
III.
DISPOSITION 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the First, Second, Third, Fifth, Seventh,
Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, Eighteenth and Twentieth Causes of Action is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the Eighth, Sixteenth and Nineteenth Causes
of Action is DENIED. 