 Case Number:  23TRCV01567    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JOHN
  YELUSICH, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01567




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DRIFTWOOD
  HEALTHCARE CENTER, et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


MOTION
  TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY COURT PROCEEDINGS




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 12, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Driftwood
Healthcare & Wellness Center, LLC, Citrus Wellness Center, LLC, and
Driftwood Healthcare Center 
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs John Yelusich and Donna Yelusich
Defendants
Driftwood Healthcare & Wellness Center, LC, Citrus Wellness Center, LLC,
and Driftwood Healthcare Center’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Court
Proceedings
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED. Proceedings
in this action are stayed pending the outcome of the arbitration.
 
BACKGROUND
            On May 17, 2023 John Yelusich and
Donna Yelusich filed a complaint against Driftwood Healthcare Center; Driftwood
Healthcare & Wellness Center, LLC; Citrus Wellness Center, LLC; Torrance
Memorial Medical Center; Torrance Health Association, Inc.; Providence Little
Company of Mary Medical Center – Torrance; Providence Health System – Southern
California; and Providence Little Company of Mary Medical Center – San Pedro
for (1) negligence/professional negligence, (2) elder abuse/willful misconduct,
and (3) loss of consortium (Donna Yelusich) based on the care provided to John
Yelusich during his residency at the various health facilities. 
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as
exist
for the revocation of any contract.”
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . .
with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .
with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention
or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among
the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .
. . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”
 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
request an order compelling plaintiffs to arbitrate all claims and to stay the
civil action.
1.     
Application of the FAA
An
arbitration clause is governed by the FAA if the agreement is a contract
“evidencing a transaction involving commerce.” 9 U.S.C. § 2. Courts “broadly
construe” this phrase, because the FAA “embodies Congress’ intent to provide
for the enforcement of arbitration agreements within the full reach of the
Commerce Clause.” Giuliano v. Inland Empire Pers., Inc. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286. In the context of an employment agreement, this means
that the Court looks only to whether the parties’ relationship “in fact”
involved interstate commerce, as opposed to whether they contemplated that it
would: 
In
determining whether the employment agreement involved interstate commerce, the
parties’ subjective intent is not the determining factor. “[E]videncing a
transaction involving commerce” (9 U.S.C. § 2) simply means that “the ‘transaction’ in fact ‘involv[es]’
interstate commerce, even if the parties did not contemplate an interstate
commerce connection.” Allied–Bruce
Terminix Companies v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 281, 115 S.Ct. 834, 130
L.Ed.2d 753. 
Plaintiffs
argue that the FAA does not apply and the claims arising out of defendants’
care of the decedent do not involve interstate commerce. The factors that
support plaintiffs’ position are as follows: (1) defendants have not shown the
percentage of revenue that Driftwood claims is derived from Medicare and/or
Medi-Cal; (2) there is no indication that Driftwood regularly orders, receives,
and utilizes goods and supplies outside of California; (3) there is no evidence
that Driftwood advertises to out-of-state residents through websites; (4) there
is no evidence that Driftwood admits out-of-state patients; (5) there is no
evidence that Driftwood receives reimbursement from out-of-state insurance
companies; and (6) there are no claims that Driftwood uses the US mail,
telephone lines, wireless networks, and/or internet connections to conduct
business. 
Defendants
have the “burden to demonstrate FAA coverage by declarations and other
evidence.” Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co. (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 1193, 1207. Here, defendants have met that burden with evidence
that Driftwood participates in the federal Medicare program, receives federal
funds, and procures supplies from vendors outside of California. (Weiss Decl.
¶¶ 4-6.) The court finds that the declaration is sufficient to establish
interstate commerce and defendants do need not to offer the specifics of this
information as plaintiffs urge. The agreement also states by its very terms
that it is governed by the FAA. Although this alone may not be sufficient to
determine whether the FAA applies, it is still a relevant factor.
Given the
parties’ subjective intent to have the arbitration agreement be governed by the
FAA and evidence supporting defendants engaged in interstate commerce, the court
finds that the FAA governs the parties’ agreement. 
2.     
Existence and scope of an agreement
to arbitrate
“As
stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App.
4th 625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to
compel arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of
that contract. There is no public policy favoring arbitration of disputes that
the parties have not agreed to arbitrate.’” Lopez v. Charles Schwab &
Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th 1224, 1229.
Plaintiffs
argue that they are not parties to the arbitration agreement because Donna
Yelusich did not sign the agreement. Plaintiffs do not dispute that John signed
the agreement, rather, they assert that there is no evidence Donna authorized
John to act for her in executing the agreement and that Donna has her own cause
of action for loss of consortium in this matter. Further, plaintiffs request
that the court deny the petition on the grounds that compelling some of
plaintiffs’ claims would create the possibility of inconsistent rulings. 
In reply,
defendants assert that Donna’s claim for loss of consortium is also subject to
arbitration because the agreement applies to all related negligence claims,
regardless of whether they are asserted by the signatory patient or a third
party. This is supported by case law: “a patient expressly contracts to submit
to arbitration ‘any dispute as to medical malpractice,’ and that agreement
fully complies with Code of Civil Procedure section 1295, it must be deemed to
apply to all medical malpractice claims arising out of the
services contracted for, regardless of whether they are asserted by the patient
or a third party. Gross v. Recabaren (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 771, 781.
“A loss of consortium claim is unquestionably encompassed within this holding,
for though it ‘is not merely derivative or collateral to the [patient-]spouse’s
cause of action [Citation], it is based on the physical injury or disability of
[that individual]....” Id. As defendants explain, plaintiffs allege
negligence/professional medical negligence, which is essentially equivalent to
medical malpractice. Since Donna’s loss of consortium claim arises out of the
decedent’s physical injury, the court finds that the loss of consortium claim
is subject to arbitration. Further, there is no dispute that the agreement
complies with the requirements of CCP § 1295. 
The
arbitration agreement signed by John states that “any dispute as to medical
malpractice, that is as to whether any medical services rendered under this
contract were unnecessary or unauthorized or were improperly, negligently or
incompetently rendered or not rendered, will be determined by submission to
arbitration and not by a lawsuit or resort to court process.” (Ekpebe Decl. ¶
6, Exhib. B.) 
Thus, the
court finds that there is a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties
and plaintiffs’ claims are subject to arbitration. 
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED. Proceedings
in this action are stayed pending the outcome of the arbitration.
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.