 Case Number:  23TRCP00219    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
JENNIFER
  LANCHINEBRE, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCP00219




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY OF
  INGLEWOOD, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 12, 2024           
 
Moving Party:                         Petitioner Jennifer
Lanchinebre
Responding
Party:                  City of Inglewood & County of Los Angeles 
Petition
for Order From Relief From Claim Statute
            The court considered the moving
papers, opposition, and reply papers.  
RULING
The petition is GRANTED. 
            Petitioner
to give notice of ruling.
BACKGROUND
On May
24, 2023, petitioner Jennifer Lanchinebre filed a petition for leave to present
late governmental claims against the City of Inglewood, County of Los Angeles,
and State of California. On October 20, 2023, State of California was dismissed
without prejudice. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Before a suit for damages may be
filed against a public entity, a claimant must present a timely written claim
to the public entity and the claim must have been acted upon by the board or
deemed rejected.  Gov. Code § 945.4; Munoz
v. State of Cal. (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1767, 1777.  A claim relating to a cause of action for
injury to person or personal property must be presented to the public entity
not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action.  Gov. Code § 911.2.  Munoz, supra, 33 Cal. App. 4th at
1777.
If a claimant fails to present a
claim within the statutory period, he may apply “within a reasonable time not
to exceed one year after the accrual of the cause of action” to the public
entity for leave to present a late claim. 
Gov. Code § 911.4.  If the public
entity denies leave to present a late claim, a claimant may petition the Court
under Government Code § 946.6 for relief from the requirements of Government
Code § 945.4.  Munoz, supra, 33
Cal. App. 4th at 1777.
If the § 946.6 petition is timely
filed, the court may relieve a claimant from the requirements of § 945.4 if it
makes certain findings, including:  (1)
the claimant made a timely application to the public entity for leave to
present a late claim; (2) the application was denied; and (3) the failure to
timely present a claim was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect; and/or that the injured person was a minor during the claim period, or
incapacitated during the claim period, or deceased prior to the deadline for
filing a claim.  Gov. Code § 946.6(c).  In determining whether relief is warranted
under Government Code § 946.6, the court considers the petition, any affidavits
submitted in support of or in opposition to the petition, and any other
evidence presented at the hearing.  Gov.
Code § 946.6(e); Munoz, supra, 33 Cal. App. 4th at p. 1778.
DISCUSSION
            Petitioner
Jennifer Lanchinebre requests relief from the government claims statute under
Gov. Code § 945.6, as against the City of Inglewood, County of Los Angeles, and
State of California.
            Petitioner
alleges that she was walking within SoFi Stadium premises when she stepped
and/or tripped on a rope and/or similar object, causing her to fall and sustain
injuries. Petition p.1. Petitioner asserts that her claims were not filed
during the statutory period specified by Gov. Code § 911.2 because she
calendared the wrong deadline to file the claims. Petition p.4. Specifically,
she set a phone reminder for 9/2/22 rather than the correct date which was
6/2/22. Id. Petitioner also notes that she “diligently worked on her
claim by documenting the location where the incident took place via photographs
and seeking to find out who the parties were that controlled the area and were
responsible” before retaining legal representation. Reply p.3. Her attorneys
then discovered that the six-month deadline was on 6/2/22. Lanchinebre Decl. ¶
4.
            In
opposition,  County of Los Angeles argues that
“a reasonably prudent person who was aware of the six-month claims presentation
requirement would not plan to do nothing on the claim for five months of the
six-month claims presentation period, and would not rely solely on a phone
reminder to prompt her to take action in pursuit of her claim.” County’s
opposition p.4. County of Los Angeles further argues that a “reasonably prudent
person would have attempted to retain an attorney, attempted some investigation
into their claim, or taken some step-in pursuit of their claim other than
entering a date into an electronic calendar.” Id. County of Los Angeles
also argues that it would be prejudiced by granting of petition because “will
be deprived of the opportunities to conduct an early investigation of
Petitioner's claims and consider early settlement to save in litigation fees
and costs” and would be “forced to incur the exorbitant fees and costs
associated with litigation.” County’s opposition p.8.
             City of Inglewood notes in its opposition that
petitioner failed to establish excusable neglect because she failed to use
reasonable diligence in pursuing her claim. City of Inglewood’s opposition p.3.
Specifically, City of Inglewood asserts that petitioner failed to show that she
filed the petition within a reasonable time once she determined the calendaring
error. Id. at p.4.  City of
Inglewood asserts that it is not required to show prejudice because excusable
neglect was not shown. Id. at p.6. It only provides that the delay
“deprived” Inglewood of any ability to investigate. Id.     
(1) The Claimant Made A Timely
Application To The Public Entity For Leave To Present A Late Claim 
A petition pursuant to Government
Code § 946.6 must be “filed within six months after the application to the
board is denied or deemed to be denied pursuant to Section 911.6.”  Gov. Code § 946.6(b); see also City of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th 621, 627.  This requirement is mandatory.  Lineaweaver v. S. Cal. Rapid Transit Dist.
(1983) 139 Cal. App. 3d 738, 741.
Here, petitioner retained a law
firm on June 20, 2022, and that is when the June 2, 2022 deadline was
discovered. On November 28, 2022, the law firm filed the late claims which was
about six months from the deadline.
(2) The Application Was Denied
Here, City of Inglewood denied the
application on December 15, 2022, and the County of Los Angeles denied the
application on December 7, 2022. Fradkin Decl. p.2.
(3) The Failure To Timely Present A
Claim Was The Result Of Mistake, Inadvertence, Or Excusable Neglect
            Here, petitioner asserts that she set a phone reminder for 9/2/22 rather than
the correct date which was 6/2/22. Amended Lanchinebre Decl. ¶ 3. Petitioner further
asserts she had “diligently worked on her claim by documenting the location
where the incident took place via photographs and seeking to find out who the
parties were that controlled the area and were responsible” before retaining
legal representation. Reply p.3. Her attorneys then discovered that the
six-month deadline was on 6/2/22 and filed the petition about six months later
after investigating the matter and requesting petitioner’s documents. Amended
Lanchinebre Decl. ¶ 4. Respondents fail to provide any evidence showing that
they would be prejudiced. Therefore, the failure to present a timely claim was
the result of excusable neglect.
            ORDER
            The petition is GRANTED. 
            Petitioner
to give notice of ruling.