 Case Number:  23TRCV02688    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
GARY
  R. HERRON, II, 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02688




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES, HYATT CORPORATION; and DOES 1 to 30, inclusive,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          Tuesday, March 12, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Hyatt Corporation, SWC CA LAX, LLC, and Prism
Hospitality,LP
Responding
Party:                  Gary R. Herron, II 
Demurrer
with a Motion to Strike
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is sustained with leave
to amend as to the first and second causes of action. 
            The motion to strike is moot.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.
 
BACKGROUND
            On August 16, 2023, plaintiff Gary
R. Herron II filed his complaint against defendants City of Los Angeles, Hyatt
Corporation, and Does 1 through 30 alleging premises liability. On October 4,
2023, plaintiff amended the complaint to add Prism Hospitality, LP for Doe 1. On
November 28, 2023, plaintiff added SWC CA LAX, LLC for Doe 2. An Order to Show
Cause Re: Dismissal Status of Hyatt Corporation is scheduled on May 10, 2024.
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
Defendants
request the court take judicial notice of Exhibit 1: Grant Deed reflecting SWC
CA LAX, LLC owned the subject property recorded by the County of Los Angeles on
July 2, 2021.
Under
Evidence Code section 452, the Court may take judicial notice of “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy,” and must take judicial notice of such facts and
propositions if a party so requests and provides sufficient notice to the
adverse party. Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (h) & 453.
However,
the court does not “take judicial notice of the truth of factual matters
asserted therein.” (Ramsden v. Western Union (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 873,
879.) “To go beyond notice of the existence of a document to an interpretation
of its meaning constitutes improper consideration of evidentiary matters.” (Middlebrook-Anderson
Co. v. Southwest Sav. & Loan Assn. (1971) 18 Cal.App.3d 1023, 1038.)
The request for judicial notice is DENIED
because ownership of the sidewalk is subject to dispute.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Under the demurrer statute, the party against whom a complaint or
cross-complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the pleading on
several grounds, including that the pleading “does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.” CCP, § 430.010, subd. (e).)
“In
determining whether or not the complaint is sufficient, as against the demurrer
upon the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, the rule is that if, upon a consideration of all the facts stated,
it appears that the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the
court against the defendants, the complaint will be held good . . . .” Matteson
v. Wagoner (1905) 147 Cal. 739, 742. No matter the
likelihood of the plaintiff’s ability to prove them, "a general demurrer
admits the truth of all material factual allegations in the complaint . . . .” Alcorn
v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 496.
"To
the extent there are factual issues in dispute . . .  this court must
assume the truth not only of all facts properly pled, but also of those facts
that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged in the complaint.”
City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998)
68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459. "[Q]uestions of fact may be resolved [at the
pleadings stage] only when there is only one legitimate inference to be drawn
from the allegations of the complaint.” Tracfone Wireless, Inc. v. County of
Los Angeles (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1368.  
When
ruling on a demurrer, the court may consider judicially noticeable facts that
cannot be reasonably controverted. Chas. L. Harney, Inc. v. State (1963)
217 Cal.App.2d 77, 86. However, judicially noticed facts render a complaint
defective “only in those instances where there is not or cannot be a factual
dispute concerning that which is sought to be judicially noticed.” Cruz v.
County of Los Angeles (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 1131, 1134.
“If a
demurrer is sustained, the court may grant leave to amend the pleading upon any
terms as may be just and shall fix the time within which the amendment or
amended pleading shall be filed.” CCP, § 472a, subd. (c). “The basic
principle governing the privilege of amendment is clear enough: amending of the
pleading should be allowed if it appears likely the pleader has, and can state,
a recognizable legal claim[.]” Hills Transp. Co. v. Southwest Forest
Industries, Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 709.
 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
demur to the first premises liability cause of action on the grounds that it
has a defect, is uncertain, and fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action against Prism Hospitality, LP and SWC CA LAX, LLC. Defendants
demur to the second premises liability cause of action on the grounds that plaintiff
fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and there is a
defect or misjoinder of parties as against Hyatt Corporation. 
A.    Meet and
Confer 
Before
filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” CCP § 430.41, subd. (a).
The demurring party must file and serve a meet and confer declaration stating
either: “(A) The means by which the demurring party met and conferred with the
party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not
reach an agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B)
That the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to
the meet and confer request of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet
and confer in good faith.” Id. at subd. (a)(3).
Here,
Defendant’s counsel, Loan Dao declares that she met and conferred on November
17, 2023 with Plaintiff’s counsel to discuss the issues raised in the instant
demurrer, but the parties were unable to come to a resolution. Dao Decl, ¶ 6. Additionally,
Defendant’s counsel states that through meet and confer efforts, it was relayed
that Hyatt was not the owner of the subject property. Id. at ¶ 3. Therefore,
counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).
 
B.     First
Cause of Action – Premises Liability 
Defendants
argue that complaint lacks sufficient facts to allege premises liability
because it fails to show Prism or SWC had control over the sidewalk or that
they created the hazard. Additionally, the complaint is uncertain as to who
owns the sidewalk. In opposition, plaintiff argues that the demurrer is
improper because he has valid claims against them. However, plaintiff fails to
show how his complaint has sufficient facts. 
The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.  Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp¿(2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 994, 998. Those who own, possess, or control property generally
have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property¿to¿avoid
exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm. Annocki¿v. Peterson
Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.  The existence and scope of duty are legal
questions for the court.  Id. at p.
36. If there is a condition that poses a danger to customers and others on the
premises, the property owner is “under a duty to exercise ordinary care either
to make the condition reasonably safe for their use or to give a warning
adequate to enable them to avoid the harm.” 
Bridgman v. Safeway Stores, Inc.¿(1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 446.
The
general rule is that an adjacent or abutting property owner is liable for
injuries caused by a dangerous condition on the public sidewalk, only if the
dangerous condition was created through the negligence of the homeowner. Selger
v. Steven Brothers, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1585, 1592, 1594; Peters
v. City & County of San Francisco (1953) 41 Cal.2d 419, 423.
Here, the
complaint alleges “Plaintiff is informed and believes . . . Defendant Hyatt
Corporation ("Hyatt") either owns, operates and/or manages a hotel
known as "The Hyatt Regency" located at 6225 Century Boulevard, Los
Angeles, CA 90045.” Complaint pdf p.5. The complaint further alleges “Hyatt
maintains a paid public parking facility ("Hyatt Parking Lot") at
said location for its guests, people using LAX and the general public.” Id.
The complaint also alleges “Plaintiff was . . . walking eastbound on the subject
sidewalk in front the Hyatt when he tripped over a raised section of the
sidewalk causing him to fall to the ground and sustain severe and disabling
injuries.” Id. The complaint also alleges “Plaintiff is informed . . .
defendant City of Los Angeles knew or should have known the dangerous condition
of the sidewalk but did nothing to repair and/or correct its condition or
adequately warn the public of its dangerous condition.” Id. These facts
are insufficient to state a cause of action for premises liability because they
are conclusory and fail to show Prism Hospitality, LP and SWC CA LAX, LLC’s
involvement. 
Therefore,
the demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the first cause of
action. 
 
C.     Second
Cause of Action – Premises Liability
Defendants
demur to the second premises liability cause of action on the grounds that
plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and
there is a defect or misjoinder of parties as against Hyatt Corporation.
Specifically, defendants contend that Hyatt does not own the subject property
and provided sufficient documents to plaintiff as evidence. Additionally,
defendants argue the complaint is uncertain as to who owns the sidewalk.
Plaintiff argues that “Hyatt Corporation had, by its own statement or conduct,
led Herron to believe that it was the owner of the hotel adjacent to the
sidewalk on which he was walking to a parking facility owned by Hyatt
Corporation.” Plaintiff’s Opp. p.7. However, Plaintiff fails to show how the
facts provided are sufficiently plead. 
The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.  Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp¿(2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 994, 998. Those who own, possess, or control property generally
have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property¿to¿avoid
exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm. Annocki¿v. Peterson
Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.  The existence and scope of duty are legal
questions for the court.  Id. at
p. 36. If there is a condition that poses a danger to customers and others on
the premises, the property owner is “under a duty to exercise ordinary care
either to make the condition reasonably safe for their use or to give a warning
adequate to enable them to avoid the harm.” 
Bridgman v. Safeway Stores, Inc.¿(1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 446.
The
general rule is that an adjacent or abutting property owner is liable for
injuries caused by a dangerous condition on the public sidewalk, only if the
dangerous condition was created through the negligence of the homeowner. Selger
v. Steven Brothers, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1585, 1592, 1594; Peters
v. City & County of San Francisco (1953) 41 Cal.2d 419, 423.
Here, the
complaint alleges “Plaintiff is informed and believes . . . Defendant Hyatt
Corporation ("Hyatt") either owns, operates and/or manages a hotel
known as "The Hyatt Regency" . . ..” Complaint pdf p.6. The complaint
further alleges “Hyatt maintains a paid public parking facility.” Id.
The complaint also alleges “Plaintiff was . . . walking eastbound on the
subject sidewalk in front the Hyatt when he tripped over a raised section of
the sidewalk causing him to fall to the ground and sustain severe and disabling
injuries.” Id. The complaint alleges “Plaintiff is informed  . . . that defendant Hyatt Corporation had
knowledge of the defective condition of the subject sidewalk and frequently
attempted to draw attention to the defective condition of the sidewalk by
marking the raised portion of the sidewalk by either painting it, affixing red
and yellow tape and/or placing a plastic cone adjacent to it. However,
plaintiff is informed  . . . that
defendant Hyatt Corporation did nothing to inform defendant City of Los Angeles
of the existence of this dangerous condition or adequately warn the public of
the dangerous condition.” Id. These facts are insufficient to state a
cause of action for premises liability because they are conclusory and are
uncertain as to the defendants’ liability. 
Therefore,
the demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the second cause of
action.
 
Motion to Strike 
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof – i.e., even single words or
phrases. CCP § 435(b)(1)); Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co.
(1971) 19 Cal App.3d 24, 40. A motion to strike lies either: (1) to strike
any “irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading”; and/or (2)
to strike any pleading or part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.” CCP § 436; Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528. As with demurrers, the
grounds for a motion to strike must appear on the face of the pleading, or from
any matter which the court may judicially notice. CCP § 437.
Defendant’s
request to strike the prayer of relief seeking property damages and prayer of
relief seeking past, present, and future medical expenses is MOOT, as defendants’
demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend for all causes of action.
 
ORDER
            The demurrer is sustained with 20
days leave to amend as to the first and second causes of action. 
            The motion to strike is moot.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.