 Case Number:  22TRCV00890    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
BARBARA
  CLARK, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00890




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING 
DEMURRER
  WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE
 




 
PRIME
  HEALTHCARE
CENTINELA,
  LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 12, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Dignity
Community Care dba Northridge Hospital Medical Center
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Barbara Clark, by and
through her Guardian ad Litem, Kevin Clark
 
Defendants
Dignity Community Care dba
Northridge Hospital Medical Center’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first cause of action in the FAC. 
 
BACKGROUND
            On October 3, 2023, plaintiff
Barbara Clark, by and through her guardian ad litem, Kevin Clark, filed a
complaint against Prime Healthcare Centinela, LLC dba Centinela Hospital
Medical Center, Dignity Community Care dba Northridge Hospital Medical Center,
Parkwest Rehabilitation Center, LLC dba Parkwest Healthcare Center for (1)
elder abuse and neglect, (2) violation of Resident Rights under Health &
Safety Code 1430(b), and (3) negligence.
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228. “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.” SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.
App. 3d 902, 905. “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747. Sufficient
facts are the essential facts of the case “with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature,
source, and extent of his cause of action.” Gressley v. Williams (1961)
193 Cal. App. 2d 636, 643-44.
DISCUSSION
Defendant
Dignity Community Care dba Northridge Hospital Medical Center demurs to the first
cause of action for elder abuse in the FAC on the grounds that it fails to
state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The FAC
alleges that plaintiff Barbara Clark was born on October 5, 1936. FAC, ¶1. In
the fall of 2021, Clark was 85 years old and was living independently. She had
a history of atrial fibrillation and latent tuberculosis but was otherwise
mobile and alert. On October 17, 2021, she suffered a stroke and was admitted
to Centinela Hospital. The stroke resulted in right sided hemiplegia, and she
required a g-tube and PEG placement for feedings. Id., ¶ As a result of
Clark’s physical condition, while she was in the care and custody of Centinela
Hospital, she required skilled, medical, and custodial care in addition to
assistance with all activities of daily living, including maintaining her
personal hygiene, continence care, transferring, and repositioning in bed,
transferring in and out of bed and chair, eating, drinking, and managing her
medication. Id., ¶30. Centinela Hospital failed to effectively assess
Clark’s care needs and because of the failure to assess, Centinela Hospital
failed to develop, implement, and modify care plans designed to meet Clark’s
individualized care needs as to wound care, food and fluid, infection, and
hygiene. Id., ¶33. When Clark became a patient at Centinela Hospital,
her skin was intact and she was clear of skin breakdown. There is no
documentation that Clark developed any skin breakdown during her admission to
Centinela Hospital. Her hospitalization was complicated as she also became
septic, developed a urinary tract infection, and pneumonia. She also had
dysphagia status-post PEG placement. Id., ¶34.
The FAC
further alleges that on October 30, 2021, despite these complications, case
managers at Centinela Hospital decoded Clark was safe to be discharged to a
skilled nursing facility for continued rehabilitation. It was arranged for her
to be transferred to Windsor Terrace Healthcare Center via ambulance. When she
arrived, she was not there for more than ten minutes as she had developed acute
respiratory failure and was hypoxic. She was immediately transferred to the
nearest emergency room, Northridge Hospital. Id., ¶35. Centinela
Hospital knew, or should have known, Clark required 24-hour hospitalization
until she was stable from the stroke and related sequelae. Instead of retaining
her, they made the financial decision to discharge her to a lower level of care
at a skilled nursing facility knowing she required a higher level of care. As a
result of the premature discharge, Clark suffered needlessly as she developed
acute respiratory failure and became hypoxic enroute and had to be transferred
immediately back to the hospital. Id., ¶36. On admission to Northridge
Hospital, it is documented for the first time that Clark had a pressure injury
on her right and left buttock, right elbow, and left ankle. Centinela Hospital
concealed the existence, nature, and severity of these wounds from Clark and
her family. Id., ¶37.
The FAC further
alleges that Nursing staff of Northridge Hospital failed to implement a care
plan for Clark’s wound care that satisfied the requirements of Clark based on
her high risk for pressure wounds. Specifically, Clark required turning and
repositioning at least every two hours, which nursing staff knew or should have
known. FAC, ¶39. Despite this knowledge, Ms. Clark was documented as being
repositioned only frequently, with no timed intervals provided. Clark was
hospitalized at Northridge Hospital from October 30, 2021 to January 2, 2022
where, in addition to treatment for her acute respiratory failure and hypoxia,
she required would care treatment. Id., ¶¶40-41. Northridge
Hospital failed to effectively assess Clark’s care needs and because of the
failure to assess, Northridge Hospital failed to develop, implement, and modify
care plans designed to meet Clark’s individualized care needs. Id., ¶42.
As a result, Clark’s wounds worsened. Id., ¶43. On November 5,
2021, case managers at Northridge Hospital decided Clark was safe to be
discharged to a skilled nursing facility for continued rehabilitation. It was
arranged for her to be transferred to Lake Balboa Care Center via ambulance.
She was at Lake Balboa Care for only a day before she had to be brought back to
the nearest hospital. This time she was transferred to Valley Presbyterian. Id.,
¶44. Northridge Hospital knew or should have known that Clark required
24-hour hospitalization until she was stable from the stroke and related
sequelae as well as the pressure injuries, but as a result of the premature
discharge, Clark suffered needlessly as she became hypoxic again. Id.,
¶45. On November 6, 2021, Clark’s oxygen saturation was down to 85%, she had a
fever of 102 degrees, and was documented as having “multiple pressure injuries”
on admission. The right and left buttock wound merged to form a sacral wound
that was at a State III. Her left and right ankle were classified as
unstageable. Id., ¶46.
The FAC
further alleges that on December 1, 2021, Clark was transferred to Parkwest
Healthcare who failed to effectively assess Clark’s care needs and because of
the failure to assess, Parkwest Healthcare failed to develop, implement, and
modify care plans designed to meet Clark’s individualized care needs as to
wound care, food and fluid, infection, and hygiene. Id., ¶48(a)-(d).

On
December 7, 2021, Clark was transferred to Northridge Hospital. Her son
advocated for her transfer out of concern that she had pneumonia. At the
hospital, she was diagnosed with a urinary tract infection and sepsis. It was
also discovered Clark’s wounds had worsened. She now had a left buttock that
was classified as a Stage IV and coccyx wound classified as a Stage IV. Id.,
¶¶49-51. Over the next several months, Clark had a series of transfers
between hospitals and skilled nursing facilities to attempt to heal her wounds.
The complications of these mismanaged wounds further complicated her ability to
recover from her respiratory conditions, and to date, Clark continues to
receive treatment to heal these preventable wounds. Id., ¶52. 
1.     
First cause of action for elder
abuse
In order
to state a cause of action under the Elder Abuse Act, “a plaintiff must allege
conduct essentially equivalent to conduct that would support recovery of
punitive damages.” Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.
4th 771, 789. “Neglect” is defined in section 15610.57 as “(a). . . . (1) The
negligent failure of any person having the care or custody of an elder . . . to
exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a like position would
exercise. . . .(b) Neglect includes, but is not limited to, all of the
following: . . . (2) Failure to provide medical care for physical and mental
health needs.” “It is true that statutory elder abuse includes ‘neglect as
defined in Section 15610.57,’ which in turn includes negligent failure of an
elder custodian ‘to provide medical care for [the elder's] physical and mental
health needs’ (§ 15610.57(b)(2)). . . . ‘[N]eglect’ within the meaning of
[section 15610.57] covers an area of misconduct distinct from ‘professional
negligence.’ As used in the Act, neglect refers not to the substandard
performance of medical services but, rather, to the ‘failure of those
responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or
dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their
custodial obligations.’ Thus, the statutory definition of ‘neglect’ speaks not
of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to provide medical
care. Notably, the other forms of abuse, as defined in the Act—physical abuse
and fiduciary abuse [§15657]—are forms of intentional wrongdoing also distinct
from ‘professional negligence.’” Covenant Care, Inc., supra, at
783.
“[T]he
facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the
neglect and the injury ‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance with
the pleading rules governing statutory claims.” Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 396, 407 (citing Covenant Care).
“Allegations of misconduct directed against one defendant . . . do not state a
cause of action against another defendant against whom the allegations of
misconduct are not directed.” Id. at 410 (citation omitted). “[W]hen a
plaintiff asserts a claim against a health care provider on a legal theory
other than professional negligence, courts must determine whether the claim is
nonetheless based on the health care provider’s professional negligence.” Larson
v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal. App. 4th 336, 347 (citation
omitted). Citing to the content of the definition of “neglect” in Welf. and
Inst. Code 15610.57(b), the Supreme Court stated, “[w]hat they each seem to
contemplate is the existence of a robust caretaking or custodial
relationship—that is, a relationship where a certain party has assumed a
significant measure of responsibility for attending to one or more of an
elder’s basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult would
ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.” Winn v. Pioneer
Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal. 4th 148, 58. “What seems beyond doubt is
that the Legislature enacted a scheme distinguishing between – and decidedly
not lumping together – claims of professional negligence and neglect.” Id.
at 159. 
Defendant
argues that the facts alleged in this complaint amount to an action for
professional medical negligence rather than elder abuse because there is no
abuse nor deprivation of the basic necessities of life. Defendants state that
Dignity cannot be liable for the actions of other healthcare providers since
Clark arrived already with pressure ulcers. 
In
opposition, plaintiff argues the allegations are sufficient because (1) Clark
was in a custodial relationship with defendant to assist with daily living
activities; (2) defendants knew of conditions that made Clark unable to provide
for her basic needs; (3) defendant denied or withheld services necessary to
meet Clark’s basic needs of adequate nutrition and hydration, adequate wound
care, and protection from health and safety hazards; and (4) Clark’s pressure
wounds worsened as a result of defendant’s actions and inactions. 
The court
finds that the allegations as to elder abuse are insufficient because plaintiff
has not pled facts showing that defendant exhibited malicious conduct. The
allegations state that defendant failed to provide sufficient dietary services
and fluids, did not provide adequate wound care and treatment, and failed to
protect Clark from health and safety hazards. Although plaintiff alleges that
Clark suffered malnutrition and dehydration as a result of failing to provide
food and water, read in context with the other allegations, it appears that it
was a failure to provide sufficient dietary services and fluids to promote
healing, rather than a deprivation of all food and water. Compl., ¶62d. These
allegations do not rise to the level of reckless neglect. Given that the FAC
fails to sufficiently show abuse and neglect by defendant, the allegations for
corporate ratification do not stand.
 
ORDER
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.