  Case Number:  20STCV08408    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Robert Lamm, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV08408




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Bedrock Protection of California, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: May 30, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Sanctions
Moving Party: Plaintiffs Robert
Lamm and Benjamin Beckes
Responding Party: Defendants
Bedrock Protection of California, LLC, Paul Nelson, Damien Scott, and Todd
McGuire
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS
DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFFS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
CCP § 128.7(b) provides that by
signing and filing a pleading, an attorney “is certifying that to the best of
the person’s knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an inquiry
reasonable under the circumstances, all of the following conditions are met:
(1) [i]t is not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to
harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of
litigation[;] (2) [t]he claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein
are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of
new law[;] (3) [t]he allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary
support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have evidentiary
support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or
discovery[;] (4) [t]he denials of factual contentions are warranted on the
evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of
information or belief.” CCP § 128.7 authorizes the court to impose
appropriate sanctions upon attorneys or parties that have violated subsection
(b). (CCP § 128.7(c).)
 
Plaintiffs move for sanctions against
Defendants on the grounds that Defendant failed to properly serve their motion
for new trial following the Court’s award of attorney’s fees, and in that
motion improperly accused Plaintiffs’ counsel of violating ethical duties by
refusing to consider settlement without bifurcation between Plaintiffs’ claims
and counsel’s fees. 
 
The Court will not award bad faith
sanctions for a mistake in service. The Court also finds Defendants did not
make bad faith arguments in that motion. Courts have held that there is
potential for conflicts of interest between client and counsel over the right
to settle cases. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 919-926.)
 
Plaintiffs’ motion for sanctions is DENIED. The Court declines to award
sanctions against Plaintiffs as this motion was not made in bad faith.
 
 


 
 