 Case Number:  24VECV02580    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  T 24VECV02580
ANDERSON V BALALI
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Defendant EAN Holdings, LLC’s (erroneously sued as EAN Holdings,
LLC d.b.a. Enterprise Rent-A-Car) Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  Leave to amend is limited to
curing the identified pleading defects and not to add new causes of action.
Introduction
Defendant
EAN Holdings, LLC (erroneously sued as EAN Holdings LLC, d.b.a. Enterprise
Rent-A-Car) (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Kaitlyn Anderson’s (Plaintiff)
First Amended Complaint.  Defendant placed into issue the first cause of
action for motor vehicle and the second cause of action for general negligence.
Judicial
Notice
The Court
GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, sec. 452, 453.)
Discussion
Defendant
asserted that Plaintiff has merely alleged legal conclusions without providing
any material facts supporting such conclusions.  In assessing the
sufficiency of a pleading, a court “deem[s] to be true all material facts that
were properly pled” as well as “those facts that may be implied or inferred
from those expressly alleged.”  (City of Morgan Hill v. Bay Area Air
Quality Management Dist. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 861, 869.)  A court “may
also consider matters that may be judicially noticed, but do[es] not accept
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.”  (Id. at p.
869-70.) 
The Court
finds that the first cause of action for motor vehicle is insufficiently
alleged. The FAC is set forth on a Judicial Council Form PLD-PI-001. Plaintiff
only alleges conclusions of fact and law as to the first cause of action.
To state a
cause of action for negligence, Plaintiff must allege that: (1) Defendant was
negligent; (2) Plaintiff was harmed; and (3) Defendant’s negligence was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI 400.) Plaintiff has
failed to allege that Defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in
causing her harm.  (FAC at p. 5.)    
Defendant
then asserted that the Graves Amendment applies to this action and bars
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant.  The crux of the FAC is that
Defendant Alireza Balali (Balali) drove a vehicle owned by Defendant, and such
vehicle collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle.   (FAC at p. 5.) 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant and Balali “so carelessly and negligently
owned, operated, entrusted, leased, repaired, modified, maintained, and/or
controlled the Gray 2021 Mercedez (sic) GLE350, so as to cause it to collide
with Plaintiff’s Vehicle.”  (FAC at p. 5.)
“Vehicle
Code section 17150 makes an owner of a motor vehicle liable for injuries caused
by another’s negligent operation of that vehicle if the person so operating the
vehicle is operating it with the owner’s express or implied permission.”
(Rashtian v. BRAC-BH, Inc. (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1847, 1852.) “The Graves
Amendment [preempts] state law in the area of vicarious liability for owners
engaged in the business of renting or leasing motor vehicles, absent a showing
of negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the owner.” (Cates v. Hertz
Corp. (2009) 347 Fed.Appx. 2, 6.)  
Under the
Graves Amendment, an owner of a motor vehicle who rents or leases the vehicle
to another “shall not be liable under the law of any State . . ., by reason of
being the owner of the vehicle . . ., for harm to persons or property that
results or arises out of the use, operation, or possession of the vehicle
during the period of the rental or lease, if: (1) the owner . . . is engaged in
the trade or business of renting or leasing motor vehicles; and (2) there is no
negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the owner[.]”  (Keiper v.
Victor Valley Transit Authority (C.D. Cal. 2019) 2019 WL 6703395 at *5.)
Here,
Defendant is in the business of renting motor vehicles.  (RJN, exh.
B.)  Thus, Defendant may be held vicariously liable if Plaintiff makes a
showing of negligence or criminal wrongdoing attributed to Defendant. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant was the registered owner of the vehicle driven
by Balali.  (FAC at p. 5.) Plaintiff, however, has not alleged facts
showing negligence or criminal wrongdoing attributed to Defendant.  To the
extent that Plaintiff’s negligence claim is premised on an entrustment theory,
such theory fails.  The tort of negligent entrustment requires a showing
of “actual knowledge by the [owner] that the driver is incompetent or knowledge
of circumstances which should indicate to the [owner] that the driver is
incompetent.”  (Krawitz v. Rusch (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 966.)
 Here, Plaintiff has not articulated sufficient factual allegations that
Defendant knew of Balali’s incompetence.
The
demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.