 Case Number:  24VECV01321    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  T 24VECV01321  Jafari v Pettersen [TENTATIVE]  ORDER: Defendants Guro D. Torset and Trond Karl Petterson’s Motion for Leave to  File a First Amended Answer to the Complaint is GRANTED. Defendants are ordered  to efile and serve the proposed First Amended Answer—which is attached as  Exhibit A to the declaration of Eric R. MacDonald, Esq. in support of the  motion—so that it becomes an operative pleading in this action within 10 days.   Introduction Defendants  Guro D. Torset and Trond Karl Petterson (collectively “Defendants”) moved for  leave to file a First Amended Answer to the Complaint.  The motion is  unopposed. Any opposition to the motion was required to have been filed and  served at least nine court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc.,  sec. 1005, subd. (b).) Discussion Defendants  seek leave to amend their answer to add: a new twelfth affirmative defense  based upon CSAA Insurance Exchange v. Hodroj (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 272; a  thirteenth affirmative defense that Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the  doctrine of accord and satisfaction; a fourteenth affirmative defense asserting  Plaintiffs’ lack of standing to bring causes of action against Defendants; a  fifteenth affirmative defense asserting the doctrine of unclean hands; and a  sixteenth affirmative defense asserting that Plaintiffs’ failure to perform the  essential terms of the agreement reached by the parties is a breach of  Plaintiffs’ settlement offer.  (Not. of Mot. at p. 2:5-12.) Defendants  have included a copy of the proposed First Amended Answer, which is attached to  the declaration of their counsel, Eric R. MacDonald, Esq. (“MacDonald”), in  support of the motion.  (MacDonald Decl., par. 2; exh. A.)   Defendants have set forth the effect of the amendment.  (MacDonald Decl.,  par. 2.)  Defendants have also indicated why the request for amendment was  not made sooner and articulated when the facts giving rise to the proposed  amendment were discovered.  (MacDonald Decl., par. 8.) Counsel states why  the proposed First Amended Answer is necessary.  (MacDonald Decl., par.  10.)  Counsel indicates that there has been no delay in bringing the  instant motion.  (MacDonald Decl., par. 11.) Defendants have complied with  Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1324 and the Court finds that the motion is procedurally  proper.    The Court  finds that allowing Defendants leave to file the proposed First Amended Answer  is proper. “Any judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial . . .  may allow the amendment of any pleading . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.  576.)  “[L]iberality should be displayed in allowing amendments to  answers, for a defendant denied leave to amend is permanently deprived of a  defense.”  (Royal Thrift & Loan Co. v. County Escrow, Inc. (2004) 123  Cal.App.4th 24, 41.)  Here, Defendants contend that Plaintiffs will suffer  no prejudice if the instant motion is granted.  (MacDonald Decl., par.  11.)  No opposition was filed. The Court  GRANTS Defendants Guro D. Torset and Trond Karl Petterson’s Motion for Leave to  File a First Amended Answer.  Defendants are ordered to file and serve the  proposed First Amended Answer—which is attached as Exhibit A to the declaration  of Mr. MacDonald—so that it becomes an operative pleading in this action,  within 10 days. IT IS SO ORDERED.  Moving party to  give verbatim notice.