 Case Number:  24LBCV01973    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Jose A. Aguayo and
Eufrosina Hernandez filed this action against Defendant,American Honda Motor
Co., Inc. for violations of the Song-Beverly Act, breach of implied warranty,
and fraudulent inducement – concealment. 

 

Demurrer 

a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he met and
conferred with Plaintiff’s attorney but they were unable to resolve the
dispute.  Defense Counsel fails to state
whether the meet and confer efforts were in person or by telephone, as required
by the Code.  Defense Counsel must so
clarify in the future in connection with this and other actions.
 
c.     Parties’
Positions
Defendant demurs to the entire
complaint on the ground that it is barred by the statute of limitations.  Defendant demurs to the fraud-based cause of
action, contending is barred by the statute of limitations, does not allege a
transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose, and is precluded
by the economic loss doctrine.  
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
complaint is timely, all essential elements are pled, a transactional
relationship is not required under California law to find a duty to disclose,
and the economic loss doctrine does not act as a bar to their claims.    
 
d.     Statute
of Limitations
Commercial Code provides for a
four-year statute of limitations for Song-Beverly Actions.  CCP §338(d) provides for a three-year statute
of limitations on a fraud claim.  
Defendant argues Plaintiffs allege
they purchased the vehicle in 2018, but did not file suit until 2024; Defendant
contends there are no specific facts pled in the complaint to show delayed
discovery.  Plaintiffs argue their
allegation, at ¶23 of their complaint, that they did not discover Defendant’s
wrongful conduct until “shortly before filing this Complaint as the Subject
Vehicle continued to exhibit symptoms of defects following Defendant’s
unsuccessful attempts to repair them.”  
 
Plaintiffs’ complaint does not
include any allegations concerning whether and when defects were first
discovered, whether and when Plaintiffs took the vehicle in for servicing, what
happened when the vehicle was presented to the dealership for servicing,
etc.  Plaintiffs must so plead, because
the complaint appears to be barred by the statute of limitations, which gives
rise to an obligation to plead specific facts showing the complaint is not
time-barred.  See Fox v. Ethicon
Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808.
 
The demurrer on this ground is sustained
with leave to amend.
 

Fraud

i.             
Duty of Disclosure
Defendant’s second argument is
that Plaintiff failed to plead fraud with specificity.  Ordinarily, fraud claims are subject to
strict requirements of particularity in pleading which necessitate pleading
facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered." (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)  However, the specificity rule is intended to
apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to concealment. (Alfaro v.
Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 89
Cal.Rptr.3d 659).  Notably, the idea that
a plaintiff could allege who concealed something, where the thing was
concealed, when it was concealed, etc., is nonsensical; the nature of the claim
is a failure to speak, which cannot possibly include these details.

Transactional
     Relationship

The elements of a fraud claim based
on concealment are: “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311).  
 
There are “four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Id. at 311). If a fiduciary relationship does not exist,
but the latter three circumstances are present, Plaintiff must still show “the
existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant from
which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Id. at 311). 
 
            A duty to
disclose may arise as a result of a transaction between the parties. However,
the transaction "must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the
plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large." (Bigler-Engler at 312 [noting that the duty of a
manufacturer to warn consumers of a product’s hazards and faults applies in the
context of strict products liability actions but does not apply in a suit for
intentional misrepresentation.]).
 
            The Court
is aware of the Court of Appeals’ decision in Dhital v. Nissan North America,
Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, wherein the plaintiffs sued Nissan North
America, Inc. (Nissan), alleging a transmission defect.  The plaintiffs alleged claims under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and a common law fraud claim alleging that
Nissan fraudulently concealed the defects and induced them to purchase a car.
(Dhital at 838). 
 
            The
California Supreme Court granted review of Dhital on February 1, 2023, however,
the request for depublication was denied. (Dhital v. Nissan North America (Cal.
2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82, 83). On 12/18/24, the Supreme Court dismissed the
petition for review.  Dhital is therefore
binding. 
 
            The Dhital
court concluded that allegations were sufficient to support the existence of a
buyer-seller relationship between the parties as “Plaintiffs alleged that they
bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an
express warranty, and that Nissan's authorized dealerships are [the
manufacturer’s] agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to
consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim
is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose
known defects." (Dhital at 845).
 
ii.            
Economic Loss Doctrine
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
damage claim for fraudulent concealment is barred by the economic loss rule
which provides that “[i]n general, there is no recovery in tort for negligently
inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by
physical or property damage.” Dhital, supra 721-722. However, Dhital held that
the tort of fraudulent inducement by concealment is excepted from the economic
loss rules since "the duty that gives rise to tort liability is either
completely independent of the contract or arises from conduct which is both
intentional and intended to harm. (Dhital at 828). Accordingly, since
Plaintiff’s claim for inducement by concealment is adequately alleged, it is
not barred by the economic loss rule.  
 

Conclusion

The demurrer to the entire
complaint on the ground that it is barred by the statute of limitations is
sustained with leave to amend.  The
demurrer is otherwise overruled.  
 

Motion to Strike

Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages from the complaint.  The prayer for punitive damages is made in
connection with the fraud cause of action only. 
A well-pled cause of action for fraud supports a claim for punitive
damages.  The motion to strike is moot in
light of the ruling on the demurrer, but the Court notes that, if Plaintiffs
are able to plead around the statute of limitations, the prayer for punitive
damages will survive.    
 

Conclusion

The demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend as detailed above.  The
motion to strike is moot.  Plaintiffs
must file an amended complaint within twenty days.  Defendant must file a responsive pleading
within the statutory time thereafter.  If
Defendant intends to challenge the amended pleading, Defense Counsel must file
a meet and confer declaration establishing the parties met and conferred in
person or by telephone, as required per Code. 

 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   