 Case Number:  23LBCV00385    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Shirin El Sharkawi filed
this action against Defendants, Kelvin Anderson, Sr. and Rhone Love, as well as
Nominal Defendant, World Famous VIP Records, LLC for breach of contract and
related claims.  Plaintiff filed the
original complaint on 2/27/23.  Plaintiff
filed her First Amended Complaint on 5/17/23. 
Defendants demurred to the FAC, and the parties were ordered to meet and
confer in good faith.  The meet and
confer efforts resulted in the filing of the Second Amended Complaint, which
Plaintiff filed on 2/01/24.  On 6/11/24,
the Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the SAC with leave to amend on the
ground that the FAC revealed the action is barred by the statute of
limitations, the SAC omitted the fatal allegations without explanation, and
Plaintiff was obligated to “plead around” those fatal allegations by way of a
Third Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff filed
the TAC on 6/21/24.  Defendant demurred
to the TAC, but prior to the hearing, Plaintiff filed her 4AC.  The Court, on 12/03/24, noted that filing a
4AC without leave of court was improper, but permitted the pleading to stand
and specially set a hearing on a demurrer to the 4AC for 1/09/25.  
 

Demurrer to Fourth
     Amended Complaint

a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §
430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares the
parties met and conferred telephonically, but were unable to resolve the issues
presented by way of the demurrer.  The
Court will rule on the demurrer on its merits.
 
c.     Prior
Ruling on Statute of Limitations
Defendant demurs to the 4AC on the
ground that it is barred by the statute of limitations.  The Court has substantively considered this
issue once previously, in connection with its ruling on the demurrer to the
SAC.  The Court ruled as follows:
Defendants also argue the SAC is
barred by the four-year statute of limitations. 
The parties agree that the four-year statute of limitations applies, and
also agree that the SOL begins to run when the agreement is breached.  
Defendants argue the SAC
establishes the agreement was breached immediately, because Plaintiff alleges
the agreement called for her to receive payments, and she admits, at ¶101, that
she was NEVER paid anything per the parties’ agreement.  Alternatively, they argue it was breached no
later than December of 2017, when Plaintiff alleges Anderson acted as sole
owner (¶57 of SAC, ¶¶65, 68 of FAC).  
It is not clear, from the face of
the SAC, whether the entity defendant was making any profit to which Plaintiff
was entitled, when such profit was generated, when it was due to Plaintiff and
not paid, etc.  The face of the SAC,
therefore, does not show a bar based on the failure to make payments.
¶57 alleges Defendant breached the
parties’ agreement by claiming exclusive ownership of VIP Records.  No date is alleged.  ¶¶65 and 68 of the FAC allege:
In December 2017, funds from the
contract with the City of Long Beach and personal funds of Ms. El Sharkawi
secured a lease-to-own building with VIP as a tenant. Both partners signed the
Agreement. Ms. El Sharkawi was tasked with licensing the building with the City
of Long Beach and opening its doors. Mr. Anderson Sr. was to move his store
from the current location and contribute to the rental, with revenues to be
used to maintain the building.
Mr. Anderson did not relocate his
store and continued generating revenue from his existing location, and created
challenges for Ms. El Sharkawi, who had to invest additional funds to keep the
new building operational.
These allegations have been omitted
from the SAC.  Pursuant to Lockton v.
O’Rourke (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1051, 1061, a plaintiff has a duty
to “plead around” admissions made in earlier iterations of her complaint; if
she fails to do so, the earlier admissions are “read into” the amended
complaint.  The above allegations appear
to make clear that there was a material breach of the parties’ agreement more
than four years prior to the filing of the complaint.  
Notably, Plaintiff did not address
this argument in opposition to the demurrer. 
The Court is inclined to sustain the demurrer on the ground that the
entire complaint is barred by the four-year statute of limitations.  The Court notes that this is the first ruling
on a pleading challenge, as Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint before
Defendants responded to the original complaint, and filed her SAC after meet
and confer efforts in connection with the pleading challenge to the original
complaint.  The Court will hear oral
argument, at the hearing, concerning whether to grant leave to amend or
not.  The Court will grant leave to amend
if and only if Plaintiff can plead around her earlier allegations in a manner that
saves the complaint from the statute of limitations.  
 
d.     Analysis
As an initial note, Defendant
consistently refers to the statute of limitations as being “tolled” and
contends Plaintiff’s causes of action are “tolled.”  Defendant misuses this word.  Black's Law Dictionary defines
"tolling" as "to abate" or "to stop the running of
(the statutory period)" (Don Johnson Productions, Inc. v. Rysher
Entertainment, LLC, 209 Cal.App.4th 919 (2012)). This definition is consistent
with the general legal understanding that tolling refers to the suspension of a
statute of limitations, meaning the clock stops running for a certain period
and resumes once the tolling period ends (Don Johnson Productions, Inc. v.
Rysher Entertainment, LLC, 209 Cal.App.4th 919 (2012)). 
 
In any event, Defendant establishes
that Plaintiff has omitted, from the TAC and 4AC, any allegations about
Defendant’s failure to relocate the store and her resultant obligation to
invest additional funds in the store. 
Plaintiff argues, in opposition to the demurrer, that the 4AC is not
barred by the statute of limitations because (a) a breach does not occur upon
signing a contract, but upon breach, (b) Plaintiff has the right to treat an
anticipatory breach as a breach and immediately seek damages, or to wait until
the time for performance arises and treat nonperformance as breach, (c) when
there are successive breaches, Plaintiff has the right to wait to elect to
treat the breach as terminating the contract, (d) the continuing violation
doctrine applies, and (e) the breach did not occur until April of 2019.  
 
Plaintiff’s first argument is that
a breach does not occur upon signing a contract, but instead upon breach of the
contract.  This is, of course, true.  Defendant’s point, however, is that the
original complaint affirmatively alleged that Defendant breached the contract
by failing to relocate the store, which was supposed to happen in December of
2017.  
 
Plaintiff’s second argument is that
Plaintiff was not obligated to sue based on anticipatory breach and was
permitted to wait until actual nonperformance occurred.  An "anticipatory breach" of
contract, according to Black's Law Dictionary, occurs when the promisor
repudiates the contract before the promisor's performance under the contract is
due. This repudiation can be either express or implied (Hewlett-Packard Co. v.
Oracle Corp., 65 Cal.App.5th 506 (2021)). An express repudiation is a clear,
positive, unequivocal refusal to perform, while an implied repudiation results
from conduct where the promisor puts it out of his power to perform, making
substantial performance of his promise impossible (Mammoth Lakes Land
Acquisition, LLC v. Town of Mammoth Lakes, 191 Cal.App.4th 435 (2010)).  It is unclear why Plaintiff raises the
doctrine of anticipatory repudiation. 
Defendant’s argument is that Plaintiff’s original complaint alleged
actual nonperformance in December of 2017, and Plaintiff failed to plead around
this allegation by way of her subsequent complaints.  There is no anticipatory breach at issue.
 
Plaintiff’s third arguments is that
there were multiple breaches and Plaintiff was not obligated to sue upon the
first breach.  Plaintiff relies on Romano
v. Rockwell Internat., Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 479, 489 to support
her position.  Romano, however,
considered the anticipatory breach doctrine, and is of no import for the
reasons discussed above.  The Court has
researched the multiple breaches doctrine independently, and finds that it
applies in the context of installment contracts or periodic payments.  See, for example, White v. Moriarty (1993) 15
Cal.App.4th 1290, 1299, holding that, when a promissory note calls
for periodic payments, the statute of limitations on each such payment starts
running whenever that payment is missed. 
Thus, if a defendant fails to make numerous payments, some more than
four years prior to suit and some less than four years prior to suit, the
plaintiff can recover on the missed payments within the past four years, but
not those more than four years prior to filing suit.
 
This issue is a bit
complicated.  In this case, Plaintiff
alleges Defendant breached the contract in 2017 by failing to relocate the
business.  Defendant then commenced
breaching the contract, repeatedly, by failing to make payments.  Would the 2017 breach bar the entire action,
or would Plaintiff be permitted to sue for missed payments that occurred within
four years prior to filing the lawsuit? 
Neither party meaningfully briefs this issue.  Because Defendant has the burden to show, on
demurrer, that the 4AC is barred, the Court is inclined to overrule the
demurrer and permit Plaintiff to sue on any breaches that occurred within four
years prior to the filing of the original complaint.  
 
In an abundance of caution, the
Court has considered Plaintiff’s fourth and fifth arguments.  Plaintiff’s fourth argument is that the
continuing violations doctrine saves his case. 
Plaintiff relies on Komorova v. National Credit Acceptance, Inc. (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 324, 343. 
Komorova discusses the continuing violation doctrine, which applies in
the context of workplace harassment and other similar tort suits.  Plaintiff cites nothing applying the doctrine
in the breach of contract context, and the Court knows of no authority
permitting it to be applied in that manner. 

 
Plaintiff’s final argument is that
the breach occurred in 2019.  This
argument, however, ignores the allegations of the original complaint, which
form the basis of the demurrer.  
 
e.     Conclusion
The demurrer to the breach of
contract cause of action is overruled. 
Defendant failed to meet his burden to show that, even if a breach did
occur in 2017, it would bar a claim for breaches that occurred within four years
prior to the filing of the complaint. 
This ruling is without prejudice to Defendant’s right to re-raise the
issue at another stage of litigation, providing on point authority if he
chooses to do so.
 
f.      Breach
of Fiduciary Duty
Defendant’s demurrer to the breach
of fiduciary duty cause of action is brought on the same grounds as the
demurrer to the breach of contract cause of action and is therefore also
overruled.
 
Defendant, in reply, argues
Plaintiff failed to allege facts to support the conclusion that the parties
formed a partnership.  Defendant did not
make this argument in the demurrer, other than to argue that because the
parties’ contract fails there is no relationship.  The demurrer is overruled.
 
g.     Interference
with Contract
Defendant demurs to the
interference with contract cause of action on the grounds that (a) it rises and
falls with the breach of contract cause of action, and (b) the allegation of
interference is alleged against a party to the contract, not a third party, and
is therefore not actionable.
 
The first argument is rejected for
the reasons stated above.  Plaintiff
contends the second argument fails because Plaintiff is alleging Defendant
interfered with Plaintiff’s contract with the City of Long Beach, to which
Defendant was a third party.  Defendant
does not address this argument in reply. 
The demurrer is overruled.
 
h.     Fraud
Defendant’s demurrer to the fraud
cause of action is made on the grounds that the contract fails and therefore
fraud fails, and also that the cause of action is barred by the statute of
limitations.  The demurrer is overruled
for the reasons discussed above.  Defendant,
in reply, argues Plaintiff’s complaint lacks specificity.  This argument is made for the first time on
reply, and therefore the demurrer on this ground is overruled.
 
i.      Unjust
Enrichment
Defendant’s demurrer to the unjust
enrichment cause of action rises and falls with the demurrer to the breach of
contract cause of action and is therefore overruled.
 
j.      Negligence
Defendant’s demurrer to the negligence cause of action rises
and falls with the demurrer to the breach of contract cause of action and is
therefore overruled.
 
k.     Conversion
and Accounting
Defendant demurs to the conversion
and accounting causes of action, but does not address the challenge in
reply.  The challenge rises and falls
with the challenge to the breach of contract cause of action, and is therefore
overruled.
 
l.      Conclusion
The demurrer is overruled in its
entirety.  Defendant is ordered to file
an answer to the 4AC within ten days.
 

Motion to be
     Relieved as Counsel

Plaintiff’s attorney seeks to be
relieved as counsel, contending there has been a breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship and Plaintiff has not been paying invoices.  Counsel served Plaintiff at a confirmed address
and filed proof of service of the moving papers on Plaintiff and all other
parties to the action.  The motion is
unopposed and granted.  Relief is
effective upon filing proof of service of the final order on Plaintiff.  
 
Notably, the motion was originally
scheduled for hearing on 12/03/24, but was continued to 1/09/25.  Both parties waived notice.  The Court is concerned, however, that the
party who needed notice of the hearing was Plaintiff, not the attorney for
either side.  The Court wishes to hear
from Counsel, at the hearing, concerning the status of the relationship between
Plaintiff and Counsel.  The Court will
consider continuing the hearing on the motion to require Counsel to give
Plaintiff notice of the continuance.  
 

Case Management
     Conference

The parties are reminded that there
is a Case Management Conference on calendar concurrently with the hearing on
the demurrer.  The Court will discuss a
brief continuance of the FSC and trial date with the parties in light of the
above ruling on the demurrer.    
 
The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC, hearing on the demurrer, and
hearing on the motion to be relieved as counsel.  