 Case Number:  23LBCV01013    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  S27 1.    
Complaint
Plaintiff, Jane Doe A.R., a minor, by and through her GAL, Jasmina
Roman, filed this action against Defendants, Denny’s, Inc., LB DENN, LLC, and
Jimmie Kirkwood for damages arising out of an assault that occurred in a
Denny’s bathroom.  The specifics of the
assault will be discussed below.  The
original complaint remains operative, and includes causes of action for:
Assault – Kirkwood
Battery – Kirkwood
IIED – Kirkwood
Negligence – all defendants
Premises Liability – Denny’s and DENN
 
Plaintiff dismissed Denny’s, Inc. from the complaint, leaving LB DENN,
LLC (“DENN”) and Kirkwood as the remaining defendants.  
 
2.    
Motion for Summary Judgment
a.    
Burdens
on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
b.    
Initial
Note
Defendant indicates that, in the alternative to summary judgment, it
seeks summary adjudication of four separate issues.  The four issues, however, are actually just
four separate arguments in support of summary judgment.  The Court will therefore not consider any
alternative motion for summary adjudication. 

 
c.    
Evidentiary
Objections
Defendant filed evidentiary objections with its reply papers.  Defendant purports to object to Plaintiff’s
additional facts.  Objections must be to
evidence, not to facts in a separate statement. 
See CRC 3.1354(a), permitting objections to “evidence.”  The Court therefore declines to rule on the
objections.
 
d.    
Parties’
Positions 
Defendant moves for summary judgment on the complaint, contending (a)
it owed no duty to protect Plaintiff from the subject incident, (b) the
criminal activity at issue was not foreseeable, (c) there was no breach of any
duty to Plaintiff, and (d) there is no causation between any breach and
Plaintiff’s damages.  
Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
She argues there are triable issues of material fact concerning duty,
breach, and causation, such that summary judgment is not appropriate.  
 
e.    
General
Law Governing a Restaurant’s Liability for Third Party Criminal Acts
A restaurant's liability for a criminal attack on its premises
generally hinges on the foreseeability of the criminal conduct and the measures
taken by the restaurant to prevent such incidents. The key principles derived
from the search results are as follows:
1.         Foreseeability of
Criminal Conduct: The restaurant's duty to protect patrons from criminal
attacks depends significantly on whether the criminal conduct was foreseeable.
This foreseeability can be established by prior similar incidents or other
indications of a reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults at
the location (Tan v. Arnel Management Co., 170 Cal.App.4th 1087 (2009)). For
example, in Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill, the court held that heightened
foreseeability was satisfied by showing prior similar criminal incidents or
other indications of a reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults
in that location (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill, 36 Cal.4th 224 (2005)).
2.         Duty to Take
Preventative Measures: If heightened foreseeability is established, the
restaurant may have a duty to take reasonable measures to protect patrons. This
can include providing security guards or other preventative measures. However,
if there is no evidence of heightened foreseeability, the restaurant may not be
required to take such burdensome measures (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill, 36
Cal.4th 224 (2005)). In Williams v. Fremont Corners, Inc., the court found that
general awareness of potential criminal conduct was insufficient to establish a
duty to provide security guards without evidence of prior similar incidents
(Williams v. Fremont Corners, Inc., 37 Cal.App.5th 654 (2019)).
3.         Special Relationship
and Reasonable Measures: Restaurants have a special relationship with their
patrons, which imposes a duty to take reasonable measures to protect them
against foreseeable criminal attacks. This duty includes taking appropriate
action during ongoing criminal conduct to protect patrons (Morris v. De La
Torre, 36 Cal.4th 260 (2005)). In Morris v. De La Torre, the court emphasized
that the special-relationship-based duty extended to the parking lot and
required reasonable measures to protect patrons (Morris v. De La Torre, 36
Cal.4th 260 (2005)).
4.         Minimally Burdensome
Measures: Even in the absence of heightened foreseeability, a restaurant may
still be required to take minimally burdensome measures to address imminent
dangers. For instance, in Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill, the court noted that
the bar had a duty to respond to unfolding events by taking simple and
minimally burdensome measures to address imminent danger (Ericson v. Federal
Express Corp., 162 Cal.App.4th 1291 (2008)).
 
In summary, a restaurant's liability for a criminal attack on its
premises depends on the foreseeability of the attack, the existence of a
special relationship with patrons, and whether the restaurant took reasonable
and appropriate measures to prevent or respond to the attack.
 
f.     
Facts
Most of the facts relating to the incident are undisputed.  Plaintiff was seven at the time of the
incident.  She, her mother, her two
brothers, and her mother’s boyfriend went to the subject Denny’s shortly after
midnight on the night of the incident. 
Shortly before one a.m., Plaintiff needed to use the restroom.  Her mother’s boyfriend escorted her to the
restroom, but then returned to the booth where the family was seated.  During the approximately nine minutes that
Plaintiff was in the restroom, Kirkwood entered the restroom, entered her
stall, and ordered her to perform oral sex on him; Plaintiff refused, and
Kirkwood punched her in the face.  The
incident concluded when another woman entered the stall, saw Kirkwood
masturbating, and reported the ongoing incident to Denny’s staff, who broke
down the door to the stall so she could get out.  
 
Prior incidents, as will be discussed below, play a role in determining
whether or not Denny’s had an obligation to prevent the crime.  The basic facts relating to prior incidents
are also not disputed.  There had been
prior incidents outside of the restroom, including fights between customers and
drunken disorderly incidents.  There had
been prior incidents inside the restroom, including breaking the urinal,
breaking windows, breaking soap dispensers, graffiti on the walls, and lying on
the restroom floor.  Prior to the
incident, Denny’s had security guards because homeless people regularly used
the restroom; at some point Denny’s ceased using security guards and instead
used a coin system, whereby patrons would obtain a special coin from employees
in order to use the restroom; the coin was the same for men and women.  
 
Kirkwood was a paying customer on the date of the incident, and used a
coin to enter the restroom.
 
g.    
Analysis
Defendant’s primary argument is that there were no prior similar
assaults at the property, and therefore Defendant owed Plaintiff no duty to
prevent the subject attack.  As noted
above, the issue of duty and breach turns on whether the incident was
foreseeable, and a sliding scale is used based on the burden that would be
placed on the defendant if the proposed security measures were deemed to be
legally required.  By way of example, a
low level of foreseeability will give rise to an obligation to fix a broken
lock on a door, but only a very high level of foreseeability (prior similar
acts) will give rise to an obligation to hire security guards.  This is so because fixing a broken door is
minimally burdensome, while hiring security guards is extremely
burdensome.  
 
Thus, in order to analyze this motion, the Court must first determine
what security measures Plaintiff is proposing Defendant should have
employed.  Plaintiff’s complaint is vague
in this regard.  At ¶¶35-36 of her
complaint, Plaintiff alleges Defendant had a duty to control Kirkwood and
protect Plaintiff from harm.  At ¶¶46-47,
Plaintiff alleges Defendant had a duty to control, monitor, and/or supervise
Kirkwood.  In response to SROGs,
Plaintiff contended Defendant was liable because it failed to make reasonable
inspection of the premises to guard against possible dangers and failed to make
the property reasonably safe for intended or foreseeable users and uses,
including to warn of latent or concealed dangers; it is unclear what security
measures Plaintiff is suggesting by way of this response.  
 
To the extent Plaintiff is alleging Defendant was obligated to prevent
the attack by employing security guards, Defendant met its moving burden to
show there were no prior similar incidents, and Plaintiff failed to raise a
triable issue of material fact in this regard. 
Numerous cases hold that, in order to require a landlord to employ
security guards, there must have been prior highly similar incidents.  
 
A restaurant is generally required to provide security guards to
prevent an assault only under circumstances where there is a high degree of
foreseeability of such criminal acts. This high degree of foreseeability is
typically established through evidence of prior similar incidents of violent
crime on the premises or other serious indications of a reasonably foreseeable
risk of violent criminal assaults.  The
Supreme Court of California has consistently held that a high degree of
foreseeability is required to impose a duty on a business owner to hire
security guards. This foreseeability is rarely proven without prior similar
incidents of violent crime on the premises. 
(Tan v. Arnel Management Co., 170 Cal.App.4th 1087 (2009)).
 
The existence of prior similar incidents of violent crime on the
premises is crucial to establish the requisite foreseeability. For example, in
the case of  Delgado v. Trax Bar &
Grill, the court found that the bar proprietor had no duty to provide security
guards because there was no evidence of heightened foreseeability in the form
of prior similar incidents or other indications of a reasonably foreseeable
risk of a violent criminal assault on the bar's premises (Delgado v. Trax Bar
& Grill, 36 Cal.4th 224 (2005)). Similarly, in Williams v. Fremont Corners,
Inc., the court concluded that general knowledge of the possibility of violent
criminal conduct was not enough to create a duty to provide security guards
without evidence of prior similar incidents (Hanouchian v. Steele, 51
Cal.App.5th 99 (2020)).
 
The courts have recognized that the monetary and social costs of hiring
security guards are significant, and the obligation to provide adequate patrols
to deter criminal conduct is not well defined. Therefore, imposing such a duty
requires a high degree of foreseeability (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill, 36
Cal.4th 224 (2005)), (Hanouchian v. Steele, 51 Cal.App.5th 99 (2020)).
 
In summary, a restaurant is required to provide security guards to
prevent an assault only when there is a high degree of foreseeability of such
criminal acts, typically established through evidence of prior similar
incidents of violent crime on the premises. Without such evidence, the duty to
hire security guards is generally not imposed.
 
Plaintiff failed to show there had been any prior similar
incidents.  Plaintiff’s cited incidents
involve either patrons fighting with one another outside the restrooms and/or
patrons committing vandalism inside the restrooms.  None of the incidents involves pedophilia, or
indeed any form of sexual assault.  They
therefore fail to meet the test detailed above.
 
Plaintiff appears, in opposition to the motion, to be making the
alternative argument that Defendant had an obligation to ensure the coins for
the restrooms were different for men and women, such that Kirkwood could have
never entered Plaintiff’s restroom. 
Plaintiff notes that Defendant did so after the incident.  This is, of course, evidence of a subsequent
remedial measure, which is not admissible to show fault.  Evidence Code §1151.
 
Using different coins would, of course, be minimally burdensome.  The Court’s concern, however, is that
incidents of sexual assault on minors happen to both boys and girls, and
holding that there is a legal duty to provide different coins seems to suggest
that there is a duty to prevent a man from sexually assaulting a girl (or a
woman from sexually assaulting a boy), but no duty to prevent a same-gender sex
crime from occurring.  This is
nonsensical and therefore liability cannot be based on the failure to provide
different coins for each restroom.  
 
h.    
Conclusion
Defendant met its moving burden to show there had been no prior similar
incidents, such that there was no duty to provide security guards.  Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of
material fact in this regard, and failed to show Defendant had a duty to
provide any other security measures that would have prevented the subject
attack.  The motion for summary judgment
is therefore granted.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 