 Case Number:  BC685348    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Justin, Sarah, and
Sawyer Morgenthaler filed this action against Defendants, Juan Antonio
Haromartinez, Turbo Express, Inc., General Motors LLC, General Motors Company,
General Motors Holding LLC, Enterprise Rent-a-Car Company of Los Angeles, LLC,
and EAN Holdings, LLC for damages arising out of an automobile accident.  
 

Motion to Seal

On 8/14/24, Lear Corporation filed
this motion to seal, setting it for hearing on 1/09/25.  Lear Corporation seeks an order that the
documents Plaintiffs filed in opposition to Lear’s summary judgment motion
remain redacted and sealed in the court file. 
Lear contends these documents were filed conditionally under seal in
light of the parties’ confidentiality stipulation, and the documents include
trade secret protected information, such that they should remain under seal.
 
a.            
Law Governing Motions to Seal
(1) Scope of Rules. C.R.C., Rules 2.550 and 2.551 apply to
trial court records sealed or proposed to be sealed by court order. They do not
apply to discovery motions and records in discovery proceedings, but do apply
to discovery materials used at trial or submitted for adjudication of matters
other than discovery proceedings. (C.R.C., Rule 2.550(a).) 
 
(2) Records Presumed To Be Open. “Unless confidentiality is
required by law, court records are presumed to be open.” (C.R.C., Rule
2.550(c).)
 
(3) Findings Required To Seal Records.  The court may order that a record be filed
under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish all of the
following:
 
(a) “There exists an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record.” (C.R.C.,
Rule 2.550(d)(1).)
 
            (b) “The
overriding interest supports sealing the record.” (C.R.C., Rule 2.550(d)(2).)
 
(c) “A substantial probability
exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed.” (C.R.C., Rule 2.550(d)(3).)
 
            (d) “The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored.” (C.R.C., Rule 2.550(d)(4).)
 
            (e) “No
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (C.R.C., Rule
2.550(d)(5).)
 
(4) What Constitutes an “Overriding Interest?”  The Advisory Committee Comment to C.R.C.,
Rule 2.550 notes that the rule leaves the determination of what constitutes an
“overriding interest” to case law and that, in appropriate circumstances,
courts have found various statutory privileges, trade secrets, and privacy
interests to be “overriding interests.”
 
(5) Court Approval Required. A record may not be filed under
seal without a court order or based solely on the agreement or stipulation of
the parties. (C.R.C., Rule 2.551(a).)
 
(6) Procedure for Confidential Documents.  A party who files or intends to file
documents disclosed during discovery that are subject to a confidentiality
agreement or a protective order but does not intend to request sealing must (a)
lodge the unredacted records and other documents that disclose their contents
conditionally under seal, (b) file redacted copies that do not disclose the
contents, and (c) give written notice to the party who produced the records
that the records and documents lodged under seal will be placed in the public
court file unless that party files a motion or application to seal the records.
(C.R.C., Rule 2.551(b)(3)(A).) Within 10 days, the party who receives the
notice may file a motion or application to seal the records or to extend the
time to file. If the party does so, the documents remain conditionally under
seal until the court rules on the application or motion. If the party does not
do so, the clerk “promptly” places the documents in the public file. (C.R.C.,
Rule 2.551(b)(3)(B).)
 
(7) Contents of Sealing Order.  The order sealing a record must be narrowly
tailored, “specifically set forth the facts that support the findings” and
“[d]irect the sealing of only those documents and pages, or, if reasonably
practicable, portions of those documents and pages, that contain the material
that needs to be placed under seal.” All other portions of the documents must
be placed in the public file. (C.R.C., Rule 2.550(e).) The order must state
whether the order itself, the register of actions, any other court records, or
any other records in the case are to be sealed and whether any person other
than the court is authorized to inspect the record. (C.R.C., Rule 2.550(e)(2),
(e)(3).) Unless the sealing order provides otherwise, the parties may not disclose
the contents of any sealed materials in subsequently filed records or papers.
(C.R.C., Rule 2.550(e)(4).)  
 
There must be no less restrictive means to achieve the
overriding interests.  These findings
embody constitutional requirements for a request to seal court records,
protecting the First Amendment right of public access to civil trials.  (See NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v.
Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218; Huffy Corp. v. Superior Court
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 97, 104; People v. Jackson (2005) 128 Cal.App 4th 1009,
1026 – in determining whether to seal records, courts must weigh constitutional
requirements for disclosure against such factors as privacy rights.)
 
(8) Grant of Motion or Application.  If the court grants the motion or
application, the clerk replaces the cover sheet with a file-endorsed copy of
the court's order and labels the record “sealed by order of the court on
(date).” (C.R.C., Rule 2.551(e)(1).)
 
(9) Denial of Motion or Application.  If the motion or application is denied, the
clerk returns the lodged record to the requesting party and does not place it
in the case file unless that party notifies the clerk in writing within 10 days
after denial that the record is to be filed. (C.R.C., Rule 2.551(b)(6).)
 
(10) Custody of Sealed Records.  Sealed records are securely filed and kept
separate from the public file in the case. (C.R.C., Rule 2.551(f).) Where
voluminous records in the possession of a public agency are to be sealed, the
order may direct the agency to maintain the records in a secure fashion.
(C.R.C., Rule 2.551(g).)
b.            
Trade Secret Confidentiality
Pursuant to Farrar v. Direct
Commerce, Inc. (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 1257, 1272, a sealing order is
appropriate to protect trade secret and proprietary commercial
information.  Am. Honda Motor Co. v.
Superior Court (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1378 considered an issue
similar to the one posed here: whether it was appropriate to seal documents
relating to internal Honda communications opining concerning potential design
defects.  The court of appeals affirmed
the filing of such documents under seal. 
The documents at issue in Plaintiffs’ opposition to Defendants’ summary
judgment motion are substantially similar documents, such that sealing them is
appropriate under the standard above. 
Notably, the parties have a confidentiality agreement concerning these
documents, and the parties lodged all of the documents under seal.  
 
The motion to seal the subject documents
is granted.  The lodged, sealed records
will be handled by the Judicial Assistant in accordance with the procedure
detailed above.
 
Lear Corporation is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   