 Case Number:  22STCV33631    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




jeffrey ito

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
michele morgan

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV33631




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   21, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike portions of complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant University of
Southern California 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Jeffrey Ito
(1)  
Demurrer
to Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with the
demurrer and motion to strike.  
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT
Defendant University of
Southern California (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order sustaining its
demurrer to the Complaint filed in this action by plaintiff Jeffrey Ito
(“Plaintiff”). 
The court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since (1) to the extent that Plaintiff is alleging
an invasion of privacy claim, Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that
Defendant intruded into a private matter or place in a manner highly offensive
to a reasonable person, instead alleging, without sufficient supporting facts,
that Defendant and the other nonmoving defendants “were spying on the contents
of [Plaintiff’s] conscious experience” and invaded his genomic privacy (Compl.,
¶¶ 23, 39),[1]
and (2) to the extent that Plaintiff is alleging negligence (see Compl., ¶¶ 36,
38, 44), Plaintiff has not (i) identified a legal duty on the part of Defendant
“to connect [Plaintiff] with a vision research laboratory” (Compl., ¶ 36) and
has not alleged facts—instead alleging his belief—that Defendant has
intercepted emails sent from Plaintiff’s USC email address (Ibid.), (ii)
alleged facts establishing that Defendant knew or should have known that hiring
employees Michele Morgan, Ben Larson, Yannis Yortsos, Steve Schrader, and Carol
Folt created a particular risk or hazard that materialized (Compl., ¶ 38), or
(iii) alleged the existence of a legal duty on the part of Defendant not to
communicate with Kaiser Permanente (Compl., ¶ 44).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Mezger
v. Bick (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 76, 87 [elements of common law invasion of
privacy claim]; Romero v. Los Angeles Rams (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 562,
567 [elements of negligence]; McKenna v. Beesley (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th
552, 566 [describing liability based on theory of negligent hiring,
supervision, and retention of an unfit employee].) 
The court notes that, in his
opposition to Defendant’s demurrer, Plaintiff has argued that his Complaint
states causes of action for invasion of privacy, negligence, and intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  (Opp.,
pp. 10:26-11:9.)  As to the invasion of
privacy and negligence causes of action, the court has found, as set forth
above, that the Complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute those
causes of action.  As to intentional
infliction of emotional distress, the court notes that Plaintiff did not fairly
identify that cause of action in his Complaint, instead alleging only a single
sentence that Defendant intentionally caused his emotional distress.  (Compl., ¶ 38.)  In addition, the court finds that Plaintiff
has not stated facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress since he has not alleged that Defendant’s
conduct was so extreme as to exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized
community and therefore has not alleged the element of extreme and outrageous
conduct.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e); Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273 [elements
of intentional infliction of emotional distress].) 
The burden is on the plaintiff
“to articulate how it could amend its pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a plaintiff “must show in what manner he
can amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of
his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)  The court finds that Plaintiff has not met
his burden to show how he can amend his Complaint to render it sufficient
against Defendant.  The court therefore
sustains Defendant’s demurrer without leave to amend.
MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF COMPLAINT
Defendant moves the court for an order striking from Plaintiff’s
Complaint (1) the allegations that Defendant failed to comply with various
statutes, (2) the request for interest, and (3) the request for attorney’s
fees. 
For the reasons set forth above, the court has sustained Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint without leave to amend.  The court therefore denies as moot
Defendant’s motion to strike.
ORDER
            The court sustains defendant
University of Southern California’s demurrer to plaintiff Jeffrey Ito’s
Complaint without leave to amend.     
            The court denies as moot defendant
University of Southern California’s motion to strike portions of plaintiff
Jeffrey Ito’s Complaint.           
            The court orders defendant
University of Southern California to prepare, serve, and lodge a proposed
judgment of dismissal no later than 10 days from the date of this order.
            The court orders defendant
University of Southern California to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  November 21, 2024
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


