  Case Number:  19STCV32649    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




carl mueller

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
walmart, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV32649




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   21, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  ex parte application to strike plaintiff’s response separate statement
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of
  issues
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Walmart Inc., Wal-Mart
Associates, Inc., Abel R. Alvidrez, and Conrad Schaefer         
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Carl Mueller
(1)  
Ex
Parte Application to Strike Plaintiff’s Response to Separate Statement
(2)  
Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of Issues
EX PARTE APPLICATION TO STRIKE SEPARATE
STATEMENT
Defendants Walmart
Inc., Wal-Mart Associates, Inc., Abel R. Alvidrez, and Conrad Schaefer
(“Defendants”) move the court for an order striking the response separate
statement filed by plaintiff Carl Mueller (“Plaintiff”) in support of his
opposition to Defendants’ pending motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication.
The court finds that Plaintiff’s separate statement does not comply
with Code of Civil Procedure section 437c and therefore grants Defendants’ ex
parte application to strike his response separate statement.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b) [court may strike any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state].)
“The opposition papers shall include a separate statement that
responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving party to be
undisputed, indicating if the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those
facts are undisputed. . . .  Each
material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed
by a reference to the supporting evidence. 
Failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may
constitute a sufficient ground, in the court’s discretion, for granting the
motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  “‘The separate statement serves
two important functions in a summary judgment proceeding:  It notifies the parties which material facts
are at issue, and it provides a convenient and expeditious vehicle permitting
the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed facts.’”  (Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing,
Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 875 [internal citation omitted].)  “The opposing party’s responses to the
separate statement must be in good faith, responsive, and material.  Responses should directly address the fact
stated, and if that fact is not in dispute, the opposing party must so
admit.  It is completely unhelpful to
evade the stated fact in an attempt to create a dispute where none
exists.”  (Ibid.) 
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Defendants have taken
issue with the length of Plaintiff’s response separate statement, which amounts
to 783 pages.  The court notes that many
facts are repeated, and Defendants’ own separate statement was 119 pages with
401 material facts.  (Beltran, supra,
97 Cal.App.5th at p. 874-875 [finding that the separate statements, which
included over 600 paragraphs and over 100 pages, were not convenient or
expeditious].)  While the court believes
that it is likely that both of the separate statements submitted in connection
with the pending motion for summary judgment or adjudication could have been
more concise, the court takes issue with the content of Plaintiff’s responses,
and not necessarily the length.[1]

Based on its review of Defendants’ ex parte application, Plaintiff’s opposition
to the ex parte application, and Plaintiff’s response separate statement, the
court finds that many of Plaintiff’s responses were not made in good faith and
were not responsive because the responses (1) cited dozens of exhibits, many of
which were not responsive or supportive of Plaintiff’s assertions, or (2) were
not responsive to the fact stated. (Beltran, supra, 97
Cal.App.5th at p. 876; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1350, subd. (f)(2) [if a fact
is disputed, the party must “describe the evidence that supports the position
that the fact is controverted”].)
For example, in response to material fact number 6, Plaintiff “disputed”
that fact and cited a total of 29 exhibits in support of the dispute.  (Pl. Sep. Statement, pp. 4:24-7:16.)  However, Plaintiff’s response to this fact is
not completely responsive, and the evidence cited in support of the disputed
fact does not support his assertion.  Specifically,
Defendants’ fact number 6 states the following: 
“In February 2016, Cody Rodgers, the Asset Protection Manager of Store
5134, complained to Abel Alvidrez and Christ Fulmer that [Plaintiff] was not
working very many hours in Store 5134 and was not involved with store
operations.”  (Pl. Sep. Statement, pp.
4:24-5:5.)  Plaintiff responded by
stating “Disputed as to [Plaintiff] not being involved with store operations[,]”
and providing further arguments and assertions regarding the Defendants’
written reason for “coaching” Plaintiff. 
(Id., p. 4:24-5:17.)  The
court finds that this is not responsive because (1) fact number 6 does not
state that Plaintiff was or was not involved with store operations, but rather
states that Cody Rodgers made such a complaint, such that Plaintiff’s disputing
that he was not involved with store operations is not responsive; (2) the
narrative response regarding Defendants’ written purpose of the “coaching” of
Plaintiff is irrelevant and does not concern the complaint that is the subject
of this material fact; and (3) the narrative response and argument regarding
that fact are improper since separate statements must only include material
facts.  
Moreover, Plaintiff cited 29 exhibits[2]
in support of his response to this statement. 
The court has reviewed the first three citations to evidence and has
determined that none of the evidence supports Plaintiff’s attempt to
dispute this material fact.  First, the
deposition testimony of Conrad Schaefer on pages 432:10-442:12 concerns the
responsibilities of an asset protection manager and does not concern whether
Cody Rodgers made the subject complaint about Plaintiff.  (Pl. Sep. Statement, p. 5:24-25; Webster
Decl., Ex. B, Schaefer Dep., pp. 432:10-442:12.)  Second, the deposition testimony of Conrad
Schaefer on page 446:10-19 concerns the third level written coaching that was
provided to Plaintiff, which does not concern whether Cody Rodgers made the
subject complaint about Plaintiff.  (Pl.
Sep. Statement, p. 5:25; Webster Decl., Ex. B, Schaefer Dep., p.
446:10-19.)  Third, the deposition
testimony of Conrad Schaefer on page 448:10-13 concerns testimony regarding
whether some individuals sometimes receive elevated coaching, which does not
concern whether Cody Rodgers made the subject complaint about Plaintiff.  (Pl. Sep. Statement, p. 5:25; Webster Decl.,
Ex. B, Schaefer Dep., p. 448:10-13.)  Thus,
this response does not adequately reference supporting evidence, and the court
is not required to search for such responsive evidence buried within the 29
citations to exhibits.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3); Murchison v. County of Tehama (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 867, 891-892 [“‘where evidence is not referenced, is hidden in
voluminous papers, and is not called to the attention of the court at all,
a summary judgment should not be reversed on grounds the court should have
considered such evidence’”] [emphasis added].) 
Further, in response to fact number 7, Plaintiff disputed that fact
and, in support, cited 29 exhibits.  (Pl.
Sep. Statement, pp. 7:17-10:6.)  However,
the first three citations are in reference to evidence that are in no way
related to the content of this fact. 
(Pl. Sep. Statement, p. 8:8-10 [citing Exhibit B, pp. 432:10-442:12,
446:10-19, 448:10-13]; Webster Decl., Ex. B, pp. 432:10-442:12 [citing
testimony setting forth responsibilities of asset protection manager],
446:10-19 [testimony regarding the third level written coaching provided to
Plaintiff], 448:10-13 [discussing elevated coaching].)  
As to material fact number 18, which states that “[p]ursuant to
Walmart’s Discipline policy, any additional coaching issued to an employee who
is already at the third written warning step, triggers termination[,]”
Plaintiff disputed that fact by “[d]isputing that [Plaintiff] should have been
on his third level of coaching.”  (Pl.
Sep. Statement, p. 23:21-25.) 
Plaintiff’s response is completely nonresponsive to Defendants’ material
fact, which concerns Walmart’s discipline policy, and not Plaintiff’s level of
coaching.  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiff’s responses to material fact numbers 32, 139, and 140 are
similarly nonresponsive to the content of the material facts.  (Pl. Sep. Statement, pp. 44:15-23 [disputing
Fact No. 32 that “On August 2, 2017, another employee, Holly McLaughlin,
complained to Walmart about certain conduct of [Plaintiff]” by stating “Disputed,
to the extent that all of her complaints were related to her treatment from
[Plaintiff][,]” which is not responsive because this fact does not state that
“all” of Holly McLaughlin’s complaints concerned Plaintiff], 221:12-19
[disputing Fact No. 139 that “Walmart offers a variety of accommodation options
for employees with disabilities, including work environment adjustments, job
duty modifications, job transfers, intermittent leaves of absence, and
continuous leaves of absence” by stating “Disputed to the extent that
[Plaintiff] was ever offered an accommodation, and the [sic] Walmart
does not harm employees who request and/or need reasonable accommodations[,]”
which is not responsive because this fact does not concern any offers of
accommodations to Plaintiff], 22:10-13 [disputing Fact No. 140 that Plaintiff
“testified that he understood Walmart policy permitted employees to take
intermittent leaves of absence” by stating “Disputed to the extent that this
action was not frowned upon[,]” which is not responsive because this fact does
not state that use of this policy was or was not frowned upon].) 
Thus, the court finds that many
of Plaintiff’s responses that attempt to dispute material facts are supported
by numerous citations to immaterial and irrelevant evidence and do not
meaningfully dispute the material facts, such that they are not in good faith,
responsive, or material as required.  (Beltran,
supra, 97 Cal.App.5th at p. 875.) 
The court therefore grants Defendant’s ex parte application to strike
Plaintiff’s responsive separate statement. 
(Id. at p. 876 [“Courts should also not hesitate to disregard
attempts to game the system by the opposing party claiming facts are ‘disputed’
when the uncontroverted evidence clearly shows otherwise”]; Code Civ. Proc., §
436, subd. (b).)
Because the court has stricken
Plaintiff’s separate statement, which may result in the granting of Defendants’
motion since the opposition papers rely on citations thereto, the court finds
that it is appropriate, and therefore exercises its discretion, to continue the
hearing on Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication
to give Plaintiff an opportunity to correct the defects in his separate
statement.  (Beltran, supra,
97 Cal.App.5th at p. 876, n. 5 [“In certain instances, particularly before
granting summary judgment or adjudication, an opportunity to correct
deficiencies in the separate statement may be appropriate”].)  The court expects Plaintiff’s separate
statement to include good faith, responsive, and material responses to the
stated material facts and to cite to evidence in support of his position that
the fact is controverted.  (Id. at
p. 875; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1350, subd. (f)(2); Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (b)(3).) 
The court also finds good
cause to continue trial to allow the court to rule on Defendants’ motion for
summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication before this case
proceeds to trial.[3]  
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE
ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
The court will continue the
hearing on Defendants’ summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication
for the reasons set forth above. 
ORDER
The court grants defendants Walmart Inc., Wal-Mart Associates, Inc.,
Abel R. Alvidrez, and Conrad Schaefer’s ex parte application.  The court orders that “Plaintiff’s Response
to Defendants’ Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of
Issues and Plaintiff’s Additional Facts [Redacted],” filed on November
7, 2024 by plaintiff Carl Meuller, is stricken. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
The court orders that the hearing on defendants Walmart Inc., Wal-Mart
Associates, Inc., Abel R. Alvidrez, and Conrad Schaefer’s motion for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication is continued to February 26,
2025, at 10:00 a.m., in Department 53.
The court orders that plaintiff Carl Mueller may file (1) a revised
separate statement that cures the deficiencies with the separate statement as
described in this ruling, and (2) a revised opposition memorandum of points and
authorities that includes citations to the revised separate statement no later
than February 3, 2025.  The court orders
that plaintiff Carl Mueller may not file new evidence or make new arguments in
support of his opposition. 
The court orders that defendants Walmart Inc., Wal-Mart Associates,
Inc., Abel R. Alvidrez, and Conrad Schaefer may file a revised reply to the
revised opposition no later than February 14, 2025. 
The court orders that trial is continued from January 29, 2025 to April
23, 2025, at 11:00 a.m., in Department 53. 
The court orders that the final status conference is continued from
January 17, 2025 to April 10, 2025, at 11:00 a.m., in Department 53. 
            The deadline to complete mediation
is extended to March 21, 2025. 
            The court orders defendants Walmart
Inc., Wal-Mart Associates, Inc., Abel R. Alvidrez, and Conrad Schaefer to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 21, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


