


[1]The Court notes
that the caption page of the Complaint appears to reference a cause of action
for “disgorgement,” but the remainder of the Complaint does not appear to
contain any such cause of action. 


[2]Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 170.4, subdivision (b), “[n]otwithstanding paragraph (5)
of subdivision (c) of Section 170.3, if a statement
of disqualification is untimely filed or if on its face it discloses no legal
grounds for disqualification, the trial judge against whom it was filed may
order it stricken.”
 


[3]Code
of Civil Procedure section 170.3, subdivision (d) provides that
“[t]he
determination of the question of the disqualification of a judge is not an
appealable order and may be reviewed only by a writ of mandate from the
appropriate court of appeal sought only by the parties to the proceeding. The
petition for the writ shall be filed and served within 10 days after service of
written notice of entry of the court’s order determining the question of
disqualification. If the notice of entry is served by mail, that time shall be
extended as provided in subdivision (a) of Section 1013.”
 


[4]The Court also
notes that in the reply, Plaintiff states that she “requests for this Court to
issue a statement of decision so that Plaintiff may exercise her right to
appeal, if appropriate.” (Reply at p. 6:9-10.) The Court notes that it is
unclear if Plaintiff is simply requesting that the Court issue a written order
on the instant motion. Plaintiff does not cite any legal authority to support
her request for a “statement of decision.”
 


[5]It is unclear if
Plaintiff is referring to the Court’s October 21, 2024 “Order Striking
Statement of Disqualification; Verified Answer,” or to another order. 


[6]The Gilberd Court noted that “respondent
argues that the trial court misinterpreted California law in its initial
decision and, therefore, the respondent relied upon ‘different’ law when it
reiterated its prior reasoning and authorities for rejecting appellant’s Government Code section 946.6 petition.” (Gilberd v. AC
Transit, supra, 32
Cal.App.4th at p. 1500.) The Gilberd Court found that “[s]ince in almost
all instances, the losing party will believe that the trial court’s ‘different’
interpretation of the law or facts was erroneous, to interpret the statute as
the respondent urges would be contrary to the clear legislative intent to
restrict motions to reconsider to circumstances where a party offers the court
some fact or authority that was not previously considered by it.” (Ibid.)
Here too, Plaintiff appears to be contending that the Court’s interpretation of
the law and facts is erroneous.  
 


[7]As discussed, Code of Civil Procedure section 170.3, subdivision (d) provides that
“[t]he
determination of the question of the disqualification of a judge is not an
appealable order and may be reviewed only by a writ of mandate from the
appropriate court of appeal sought only by the parties to the proceeding. The
petition for the writ shall be filed and served within 10 days after service of
written notice of entry of the court’s order determining the question of
disqualification. If the notice of entry is served by mail, that time shall be
extended as provided in subdivision (a) of Section 1013.”
 


[8]In the reply in
support of the “motion to reconsider,” Plaintiff also states that she “requests
for this Court to issue a statement of decision so that Plaintiff may exercise
her right to appeal, if appropriate.” (Reply at p. 9:12-13.) Again, it is
unclear if Plaintiff is simply requesting that the Court issue a written order
on the instant motion. Plaintiff does not cite any legal authority to support
her request for a “statement of decision.” 
 

