


[1]It appears
Plaintiffs are citing to their Trial Exhibit 544 in support of this assertion.
It does not appear that a copy of the exhibit was filed in connection with the
instant briefing. 


[2]In the
supplemental brief, Plaintiffs cite to Pashley v.
Pacific Elec. Ry. Co. (1944) 25 Cal.2d 226. As noted by Defendant, that case does not appear to address
the equitable estoppel doctrine. 


[3]The Court notes
that at page 3:9-15 of Defendant’s supplemental brief, Defendant cites to
certain exhibits that do not appear to have been provided in connection with
the supplemental brief. 


[4]The Court notes that Defendant also argues in his
supplemental brief that “the Special Verdict Form should include the following
question: ‘On what date did the C&M Parties learn that the statements made
by Champlin, on which the C&M Parties relied by not filing suit against
Champlin earlier, were not true?’” (Defendant’s Suppl. Brief at pp. 4:27-5:1.)
The Court’s November 7, 2024 minute order did not request briefing on this
issue and the Court thus declines to consider this argument. 
 


[5]Plaintiffs also
assert in their brief that “in January 2019, Champlin agreed informally to
produce to Plaintiffs the documents relating to his relationship with Powers,”
and that “Champlin breached this agreement by failing to produce any documents…”
(Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 6:7-9.) But in support of this assertion, Plaintiffs
cite to page “6:2-5” of Defendant’s January 25, 2019 Third Party Judgment
Debtor Exam transcript, which provides, “[Q]. Okay. Now we also asked
informally that you – that you bring any documents associated with any – with
your relationship with Mr. Powers, Correct? A[.] Correct.” (Schweitzer Decl., ¶
5, Ex. D (Champlin Judgment Debtor Exam) at p. 6:2-5.) As noted by Defendant,
Plaintiffs do not appear to provide evidence that “Champlin ever agreed to the
informal request.” (Defendant’s Opp’n at p. 4:8.) 


[6]In light of the
foregoing, the Court need not and does not address Plaintiffs’ remaining
argument that “Plaintiffs’ IIPEB claim would not have accrued under the ‘last
element’ rule until January 2019,” such that it is “appropriate to ask the jury
about whether all of the elements of Plaintiffs’ claims occurred before
December 27, 2018.” (Plaintiff’s Brief at p. 8:8-10.) 

