 Case Number:  24STCP00786    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 




THE CEMETERY AND FUNERAL
  BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, 
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
LINCOLN MEMORIAL PARK, INC.,
  et al.,
 
                        Respondents.


Case No.:


24STCP00786




Hearing Date:


December 3, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
PETITIONER’S REQUEST FOR DEFAULT JUDGMENT
 




            
Petitioner The Cemetery and Funeral Bureau, Department of Consumer
Affairs, State of California (“Petitioner”) appears to request entry of default
judgment against Respondents Lincoln Memorial Park, Inc., and John Michael
Mintz.  
The Court notes a few defects with the submitted default judgment
package.
First, Item 6(b)(2) of the request for court judgment (Form CIV-100)
references an “Attachment A.” However, no “Attachment A” appears to be included
with the request. Thus, it is unclear who the request was purportedly mailed
to. The Court notes that pursuant to ¿Code of Civil Procedure section 587¿, “[a]n
application by a plaintiff for entry of default under subdivision (a), (b), or
(c) of¿¿Section 585¿¿or¿¿Section 586¿¿shall include an
affidavit stating that a copy of the application has been mailed to the
defendant’s attorney of record or, if none, to the defendant at his or her last
known address and the date on which the copy was mailed. If no such address of
the defendant is known to the plaintiff or plaintiff’s attorney, the affidavit
shall state that fact. No default under subdivision (a), (b), or (c) of¿¿Section 585¿¿or¿¿Section 586¿¿shall be
entered, unless the affidavit is filed. The nonreceipt of the notice shall not
invalidate or constitute ground for setting aside any judgment.” 
Second, Item 1(b) of the request (Form CIV-100)
also references an “Attachment A.” As discussed, no Attachment A appears to
have been provided with the request. 
Third, Petitioner submitted a “[Proposed] Judgment in Favor of
Petitioner the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau” providing that “[d]efault having
been entered against Respondents Lincoln Memorial Park, Inc., and John Michael
Mintz, and the application for appointment of a temporary cemetery manager for
the Petitioner, The Cemetery and Funeral Bureau having been granted, the Court
hereby enters JUDGMENT in favor of the Petitioner, The Cemetery and Funeral
Bureau, Department of Consumer Affairs, State of California.” However, a request for default judgment is
before the Court, not the foregoing application. In addition, the
proposed judgment does not specify the specific relief Petitioner seeks.
Rather, the proposed judgment provides that “the Court hereby enters JUDGMENT
in favor of the Petitioner…” 
Fourth, Petitioner also submitted a “[Proposed]
Order Granting the First Amended Petition of the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau
and Appointing a Temporary Cemetery Manager Over Lincoln Memorial Park, Inc.”
This proposed order provides, inter alia, that the Court “GRANTS THE
FIRST AMENDED PETITION OF The Cemetery and Funeral Bureau, Department of
Consumer Affairs, State of California.” However, Petitioner’s request for
default judgment is before the Court, not Petitioner’s First Amended Verified
Petition. In addition, the Court notes that a proposed judgment is required to
be submitted in connection with the request for default judgment as opposed to
a proposed order. Pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1800, subdivision (a)(6), the request for default
judgment must include “[a] proposed form of judgment.” 
Fifth, the proposed order also provides, inter alia, that “IT
IS FURTHER ORDERED if Juan A. Martinez is unable to serve as temporary cemetery
manager, then the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau is authorized to designate and
appoint a qualified California licensed cemetery manager as Lincoln Memorial
Park, Inc.’s temporary cemetery manager for the maintenance and upkeep of
Lincoln Memorial Park, Inc., Lincoln Memorial Park Cemetery, located at 16701
S. Central Ave., Carson, CA 90746.” However, this order appears to exceed the
relief requested in Petitioner’s First Amended Verified Petition. The “Prayer”
indicates that Petitioner seeks “[a]n order appointing a cemetery manager
licensed by the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau as the temporary cemetery manager
of Lincoln Memorial Park, Inc., Lincoln Memorial Park Cemetery, and further
order that the manager’s authority only extends to care and maintenance of the
cemetery and that a temporary cemetery manager is required to cooperate with
the Bureau for the authorization of interments and disbursement of funds from
the Endowment Care Fund and Special Care Fund.” (First Amended Verified
Petition, p. 7.) The Court notes that that “¿[a] complaint…shall
contain…the following:…(2) A demand for judgment for the relief to which the
pleader claims to be entitled. If the recovery of money or damages is demanded,
the amount demanded shall be stated.¿” (¿Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.10, subd. (a)¿.) ¿Code of Civil
Procedure section 580, subdivision (a)¿ “¿limits a trial court’s
jurisdiction to grant relief on a default judgment to the amount stated in the
complaint.¿” (¿Dhawan v. Biring (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 963, 968¿.)
“[I]n all default judgments the demand sets a ceiling on recovery.” ((Finney v. Gomez (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 527, 534.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Petitioner’s request for
default judgment without prejudice. The Court will discuss with Petitioner a
schedule for resubmission of the default judgment package.
 
DATED:  December 3, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court