  Case Number:  21STCV23520    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



c&m investment group, ltd.,  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
HARVEY CHAMPLIN, 
                        Defendant.


Case No.:


21STCV23520




Hearing Date:


December 3, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
JOINT STIPULATION RE ISSUES TO BE BRIEFED



 
Background 
Plaintiffs C&M Investment Group, Ltd. (“C&M”) and Karlin
Holdings Limited Partnership (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on June
23, 2021 against Defendant Harvey Champlin (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges
causes of action for (1) intentional interference with contractual relations
and (2) intentional interference with prospective economic benefit. 
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that they “were the victims of a
large-scale fraud perpetrated by Richard Philip Powers (‘Powers’) over the
course of more than six years that led to judgment against Powers of
approximately $36 million (the ‘Powers Judgment’).” (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs
allege that “[t]he fraud underlying the Powers Judgment stemmed from a teak
wood business that served as a vehicle for Powers to systematically steal
millions of dollars from Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiffs allege that
in October 2007, C&M filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles Superior Court,
entitled C&M Investment Group Ltd. & Karlin Holdings Limited
Partnership v. Philip Richard Powers & Neil Campbell, Case No.
BC378888 (herein, the “Powers Action”). (Compl., ¶ 10.) The Powers Action
alleged that Powers and his corporate entities cheated C&M out of millions
of dollars, and asserted claims for fraud, fraudulent inducement, and
conversion, among other claims. (Compl., ¶ 10.) On January 17, 2012, the Court
entered judgment against Powers and his corporate entities in the amount of
$36,680,676.46. (Compl., ¶ 11.) 
Plaintiffs allege that they have not been able to collect meaningfully
on the judgment, because Powers repeatedly claimed to have no assets to his
name. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs allege that they “have recently discovered
information that [Defendant] systemically [sic] aided Powers in hiding Powers’
assets from collection,” and that such information includes the following
activities by Defendant: “a. Payment for a credit card for Powers’ benefit; b.
Participating in a car transfer for Powers’ benefit—wiring money on Powers’
behalf to purchase a car; c. Wiring funds on behalf of Powers to friends and
associates of Powers for the purpose of facilitating collection avoidance
schemes; d. Covertly funneling Powers large sums of cash when Powers was
released from jail in 2013; and e. Maintaining and creating trust accounts for
Powers’ benefit.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) Plaintiffs also allege that Defendant
“misrepresented the nature and extent of his activities for Powers in sworn
testimony.” (Compl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s a result of his
activity, [Defendant] deprived Plaintiffs of the ability to collect at least
$12 million in assets from Powers and otherwise frustrated and burdened
Plaintiffs’ collection efforts, to the injury of Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶ 16.)  
On October 15, 2024, the Court issued a minute order in this action
providing, inter alia, that “Hearing - Other Re: Four issues identified
in the Joint Stipulation filed 10/15/24 is scheduled for 11/07/24 at 02:00 PM
in Department 50 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.” 
On October 15, 2024, the parties filed a Joint Stipulation Re Issues
to be Briefed (herein, the “Joint Stipulation”). The Joint Stipulation
provides, inter alia, as follows: “[t]he issues to be briefed are: 1.
Estoppel: (a) Can the 2009 and 2010 allegedly false testimony by Mr. Champlin
factor into Plaintiffs’ estoppel argument even though that testimony was before
entry of the Powers Judgment in January 2012? And (b) whether CACI No. 456’s
optional element No. 4 has any application in this case and, if so, how does it
apply? 2. Accrual: Whether it is appropriate to pose to the jury the question
of whether all of the elements of Plaintiffs’ claims occurred before December
27, 2018? 3. Statute of Limitations Question: What is the appropriate
formulation of the verdict form question(s) based on CACI 455 for the Joint
Special Verdict Form and why? 4. Litigation Privilege: Does the litigation
privilege bar Plaintiffs from using Mr. Champlin’s statements during his 2009
or 2010 depositions or his January 2019 judgment debtor examination as a basis
for imposing affirmative liability in this action?” 
On October 21, 2024, Defendant filed a “Statement on Issue No. 4:
Litigation Privilege,” which provides that Defendant “informs the Court and
Plaintiffs that, in the interests of simplifying the number of legal and
factual issues before the Court, and to avoid possible jury confusion, Champlin
hereby withdraws his position that the content of his January 19, 2019 judgment
examination is protected by California’s litigation privilege.” 
The parties’ Joint Stipulation further provides that “[t]he parties
agree to the following briefing schedule, order, and page limit:…Plaintiffs
will have the opening brief on the estoppel and accrual issues…Defendants [sic]
will have the opening brief on the statute of limitations question and
litigation privilege question…For each issue, the opening brief will be 10
pages, the opposition brief will be 10 pages, and the reply will be 5 pages…Opening
briefs will be due on October 21, 2024 by 4 p.m.…Opposition briefs will be due
on October 25, 2024 by 4 p.m.…Reply briefs will be due on October 29, 2024 by 4
p.m.” 
On October 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Brief on Claim Accrual and a
Brief Re Estoppel. Defendant opposes both. On October 21, 2024, Defendant filed
a Brief on Issue No. 3: Formulation of Special Verdict Based on CACI No. 455. Plaintiffs
oppose. 
 On November 7, 2024, the Court
issued a minute order in this case providing, inter alia, that “[o]n or
before November 13, 2024, (a) Plaintiff will file and serve a supplemental
brief of no more than 3 pages regarding the first estoppel issue pertaining to
the 2009 and 2010 Champlin depositions as discussed at the hearing (i.e., the
interplay of other exhibits from 2009 and 2010 offered by Defendant such as
exhibit 535 that Defendant intends to use to show the statute of limitations
has expired), and (b) Defendant will file a supplemental brief of no more than
3 pages regarding the evidence that will support use of element 4 of CACI 456.”
The November 7, 2024 minute order further provides that “[o]n or before
November 19, 2024, responses of no more than 3 pages each will be filed and
served and the hearing on the estoppel issue as well as the remaining accrual
and statute of limitations issues will be on December 3, 2024 at 2:00 p.m. in
Department 50.”  
On November 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Supplemental Brief Re
Estoppel. Defendant opposes. In addition, on November 13, 2024, Defendant filed
a Supplemental Brief Re “CACI No. 456 and Element 4.” Plaintiffs oppose. 
Discussion 
A.    Issue No. 1: Estoppel

As set forth above, the Joint Stipulation provides that the first
issue to be briefed is as follows: “Estoppel: (a) Can the 2009 and 2010
allegedly false testimony by Mr. Champlin factor into Plaintiffs’ estoppel
argument even though that testimony was before entry of the Powers Judgment in
January 2012? And (b) whether CACI No. 456’s optional element No. 4 has any
application in this case and, if so, how does it apply?” 
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s “2009 and 2010 conduct factors into
Plaintiffs’ estoppel argument.” (Plaintiff’s Brief at p. 7:6.) Plaintiffs note
that “[f]our elements must ordinarily be proved to establish an equitable
estoppel: (1) The party to be estopped must know the facts; (2) he must intend
that his conduct shall be acted upon, or must so act that the party asserting
the estoppel had the right to believe that it was so intended; (3) the party
asserting the estoppel must be ignorant of the true state of facts; and, (4) he
must rely upon the conduct to his injury.” ((Spray,
Gould & Bowers v. Associated Internat. Ins. Co. (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1268 [internal
quotations omitted].) 
 Plaintiffs assert that “Mr.
Champlin’s 2009 and 2010 conduct forms part of the basis for Plaintiffs’
equitable estoppel claim: (1) Mr. Champlin knew his conduct on behalf of Mr.
Powers went beyond providing legal consulting and advice; (2) he withheld
documents and repeatedly gave false testimony under oath in 2009 and 2010, and
again in 2019, painting his relationship with Mr. Powers as a benign consulting
relationship; (3) Plaintiffs were thus ignorant of the true facts—including
that Mr. Champlin was establishing financial structures to shield Mr. Powers’
assets from tracing and collection—until shortly before Plaintiffs filed this
lawsuit; and (4) Plaintiffs relied on Mr. Champlin’s lies and concealment for
their understanding that Mr. Champlin’s relationship with Mr. Powers was
limited to a benign legal consulting relationship and thus remained unaware of
their cause of action against Mr. Champlin.” (Plaintiff’s Brief at p. 7:18-26.)

Plaintiffs cite to the parties’ Amended Joint Stipulated Facts filed
on October 14, 2024, which provides, inter alia, that “Plaintiffs
C&M Investment Group and Karlin Holdings (called the ‘C&M Parties’)
filed a civil lawsuit against Philip Richard Powers (‘Mr. Powers’) and related
entities in 2007 in Los Angeles County Superior Court, titled C&M
Investment Group, Ltd. and Karlin Holdings Limited Partnership v. Powers et al.
(the ‘Powers Litigation’).” (October 14, 2024 Amended Joint Stipulated Facts, ¶
1.) The Stipulated Facts provide that “Mr. Champlin was not Mr. Powers’
attorney in the Powers Litigation. During the Powers Litigation, Mr. Champlin
acted as Mr. Powers’ agent and litigation consultant pursuant to a written
agreement called the C&M v. Powers Legal Advisory Services Agreement…” (Ibid., ¶ 4.) “On January 17, 2012, the Los
Angeles Superior Court entered judgment against Philip Richard Powers…in the
Powers Litigation.” (Ibid., ¶ 9.) “In the
Powers Litigation, the C&M Parties took Mr. Champlin’s deposition twice, in
2009 and 2010.” (Ibid., ¶ 7.) As discussed,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant “lied under oath during those examinations.”
(Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 3:12.) 
Plaintiffs provide excerpts from a July 7, 2009, deposition of Harvey
Champlin in C&M Investment Group, Ltd., et al. v. Philip Richard
Powers, et al., Case No. BC378888. (Craig Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) Plaintiffs
cite to the following testimony from the deposition: “Q…But what I’m struggling
with is trying to understand what you’re doing other than relaying legal
advice, contributing to general strategic decisions in the lawsuit. And that’s
pretty much it. I don’t see what else you’re doing. Is that pretty much it?
A[.] That’s pretty much it.” (Craig Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A (Champlin Depo.) at p. 119:5-13.)
Plaintiffs also cite to the following testimony from Defendant’s December 14,
2010 deposition in C&M Investment Group, Ltd., et al. v. Philip Richard
Powers, et al., Case No. BC378888: “Q [.] The agreement states that you
were going to be compensated at a rate of $500 per hour, correct? A[.] Correct.
Q[.] Can you tell me where on here it explains what you were supposed to do in
order to earn that money? A[.] Consult and advise.” (Craig Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B
(Champlin Depo.) at p. 212:20-25.)
Plaintiffs argue that “documents released to Plaintiffs between
November 2019 and March 2021, and additional documents produced in this case,
later revealed that Mr. Champlin was not merely a legal consultant, but was serving
as a conduit to shield Mr. Powers’ assets from collection and enable Mr. Powers
to use funds as he pleased, for any purpose that he directed.” 
(Plaintiff’s
Brief at pp. 3:24-4:2).[1]
Plaintiffs contend that “[b]ecause Mr. Champlin’s 2009 and 2010 conduct misled
Plaintiffs about the nature of his relationship with Mr. Powers, and Plaintiffs
reasonably relied on that conduct for their understanding that they had no
cause of action against Mr. Champlin, equitable estoppel applies.” (Plaintiffs’
Brief at p. 9:1-3.) 
            But as noted by Defendant,
Plaintiffs do not appear to explain how the referenced “snippets from
Champlin’s deposition testimony in 2009 and 2010…directly prevented them from
filing the present lawsuit…” (Defendant’s Opp’n at p. 3:5-7.) Defendant cites
to Vaca v. Wachovia Mortgage Corp. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 737, 745-746,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[e]quitable estoppel…comes into play only
after the limitations period has run and addresses…the circumstances in which a
party will be estopped from asserting the statute of limitations as a defense
to an admittedly untimely action because his conduct has induced another into
forbearing suit within the applicable limitations period. For a defendant to be
equitably estopped from asserting a statute of limitations, the plaintiff must
be directly prevented…from filing [a] suit on time.” (Internal quotations and
citations omitted.) 
Plaintiffs argue that they relied on Defendant’s 2009 and 2010
deposition testimony “for their understanding that they had no cause of action
against Mr. Champlin,” but as noted by Defendant, “[t]he Powers Judgment was
not even entered until 2012.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 9:2-3; Defendant’s Opp’n
at p. 3:8.) In the Complaint in the instant action, Plaintiffs allege, inter
alia, that “[o]n January 17, 2012, this Court entered judgment against
Powers and in Plaintiffs’ favor in the amount of $36,680,676.46 in C&M
Investment Group Ltd. & Karlin Holdings Limited Partnership v. Philip
Richard Powers & Neil Campbell, Case No. BC378888.” (Compl., ¶ 25.)
Plaintiffs’ claim is that “Champlin had knowledge of Plaintiffs’ litigation and
judgment against Powers,” and that “Champlin received assets from Powers and
worked with him to conceal the money’s true provenance to prevent Plaintiffs
from seizing the money and applying it to satisfy Plaintiffs’ judgment.”
(Compl., ¶¶ 26-27.) Thus, it is unclear how Defendant’s 2009 and 2010 deposition
testimony from before the 2012 judgment was even entered “directly prevented [Plaintiffs]
from filing [a] suit on time.” (Id. at p. 746.) 
As set forth above, the Court’s November 7, 2024 minute order
provides, inter alia, that “Plaintiff will file and serve a supplemental
brief of no more than 3 pages regarding the first estoppel issue pertaining to
the 2009 and 2010 Champlin depositions as discussed at the hearing (i.e., the
interplay of other exhibits from 2009 and 2010 offered by Defendant such as
exhibit 535 that Defendant intends to use to show the statute of limitations
has expired)…” 
In her November 13, 2024 declaration in support of Plaintiffs’
supplemental brief, Plaintiffs’ counsel states that “[a]ttached hereto as
Exhibit 2 is a true and correct copy of Trial Exhibit 535, an email chain dated
March 3, 2010 (CHAMPLIN002913).” (Craig Decl., ¶ 3.) This Exhibit appears to
include a March 3, 2010 email from Defendant indicating, inter alia, “I
have not yet wired funds to [illegible] firm. Should I wait for your additional
funds, or go ahead and send $20K now?” (Craig Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2.) Plaintiffs
assert that “Mr. Champlin intends to use a 2010 email chain between himself and
Richard Powers about a wire transfer to a law firm to support his argument that
[Plaintiffs] should have been on notice that the litigation trust was out there…”
(Plaintiffs’ Suppl. Brief at p. 1:5-7 [internal quotations omitted].)
Plaintiffs argue that “false and misleading testimony from Mr. Champlin in 2009
and 2010 hid the very facts that Mr. Champlin now wants to argue Plaintiffs
should have been on notice of in 2009 and 2010.” (Plaintiffs’ Suppl. Brief at
p. 1:21-23.) But as discussed, the relevant inquiry for purposes of equitable
estoppel is whether Defendant’s “conduct has induced [Plaintiffs] into
forbearing suit within the applicable limitations period.” (Vaca v. Wachovia Mortgage Corp., supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p. 745.) The Court
still does not see how Defendant’s 2009 and 2010 testimony induced Plaintiffs
into forebearing their suit related to a 2012 judgment that did not exist in
2009 and 2010.  
Plaintiffs also appear to argue in their supplemental brief that
Defendant testified falsely about the existence of an agreement related to his
services as a legal consultant for Mr. Powers. Plaintiffs cite to the following
testimony from Defendant’s December 14, 2010 deposition in C&M
Investment Group, Ltd., et al. v. Philip Richard Powers, et al., Case No.
BC378888: “Q[.] Okay. So you’ve been referring to this agreement – A[.] Exhibit
9. Q[.] -- for a couple of your answers. And when you have been making those
references, you have been referring to what is now Exhibit 9. Now, Exhibit 9 is
a June 2nd, 2009 -- I guess it’s an agreement. Right? A[.] Correct. Q[.] And
the title line there is, ‘C&M v. Powers Legal Advisory Services,’ correct?
A[.] Correct.” (Craig Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 11 (Champlin Depo.) at p. 199:10-21.) 
Plaintiffs assert that “[b]y this time, Mr. Champlin had already
signed…two addenda—both of which imposed on Mr. Champlin duties to receive
‘loans’ from Mr. Powers’ kids and use the moneys for Mr. Powers’ benefit…”
(Plaintiffs’ Suppl. Brief at p. 2:16-18, emphasis omitted.) Exhibit 9 to
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s November 13, 2024 declaration is a copy of “Trial Exhibit
43, the 2009 ‘C&M v. Powers Legal Advisory Services’ agreement and addenda
between Richard Powers and Harvey Champlin...” (Craig Decl., ¶ 10.) This
Exhibit 9 includes, inter alia, a June 14, 2009 document titled “Addendum
to C&M v. Powers Legal Advisory Services,” that provides, inter
alia, “$120,000.00 is hereby acknowledged from Chyna Powers as evidenced by
an Unsecured Promissory Noted dated April 22, 2009…” (Craig Decl., ¶ 10, Ex.
9.) Exhibit 9 also includes a November 12, 2009 document titled “Second
Addendum to C&M v. Powers Legal Advisory Services” which provides, inter
alia, that “Champlin is authorized and directed to transfer funds from the
Chyna loan account to the retainer account as needed to pay the agreed upon
retainer fee and expenses. Funds so transferred shall be treated as loan
repayment, reducing the principal balance due on the Chyna Note…” (Craig Decl.,
¶ 10, Ex. 9.) Plaintiffs note that at his December 14, 2010 deposition,
Defendant was asked “Q[.] Is there any other writing anywhere that explains
what your duties were beyond to consult and advise?” to which Defendant
responded “A[.] No.” (Craig Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 11 (Champlin Depo.) at p. 213:1-4.)
In the supplemental brief, Plaintiffs argue that “[a]gainst this
backdrop, Mr. Champlin’s testimony in the 2009 deposition that legal consulting
services were ‘pretty much it’ insofar as his consulting arrangement was at
worst an outright falsehood and at best a misleading omission…Rather than say
‘that’s pretty much it’ a truthful answer would have been that the agency
agreement (which then included the June 14, 2009 Addendum) involved holding and
disbursing for Mr. Powers’ benefit hundreds of thousands of dollars obtained as
purported loans from Mr. Powers’ children.” (Plaintiffs’ Suppl. Brief at p.
3:3-8, emphasis omitted.) 
Plaintiffs contend that they “relied on Mr. Champlin’s sworn testimony
and document production in 2009 and 2010 for their understanding that his
relationship with Mr. Powers was simply a straightforward and standard hourly
fee-based legal consulting relationship.” (Plaintiffs’ Suppl. Brief at p.
3:10-12.) In support of this assertion, Plaintiffs cite to a copy of “the
publicly filed version of the Declaration of Dr. Gary Karlin Michelson ISO
Plaintiffs’ Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment dated February 28, 2023
(No. 21STCV23520),” in which Dr. Michelson states that “[w]hen Champlin did
produce his purported litigation advisory services agreement with Powers, he
did so on the eve of his second deposition (in 2010) and then produced only the
main agreement—which omitted any reference to purported loan agreements with
Powers’ children. Champlin failed to produce either of the two addenda that
referred expressly to those loans, even though both of those addenda are dated
in 2009 and Champlin’s second deposition and document production were in 2010.
In fact, Champlin produced no documents revealing the existence of his
purported loan arrangements with Powers’ children until after this suit was
filed.” (Craig Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. 10, ¶ 9.) 
But as discussed, Plaintiffs allege that the subject judgement against
Mr. Powers was entered in 2012. (Compl., ¶ 25.) Plaintiffs allege in the
instant action that “Champlin received assets from Powers and worked with him
to conceal the money’s true provenance to prevent Plaintiffs from seizing the
money and applying it to satisfy Plaintiffs’ judgment.” (Compl., ¶ 27.) Defendant
asserts that “conduct occurring before Plaintiffs’ claims even existed could
not have induced them to delay filing those claims.” (Opp’n at p. 3:10-11.)
Indeed, as discussed, the Court still does not see how Plaintiffs purportedly
relied on Defendants’ 2009 and 2010 testimony such that they delayed filing the
instant action. As discussed, “[e]quitable estoppel…addresses…the circumstances
in which a party will be estopped from asserting the statute of limitations as
a defense to an admittedly untimely action because his conduct has induced
another into forbearing suit within the applicable limitations period.” (Vaca v. Wachovia Mortgage Corp., supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p. 745.)[2] 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs have
shown that “the 2009 and 2010 allegedly false testimony by Mr. Champlin factor
into Plaintiffs’ estoppel argument…” (Joint Stipulation, Issue No. 1.)
Next, Plaintiffs assert that “optional element 4 of CACI 456 does not
apply to Plaintiffs’ estoppel argument.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 9:13.) CACI
No. 456 provides as follows: 
 
“[Name of
plaintiff] claims that even if [his/her/nonbinary pronoun/its]
lawsuit was not filed on time, [he/she/nonbinary pronoun/it] may still
proceed because [name of defendant] did or said something that caused [name
of plaintiff] to delay filing the lawsuit. In order to establish the right
to proceed, [name of plaintiff] must prove all of the following:
 
1. That [name
of defendant] said or did something that caused [name of plaintiff]
to believe that it would not be necessary to file a lawsuit;
 
2. That [name
of plaintiff] relied on [name of defendant]’s conduct and therefore
did not file the lawsuit within the time otherwise required;
 
3. That a
reasonable person in [name of plaintiff]’s position would have relied on
[name of defendant]’s conduct; [and]
 
[4. That
after the limitation period had expired, [name of defendant]’s
representations by words or conduct proved to not be true; and]
 
5. That [name
of plaintiff] proceeded diligently to file suit once [he/she/nonbinary
pronoun/it] discovered the need to proceed.” (Emphasis added.) 
In their brief, Plaintiffs cite to the “Directions for Use” for CACI
No. 456, which provide, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“Most cases do
not frame the issue as one of equitable estoppel and its four elements. All
that is required is that the defendant’s conduct actually have misled the
plaintiff, and that plaintiff reasonably have relied on that conduct. Bad faith
or an intent to mislead is not required. (Lantzy v. Centex Homes (2003) 31 Cal.4th
363, 384 [2 Cal.Rptr.3d 655, 73 P.3d 517]; Shaffer v. Debbas (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th
33, 43 [21 Cal.Rptr.2d 110].) Nor does it appear that there is a
requirement that the defendant specifically intended to induce the plaintiff to
defer filing suit. Therefore, no specific intent element has been included.
However, the California Supreme Court has stated that element 4 is to be given
in a construction defect case in which the defendant has assured the plaintiff
that all defects will be repaired. (See Lantzy,
supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 384.).” (Judicial Council Of California Civil
Jury Instruction 456.) 
Plaintiffs assert that accordingly, “the Supreme Court of California
has stated [element four] is intended to be applied in construction defect
cases, where the plaintiff is undisputably aware of a cause of action before
the limitations period runs, but the defendant makes an assurance that all
defects will be repaired.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 2:15-18, citing Directions
for Use, CACI No. 456.) As noted by Defendant, the “Directions for Use” for
CACI No. 456 do not expressly provide that Element 4 may only be used in
construction defect cases. 
Plaintiffs contend that “courts have limited the application of
element 4 to cases where a plaintiff knows of the existence of a claim against
the defendant during the statute of limitations period, and only delays filing
suit because the defendant represents they will remedy the defect.”
(Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 9:18-21.) In support of this assertion, Plaintiffs note
that the Lantzy Court found that “(1) if one potentially liable for a
construction defect represents, while the limitations period is still running,
that all actionable damage has been or will be repaired, thus making it
unnecessary to sue, (2) the plaintiff reasonably relies on this representation
to refrain from bringing a timely action, (3) the representation proves false
after the limitations period has expired, and (4) the plaintiff proceeds
diligently once the truth is discovered the defendant may be equitably estopped
to assert the statute of limitations as a defense to the action.” (Lantzy v. Centex Homes (2003) 31 Cal.4th 363,
384 [internal citation omitted].) Plaintiffs also cite to Shaffer v. Debbas (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 33, 43,
where the Court of Appeal found that “[w]here the plaintiffs reasonably rely on
defendants’ promise to repair the property damage without a lawsuit, is a jury
permitted to find that plaintiffs’ decision to delay filing a personal injury
lawsuit was also reasonable? We conclude such a finding is permissible on the
facts of this case. Where a potential defendant has promised to remedy a
portion of the damages suffered by the plaintiff, it would be unreasonable to
expect the plaintiff to jeopardize the possibility of repair by filing a
lawsuit as to items of damage not covered by the defendant’s promise. This
is particularly true where, as here, the defendant’s promise relates to a
substantial aspect of the dispute.” 
Plaintiffs argue that unlike in Lantzy and Shaffer, “here,
Plaintiffs were entirely unaware of their cause of action against Mr. Champlin
until after November 2019, when Plaintiffs gradually discovered Champlin lied
in his prior sworn examinations. As a result, element 4 is inapplicable, and
there is no basis to include it in the jury instructions for this case.”
(Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 2:25-27.) Indeed, the instant action is
distinguishable from Lantzy and Shaffer. The instant case does
not appear to involve facts analogous to “a
construction defect case in which the defendant has assured the plaintiff that
all defects will be repaired.” (CACI No. 456, Directions for Use.)
In his supplemental brief, Defendant argues that “[t]he timeline of
when Plaintiffs claim to have discovered the alleged falsity of statements
Champlin made during his 2019 judgment debtor examination makes Element 4
appropriate, as Plaintiffs discovered the inaccuracy before the limitations
period expired.” (Defendant’s Suppl. Brief at p. 2:5-8, emphasis omitted.) Defendant
cites to Plaintiffs’ “Brief Re Estoppel,” which argues, inter alia, that
“Plaintiffs did not obtain a full understanding of Mr. Champlin’s relationship
with Mr. Powers until after November 2019, when documents were released to
Plaintiffs revealing that Mr. Champlin’s prior sworn testimony was false…These
documents collectively showed that Mr. Champlin’s relationship with Mr. Powers
was not a benign consulting relationship as Plaintiffs had previously
understood…Instead, the documents revealed Mr. Champlin held and disbursed
moneys for Mr. Powers’ benefit between 2012 and 2014…effectively shielding Mr.
Powers’ assets from tracing and collection, and enabling Mr. Powers to earn and
spend money on cars and credit cards and get his hands on cash, without any of
that activity occurring under his name.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at pp. 4:21-5:5,
emphasis omitted.) Defendant argues, by contrast, that “Plaintiffs’ limitations
period began to run no later than November 20, 2018…” (See Defendant’s Suppl.
Brief at p. 3:7-15.)[3] Defendant
argues that “Element 4 should be given whenever, as here, there is credible
evidence that the plaintiff learned the defendant’s ‘representations by words
or conduct proved not to be true’ before the limitations period expired.”
(Defendant’s Suppl. Brief at p. 4:3-5, emphasis omitted.) 
In their opposition, Plaintiffs counter that Defendant’s “‘timeline’
is neither here nor there for purposes of this jury instruction issue…Element 4
has no application in a case that, as here, predicates estoppel on the
fraudulent concealment of facts setting forth the basis for the plaintiff’s
claims.” (Plaintiffs’ Opp’n at p. 1:10-12, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiffs assert
that their “estoppel argument is not based on any representation by Mr.
Champlin that he would remedy Plaintiffs’ injuries; instead, it is based on Mr.
Champlin preventing Plaintiffs from discovering they had a cause of action
against him.” (Opp’n at p. 2:7-9.) Indeed, as discussed above, the instant case
does not appear to involve facts analogous to “a
construction defect case in which the defendant has assured the plaintiff that
all defects will be repaired.” (CACI No. 456, Directions for Use.) As
set forth above, the “Directions
for Use” for CACI No. 456 indicate that “[m]ost
cases do not frame the issue as one of equitable estoppel and its four
elements,” and that “the
California Supreme Court has stated that element 4 is to be given in a
construction defect case in which the defendant has assured the plaintiff that
all defects will be repaired.” Here, Plaintiffs do not allege that Defendant
assured Plaintiffs that certain damage or injury will be repaired, causing
Plaintiffs to believe it would be unnecessary to file a lawsuit, or any similar
facts. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have
demonstrated that CACI No. 456’s optional element No. 4 is inapplicable to this
case.[4]  
B.     Issue No. 2:
Accrual 
As discussed, the Joint Stipulation provides that the second issue to
be briefed is as follows: “Accrual: Whether it is appropriate to pose to the
jury the question of whether all of the elements of Plaintiffs’ claims occurred
before December 27, 2018?” 
Plaintiffs argue that “[t]he question of whether all of the elements
of Plaintiffs’ claims occurred before December 27, 2018 should be posed to the
jury as part of the special verdict form.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 5:2-3.) Plaintiffs
assert that “Champlin argues that it should not because there is allegedly no
dispute as to this issue since Champlin’s financial dealings relating to Powers
ceased in 2016. But, contrary to Champlin’s argument, that is not dispositive
of when Plaintiffs’ claims accrued.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 5:3-6.)
Plaintiffs argue that “Champlin’s 2019 lies and breach of his agreement to
produce documents are part of a continuing violation, which impacts when
Plaintiffs’ claims accrued.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 5:12-13.) 
Plaintiffs cite to testimony from a January 25, 2019 Third Party
Judgment Debtor Exam of Defendant, Volume 1, taken in C&M Investment
Group, Ltd., et al. v. Philip Richard Powers, et al., Case No. BC378888.
(Schweitzer Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. D.) Plaintiffs note, inter alia, that
Defendant testified in the January 25, 2019 Third Party Judgment Debtor Exam
that “A[.]…he asked me if I would be the trustee of a educational trust for his
daughter Chyna…which I helped him set up.” (Schweitzer Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. D
(Champlin Judgment Debtor Exam) at p. 17:19-22.) Plaintiffs assert that “contrary
to Champlin’s testimony, the Chyna Trust was both funded by and used for
Powers’ benefit.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 4:26-27.) Plaintiffs cite to a document
titled “Opinions and Observations as of September 12, 2024” that expert Kenneth
D. Rugeti submitted in connection with this lawsuit.” (Schweitzer Decl., ¶ 2,
Ex. A.) Mr. Rugeti’s opinion provides, inter alia, that “[t]his
illustrates the key impact of Mr. Champlin’s dealings relating to Mr. Powers:
He used money that he knew belonged to Powers that was put in an account in Mr.
Champlin’s business’s name, put it in Chyna’s trust and recorded it in the
Chyna trust’s documents as a gift from Mr. Champlin himself even though it was
really Mr. Powers’ money being deposited. He then kept a separate ledger not
associated in any way with the Chyna trust showing that to be true.” (Schweitzer
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A, p. 15.)
Plaintiffs also cite to the following testimony from Defendant’s January
25, 2019 Third Party Judgment Debtor Exam: “…can you list for me the business
ventures that you and Mr. Powers have been involved in since you’ve gotten to
know him? A[.] Only one. Green Earth Products.” (Schweitzer Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. D (Champlin
Judgment Debtor Exam) at p. 6:22-25.) In regard to Green Earth Products,
Defendant testified that “we were a reseller of products that we purchased from
a manufacturer in Chicago under our private label, and then sold that private
label product to Menards. And we never made any money. It was just Menards
negotiated --negotiated pricing that we agreed to for the sake of building the
business, but it never produced any cash flow or profit. I never took a salary.
We never distributed anything.” (Id. at p.
10:5-13.)
Plaintiffs
assert that Defendant “misrepresented Green Earth, LLC as a business with its
own accounts from which Powers never received any money or distributions.”
(Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 6:16-17.) Plaintiffs cite to Mr. Rugeti’s “Opinions
and Observations as of September 12, 2024” which provide, inter alia,
that “[d]espite the fact that Mr. Powers was not a direct owner of Green Earth,
he made capital contributions to Green Earth via the Purported Trust Account,”
and that “[t]he Purported Trust Account activity indicates $2,500 in inflows
and $21,131 in outflows between the Purported Trust Account and Green Earth…” (Schweitzer
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A, p. 13.) Mr. Rugeti also states that “the Green Earth bank
statement includes $5,000 in outflows to Chyna Powers after the stock transfer…”
(Schweitzer Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A, p. 14.)[5] 
Plaintiffs contend that “Champlin’s 2019 lies…are part of a continuing
violation, which impacts when Plaintiffs’ claims accrued. It is therefore
necessary and appropriate to ask the jury about when all of the elements of
Plaintiffs’ claims occurred.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 5:12-14.) Plaintiffs
note that “[t]he continuing violation doctrine aggregates a series of wrongs or
injuries for purposes of the statute of limitations, treating the limitations
period as accruing for all of them upon commission or sufferance of the last of
them.” (Aryeh v. Canon Business Solutions, Inc. (2013) 55 Cal.4th 1185, 1192.) 
In the opposition, Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs cannot invoke the
continuing violation doctrine here because Defendant’s “alleged 2019
examination was both qualitatively different from and temporally disconnected
from the alleged interference scheme (from 2012 to 2016), that it purportedly ‘continued.’”
(Defendant’s Opp’n at p. 5:7-9.) Defendant notes that the Aryeh Court
found that “[a]llegations of a pattern of reasonably frequent and similar acts
may, in a given case, justify treating the acts as an indivisible course of
conduct actionable in its entirety, notwithstanding that the conduct occurred
partially outside and partially inside the limitations period.” (Id. at p.
1198.) 
Defendant assert that “there was…A complete change in the nature of
the conduct - from active asset transfers to allegedly false testimony about
past transactions; and…A three-year gap between the different types of conduct
- from the end of financial dealings in 2016 to the 2019 testimony.” (Defendant’s
Opp’n at p. 5:19-23.) Indeed, in the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that they “have
recently discovered information that Champlin systemically [sic] aided Powers
in hiding Powers’ assets from collection. Such information includes the
following activities by Champlin: a. Payment for a credit card for Powers’
benefit; b. Participating in a car transfer for Powers’ benefit—wiring money on
Powers’ behalf to purchase a car; c. Wiring funds on behalf of Powers to
friends and associates of Powers for the purpose of facilitating collection
avoidance schemes; d. Covertly funneling Powers large sums of cash when Powers
was released from jail in 2013; and e. Maintaining and creating trust accounts
for Powers’ benefit.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) 
In the reply, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s “2019 sworn lies
were part of an indivisible course of recurring, similar acts all meant to hide
Powers’ assets and avoid collection.” (Plaintiffs’ Reply at p. 3:14-15.) But the
Court does not see how Defendant’s alleged conduct in “hiding Powers’ assets
from collection” (Compl., ¶ 14) and Defendant’s testimony at the January 25,
2019 Third Party Judgment Debtor Exam are purportedly “frequent” and “similar
acts” for purposes of the continuing violation doctrine. As discussed, “[a]llegations
of a pattern of reasonably frequent and similar acts may, in a given case,
justify treating the acts as an indivisible course of conduct actionable in its
entirety, notwithstanding that the conduct occurred partially outside and
partially inside the limitations period.” (Aryeh v. Canon
Business Solutions, Inc., supra,
55 Cal.4th at p. 1198.) 
Plaintiffs also argue that “Defendant’s tortious interference is
subject to continuous accrual.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 7:8-9.) “[U]nder the
theory of continuous accrual, a series of wrongs or injuries may be viewed as
each triggering its own limitations period, such that a suit for relief may be
partially time-barred as to older events but timely as to those within the
applicable limitations period.” (Aryeh v. Canon
Business Solutions, Inc., supra,
55 Cal.4th at p. 1192.) “Generally speaking, continuous accrual applies
whenever there is a continuing or recurring obligation: When an obligation or
liability arises on a recurring basis, a cause of action accrues each time a
wrongful act occurs, triggering a new limitations period. Because each new
breach of such an obligation provides all the elements of a claim—wrongdoing,
harm, and causation—each may be treated as an independently actionable wrong
with its own time limit for recovery.” (Id. at
p. 1199 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
Plaintiffs argue that “Powers was subject to a continuing obligation
to pay Plaintiffs’ monetary judgment against him. And Champlin engaged in a
series of related acts that interfered with that continuing obligation that
Powers owed to Plaintiffs. Champlin’s January 2019 concealment and related lies
are an actionable interference with Plaintiffs’ collection efforts which is
subject to its own limitations period under the continuous accrual doctrine.”
(Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 7:15-19.) 
In the opposition, Defendant asserts that “[t]he continuous accrual
theory has no application here.” (Opp’n at p. 7:2.) As discussed, Plaintiff’s
Complaint alleges causes of action for intentional interference with
contractual relations and intentional interference with prospective economic
benefit. Defendant cites to Jenni Rivera
Enterprises, LLC v. Latin World Entertainment Holdings, Inc. (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 766, 787,
noting that the Court of Appeal in that case found that “the tort of
interference with a contractual relationship is complete upon the simultaneous
occurrence of each element of the tort and that individual elements of the tort
occurring later in time do not relate back to conduct that completed the tort
outside the period of limitations.” However, the Jenni Court went on to
state, “[b]ut that does not mean a plaintiff cannot maintain a cause of action
for interference with contractual relations or inducing breach of contract for
separate, completed torts with discrete accrual dates. (See 6 Callmann on
Unfair Competition, Trademarks & Monopolies, supra, § 23:32 [‘[s]ome cases say that interference with
contractual relations is not a continuing tort,’ but ‘that may depend on
whether the underlying conduct which creates the interference is of a continuing
nature or not’ (fns. omitted)].).” (Id. at p. 787.)
As noted by Plaintiffs, Defendant does not appear to deny that 
“Plaintiffs’ judgment imposed on Powers continuous obligations…” (Plaintiffs’ Reply
at p. 5:3-4, emphasis omitted.) 
Defendant also argues that “Plaintiffs lack an iota of non-speculative
proof that: (a) as of 2019, Powers had any assets they could have collected; or
(b) even if Powers did, Champlin’s 2019 testimony proximately caused an
inability to collect. Causation and damages are both essential elements of IICR
and IIPEB claims.” (Defendant’s Opp’n at p. 7:20-23, emphasis omitted.) But Defendant
does not appear to cite to any evidence to support this argument. Moreover,
this argument appears to show, as Plaintiffs assert, that “there are factual
disputes regarding what Champlin did to interfere with Plaintiffs’ judgment
collection efforts and when Plaintiffs’ claims accrued.” (Plaintiffs’ Reply at
p. 2:7-8.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court agrees with Plaintiffs that “it is
appropriate to pose to the jury the question of whether all of the elements of
Plaintiffs’ claims occurred before December 27, 2018.” (Joint Stipulation, ¶
2.)[6] 
C.     Issue No. 3:
Statute of Limitations Question 
Lastly, as set forth above, the Joint Stipulation provides that the
third issue to be briefed is as follows: “Statute of Limitations Question: What
is the appropriate formulation of the verdict form question(s) based on CACI
455 for the Joint Special Verdict Form and why?” 
Defendant indicates that his version of the subject verdict form
question is as follows: 
 
“Question 3: Timeliness of Lawsuit 
 
a. Before December 27, 2018, did
the C&M Parties discover, or know of facts that would have caused a
reasonable person to suspect, that they had suffered harm that was caused by
someone’s wrongful conduct? 
 
_______ Yes ________ No 
 
b. Would a reasonable and diligent
investigation have disclosed, before December 27, 2018, that Mr. Champlin’s
interference with the C&M Parties’ collection on their January 2012
Judgment against Philip Richard Powers contributed to the C&M Parties’
harm? 
 
_______ Yes ________ No” 
 
(Defendant’s Ex. 1, Question 3.) 
 
Defendant states that Plaintiff’s
version of the subject verdict form question is as follows:
 
“c. Did the C&M Parties
discover before December 27, 2018 (or would a reasonable and diligent
investigation have shown before December 27, 2018) that Mr. Champlin’s actions
interfered with either the C&M Parties’ efforts to collect on their January
2012 Judgment against Mr. Powers or the C&M Parties’ economic relationship
with Powers? 
(See Instruction No. 455)
 
_______ Yes ________ No”  
 
(Defendant’s Ex. 2, Question 3(c).)

            Defendant asserts that his version “follows
CACI No. VF-410’s Directions for Use…” (Defendant’s Brief at p. 4:3.) Judicial
Council of California Civil Jury Instruction VF-410 provides as follows: 
 
“1. Did [name of plaintiff]’s
claimed harm occur before [insert date from applicable statute of limitations]?
 
_______ Yes ________ No
If your answer to question 1 is
yes, then answer question 2. If you answered no, stop here, answer no further
questions, and have the presiding juror sign and date this form.
 
2. Before [insert date from
applicable statute of limitations], did [name of plaintiff]
discover, or know of facts that would have caused a reasonable person to
suspect, that [he/she/nonbinary pronoun/it] had suffered harm that was
caused by someone’s wrongful conduct?
 
_______ Yes ________ No
[or]
 
2. Would a
reasonable and diligent investigation have disclosed before [insert date
from applicable statute of limitations] that [specify factual basis for
cause of action] contributed to [name of plaintiff]’s harm?
 
_______ Yes ________ No.” 
Defendant notes that the “Directions for Use” for CACI VF-410
provides, inter alia, that “[i]f both delayed discovery and nondiscovery
despite reasonable investigation are at issue, use both options and renumber
them as question 2 and question 3.” 
Defendant also argues that his version is the correct one because it “comports
with CACI No. 455, which also contemplates a two-step inquiry in certain
delayed discovery situations.” (Defendant’s Brief at p. 4:6-7.) CACI No. 455
provides as follows: 
 
“If [name of
defendant] proves that [name of plaintiff]’s claimed harm occurred
before [insert date from applicable statute of limitations], [name of
plaintiff]’s lawsuit was still filed on time if [name of plaintiff]
proves that before that date,
 
[[name of
plaintiff] did not discover, and did not know of facts that would have
caused a reasonable person to suspect, that [he/she/nonbinary pronoun/it]
had suffered harm that was caused by someone’s wrongful conduct.]
 
[or]
 
[[name of
plaintiff] did not discover, and a reasonable and diligent investigation
would not have disclosed, that [specify factual basis for cause of action]
contributed to [name of plaintiff]’s harm.].” 
Defendant asserts that “Plaintiffs attempt to ‘combine’ both parts of
CACI No. 455 into a single query, Question 3(c). This is improper. Plaintiff’s
Question 3(c) effectively eliminates the concept of inquiry notice, as set
forth in Champlin’s Question 3(a), which the jury needs to consider to
determine when Plaintiffs should have commenced their reasonably diligent
investigation.” (Defendant’s Brief at p. 6:8-11.) 
In their opposition brief, Plaintiffs state that they “agree to
separate the two options for question 2 into separate queries, and also propose
separate queries for each of Plaintiffs’ IICR and IIPEB claims. Plaintiffs thus
propose the below revised formulation of the verdict form questions on the
discovery rule…
 
a. Before
December 27, 2018, did the C&M Parties discover, or know of facts that
would have caused a reasonable person to suspect, that Mr. Champlin
intentionally interfered with the C&M Parties’ efforts to collect on their
January 2012 Judgment against Mr. Powers? 
 
b. Before
December 27, 2018, did the C&M Parties discover, or know of facts that
would have caused a reasonable person to suspect, that Mr. Champlin
intentionally interfered with the C&M Parties’ economic relationship with
Mr. Powers?
 
c. Would a
reasonable and diligent investigation have disclosed before December 27, 2018,
that Mr. Champlin intentionally interfered with the C&M Parties’ efforts to
collect on their January 2012 Judgment against Mr. Powers? 
 
d. Would a
reasonable and diligent investigation have disclosed before December 27, 2018,
that Mr. Champlin intentionally interfered with the C&M Parties’ economic
relationship with Powers? (Plaintiffs’ Opp’n at p. 4:17-5:4.) 
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s use of the language “someone’s
wrongful conduct” in his version of the verdict form question (which is also
contained in CACI VF-410) risks confusing the jury, because “Plaintiffs
previously sued different defendants on different causes of action based on
conduct entirely different from Mr. Champlin’s conduct at issue here.”
(Plaintiff’s Opp’n at p. 6:6-7.) Plaintiffs assert that it is therefore
necessary to “modify the discovery rule question to refer to the specific facts
that Plaintiffs may have known which would suffice to put them on inquiry
notice as to their claims at bar.” (Plaintiffs’ Opp’n at p. 8:18-19.) 
Defendant counters that a “Yes” answer to their Question 3(a) “simply
means that the jury proceeds to Question 3(b) and decides whether ‘a reasonable
and diligent’ investigation would have disclosed Champlin’s interference prior
to December 27, 2018…” (Defendant’s Reply at p. 2:22-24.) Defendant asserts
that their “Questions 3(a)-(b) follow exactly the rule of the case Plaintiffs
claim is governing,” Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery,
Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797.
As noted by Defendant, the Fox Court found that “[s]imply put, in order
to employ the discovery rule to delay accrual of a cause of action, a potential
plaintiff who suspects that an injury has been wrongfully caused must conduct a
reasonable investigation of all potential causes of that injury. If such an
investigation would have disclosed a factual basis for a cause of action, the
statute of limitations begins to run on that cause of action when the investigation
would have brought such information to light. In order to adequately allege
facts supporting a theory of delayed discovery, the plaintiff must plead that,
despite diligent investigation of the circumstances of the injury, he or she
could not have reasonably discovered facts supporting the cause of action
within the applicable statute of limitations period.” (Id.
at pp. 808-809.)  
The Court agrees with Defendant that Question 3 of his proposed
special verdict form is in line with Fox. In addition, as noted by
Defendant, his version follows CACI VF-410.  
In his brief, Defendant also asserts that “Plaintiffs’ Question 3(a)
also includes a redundancy in that it asks the jury to consider whether ‘Mr.
Champlin’s actions interfered with either the C&M Parties’ efforts to
collect on their January 2012 Judgment against Mr. Powers or the C&M
Parties’ economic relationship with Powers…’ However, Plaintiffs have now
clarified that their claims for IICR and IIPEB are both based entirely on the
2012 default Powers Judgment. In other words, the Powers Judgment is the only ‘economic
relationship’ between Plaintiffs and Powers, so the jury need only consider
once the issue of whether Champlin interfered with it.” (Defendant’s Brief at
p. 6:13-19, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiffs counter that “[b]ecause Plaintiffs’
IICR and IIPEB claims each require separate elements, the discovery rule
questions on the verdict form should address each claim separately, as
Plaintiffs proposed.” (Plaintiffs’ Opp’n at p. 9:23-25.) Defendant does not
appear to respond to or dispute this point in his reply. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court agrees with Defendant that Question
3(a) of his proposed special verdict form is the appropriate formulation of the
verdict form question. The Court finds that Defendant’s Question 3(b) should be
revised to ask about discovery of Plaintiffs’ two causes of action separately,
as proposed by Plaintiffs. 
Conclusion 
The Court’s conclusions pertaining to the “Joint Stipulation Re Issues
to be Briefed” are set forth above. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  December
 3, 2024                    ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


