 Case Number:  23STCV18378    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 




JAVIER SOTO, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
CCV PARTNERSHIP II, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV18378




Hearing Date:


December 3, 2024




Hearing Time:   10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PETITIONS TO APPROVE MINOR’S COMPROMISE OF
  PENDING ACTION (4)
 




            
Background
On August 3, 2023, a
number of Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendant CCV Partnership II,
including, inter alia, Plaintiffs Javier Soto; Fernando Soto, a minor by
and through his Guardian ad Litem, Javier Soto; Stephany Soto, a minor by and
through her Guardian ad Litem, Javier Soto; Miguel Soto, a minor by and through
his Guardian ad Litem Javier Soto; and Jose Soto, a minor by and through his
Guardian ad Litem Javier Soto. 
The parties have
reached a settlement in this matter.
Javier Soto as Petitioner for Claimants Fernando Soto, Stephany Soto, Miguel
Soto, and Jose Soto (“Petitioner”) now petitions for
the Court’s approval of the settlement on behalf of the Claimants.  
            Discussion
An enforceable settlement of a minor’s claim can only be consummated
with court approval. ((Prob. Code, § 3500.) “A
petition for court approval of a compromise of, or a covenant not to sue or
enforce judgment, on a minor’s disputed claim; a compromise or settlement of a
pending action or proceeding to which a minor or person with a disability is a
party; or the disposition of the proceeds of a judgment for a minor or person
with a disability under Probate Code sections 3500 and
3600-3613 or Code of Civil Procedure section 372
must be verified by the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all
information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise,
covenant, settlement, or disposition. Except as provided in rule 7.950.5, the
petition must be submitted on a completed Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or
Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person With a Disability (form
MC-350).” (California Rules of Court, rule 7.950, emphasis in
original.)  
Here, the petitions are prepared on forms
MC-350 and are verified by Petitioner. However, the Court notes a few defects
with the petitions. 
First,
it appears that Item 17(e) of
the petitions should have been checked “is,” as opposed to “is not.” The
petitions include an Attachment 17e providing, inter alia, “[t]he firm
of Friedman & Chapman LLP represents all of the plaintiffs in this matter
including the petitioners who are the guardian ad litems for all minors in this
matter.” 
Second, Item 18(b)(6) of the
petitions is checked and provides that $7,413.74 is to “be transferred to a
custodian for the benefit of the minor under the California Uniform Transfers
to Minors Act. The name and address of the proposed custodian and the money or
other property to be transferred are specified in Attachment 18b(6).” However,
the petitions include an “Attachment 18(b)(2).” (Emphasis added.) In
addition, the “Attachment 18(b)(2)” does not list “the money or other property
to be transferred.” (Petition, Item 18(b)(6).) 
Third, Item 11(b)(3) of the
petitions provides that Petitioner is a plaintiff in the same action with the Claimants.
Item (b)(3) further provides, “[i]f you answered ‘is,’ explain in Attachment
11b(3) the circumstances and the effect your claim and its disposition has on
the proposed compromise of the claim or action described in this petition.” However,
it does not appear that any Attachment 11b(3) was provided with the petitions. In
addition, Item 11(b)(6) of the petitions provides, “[r]easons for the apportionment
of the settlement payments between the claimant and each other plaintiff or
claimant named above are specified in Attachment 11b(6).” However, it does not
appear that any Attachment 11b(6) was provided. 
Fourth, Item 8(a)(1) of the
proposed orders (Form MC-351) for each of the petitions does not specify who
the attorney’s fees are payable to. 
Fifth,
Item 9(c)(2) of each of the proposed
orders is checked, and Item 9(c) provides that “[t]he balance of the proceeds
of the settlement or judgment deposited in a blocked account or accounts under
item 8b(1) may be withdrawn only as follows (check (1) or (2))…” However, Item
8(b)(1) of the proposed orders is not checked, and the proposed orders do not
appear to specify that the balance of the proceeds of the settlement are to be
deposited in a blocked account. In addition, Item 9(c)(2) of the proposed order
pertaining to Fernando
Soto does not specify Fernando Soto’s birthdate. 
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the petitions are denied without
prejudice. 
Petitioner is ordered to give notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  December 3, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court