 Case Number:  24STCV07715    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




SHILOH PARKER, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
HALEY FREIBERGER, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV07715




Hearing Date:


December 3, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  FIRST AMENDED MOTION TO DEEM ALL ORDERS/TENTATIVE RULINGS ISSUED AFTER
  OCTOBER 4, 2024 AS INVALID/VOID DUE TO LACK OF
  JUDICIAL AUTHORITY; 
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  FIRST AMENDED MOTION TO RECONSIDER DUE TO LEGAL ERROR, ABUSE OF DISCRETION,
  AND LACK OF LEGAL AUTHORITY; AND
 
DECEMBER 16,
  2024 AND MARCH 24, 2025 MOTIONS TAKEN OFF CALENDAR
 




Background
Plaintiff
Shiloh Parker (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on March 27, 2024 against
Defendants Haley Freiberger and Kyle Freiberger. The Complaint alleges causes
of action for 
(1) “fraud by
intentional misrepresentation,” (2) “fraud by negligent misrepresentation,” 
(3) “breach of
good faith and fair dealing covenant,” (4) violation of Business
and Professions Code section 17200, et seq., and (5) breach of oral contract.[1]

             Plaintiff now moves “for an Order to deem all
orders/tentative rulings issued by Judge Beaudet after October 4, 2024 as
void/invalid.” Specially Appearing Defendants Haley Freiberger and Kyle
Freiberger (jointly, the “Freibergers”) oppose. 
            Plaintiff also moves for “for an
Order staying all the proceedings and decision-making in this matter until
Plaintiff’s Motion To Reconsider its order dated October 22, 2024 [sic],
granting Defendants’ Motion to Quash Summons due to legal error and abuse of
discretion, pursuant to this Court’s discretion and as matter of law.” The Freibergers
oppose. 
            Discussion 
 
A.    Plaintiff’s
First Amended Motion to Deem all Orders/Tentative Rulings Issued After October
4, 2024 as Invalid/Void 
Plaintiff states that she “will appear for
an Order to deem all orders/tentative rulings issued by Judge Beaudet after
October 4, 2024 as void/invalid because Judge Beaudet was disqualified from
presiding over this matter on October 4, 2024 as a matter of law, and
therefore, lacked legal authority to preside over this matter and/or to issue
any orders/tentative rulings on this matter after October 4, 2024.” (Notice of
Mot. at p. 2:5-10.)
The Court notes that pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 170.3, subdivision (c)(1), “[i]f a judge who should disqualify himself or herself refuses or
fails to do so, any party may file with the clerk a written verified statement
objecting to the hearing or trial before the judge and setting forth the facts
constituting the grounds for disqualification of the judge. The statement shall
be presented at the earliest practicable opportunity after discovery of the
facts constituting the ground for disqualification. Copies of the statement
shall be served on each party or his or her attorney who has appeared and shall
be personally served on the judge alleged to be disqualified, or on his or her
clerk, provided that the judge is present in the courthouse or in chambers.” 
In the instant motion, Plaintiff appears to cite to Code of Civil Procedure section 170.3, subdivision
(c)(3), which
provides that “[w]ithin 10 days after
the filing or service, whichever is later, the judge may file a consent to
disqualification in which case the judge shall notify the presiding judge or
the person authorized to appoint a replacement of his or her recusal as provided
in subdivision (a), or the judge may file a written verified answer admitting
or denying any or all of the allegations contained in the party’s statement and
setting forth any additional facts material or relevant to the question of
disqualification. The clerk shall forthwith transmit a copy of the judge’s
answer to each party or his or her attorney who has appeared in the action.” In
addition, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 170.3, subdivision (c)(4), “[a] judge who fails to file a consent or
answer within the time allowed shall be deemed to have consented to his or her
disqualification and the clerk shall notify the presiding judge or person
authorized to appoint a replacement of the recusal as provided in subdivision
(a).” 
Plaintiff contends that “[o]n or about September 23, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a motion to disqualify Judge Beaudet for bias and/or prejudice…” (Mot. at
p. 2:7-8, citing Plaintiff’s Exhibit A.) Plaintiff further contends that “Judge
Beaudet failed to file a consent or answer within the time allowed by statute,
which was 10 days from the date of service, September 24, 2024…Therefore…Judge
Beaudet consented to her disqualification on or about October 4, 2024, when
Judge Beaudet’s answer was required to be served, and was deemed disqualified
as of October 4, 2024, as a matter of law.” (Mot. at p. 3:19-24.) 
As a threshold mater, the docket for this action does not show that
Plaintiff filed any “written verified statement objecting to the hearing or
trial before the judge and setting forth the facts constituting the grounds for
disqualification of the judge.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
170.3, subd. (c)(1).) Despite Plaintiff’s assertion that she filed a
motion to disqualify “[o]n or about September 23, 2024,” (Mot. at p.
2:7-8) the docket does not show that any such motion was filed. 
In her declaration in support of the instant motion,
Plaintiff contends that “[o]n or about September 23, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a motion to disqualify Judge Beaudet for bias and/or prejudice
under Code of Civil Procedure § 170.1. (See Exhibit
A – a true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s Motion to Disqualify Judge
Beaudet).” (Parker Decl., ¶ 3.) The Court notes that “Exhibit A” to Plaintiff’s
declaration consists of a reservation for a motion. (Parker Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
Plaintiff’s “Exhibit A” also includes documents captioned “Plaintiff’s Notice
of Motion and Motion to Disqualify Judge Teresa A. Beaudet for Cause,” and “Plaintiff’s
Motion to Disqualify Judge Teresa A. Beaudet for Cause,” as well as supporting
declarations of Matthew Pearson and Shiloh A. Parker. (Parker Decl., ¶ 3, Ex.
A.) However, such documents are not file-stamped. (Parker Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Plaintiff
does not provide any evidence that she ever filed any purported “motion to
disqualify” in this case. 
Moreover, as
noted by the Freibergers, on October 21, 2024, the Court issued an “Order
Striking Statement of Disqualification; Verified Answer” in this action. The
Court’s October 21, 2024 Order notes, inter alia, that “[o]n October 14,
2024, Plaintiff Shiloh Parker filed an ex parte application, seeking to
stay this matter pending resolution of a ‘motion to disqualify Judge Beaudet,’
which Plaintiff claims she filed on September 23, 2024…The Court has reviewed
its file and the record in this matter, and there is no evidence that any
motion to disqualify Judge Beaudet (or any similar statement of
disqualification for cause) was filed on September 23, 2024, or on any other
date. Statements of disqualification for cause must be physically filed with
the clerk of the court (see Court’s Nov. 5, 2018 Order re Mandatory
Electronic Filing in Civil, section (b)(4)(A)(i).)” (October 21, 2024 Order at
p. 1:20-27.) 
The Court’s
October 21, 2024 Order further provides that “[e]ven though Plaintiff’s ‘Motion
to Disqualify’ was neither properly filed nor served, the Court elects to
construe the motion as a verified statement of disqualification for cause
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 170.3 (the
‘Statement’), deems the Statement filed and served as of October 14, 2024
(which is the date the Court became aware of the Statement), and considers the
Statement on its merits…Because the Statement sets forth on its face no grounds
for disqualification, the Court strikes it pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 170.4(b).” (October 21, 2024 Order at p. 2:9-18.)[2] In addition, the Court’s
October 21, 2024 Order provides that “[t]he parties are reminded that the
determination of the question of judicial disqualification is not an appealable
order and may be reviewed only by writ of mandate from the Court of Appeal,
sought within 10 days’ notice to the parties of the decision. (Code Civ. Proc., § 170.3(d).).” (October 21, 2024 Order
at p. 5:5-7.) The Court notes that on November 7, 2024, the California Court of
Appeal, Second Appellate District in Parker v. Superior Court Los Angeles County et al. denied the petition for writ
of mandate filed in this matter. The Court of Appeal’s docket for this matter
indicates, inter alia, that “We have read and considered the petition for
writ of mandate filed on November 4, 2024. The petition is denied.” (See
Court of Appeal Case No. B341826.) 
As noted by the Freibergers, Plaintiff appears to be arguing that “orders/tentative
rulings” issued in this case after October 4, 2024 are “void/invalid” because
“Judge Beaudet was deemed to have consented to disqualification on October 4,
2024 after ten (10) days of inaction after a statement of disqualification
pursuant to Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 170.3.”
(Opp’n at pp. 3:27-4:1.) But as noted by the Freibergers and as discussed
above, Plaintiff does not provide any evidence that she ever filed any purported
statement of disqualification in this case. Moreover, as discussed, the Court already
indicated in its October 21, 2024 Order that the Court elected to construe
Plaintiff’s unfiled “motion to disqualify” “as a verified
statement of disqualification for cause pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 170.3 (the ‘Statement’),” and that the Court
strikes such Statement “pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 170.4(b).” (October 21, 2024 Order at p. 2:10-18.) 
The Court notes that Plaintiff also filed a declaration on November
20, 2024 in support of Plaintiff’s reply to the Freibergers’ opposition.
Plaintiff’s reply declaration raises a number of new contentions. The Court notes
that “¿[t]he general rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is not
permitted with reply papers.¿” (¿Jay v. Mahaffey¿(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.)
The Freibergers have not had the opportunity to address the new evidence
submitted in connection with Plaintiff’s reply. Moreover, Plaintiff does not
submit any evidence with the reply that was not available to her previously. Accordingly,
the Court declines to consider the new evidence submitted by Plaintiff in
connection with the reply. 
Moreover, even if the Court were to consider the new evidence
submitted with the reply, Plaintiff still does not demonstrate that she filed
any purported motion to disqualify. Plaintiff’s reply declaration does not
attach any file-stamped conformed copy of any motion to disqualify. Plaintiff contends
in her reply declaration that “Judge Beaudet’s clerk informed Plaintiff that
Plaintiff had to only serve Judge Beaudet’s clerk with the motion to disqualify
because the motion to disqualify was exempted from eFiling, and that Judge
Beaudet’s clerk would file it after being served with it.” (Parker Reply Decl.,
¶ 5.) Plaintiff contends that she “filed her motion by personally serving it on
Judge Beaudet’s clerk,” that she “filed her motion via eFiling,” and “by
mailing the first motion to disqualify Judge Beaudet to Judge Beaudet’s clerk
for filing.” (Parker Reply Decl., ¶ 5.) The Court notes that Plaintiff’s allegations
regarding conversations with unidentified Court staff about procedures in Department
50 are untrue and no such policies exist. The Court notes that Plaintiff
references purported conversations that are not part of any court record. 
Lastly, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s motion “for an Order to deem
all orders/tentative rulings issued by Judge Beaudet after October 4, 2024 as
void/invalid” is not the appropriate means by which to challenge the Court’s
October 21, 2024 “Order Striking Statement of Disqualification.” As the Court
stated in the October 21, 2024 Order, “the determination of the question of judicial
disqualification is not an appealable order and may be reviewed only by writ of
mandate from the Court of Appeal, sought within 10 days’ notice to the parties
of the decision. (Code Civ. Proc., § 170.3(d).).”
(October 21, 2024 Order at p. 5:5-7.)[3] Plaintiff has already
exercised such remedy, and as set forth above, on November 7, 2024, the
California Court of Appeal, Second Appellate District denied the petition for
writ of mandate. (See Court of Appeal Case No. B341826.)[4] 
In light of the foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion “for an Order to deem all orders/tentative rulings issued
by Judge Beaudet after October 4, 2024 as void/invalid…” 
B.    
Plaintiff’s First Amended “Motion to Reconsider”
(the “motion to reconsider”) 
Plaintiff also states that she “will appear
for an Order staying all the proceedings and decision-making in this matter
until Plaintiff’s Motion To Reconsider its order dated October 22, 2024 [sic],
granting Defendants’ Motion to Quash Summons due to legal error and abuse of
discretion, pursuant to this Court’s discretion and as matter of law.” (Notice
of Mot. at p. 2:5-9.) Plaintiff appears to be moving for reconsideration of the
Court’s October 22, 2024 Order granting the Freibergers’ motion to quash. The
“Conclusion” section of Plaintiff’s memorandum of points and authorities in
support of the “motion to reconsider” provides, inter alia, that “[t]his
Court should reconsider its ruling granting Defendants’ Motion To Quash…” (Mot.
at p. 13:24-26.)
The Court notes that Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008, subdivision (a) provides as follows: 
 
“When an application for an order has been made to a judge,
or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.” 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1008, subdivision (e), “[t]his section
specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to
all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the
renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section.” 
The legislative intent was to restrict
motions for reconsideration to
circumstances where a party offers the court some fact or circumstance not
previously considered, and some valid
reason for not offering it earlier. (Gilberd
v. AC Transit (1995) 32
Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500; Mink v.
Superior Court (1992) 2
Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342 [“[T]he party seeking reconsideration must provide not
only new evidence but also a satisfactory explanation for the failure to
produce that evidence at an earlier time.”]; New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213 [“The
burden under section 1008 is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial
on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that
the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or
produced it at the trial.”].) Moreover, counsel’s mistake based on ignorance of the law
is not a proper basis for reconsideration. (Pazderka v. Caballeros Dimas Alang, Inc. (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 658, 670.)
In the motion, Plaintiff makes a number of
arguments. First, Plaintiff argues that “Judge Teresa A. Beaudet abused her
discretion by holding Plaintiff to a different standard while allowing
Defendants’ attorney to not follow procedural rules, by allowing Defendants to
improperly serve Plaintiff; and by arbitrarily denying Plaintiff’s request for
discovery on the issue of jurisdiction.” (Mot. at p. 9:24-25.) As an initial
matter, the Freibergers assert that “Plaintiff has…failed to establish
any of the alleged errors through Plaintiff’s declaration…or in a manner which
complies CCP § 1008.” (Opp’n at p. 3:26-27.) Indeed,
Plaintiff does not articulate in the motion or in her supporting declaration
how “new or different facts, circumstances, or law”
purportedly exist such that the Court should reconsider its October 22, 2024
Order on the Freibergers’ motion to quash. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008,
subd. (a).) As discussed above, Code
of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (e) provides “[t]his section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with
regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application
to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be
considered by any judge or court unless made according to this section.” (Emphasis
added.) 
The Court also
notes that Plaintiff asserts in the reply that “the hearing set for December 3,
2024 is not for Plaintiff’s motion to reconsider the Order granting Defendants’
motion to quash…” (Reply at p. 3:7-8.) It is unclear why Plaintiff takes this
position in the reply, as Plaintiff’s motion argues that “[t]his
Court should reconsider its ruling granting Defendants’ Motion To Quash…” (Mot. at p. 13:24-25.) 
In the reply,
Plaintiff further states that “[t]he motion this Court is
scheduled to hear and decide on December 3, 2024 is Plaintiff’s Motion to
Reconsider this Court’s order denying Plaintiff’s First Motion to Disqualify
Judge Beaudet.” (Mot. at p.
3:25-26.)[5] This is not what Plaintiff’s
notice of motion provides. As set forth above, the notice indicates that
Plaintiff “will appear for an Order staying all
the proceedings and decision-making in this matter until Plaintiff’s Motion To
Reconsider its order dated October 22, 2024, granting Defendants’ Motion to
Quash Summons due to legal error and abuse of discretion, pursuant to this
Court’s discretion and as matter of law.” (Notice of Mot. at p. 2:5-9, emphasis
added.) The
Court also notes that “[p]oints raised for the first time in a reply brief will
ordinarily not be considered, because such consideration would deprive the
respondent of an opportunity to counter the argument.¿” (American Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453¿.)

In the motion, Plaintiff also argues that
“Judge Terra [sic] A. Beaudet committed legal error by
misinterpreting/misapplying Hall v. LaRonde
(1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1344 [66 Cal. Rptr. 2d 399 to require an
ongoing business relationship.” (Mot. at p. 10:21-22.) Plaintiff also argues
that “Judge Terra [sic] A. Beaudet committed legal error by finding that
Zillow.com is a passive website as was the website in Shisler v. Sanfer Sports Cars, Inc. (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 1254.”
(Mot. at p. 11:9-10.) In addition, Plaintiff argues that “Judge Terra [sic] A.
Beaudet committed legal error by finding that Defendants’ service of their
motion to quash was not defective.” (Mot. at p. 12:10-11.) However, reconsideration cannot be granted
based on claims the court misinterpreted
the law in its initial ruling; that is not
a “new” or “different” matter. (Gilberd v. AC
Transit, supra, 32 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1500.)[6]
Plaintiff further contends in the motion that “Judge Terra [sic] A.
Beaudet failed to execute her judicial duties in an impartial and fair manner and
abused her judicial role by using her role to harass the Plaintiff when it muted
Plaintiff’s phone during oral argument.” (Mot. at p. 12:23-24.) Again, as noted
by the Freibergers, Plaintiff does not provide an affidavit demonstrating “what
new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).) Moreover,
Plaintiff asserts in her declaration that “this Court improperly
muted Plaintiff’s cell phone,” but does not provide any transcript of the
proceedings. (Parker Decl., ¶ 21.) 
Plaintiff also argues that “Judge Terra [sic] A. Beaudet lacked legal
authority/jurisdiction to decide Defendants’ motion to quash because she was
deemed disqualified on/or about October 4, 2024 as a matter of law.” (Mot. at
p. 13:3-4.) This argument is addressed above in connection with Plaintiff’s
other motion “for an Order to deem all orders/tentative rulings issued by Judge
Beaudet after October 4, 2024 as void/invalid.” Plaintiff does not show that
Judge Beaudet was disqualified on October 4, 2024. As discussed, Plaintiff does
not provide any evidence that she ever filed any purported “statement of
disqualification” in this case.  
In her declaration in support of the motion to reconsider, Plaintiff
also contends that “[o]n or about September 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion
to disqualify Judge Beaudet for bias and/or prejudice...” (Parker Decl., ¶ 3,
citing Exs. E-F.) But again, Exhibits “E” and “F” to Plaintiff’s counsel’s
declaration in support of the “motion to reconsider” do not contain a
file-stamped conformed copy of any motion to disqualify. (Parker Decl., ¶ 3,
Exs. E-F.) Further, as discussed above, on October 21, 2024, the Court issued
an Order providing, inter alia, that “[e]ven though Plaintiff’s ‘Motion to
Disqualify’ was neither properly filed nor served, the Court elects to construe
the motion as a verified statement of disqualification for cause pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 170.3 (the
‘Statement’), deems the Statement filed and served as of October 14, 2024
(which is the date the Court became aware of the Statement), and considers the
Statement on its merits…Because the Statement sets forth on its face no grounds
for disqualification, the Court strikes it pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 170.4(b).” (October 21, 2024 Order at p. 2:9-18.)
Lastly, the
Court notes that Plaintiff also filed a declaration on November
20, 2024 in support of Plaintiff’s reply in support of the “motion to
reconsider.” This reply declaration also raises a number of new contentions. As
discussed above, “[t]he general rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is not
permitted with reply papers.¿” (¿Jay v. Mahaffey, supra, 218 Cal.App.4th at p. 1537¿.) The Freibergers
have not had the opportunity to address the evidence submitted in connection
with Plaintiff’s reply. Moreover, Plaintiff does not submit any evidence with
the reply that was not available to her previously. Accordingly, the Court
declines to consider the new evidence submitted by Plaintiff in connection with
the reply. 
Moreover, even if the Court were to consider the new evidence
submitted with the reply, Plaintiff still does not demonstrate that she filed
any purported motion to disqualify. Plaintiff’s reply declaration does not
attach any file-stamped conformed copy of any motion to disqualify. Plaintiff
contends in her reply declaration that “the clerk at the Stanley Mosk Court
house advised Plaintiff that her motion to disqualify had to [sic] personally
served to the judge Plaintiff was seeking to disqualify and that the clerk
would then file it since the clerk was the one being served. Further, because
Stanley Courthouse’s clerk previously rejected Plaintiff’s e-filed Motion To
Disqualify, Plaintiff also mailed it to Judge Beaudet’s chambers for filing.”
(Parker Reply Decl., ¶ 8.) Again, Plaintiff’s allegations regarding
conversations with unidentified Court staff about procedures in Department 50
are untrue and no such policies exist. The Court notes that Plaintiff
references purported conversations that are not part of any court record. 
Lastly, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s “motion to reconsider” the
Court’s October 22, 2024 Order is not the appropriate means by which to
challenge the Court’s October 21, 2024 “Order Striking Statement of
Disqualification.” As the Court stated in the October 21, 2024 Order, “the determination of the
question of judicial disqualification is not an appealable order and may be
reviewed only by writ of mandate from the Court of Appeal, sought within 10
days’ notice to the parties of the decision. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 170.3(d).).” (October 21, 2024 Order at p. 5:5-7.)[7] Plaintiff has already
exercised such remedy, and as set forth above, on November 7, 2024, the
California Court of Appeal, Second Appellate District denied the petition for
writ of mandate. (See Court of Appeal Case No. B341826.)[8]
In light of the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has
demonstrated grounds for the Court to “reconsider its ruling granting
Defendants’ Motion To Quash.” (Mot. at p. 13:24-25.) The Court denies
Plaintiff’s “motion to reconsider.”
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies (a) Plaintiff’s motion “for an Order to deem all orders/tentative rulings issued by
Judge Beaudet after October 4, 2024 as void/invalid,” and (b) 
Plaintiff’s
“motion to reconsider.” The Court will sign the proposed judgment submitted by
the Freibergers on October 31, 2024. 
Additionally, on October 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a “Motion to
Reconsider Due to Legal Error, and Lack of Legal Authority - Regarding Order
Dated October 21, 2024 - Judge Disqualification” based upon the same grounds
asserted in the motion “for an Order to deem all orders/tentative rulings
issued by Judge Beaudet after October 4, 2024 as void/invalid;” the hearing on
the October 30, 2024 motion to reconsider currently is set on March 24, 2025.
Because the Court has denied the motion “for an Order to deem all
orders/tentative rulings issued by Judge Beaudet after October 4, 2024 as
void/invalid,” and because Plaintiff’s remedy, as noted above, with regard to
the issue of judicial disqualification was the writ that was denied, the Court
hereby orders that the March 24, 2024 hearing on Plaintiff’s October 30, 2024 motion
is now off calendar as moot. 
Also, on July 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Leave to Depose
Attorneys of Record for Defendants in Preparation for Plaintiff’s Motion to
Disqualify Counsel. The hearing on that motion currently is set on December 16,
2024. Because the Court has denied Plaintiff’s “motion to reconsider” and the
proposed judgment will be entered in this matter, the Court hereby orders that
the December 16, 2024 hearing on Plaintiff’s Motion to for Leave to Depose
Attorneys …” is now off calendar as moot. 
The Freibergers are ordered to give notice of this Order.¿¿  
 
DATED:  December 3, 2024                                                  
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court 
 
 


