 Case Number:  21STCV34102    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants
Bruce R. Cook and William E. Devin, III’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
on First Amended Complaint
Defendants
Bruce R. Cook and William E. Devin, III move for judgment on the pleadings on all
causes of action alleged against them in the first amended complaint by
plaintiffs Perry Lazar and Plone Trust.  
Requests for
Judicial Notice
            Cook and Devin request judicial
notice of six exhibits.  Plaintiffs
request judicial notice of an additional six exhibits.  All the documents are court records or
recorded real property instruments subject to judicial notice of their contents
and legal effects, but not the truth of the matters asserted therein, under
Evidence Code section 452.  The court grants all requests for judicial notice
as to the documents’ existence and legal effects.
Discussion
Cook
and Devin argue all causes of action against them are untimely.  Judgment on the pleadings should be granted where
“the complaint shows on its face that the statute [of limitations] bars the action.”  (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Services (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.)  All causes of action against Cook and Devin
arise from their agreement to sell real property to plaintiff in 2004.  
Plaintiffs
rely on the delayed discovery rule.  To
do so, a plaintiff “must specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and
manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery
despite reasonable diligence.”  (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005)
35 Cal.4th 797, 808.)  “When a plaintiff reasonably should
have discovered facts for purposes of the accrual of a cause of action or
application of the delayed discovery rule is generally a question of fact,
properly decided as a matter of law only if [the record] can support only one
reasonable conclusion.”  (Stella v. Asset Management Consultants, Inc.
(2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 181, 193.)    
Plaintiffs
allege sufficient facts to invoke the delayed discovery rule.  The first amended complaint alleges they did
not discover defects in their title to the subject property until they tried to
sell the property in 2019.  (FAC, ¶¶
30-31.)  During that transaction,
plaintiffs hired “experts to attempt to establish a proper mete and bounds for
the property.”  (Id., ¶ 31.)  
Cook
and Devin argue the recorded real property instruments suffice to put plaintiffs
on inquiry notice of their claims.  Subsequent
purchasers have constructive notice of the contents of recorded real property
instruments.  (Civ. Code, § 1213.)  “The recordation of real property conveyances
gives constructive notice to subsequent purchasers and is the equivalent of
actual notice.”  (City of Anaheim v.
Metropolitan Water Dist. of Southern Cal. (1978) 82 Cal.App.3d 763,
771.)  As a result, “ ‘knowledge of [a
conveyance’s] contents is conclusively presumed.’ ”  (Citizens for Covenant Compliance v.
Anderson (1995) 12 Cal.4th 345, 355.) 

Cook
and Devin rely on discrepancies in the legal descriptions in five deeds.  (M. RJN, Ex. F, Sandstrom Decl., Exs. C-G.)  First, a tax deed recorded in 1980 conveying
parcel 5867-011-035 (parcel 35) to Cook and Devin, which includes a legal description
of the parcel by metes and bounds.  (Id.,
Ex. C.)  Second, a tax deed recorded in
1980 conveying neighboring parcel 5867-011-036 (parcel 36) to Cook and Devin,
which also includes a legal description of that parcel by metes and bounds.  (Id., Ex. D.)  Third, a grant deed recorded on December 9,
2003, conveying property to Kalousd Pandazos and Dalila Pandazos, states it
conveys parcel 35, but also includes a legal description by metes and bounds
that does not match the description in the tax deed for parcel 35.  (Id., Ex. E.)  Fourth, a grant deed recorded on March 1,
2004, purported to correct the prior deed conveying property to the Pandazoses
and includes a legal description by metes and bounds that differs from both the
initial tax deed and the prior deed recorded in December 2003.  (Id., Ex. F.)  Fifth, a grant deed recorded on March 8,
2004, purporting to convey parcel 36 to plaintiffs, also bears a legal
description that does not match the 1980 tax deed for that parcel.  (Id., Ex. G.)
In
reviewing a motion for judgment on the pleadings, the court must accept the
plaintiff’s allegations as true and make all reasonable inferences in
plaintiff’s favor.  At this stage in the
proceedings, the court does not conclude that, as a matter of law, plaintiffs
should have reasonably discovered the facts underlying their causes of action via
these property instruments.  A reasonable
trier fact may conclude that, in hindsight, and after experts have surveyed the
property, the legal description in the grant deed to plaintiffs was incorrect
and included property that Cook and Devin already conveyed to the Pandazoses.  But metes and bounds are only one way to
legally describe land.  Legal
descriptions are subject to complex rules of interpretation.  (See 3 Miller & Starr, Cal. Real Est. (4th
ed. 2023), §§ 8:61-8:64; Podd v. Anderson
(1963) 215 Cal.App.2d 660, 665 [“ ‘[A] land description is good if it
identifie[s] the land or affords a means for its identification’ ”].)  In discussing whether an insured reasonably
expected coverage under a title insurance policy, the Court of Appeal has stated,
“[I]t cannot be seriously claimed that in the ordinary case a purchaser of
title insurance is required to hire a surveyor to translate the technical legal
description that describes the land the policy is expected to insure.”  (Lee v. Fidelity National Title Ins. Co.
(2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 583, 598.)  These
recorded instruments were ambiguous enough that reasonable minds could conclude
they did not put plaintiffs on inquiry notice such that, with reasonable
diligence, they would have discovered their claims against Cook and Devin.  
Moreover,
the legal effects of these deeds (particularly that the “correction deed” is
invalid) were not necessarily clear from the recorded instruments themselves.  “If a correction instrument
‘purports to diminish the original grantee’s rights in some ways’ it ‘should
not be accepted, unless the original grantee first reconveyed to the grantor
or, at least, evidence in the record reveals her consent.’ ”  (XPO Logistics Freight, Inc. v. Hayward
Property, LLC (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 1166, 1180.)  Facts not apparent from the recorded
instruments could have shown that the grantees consented to the correction deed.  
Cook
and Devin also contend plaintiffs had actual notice of their claims based on
correspondence between plaintiffs and First American Title Company.  (M. RJN, Ex. E.)  The court cannot take judicial notice of the
authenticity or accuracy of those documents. 
Even if it could and did so, the court would not rule that, as a matter
of law, these documents establish plaintiffs had actual notice of the necessary
facts in 2011.  Those exhibits concern
defects in the title of parcel 36 regarding easements burdening the northern
portion of the property.  The first amended
complaint’s causes of action against Cook and Devin extend beyond that defect
in the title.  Plaintiffs’ claims arise
in part from the legal theory that Cook and Devin failed to give plaintiffs
valid title to any real property.  The
court cannot conclude that, as a matter of law, plaintiffs’ knowledge about the
easements put them on inquiry notice regarding the greater defect of title as
to the entire subject property.
Disposition
            Defendants
Bruce R. Cook and William E. Devin, III’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings on plaintiffs’ first amended complaint is denied.  
  