  Case Number:  21STCV19845    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants Bruce R. Cook and William
E. Devin, III’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings on Plaintiffs’ Complaint
Defendants
Bruce R. Cook and William E. Devin, III move for judgment on the pleadings on all
four causes of action alleged in the complaint by plaintiffs Perry Lazar and
Plone Trust.  After Cook and Devin filed
this motion, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the first three causes of action
against them.  Only the fourth cause of
action for declaratory relief remains.
Requests for
Judicial Notice
            Cook and Devin request judicial
notice of four exhibits.  Plaintiffs
request judicial notice of two exhibits. 
All documents are court records subject to judicial notice under
Evidence Code section 452(d).  The court grants
all requests for judicial notice.
Summary of
Allegations
Plaintiffs’
complaint arises from a dispute over two parcels of real property: assessor’s
parcel numbers 5867-011-035 (parcel 35) and 5867-011-036 (parcel 36).  (Comp., ¶ 6.) 
Parcel 35 is a strip of land along the north side of Ridgepine
Drive.  (Ibid.)  Parcel 36 is two non-contiguous portions of
land: 3.0 acres north of parcel 36 and 4.34 acres south of Ridgepine
Drive.  (Ibid.)  Cook and Devin acquired both parcels in
1980.  (Id., ¶ 7, Exs. 1-2.)  
The
dispute over the two parcels involves three grant deeds by Cook and Devin
purporting to convey portions of the parcels. 
First, by a grant deed recorded on December 9, 2003, Cook and Devin
conveyed property including parcel 35 to Kalousd Pandazos and Dalila
Pandazos.  (Comp., ¶ 7, Ex.
3.)  The legal description, however,
“included all of Parcel 35 and included the southern 4.34 acres of Parcel
36.”  (Id., ¶ 7.)  When plaintiffs moved for summary
adjudication, they presented evidence that this deed’s legal description
included parcel 35 and both the northern 3.0 acres and southern 4.34 acres of
parcel 36.  (M. RJN, Ex. C, Sandstrom
Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. E.)  
Second, on March
1, 2004, a “correction” deed was recorded to purportedly correct the first
grant deed by modifying the legal description to exclude the southern 4.34
acres of parcel 36.  (Comp., ¶ 8, Ex.
4.)  
Finally, by a
grant deed recorded on March 8, 2004, Cook and Devin purported to convey the
southern 4.34 acres of parcel 36 to plaintiff Perry Lazar.  (Comp., ¶ 9, Ex. 5.)  Plaintiffs allege the parties’ contract was
for Cook and Devin to sell both the northern 3.0 acres and southern 4.34 acres
of parcel 36 to Lazar.  (Id., ¶
9.)
Fourth Cause
of Action for Declaratory Relief
Plaintiffs’
complaint does not allege sufficient facts for the fourth cause of action for
declaratory relief against Cook and Devin. 
Declaratory relief is available to one “who desires a declaration of his
or her rights or duties… over or upon property” when there is an “actual
controversy” over those rights.  (CCP §
1060.)  “[T]he essence of an action for
declaratory relief is an allegation showing that either an actual (present), or
probable future, controversy exists relating to the legal rights and duties of
the parties, coupled with a request that those rights and duties be adjudged by
the court.”  (Sherwyn & Handel v. Department
of Social Services (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 52, 58.)
The complaint’s fourth
cause of action for declaratory relief alleges, “Plaintiff contends that he
paid for, contracted to obtain and owns the north and south portion of PARCEL
36 consisting of 7.34 acres.”  (Comp., ¶
36.)  It further alleges, “Plaintiff
contends that he has a non-exclusive right to use the PARCEL 35 easement for
ingress and egress, a right of way to pass over a road for any reason and any
purpose to the extent and dimensions of the existing easement recorded and held
by the City of La Crescenta.”  (Id.,
¶ 37.)  Finally, it alleges, “Plaintiff
requests a declaration regarding Plaintiffs rights against defendants’ quiet
title on the Subject Property.  Moreover,
Plaintiff request a declaration regarding its rights and remedies as related to
the easement by necessity to access the northern portion of Plaintiffs’
property.”  (Id., ¶ 38.)
The complaint
does not allege facts constituting a present or probable future controversy
over real property between Cook, Devin, and plaintiffs.  The grant deeds establish Cook and Devin
conveyed the entirety of both parcels 35 and 36 and retain no interest in the
subject property.  Any existing
controversy over who owns which portions of property is between plaintiffs and
the Pandazoses.         
As to the rights
under the real estate purchase contract between plaintiffs, Cook, and Devin,
the complaint does not allege a proper basis for declaratory relief.  A claim for
declaratory relief does not lie when “ ‘the rights of the complaining party have
crystallized into a cause of action for past wrongs,’ [citation] [and] a money
judgment will fully resolve the dispute.” 
(Cardellini v. Casey (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 389, 396.)  The real estate purchase contract was fully
performed in 2004.  Any breach or resulting
damages have crystallized into a cause of action that can be resolved by a
money judgment.  Plaintiff Perry Lazar is
already litigating such a cause of action against Cook and Devin in the related
case Perry Lazar v. Brad Korb, et al., No. 21STCV34102. 
Leave to Amend
            After a successful motion for judgment on
the pleadings, where “there is a reasonable possibility that the defects can be
cured by amendment, leave to amend must be granted.”  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1999)
75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.)  The plaintiff
bears the burden of “demonstrat[ing] how the complaint can be amended.”  (Smith v. State Farm Mutual Automobile
Ins. Co. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 700, 711.)  “Leave to amend should be denied where the
facts are not in dispute and the nature of the claim is clear, but no liability
exists under substantive law.”  (Lawrence
v. Bank of America (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 431, 436.)
            Plaintiffs do not meet their burden
of showing the complaint can be amended. 
Both the pleadings and the history of the litigation between the parties
in the related cases since plaintiffs filed the complaint establish there is no
present or probable future controversy on a subject proper for declaratory
relief between Cook, Devin, and plaintiffs.
Disposition
            Defendants Bruce R. Cook
and William E. Devin, III’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted.  The motion is moot as to the first through
third causes of action.  The court hereby
dismisses plaintiffs Perry Lazar and Plone Trust’s fourth cause of action for
declaratory relief against Cook and Devin without leave to
amend.
  