 Case Number:  23CHCV02888    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER WITH  MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV02888    Demurrer with Motion to  Strike Filed: 10/30/23   MOVING PARTY:  Defendant American Honda Motor Company, Inc. (“Defendant”)  RESPONDING PARTY:  Plaintiffs Eileen Pineda; and Jose Pineda (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant  demurs to the second cause of action in Plaintiffs’ Complaint. Defendant also  seeks an order striking Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled, and the  motion to strike is denied. Defendant shall file and serve an answer to  Plaintiffs’ Complaint within 30 days.   BACKGROUND    Plaintiffs  bring this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civil Code §  1790 et seq.) for a vehicle they purchased on or around 12/5/20, for which  Defendant issued the manufacturer’s express warranty. (Compl. ¶¶ 8–9.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant “was unable to repair the vehicle in  accordance with the written warranty or the consumer protection and warranty  laws of the State of California.” (Id. at ¶ 5.)    Plaintiffs  further allege that Defendant had actual knowledge of a defect in computerized  driver-assisting safety systems in the same model of vehicle as that purchased  by Plaintiffs, and continued to knowingly market and sell/lease vehicles  equipped with the defect while concealing the existence of those defects from  consumers such as Plaintiffs. (Id. at ¶¶ 23–25.)    On 9/27/23,  Plaintiffs filed their complaint, alleging against Defendant the following  causes of action: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express  Warranty; and (2) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment.   On 10/30/23,  Defendant filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike. On 3/11/24,  Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On 3/15/24, Defendant filed its reply. // // DEMURRER   Defendant¿demurs  to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action on the basis that the Complaint fails¿to  allege facts sufficient to¿state¿a cause of action for fraudulent concealment.   A.    Meet-and-Confer    Defendant’s counsel declares that on 10/25/23, he sent  Plaintiffs’ counsel a meet and confer letter regarding the issues raised in the  instant demurrer and motion to strike, but the parties were unable to come to a  resolution. (Decl. of Bryan A. Reynolds ¶ 2.) Therefore, counsel has  satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil  Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Fraudulent  Concealment   Plaintiffs’  second cause of action alleges fraudulent concealment against Defendant. “The  required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression  of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the  plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally  concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact  and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the  concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of  the concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v. Healthcare  Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)   1.       Particularity   Fairness  requires that allegations of fraud be pled “with particularity” so that the  court can weed out nonmeritorious actions before a defendant is required to  answer. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The  particularity requirement typically necessitates pleading facts that “show how,  when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar  v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) However, “less specificity  should be required of fraud claims when it appears from the nature of the  allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full information  concerning the facts of the controversy; even under the strict rules of common  law pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when  the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Alfaro v.  Community Housing Improvement & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171  Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)   In their  complaint, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant had actual knowledge of the  transmission defect through prior consumer complaints, and issued a number of service  bulletins acknowledging problems with the transmission. (Compl. ¶¶ 27–64.) Despite  this knowledge, Defendant allegedly “continued to fail to disclose this  unresolved safety defect to new and subsequent purchasers and lessees of Honda  Sensing-equipped vehicles, including Plaintiff(s). AMERICAN HONDA continues to  manufacture and sell AMERICAN HONDA vehicles equipped with the defective Honda  Sensing system without any disclosure to consumers about these hidden safety  defects.” (Id. at ¶ 69.)   Here,  Defendant argues that “Plaintiffs failed to plead with sufficient particularity  what representations AHM made to these particular Plaintiffs regarding the  sensing system (it has to be on this exact subject to be material), that these  Plaintiffs relied on in purchasing the Subject Vehicle.” (Dem. 12:8–10.) In Alfaro,  the Court of Appeal found that plaintiffs home purchasers in a housing  development were sufficiently specific in pleading fraud based on the defendant  vendors’ alleged nondisclosure of deed restrictions, even though plaintiffs did  not allege that the nondisclosure occurred by a certain means or at a certain  time or place, because the defendants possessed the records of their dealings  with plaintiffs. (171 Cal.App.4th at 1385.)    Here,  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant has exclusive access to “consumer complaints  to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”), consumer  complaints made directly to AMERICAN HONDA and its dealers, testing conducted  in response to those complaints, high failure rates and replacement part sales  data, and other sources which drove AMERICAN HONDA to issue Technical Service  Bulletins acknowledging this defect.” (Compl. ¶ 23.)   Defendant  argues that the foregoing allegations fail to establish Defendant’s “exclusive  knowledge” of the defects because “Plaintiffs specifically allege that the  operative facts underlying the alleged sensing defect were publicly available  since at least 2016 through multiple sources.” (Dem 15:13–20, citing Compl. ¶¶  27–64.) Plaintiffs argue in opposition that although a number of reports were  publicly available, “reasonable consumers such as Plaintiffs are not expected  nor are they required to do a complete research into the reports to NHTSA and  the technical service bulletins prior to her purchase of their new potential  vehicle. … . Defendant is in the superior position to hold this information and  make sure that it is readily available to reasonable consumers but failed to do  so.” (Pls.’ Opp. 8:21–26.) The Court agrees.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that the specificity pleading standard is  relaxed based on the facts alleged in Plaintiffs’ complaint, namely that  Defendant possesses the full information concerning the transmission defect. (Compl.  ¶¶ 27–64.)    2.       Duty to Disclose   “Fraudulent  concealment requires the ‘suppression of a fact, by one who is bound to  disclose it.’” (Huy Fong Foods, Inc. v. Underwood Ranches, LP (2021) 66  Cal.App.5th 1112, 1121, quoting Civ. Code § 1710, subd. 3.)  “Although, typically, a duty to disclose  arises when a defendant owes a fiduciary duty to a plaintiff …, a duty to  disclose may also arise when a defendant possesses or exerts control over  material facts not readily available to the plaintiff.” (Jones v.  ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1199.)   Here,  Defendant further argues that Plaintiff does not allege any direct dealings  with Defendant, and therefore has not alleged that Defendant had any requisite  duty to disclose. (Dem. 15:1–3, citing Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc.  (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 312.) In Bigler-Engler, the Fourth District  Court of Appeal found that the defendant manufacturer of a medical device owed  the plaintiff patient no duty to disclose where there was insufficient evidence  that the parties transacted in any way. (7 Cal.App.5th at 314.)   However, absent  a fiduciary relationship between the parties, Defendant may nevertheless have a  duty to disclose based on its superior control over the material facts  underlying the action. (Jones, 198 Cal.App.4th at 1199.) Here, the Court  is satisfied that Plaintiffs have alleged that Defendant possesses superior  knowledge of the material facts concerning the transmission defect. As  previously discussed, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged  that Defendant, as the manufacturer, “always had superior knowledge of the  Sensing Defect through sources not available to consumers, including  Defendant’s own design expertise, Defendant’s own records of customers’  complaints, dealership repair records, records from the National Highway  Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), warranty and post-warranty claims, and  internal pre-sale durability testing and technical service bulletins (TSBs).” (Pls.’  Opp. 3:19–23, citing Compl. ¶¶ 27–64.)    In Jones,  the Second District Court of Appeal found that the plaintiffs, family members  of a decedent worker, sufficiently pleaded that a defendant chemical  manufacturer owed a duty to disclose the hazardous nature of a chemical product  to the decedent worker, as would support fraudulent concealment, where the  plaintiffs alleged that the defendant alone had knowledge of the toxic  properties of the product, that it made representations regarding the product  that were likely to mislead, and that studies attesting to the product’s  toxicity had been published several years before worker began the employment  where he was exposed to manufacturer’s product. (198 Cal.App.4th at 1199–1200.)  The Jones court mentioned no requirement that the manufacturer and the  decedent must have transacted directly with one another to give rise to the  duty to disclose.   Here, the  Court is satisfied that “Plaintiffs have alleged specific facts to meet the  following elements: (1) Defendant concealed or suppressed a material fact  (Complaint, ¶¶ 71-83.); (2) Defendant had a duty to disclose the fact to  Plaintiffs based on its superior knowledge and active concealment (Complaint,  ¶¶ 65-70.) (3) Defendant intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with  the intent to defraud Plaintiffs (Complaint, ¶ 119); (4) Plaintiffs were  unaware of the fact and would not have acted as they did had they known of the  concealed or suppressed fact (Complaint, ¶¶ 66, 80, 87, 120, 124- 125.); and  (5) Plaintiffs were damaged as a result of the concealment (Complaint, ¶¶  124-125.)” (Pls.’ Opp. 5:6–12.)   The Court  notes the parties’ arguments regarding whether the dealership is Defendant’s  agent for purposes of vehicle sales, but the Court is satisfied at the demurrer  stage that Plaintiffs have alleged that “AMERICAN HONDA’S authorized  dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of HONDA vehicles to  consumers such as Plaintiff(s).” (Compl. ¶ 115.) At the demurrer stage, the  Court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly  pleaded or implied factual allegations. (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,  Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.)   Accordingly,  the Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts, under the  applicable relaxed pleading standard, to support each element of a fraudulent  concealment cause of action.    3.       Economic Loss Rule   “The  economic loss rule provides that, in general, there is no recovery in tort for  negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm  unaccompanied by physical or property damage. … For claims arising from alleged  product defects, economic loss consists of damages for inadequate value, costs  of repair and replacement of the defective product or consequent loss of  profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages to other property.” (Dhital  v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 837, review  granted Feb. 1, 2023, 523 P.3d 392 [internal quotations and citations  omitted].)[1]   “There is  no liability in tort for economic loss caused by negligence in the performance  or negotiation of a contract between the parties. …Where a purchaser’s  expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not  working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has  suffered only ‘economic’ losses. … The economic loss rule requires a purchaser  to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed  expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken  contractual promise.” (Id. at 838 [internal quotations and citations  omitted].)   Here,  Defendant argues that “the economic loss rule bars Plaintiffs’ fraudulent  inducement-concealment cause of action because Plaintiffs fail to allege that  AHM breached any duty independent of the warranty, or that Plaintiffs suffered  any independent tort loss beyond the alleged breach of warranty(ies) under the  Song-Beverly Act.” (Dem. 18:4–7, citing Food Safety Net Servs. v. Eco Safe  Sys. USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130 (“a party alleging fraud  or deceit in connection with a contract must establish tortious conduct  independent of a breach of the contract itself, that is, violation of some  independent duty arising from tort law.”).)   Plaintiffs  argue in opposition that “the economic loss rule does not apply to fraudulent  inducement because the duty not to commit fraud is independent of any contract  duties, and because the tortious conduct occurs prior to contract formation.”  (Pls.’ Opp. 11:19–21, citing Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543,  551.) Plaintiffs contend that here, they have sufficiently alleged that  Defendant fraudulently induced them to enter into purchasing the subject  vehicle by intentionally concealing a material fact concerning the subject  defect, a tort independent from Defendant’s alleged breach of the warranty  contract.   As the  Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment, as outlined above, the Court  likewise finds that this tort is independent from any alleged breach of the  warranty contract itself. Accordingly, the Court finds that the economic loss  rule does not apply to bar Plaintiffs’ second cause of action.   Based on the foregoing, the  demurrer to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is overruled.   MOTION TO STRIKE   The  court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any  pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or  any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this  state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving  to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Id., § 437.) Here, Defendant moves to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer  for punitive damages.    A.     Punitive  Damages   Punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of  malice, fraud, or oppression by clear and convincing evidence. (Civ. Code §  3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person  or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the  rights or safety of others. (Id. at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning  Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression”  means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in  conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an  intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known  by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise  cause injury. (Ibid.)   Punitive damages  must be supported by factual allegations. Conclusory allegations, devoid  of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that  parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court  (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz  Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171  Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)   1.      Particularity   Defendant  argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts with sufficient particularity  as to show Defendant’s “malice, fraud, or oppression  by clear and convincing evidence.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Plaintiffs’  conclusory allegations of ‘fraud’ omit key information—the ‘how, when, where,  to whom, and by what means’ the purported fraud occurred.” (MTS 8:8–10.)  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that they “have pled facts sufficient to  state a claim that Defendant fraudulently induced Plaintiffs into leasing the  Subject Vehicle, based on a theory of concealment.” (MTS Opp. 3:11–12, citing  Compl. ¶¶ 27–65, 71–83, 87, 120, 124.)   Based  on its foregoing analysis of Defendant’s demurrer against Plaintiff’s second  cause of action, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged  facts to support their prayer for punitive damages under the “fraud” prong of  Civil Code section 3294. The issue of Defendant’s intent to defraud is a  question of fact that the Court declines to determine at the demurrer stage. (Beckwith  v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1061.)   2.      Corporate  Ratification   “An  employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages … based upon acts of an  employee of the employer, unless the employer … authorized or ratified the  wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of  oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance  knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of  oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or  managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).)   Here,  Defendant argues that it cannot be held liable for punitive damages because “Plaintiffs  have not alleged that an officer, director or managing agent of AHM authorized,  ratified or personally engaged in any oppressive, malicious or fraudulent  conduct, as required by Civil Code § 3294(b).” (MTS 8:27–9:3.) In opposition,  Plaintiffs observe that they have alleged that ‘all acts of corporate employees  as alleged were authorized or ratified by an officer, director or managing  agent of the corporate employer.’” (MTS Opp. 4:26–28, quoting Compl. ¶ 7.)   Based  on the foregoing, the Court is satisfied at the pleading stage that Plaintiffs  have alleged Defendant’s ratification of employee conduct. Accordingly, the  motion to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages is denied.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled, and the motion to strike is  denied. Defendant shall file and serve an answer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint  within 30 days.   The Court is not requesting oral argument on this  matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice  of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the  Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all  other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of  the party’s intention to appear and argue.  “The tentative ruling will  become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”         Notice may be given either by email at CHAdeptF51@LACourt.org or by  telephone at (818) 407-2233.   Case Management Conference will be continued to  05/08/2024.       