  Case Number:  21STCV20577    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
ANGELINE
  BROWN,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
BEVERLY
  HILLS PROPERTIES, LLC, et al.,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  21STCV20577
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  06/01/21
Trial
  Date:  10/21/24



 
Hearing
date:  April 17, 2024
Moving
Party:  Defendant Conam Management
Corporation 
Responding
Party:  Plaintiff Angeline Brown 
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One)      
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            The
motion is DENIED.
            The
request for sanctions is also DENIED.
 
Background
            On
June 1, 2021, Plaintiff Angeline Brown (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative
Complaint against Defendants Beverly Hills Properties, LLC, a California
limited liability company; Donald T. Sterling Corporation, a California
corporation; Rochelle Sterling, as Trustee of the Sterling Family Trust; The
Sterling Family Trust; and Conam Management Corporation, a California
corporation (“Defendants”) for (1) Violation of Section 25249.6 of the Health
& Safety Code and (2) Declaratory Relief. 
 
            On
October 10, 2023, Defendant Conam Management Corporation (“Conam”) filed the
instant Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set
One). On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On April 10, 2024, Conam
filed a reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
Under Code of
Civil Procedure Section 2030.300, subdivision (a), parties may move for a
further response to interrogatories where an answer to the requests are evasive
or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿¿
 
Notice of the
motions must be given within 45 days of service of the verified response,
otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).) The motions must also be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b).)¿¿
 
Finally, Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving
further discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request,
the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling
further responses. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3)).¿
 
Discussion
            Notice
Defendant Conam
Management Corporation (“Conam”) propounded
Special Interrogatories (Set One) on February 24, 2023. (Wolter Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
On April 28, 2023, Plaintiff served objection-only responses. (Id. ¶ 4,
Ex. B.) Plaintiff finally served supplemental responses on August 15, 2023,
after additional extensions were provided by Conam. (Id. ¶ 6, Ex. D.)
Therefore, the present motion is properly noticed because it was filed
forty-five (45) days after Conam received Plaintiff’s supplemental responses. 
 
Meet
and Confer
Conam advances the declaration of its counsel of record, Theodore S.
Wolter attesting to meet and confer efforts prior to the filing of this instant
motion. Wolter avers he sent a meet and confer letter, requesting proper and
substantive responses after receiving Plaintiff’s objection-only responses on
April 28, 2023. (Wolter Decl. ¶¶ 4-5, Exs. B-C.) Wolter further avers Plaintiff
served supplemental responses on August 15, 2023. (Id. ¶ 6, Ex. D.)
Moreover, Wolter avers that he sent an additional meet and confer letter on
September 12, 2023 but despite the efforts and multiple extensions granted to
Plaintiff, no supplemental responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 21, 22, 24,
and 25 have been provided. (Id. ¶¶ 7-8, Ex. E.)
 
Therefore, Conam has sufficiently met and conferred on this matter before
bringing the instant motion.
 
Motion to Compel
Further Responses
Conam moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to serve further responses
to Special Interrogatories (Set One) Nos. 21, 22, 24, and 25. Conam argues
Plaintiff’s blanket objections are unmeritorious and cannot justify Plaintiff’s
withholding of substantive answers. Conam further argues Plaintiff’s responses
are not code-compliant because they are evasive and incomplete. Specifically,
Conam contends Plaintiff’s supplemental responses merely cited to her entire
document production in lieu of answering. 
Moreover, Conam contends contention interrogatories are expressly
contemplated and allowed for by statute, and the contention interrogatories
here do not seek "a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or
from" any documents. Similarly, Conam asserts even if it would have been
appropriate for Plaintiff to indiscriminately cite to her entire document
production in lieu of answering any interrogatories, Plaintiff here would not
have this option as neither her initial nor her supplemental responses timely cited
to Code of Civil Procedure Section 2030.230 as required by the statute for
election to produce documents. Additionally, Conam argues Plaintiff’s document
production, even in its entirety, does not adduce any facts supporting the
contentions Plaintiff plead in her Complaint or the information sought by the
specific interrogatories at issue in this Motion.  Lastly, Conam asserts Plaintiff refers Conam
to her entire document production, so even then it is not in compliance with to
Code of Civil Procedure Section 2030.230.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues she was undisputedly entitled to assert
and rely upon the attorney-work product privilege and premature disclosure of
expert opinion. Plaintiff further contends she provided detailed, meaningful,
and substantive information in response to the SROGs because the election refer
to writings from which the answers to these SROGs could be elicited provided
that no documents separating the underlying facts used by counsel, in
consultation with Plaintiff had ever been created. Plaintiff also asserts there
is no factual basis for Conam and its counsel’s accusations of evasiveness.
Finally, Plaintiff contends she did timely exercise her option to produce
documents, thus it was not waived.
 
In reply, Conam argues Plaintiff misrepresents that substance of the
subject interrogatories, which seek facts and witnesses in support of specific,
cited allegations in the Complaint not facts and person with knowledge that
violations of Proposition 65 is ongoing. Furthermore, Conam contends Plaintiff
did not carry her burden to justify her objections, invoke the work product
doctrine, and as to expert disclosure. In addition, Conam asserts Plaintiff’s
responses are inadequate because reference to documents is improper and
Plaintiff waived the option in her initial responses. Last, Conam argues it
does not seek Plaintiff’s counsel’s impressions of these facts or witness on
the facts and the identity of the witnesses themselves. 
 
Upon review of the Separate Statement, the Court finds that Conam is not entitled
to code-complaint, objection-less further responses to Special Interrogatories
Nos. 21, 22, 24, and 25. Each request seeks information regarding all facts
Plaintiff’s has to support her allegations made in the Complaint at Paragraphs
27 and 31, and to identify the persons with knowledge of these facts, which is
overbroad, vague, and may call for premature expert  disclosure. Furthermore, under Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2030.290, subdivision (a), a party who fails to timely serve
a response to interrogatories waives any right to exercise the option to
produce writings under Section 2030.230. Here, Conam admits it provided
Plaintiff with extensions to serve her initial responses, so she did not waive
her option under Section 2030.230. Finally, Plaintiff specifically refers to an
election of documents produced to Conam and identifies Rochelle Sterling and
management personnel as the persons with the knowledge of these facts. 
 
Therefore, the motion to compel further responses is DENIED.
 
 
 
Request for
Sanctions
Where the court grants a motion to compel further responses, sanctions
shall be imposed against the party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion
to compel, unless the party acted with substantial justification or the
sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (e).)
 
Here, the motion is DENIED. 
 
Therefore, the request for sanctions is also DENIED.
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: April 17, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court