 Case Number:  22STCV07880    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



A.B., a minor, C.D., a minor, E.F., a
  minor, G.H., a minor, by and through their guardian ERICKA ROSAL, and ERICKA
  ROSAL in her own capacity,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
PATHWAYS
  LA, a California Non-Profit Corporation, EDUARDO PENA, BLANCA “NELLA” MEJIA,
  CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES, COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, AND DOES
  3-100,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  22STCV07880
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 03/03/22
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: 02/27/23]
Trial
  Date: 10/24/24 



 
Hearing
date:                          04/17/24
Moving
Party:                         Defendant
Department of Social Services
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs A.B., a minor, C.D., a
minor, E.F., a minor, G.H.,                                       a
minor, by and through their guardian ERICKA ROSAL
Defendant’s

The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. The Defendant Department
of Social Services’ Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED
in its entirety, and Plaintiffs are given 20 days leave to amend.

 

Introduction
& Preliminary Matters
Factual Background
            Ericka
Rosal (Rosal) enrolled her four children (A.B., C.D., E.F., and G.H., collectively,
including Rosal, “Plaintiffs”) in the Pathways LA and Pathways Child Care
Subsidy Programs. (SAC ¶ 18.) Plaintiffs allege Pathways LA was marketed by Los
Angeles County (the County) as an alternative means of care for economically
disadvantaged families. (Ibid.) Rosal subsequently completed a Certificate of Enrollment
which provided Rosal with referrals to local childcare sites that Plaintiffs
allege the County of Los Angeles was responsible for licensing, funding,
maintaining, and operating. (Ibid.) 
            Plaintiffs
allege that while Rosal’s children were enrolled and present at such childcare sites,
the children were considered wards of the County and the County served in loco
parentis roles for the children. (SAC ¶¶ 18, 27, 28.) Plaintiffs allege
that one such childcare site was operated under the supervision of Defendant Blanca
Mejia (Mejia) and her brother, Defendant Eduardo Pena (Pena) — the Mejia House.
Plaintiffs allege that from an unknown date through August of 2021, Defendant Pena
molested, assaulted, or inappropriately fondled A.B, C.D., E.F., and G.H. (SAC
¶ 19.) On or about January 5, 2022, child A.B. reported these acts to her
mother, Plaintiff Rosal. Subsequently, Plaintiff Rosal reported the incidents
and completed a police report. Since this date, Defendant Pena has no longer
been located at the Mejia House. 
 
Procedural History
            Plaintiffs
filed suit on March 3, 2022. A First Amended Complaint was filed on February
27, 2023, followed by the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) filed on
June 5, 2023. The SAC makes allegations against several defendants: (1)
Pathways LA, (2) Pena, (3) Mejia, (4) the California Department of Social
Services, and (5) the County. The SAC alleges the following eleven causes of
action:
1.    
Negligence – Liability of Employees
2.    
Negligence – Liability of Public
Entity
3.    
Negligent Hiring, Retention, &
Supervision
4.    
Negligence – as to Pathways LA
5.    
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
6.    
Assault
7.    
Sexual Battery
8.    
Battery
9.    
Breach of Duty to Want, Educate,
& Train
10.  Violation
of Cal. Civ. Code § 1708.5
11.  Violation
of Cal. Civ. Code § 52.4
            The Motion now before the Court is the
California Department of Social Services’ (DSS) Demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint. DSS is demurring to the first, second, third, fifth, tenth, and
eleventh causes of action. Plaintiffs
oppose the Demurrer and DSS files a reply.
Meet and Confer
            “Before
filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).)
Plaintiffs present the Declaration of Mark A. Brown which states that in
addition to emailing Plaintiff’s counsel, the issues within the SAC were
discussed on a call on June 7, 2023. Although no resolution was reached, the
requirements of CCP § 430.41(a) have been satisfied. 
Request for Judicial Notice
            Concurrently
filed with their Demurrer is DSS’s request for judicial notice. DSS requests
that the Court take judicial notice of the following:
1.    
California Department of Social
Services, Child Welfare Services Manual, Rules 31-101, 31-310, and 31-320.
2.    
The legislative history of proposed
Government Code ¶ 815.8
            Pursuant
to CEC § 452(b)-(c), judicial notice is granted.  
Discussion
Legal Standard
for Demurrer
            “[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury
Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court
may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or
documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of
ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true,
but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2
Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Analysis for
Demurrer 
            In their moving papers, DSS puts
forth three primary arguments: (1) that Plaintiffs’
do not plead sufficient facts such that their negligence claims fall outside of
statutory immunities; (2) the first,
second, third, fifth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action do not plead
sufficient facts to state a cause of action; and (3) the SAC is subject to a heightened pleading standard and fails to
meet that standard. 
            Upon
opposition, Plaintiffs assert several arguments. The primary arguments are (1) the
Government Code Immunities do not bar Plaintiffs’ claims upon Demurrer and (2) additional
ultimate facts can be pled more specifically. As explained below, the Demurrer
is sustained in its entirety, and Plaintiffs are granted 20 days leave to
amend. 
 
A.    Preliminary arguments
            Prior to addressing the parties’
primary arguments, the Court finds it necessary to address four preliminary notes.

            First, the Court will note that the
eleventh cause of action for Violation of CIV § 52.4 has been
voluntarily dismissed by Plaintiffs without prejudice. Therefore, the Court
will only address and apply this ruling to the first, second, third, fifth, and
tenth causes of action.
            Second,
Plaintiffs argue that the instant Demurrer is moot because similar arguments
made in DSS’s Demurrer were made in the County’s Demurrer which was sustained.
Additionally, Plaintiffs argue that a new amended complaint is forthcoming.
However, the Court disagrees that the Demurrer is moot. The SAC is the current
operative complaint and remains so until a new complaint is properly filed.
Plaintiffs present no authority to the contrary.   
            Third,
Plaintiffs vicarious liability arguments rely on the assumption that a DSS
employee was involved in the misconduct alleged, however, the SAC fails to
allege a specific DSS employee committed any misconduct. At no point is it
alleged that either Pena or Mejia was a DSS employee. (See generally, the SAC.)
            Finally,
Plaintiffs present the issue of ultimate facts, and argue that (a) the law
instructs this Court that the facts pleaded in the SAC are ultimate facts and
(b) Plaintiffs also contend that additional ultimate facts can be amended as
discovery is underway. The Court agrees that facts pleaded in the SAC are taken
as true. (See Aubry, supra at 967. [“For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.”]) However, it
is the facts, and only the facts that are taken as true, conclusory statements
on the other hand are to be disregarded because they do not support a cause of
action. (See CACIVP CH 6-B, 6:123-6:126.) Moreover, the Court is only
restrained by the facts in the operative complaint, not additional facts that
may be forthcoming because of discovery. 
            With that, the Court now turns to
the parties main arguments. 
 
B.    The Immunities
            Upon Demurrer, DSS lists several
immunities that they believe bar Plaintiffs negligence claims. DSS puts forth
four separate immunities: (1) the Licensing Immunity, (2) the Inspection
Immunity, (3) the Misrepresentation Immunity, and (4) the Discretionary Act
Immunity. 
            Here, only the Licensing Immunity
and Inspection Immunity are applicable to DSS in the present scenario. At the
moment, there is no cause of action against DSS for misrepresentation, and the
misconduct alleged was not a result of an exercise of discretion vested in Pena
or Mejia.
            DSS is alleged to have licensed the
care site where Rosal alleges that her children were harmed. (SAC, ¶ 18.) The
Licensing Immunity that DSS refers to is outlined in GOV § 818.4 which states: “A
public entity is not liable for an injury caused by the issuance, denial,
suspension or revocation of, or by the failure or refusal to issue, deny,
suspend or revoke, any permit, license, certificate, approval, order, or
similar authorization…”. Plaintiffs argue that Elton v. County of Orange
(1970) 3 Cal.App.3d 1053 (Elton) holds that judges can in fact inquire
into decision made with respect to the care and supervision of a plaintiff who
is a dependent child. However, the Court can distinguish Elton from the
case at bar. Elton’s discussion surrounded the abuse suffered after the
plaintiff there was placed by the defendants. The defendants in that case –
also public entities – additionally certified the abusers to care for children
prior to the allegations being brought against the defendants. Here, Rosal’s
children were placed in the Mejia House by Rosal herself. Additionally, the Elton
Court was careful to point out that in discussing GOV § 818.4, the public
entity defendants in Elton attempted to use GOV § 818.4 as a shield,
however the plaintiff in that case was not alleging that their cause of action
was based in negligence of licensing, it was based in the entity defendants not
performing the inspection, supervision, and control functions required. (Elton,
supra, at 1059.) Therefore GOV § 818.4 did not apply to that specific cause
of action. However, here, all the actions being alleged are grounded in the
negligence of licensing the Mejia House. Therefore, the immunity
applies, and the current SAC falls to Demurrer. Accordingly, the Court need not
address the Inspection Immunity.     
             
C.    The Causes of Action
            In addition to falling to the
Licensing Immunity in GOV § 818.4, the causes of action are deficient.
                          
i.         
The
Negligence Causes of Action – First, Second, and Third
            Here, the negligence causes of
action fail because the SAC fails to establish a special relationship existed
between any DSS employee or DSS and Plaintiffs. A special relationship would
demonstrate that a duty of care was owed. California courts have recognized
several examples of where the special relationship doctrine applies:
“Relationships between parents and children, colleges and students, employers
and employees, common carriers and passengers, and innkeepers and guests, are
all examples of special relationships that give rise to an affirmative duty to
protect.” (Golick v. State of California (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th
1127, 1140.) Under the special-relationship doctrine, whereby a duty of care to
protect a victim from third party harm may arise when the defendant has a
special relationship with either the victim or the third party, a “special
relationship” between the defendant and the victim is one that gives the victim
a right to expect protection from the defendant, while a special relationship
between the defendant and the dangerous third party is one that entails an
ability to control the third party's conduct. (Id. Also see generally,
REST 2D TORTS § 315.) 
            Here, Plaintiffs simply state in a
conclusory fashion that “The Government Parties [including DSS] and Pathways
have [sic] special relationship with and duty of care to Ms. Rosal in these circumstances…”.
(SAC ¶¶ 30, 95, & 96.) However, no facts substantiate the existence of a
special relationship between DSS and Plaintiffs. 
                        
ii.         
Tort
Causes of Action
            In addition to the negligence causes
of action failing for lack of a special relationship, the first, second, third,
and fifth causes of action fail because the SAC fails to point to a statue that
imposes direct liability on DSS. DSS correctly points out that all tort causes
of action against a public entity in California must be based on a statue and
that every fact material to the existence of liability must be pled with
particularity. (See Mittenhuber v. City of Redondo Beach (1983) 142
Cal.App.3d 1, 5. [“Because recovery is based on a statutory cause of action,
the plaintiff must set forth facts in his complaint sufficiently detailed and
specific to support an inference that each of the statutory elements of
liability is satisfied.”]) Here all tort causes of action fail to do so.
Therefore, the first, second, third, and fifth causes of action fail. 
                      
iii.         
Tenth
Cause of Action: Violation of CIV § 1708.5 - Sexual Battery
            Finally, the last cause of action
fails against DSS because the code is aimed at “persons”, however, Defendant
DSS is not a person. 
             
Legal Standard
and Analysis for Leave to Amend
            Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect
can be cured by amendment”]. As there may be reasonable possibility of
successful amendment, the Court grants 20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
the Defendant Department of Social Services’ Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Second
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety, and Plaintiffs
are given 20 days leave to amend. 
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: 04/17/2024
 
_______________________
Rolf M. Treu
Judge of the
Superior Court