  Case Number:  23STCV23457    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  61 NEIL ANENBERG vs ANTONETTE ISHAM, et al. (Commercial)TENTATIVEDefendants Antonette Isham’s Motion to Set Aside Judgment is GRANTED. Judicial Assistant is to calendar a trial within 30 days.Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSIONCode of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) states:The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken . . . . Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment . . . unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.Defendant Antonette Isham (Defendant) moves for relief from the judgment entered against her on August 5, 2024, following an uncontested trial, on the grounds that she was hospitalized from August 4 through August 7, 2024, and therefore unable to appear to present her meritorious defense. (Motion at pp. 4–6; Isham Decl. ¶¶ 4–5, Exh. A.)Plaintiff Neil Anenberg (Plaintiff) argues that the relief sought is unavailable under Code of Civil Procedure § 473, as relief under that statute for mistake or neglect is not available after an uncontested trial. (Opposition at pp. 3–4.) Plaintiff argues that the only relief Defendant could obtain following the judgment after trial would have been through a timely motion for new trial, time for which had already elapsed by the time Defendant brought this motion. (Opposition at pp. 4–7.)Plaintiff is incorrect that relief from mistake or neglect under Code of Civil Procedure § 473 is barred following judgment after trial. The authority that he relies upon for this proposition rather states that only mandatory relief, obtained through an attorney’s affidavit of fault, is so barred, because judgment following trial is not analogous to a “default or dismissal,” for which such relief is available. (See Noceti v. Whorton (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1068; Vandermoon v. Sanwong (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 315, 321.) By contrast, “discretionary relief under the statute is not limited to defaults, default judgments, and dismissals, but is available from any judgment.” (English v. IKON Business Solutions, Inc. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 708C, 149.) In the proper circumstances, then, a defendant may seek discretionary relief from judgment after trial under section 473, subd. (b).Nor is Defendant limited in these circumstances to seeking relief through a motion for new trial, or within the time allotted for same. While a party cannot obtain relief under section 473, subd. (b), based on their failure to file a timely motion for new trial (See Kisling v. Otani (1962) 201 Cal.App.2d 62, 67 [holding that trial court does not have “authority under section 473 to extend the time limitations specified in section 659”]), Defendant here does not seek relief based on the failure to file a timely motion for new trial, but on the contention that trial was had in her absence, while she was being hospitalized.“The test of whether neglect was excusable is whether “ ‘a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar circumstances' might have made the same error.” (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1128.) Defendant has made a showing of mistake and excusable neglect for her failure to appear for trial on August 5, 2024, namely that she was hospitalized beginning the day before and through the duration of trial, and was therefore unavailable for same.Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.