  Case Number:  23CHCV00954    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 3/12/24
Case #23CHCV00954
 
MOTION TO
COMPEL 
(Special
Interrogatories, Set 1).  
 
Motion filed on 2/16/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant D&M Home Inspections
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Monica Gonzalez
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
compelling Plaintiff Monica Gonzalez to serve complete verified responses
without objection to Defendant D&M Home Inspections’ Special
Interrogatories, Set 1, within 7 days after the hearing on the motion.  Additionally, D&M requests an order
imposing sanctions against Plaintiff Monica Gonzalez in the amount of $1,430
with regard to all 3 concurrently filed motions to compel.  

 
RULING: The motion is placed off calendar.  
 
SUMMARY
OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This
action arises out of Plaintiffs Delia M. Gonzalez, Monica M. Gonzalez and
Jessica Acosta’s (Plaintiffs) purchase of real property commonly known as 9043
Greenbush Avenue in Pacoima California from Defendants Maria Ramos and Gilardo
Ramos (the Sellers).  
 
Plaintiffs
allege that, on 12/1/22, the Sellers and their Century 21 agents failed to
disclose that the property was repaired, patched, and painted to conceal the
fact that the roof needed replacement; mold had to be removed; and there was
significant rotted wood in the walls and ceilings.  Plaintiffs also allege that that Defendants Ivan
Escobar of D&M Home Inspections (D&M), also failed to disclose and/or
minimized the significant damage to the roof, ceiling, and walls which were
“unsound to withstand rain, bugs, and mold.”
 
As
a result of the foregoing, on 4/5/23, Plaintiffs, representing themselves,
filed this action  alleging various
causes of action.  Pursuant to this
Court’s order sustaining the demurrer of certain defendants with leave to
amend, on 11/28/24, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint.    
 
On
5/23/23, D&M served Plaintiff Monica Gonzalez with Special Interrogatories,
Set 1.  (Campo Decl., Ex.A).  Plaintiff has failed to provide any responses
to the interrogatories, despite meet and confer efforts from D&M’s
counsel.  (Campo Decl., Ex.B). 
 
Therefore, on 2/16/24, D&M filed and purportedly
served the instant motion seeking an order compelling Plaintiff Monica Gonzalez
to serve complete verified responses without objection to Defendant D&M
Home Inspections’ Special Interrogatories, Set 1, within 7 days after the
hearing on the motion.  Additionally,
D&M requests an order imposing sanctions against Plaintiff Monica Gonzalez
in the amount of $1,430 with regard to all 3 concurrently filed motions to
compel.  No opposition or other response
to the motion has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The Special Interrogatories and the follow-up meet and
confer letter were mailed to Plaintiffs at their physical mailing address
listed in eCourt: 9043 Greenbush Avenue, Pacoima, California 91331.  (See 
Campos Decl., Ex.A, B).  However,
the proof of service for the instant motion indicates that the motion was
served on all Plaintiffs by email at Delia.gonzalez71@gmail.com.  (See Proof of Service filed
2/16/24).  
 
CCP 1010.6(c) provides: 
 
“(c)(1)
This subdivision applies to electronic service by consent of an unrepresented
person in a civil action.
(2) An
unrepresented party may consent to receive electronic service.
(3) Express
consent to electronic service may be given by either of the following:
(i) Serving a
notice on all parties and filing the notice with the court.
(ii)
Manifesting affirmative consent through electronic means with
the court or the court's electronic filing service provider, and concurrently
providing the party's electronic address with that consent for the purpose of
receiving electronic service. The act of electronic filing shall not be
construed as express consent.
(4) A person
who has provided express consent to accept service electronically may withdraw
consent at any time by completing and filing with the court the appropriate
Judicial Council form.
(5) Consent,
or the withdrawal of consent, to receive electronic service may only be
completed by a person entitled to service.”
 
There is no evidence before the Court that any of the
Plaintiffs have consented to receive electronic service nor is an email address
listed in eCourt for any of the Plaintiffs. 
Since there is no response to the motion to cure the defect in notice,
the motion is placed off calendar.    
 