 Case Number:  23SMCV02323    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Mohr, et al.,
v. NuBu22 LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV02323
MOTION:                  OSC
Re: Preliminary Injunction 
HEARING DATE:   1/19/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section
526(a), a preliminary injunction may be issued in the following cases: 
 
1)
When it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief
demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the
commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period
or perpetually. 
2)
When it appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or
continuance of some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or
irreparable injury, to a party to the action. 
3)
When it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
            4) When pecuniary compensation would
not afford adequate relief.  
5)
Where it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation
which would afford adequate relief. 
6)
Where the restraint is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial
proceedings. 
            7) Where the obligation arises from
a trust. 
 
            In determining whether to issue a
preliminary injunction, the trial court considers two factors: 1) the
reasonable probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial
(CCP §526(a)(1)); and 2) a balancing of the “irreparable harm” that the moving
party is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied compared to the harm
that the non-moving party is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary
injunction. (CCP §526(a)(2); 14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp.
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.) “A preliminary injunction is an interim
remedy designed to maintain the status quo pending a decision on the
merits.” (MaJor v. Miraverde Homeowners
Assn. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 618, 623.) “[A] cause of action must exist before injunctive
relief may be granted.” (Id.)
 
            The court’s ruling on a preliminary
injunction is not an adjudication of the merits, is not a trial, and does not
require a statement of decision. (Cohen v. Board of Supervisors,
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 277, 286.) The judge is not required to state her reasons for
granting or denying a preliminary injunction; a cursory statement is
sufficient. (City of Los Altos v. Barnes, (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
1193, 1198.) A proposed order must be presented to the judge for signature,
with any required undertaking, within one day after the preliminary injunction
is granted, or other time ordered by the judge. (CRC 3.1150(f).)
 
EVIDENTIARY
ISSUES
 
Defendants’ request for judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
Defendants’ objections to the declaration of Jeff Mohr are SUSTAINED as
to nos. 9, 26-28, 46, 55-62, and otherwise overruled.  As to many of the overruled objections, the
Court finds the submitted evidence irrelevant to these proceedings so no ruling
is issued.  Furthermore, while the Mohr
Declaration does contain parol evidence, the parol evidence is not an
evidentiary rule that outright excludes evidence, but makes that evidence irrelevant
to prove an integrated writing.  Such
evidence may be relevant for other purposes including providing necessary
context for the multiple iterations of the easement or the reasonableness of
the encroachments in the balancing of equities. Similarly, the fire risk and HOA
related evidence can be considered by the Court and weighed as part of the
irreparable injury analysis. 
 
Defendants’ objections to the declaration of Jacquelyn Heitman are
SUSTAINED as to nos. 1-8 on hearsay and relevancy grounds.
 
Plaintiffs’ objection to the entirety of the Ralph Mier declaration is
SUSTAINED. (CCP § 2015.5.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ objections to the Christian
Yellich declaration are
SUSTAINED as to nos. 6, 11-13 and otherwise OVERRULED.
 
Plaintiffs’ objections to the Alice Yellich declaration are SUSTAINED as
to nos. 16-18 and otherwise OVERRULED.
 
Plaintiffs’ objections to the Greg Heller declaration are OVERRULED.
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiffs Jeff Mohr and Linda M.
Mohr move for a preliminary injunction, enjoining Defendants NuBu22 LLC,
Christian Yelich, Alecia Yelich and/or Tyler Development Corporation and their
agents as follows:
 
1. [From] Impeding and/or denying
ingress and egress over and across the easement are described in Plaintiffs’
Verified Complaint on file herein, including, but not limited to, erecting gates,
walls, fences, posts, chains, locks, vehicles and any and all other barriers
placed within the easement area that is the subject of this action and/or
blocking access to said easement area and/or the Mohr Property, or continuing
construction, installation or placement of further barriers anywhere in the
recorded easements, pending entry of judgment in this action.
 
2. [From] Impeding and/or
interfering with free access by Plaintiffs, their contractors, agents, guests
and invitees, including vehicles and equipment, by, through, over and across
the easement area described in Plaintiffs’ Verified Complaint on file herein.
 
 
This dispute between neighbors
arises, in part, from an access easement over a shared roadway. Plaintiffs’ Property
is landlocked and located behind Defendants’ property in the Malibu canyon area.
Plaintiffs’ property can only be accessed via a shared private road along the
boundary of the parties’ properties, located principally on Defendants’ property.
The private road is subject to a series of easements and amendments recorded in
the early 1990s. (Compl., ¶ 25.) 
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
plan to construct a new single-family dwelling on their property, which would
include installing a fence and gate that unreasonably interferes with their
access easement. (Compl., ¶ 26.) Specifically, the encroachments prevent
delivery trucks from accessing the property (¶ 26), do not comply with the
minimum unobstructed 20’ wide access required by the County fire department (¶
27), and eliminate the required hammerhead turnaround (¶ 28). Plaintiffs
contend that Defendants must provide for the 20’/40’ width of the roadway, may
not block access to the driveway, and may not erect a fence/gate at the
westerly entrance to Defendants’ property, among other things. (¶ 44.) Plaintiffs
state eleven causes of action regarding the subject easements, including quiet
title, prescriptive or equitable easement, trespass and nuisance, among other causes.
To be entitled to the above injunction, Plaintiffs must demonstrate that they
would prevail on the merits of their easement claims.
 
An easement creates a nonpossessory right
to enter and use land in another's possession and obligates the possessor not
to interfere with the uses authorized by the easement. (Main Street Plaza v.
Cartwright & Main, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1044, 1053.) “It
is fundamental that the language of a grant of an easement determines the scope
of the easement.” (Schmidt v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 223 Cal.
App.4th 1489, 1499, internal citations omitted.) “The extent of a servitude is
determined by the terms of the grant.” (Civil Code § 806.) “An easement
agreement is subject to the rules of interpretation that apply to contracts. As
with all contracts, the paramount goal of interpreting the writing creating an
easement is to determine the intent of the parties[.]” (Hill v. San Jose
Family Housing Partners, LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 764, 777, internal
citations omitted.) “The interpretation of a written instrument, even though it
involves what might properly be called questions of fact, is essentially a
judicial function to be exercised according to the generally accepted cannons
of interpretation so that the purposes of the instrument may be given effect.”
(Parsons v. Bristol Development Co. (1965) 62 Cal.2nd 861, 865; see
McCoy v. Matich (1954) 128 Cal. App. 2d. 50, 53 [it was
a question of fact whether a particular gate would unreasonably interfere with
the exercise of an easement unless it clearly appears that under no
circumstances would defendant be entitled to maintain gates]; but see Van
Klompenburg v. Berghold (2005) 126 Cal. App. 4th 345, 350 [instrument
conveying the easement expressly stipulated that the roadway was to be “kept
open” and “wholly unobstructed”].)
 
Plaintiffs provide
the express terms of the easement. By the terms of the recorded instruments,
the subject easement requires Defendants to “at all times, at their sole
expense, keep the said paved roadway easement granted herein free and
clear of structures, walls, vehicles, planters and debris, including
but not limited to, all earthen material.” (Compl., ¶ 25, emphasis added.) Plaintiffs
cite two encroachments that they contend pose a risk of irreparable harm: a
proposed gate and a proposed wall/fence. 
 
Plaintiffs assert that the gate
will totally block access for their guests, deliveries, and service workers.
Plaintiffs claim that Defendants’ proposed workaround for the gate, a “mail and
package drop-off area” outside the gate and an “app” to open the gate, would be
insufficient.  (Mohr Decl., ¶ 27.)
Plaintiffs are both senior citizens and have relied on the easement to have
access to their property. If the gate is installed, they would have to
physically retrieve and carry necessities, such as gallons of water or large
bags of dog food, over 450 feet to their Property. (Id., ¶ 28.) Further,
Plaintiffs contend that the phone app is not a workable solution, since cellular
and landline service is unreliable in the area. (¶ 30.) If the gate does not
open, then anyone approaching in a vehicle would have to back out 325 feet
around a blind curve on an unlit narrow road with a steep drop-off. (¶ 31.) 
 
There is no dispute that the gate
is built across the paved roadway subject to the easement. The easement
requires the “paved roadway easement” to be “free and clear” of structures and
walls. Under the plain meaning of the terms “free and clear” and “structure,” the
gate would violate the easement’s terms. The gate’s presence on or above the
paved roadway would mean that the roadway is not “free and clear” of “structures.”
Thus, Plaintiffs demonstrate that the gate may, in fact, violate the terms of
the easement. 
 
However, the record does not
strongly suggest that the gate would create a risk of irreparable harm. While
Plaintiffs present evidence of the unreliability of the proposed app for
controlling the gate, Defendants also plan on providing defendants with an access
code, a clicker, and keys to open the gate. This belt-and-suspenders approach
minimizes the risk posed by Plaintiffs—that the gate would make their property
inaccessible to themselves and emergency vehicles. At worst, Plaintiffs
speculate that the redundant methods of access may simultaneously fail.
Notably, Defendants also plan on installing fail-safes, so that if the gate
fails, it will open. For example, in the event that the power goes out, there
is a backup battery and the gates will swing open and remain open until power
is restored. (Mier Decl., ¶3.) Thus, it is not likely that Plaintiffs will
suffer irreparable injury from the gate.  As to the deliveries, the Mohr’s could allow
anyone past the gate to make deliveries, so there would be no requirement that
the Mohr’s move their mailbox. (See Mohr Decl., ¶27.)  
 
Plaintiffs also object to
Defendants’ proposed wall, which would reduce the size of the existing 40-foot
turnaround. (¶ 31.) Specifically, Plaintiffs claim that Defendants’ proposed
plans patently encroach on the Mohr Easement’s turnaround. (C. Yelich Decl, ¶
9, Ex. 1.) The Court notes that the documentary evidence is unclear on the
exact extent of the fencing encroachment. Plaintiffs claim that the plans show
that the proposed wall will limit the turnaround’s width to less than 35 feet.
(Id.; Mohr Decl., ¶¶ 14, 32, Ex. D.) This would be a substantial encroachment
onto the easement. Anyone turning a vehicle around in this area, depending on
the precise dimension, would possibly risk irreparable and great bodily
harm if they do not have enough room to turn around. Of course, Plaintiffs note
that this is easily fixed: the encroaching fence will be on the border of
Nubu22’s backyard and can easily be moved five feet onto Defendants’ property
without affecting any of Defendants’ other proposed improvements. (C. Yelich
Decl, ¶ 9, Ex. 1.) Thus, the record does not suggest that the anticipated fence
would violate the easement, or risk irreparable harm.
 
Here, Plaintiffs do not demonstrate
“irreparable” harm because they do not show that the proposed plans or current
structure(s) pose any safety risk, particularly as to the turnabout or gate access.
The Court takes seriously Plaintiffs’ reasonable need for the Mohrs, their
invitees, and emergency personnel to access the Mohr property safely.
The Mohrs and others should be able to enter or leave the Mohrs’ property, driving
safely forward on the perilous Malibu canyon roads. Of course, the Mohrs and
others should not be forced to back out of the shared driveway considering the
safety risks. However, the record does not sufficiently demonstrate that the
gate or the fences would create such a risk. For instance, there is no evidence
that the proposed fence, in the approved plans or new plans, would make it
impossible to turn around in a large vehicle. At best, Plaintiffs provide
evidence that the encroachment would render the turnaround 35 feet instead of
40 feet. There is no evidence before the Court that this five foot reduction would
be insufficient for an emergency vehicle to turn around, let alone a consumer
grade vehicle. The same holds true for the gate. While the gate may violate the
easement, Plaintiffs do not show that vehicles approaching the closed gate could
not turnaround, especially in light of the access features Defendants plan on
installing. Thus, absent a more certain threat to Plaintiffs’ safety, the Court
cannot state that there is a risk of irreparable harm. 
 
For these reasons, the motion is
DENIED. 