  Case Number:  23STCV24724    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   February
13, 2024                                           
 
CASE NAME:           Dominick
Martin v. Sugartown Worldwide LLC
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV24724

 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Sugartown Worldwide, LLC d/b/a lillypulitzer.com          
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Dominick Martin
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action and for uncertainty.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff Dominick Martin (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendant Sugartown Worldwide LLC d/b/a
lillypulitzer.com (Defendant) with one cause of action for Violation of the
Unruh Civil Rights Ace, California Civil Code § 51, et seq. According to the
Complaint, Plaintiff is a blind individual who requires screen reading software
to read website content and access the internet. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s
website is inaccessible to blind users. 
 
On November 13, 2023, Defendant filed a Declaration
indicating inability to meet and confer.
 
On December 12, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer. On January
30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. Defendant’s reply was due on or before
February 5, 2024. As of February 6, 2024, the court has not received a reply
brief.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice as
to Exhibits 1 and 2. (Evid. Code § 452(c), (d); See Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing
Solutions, LLC (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the court only takes judicial notice of the
foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of
public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice
of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App.
5th 389, 400.)¿¿ 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. §430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their
meet and confer obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ.
Proc. §430.41(a)(2) & (3). According to the Declaration of Gregory Hurley,
the parties met and conferred telephonically on November 30, 2023 but were
unable to resolve the issues. (Hurley Decl. ¶¶ 2-4.) Accordingly, the meet and
confer requirement is met.
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only
issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿ 
 
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) Courts also consider exhibits attached to
the complaint and incorporated by reference. (See Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Frantz).) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff lacks standing because he
has not alleged an injury in fact, that Plaintiff failed to allege a single
barrier or category of barrier in the Complaint, that Plaintiff failed to plead
a nexus between the website and physical store, that Plaintiff failed to plead
intentional discrimination because he simply pled Defendant failed to maintain
an accessible website, and that Plaintiff failed to plead that he was a bona
fine patron as a tester. Plaintiff argues that he sufficiently alleged standing,
that he did not need to allege specific barriers because the website was
completely inaccessible, that the website expedites his ability to utilize
Defendant’s services offered at their physical retail stores, that Defendant
discriminated against him because he put Defendant on notice with a prefiling
letter and Defendant failed to take steps after receiving notice, and that he
sufficiently plead a dual motivation as a tester and a customer.
 
 
“California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act provides: ‘All persons
within the jurisdiction of this state are free and equal and no matter what
their….disability… are entitled to the full and equal accommodations,
advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in all business establishments
of every kind whatsoever. (Civ. Code, § 51, subd. (b).) A violation of any
individual right under the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) is
also a violation of California’s Unruh Act. (Civ. Code § 51, subd. (f).) Under
the ADA, “[n]o individual shall be discriminated against on the basis of
disability in the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities,
privileges, advantages, or accommodations of any place of public accommodation
by any person who owns, leases (or leases to), or operates a place of public
accommodation.” (42 U.S.C. § 12182(a).) Under the ADA, a place of public
accommodation expressly includes establishments that serve food or drink. (42
U.S.C. § 12181(7)(B).)   
 
A plaintiff can recover under the Unruh Act on two alternate
theories: (1) a violation of the ADA; or (2) denial of access to a business
establishment based on intentional discrimination. (See Martinez v. Cot’n Wash Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 1026, 1035 (Cot’n Wash).)
 
i.                   
ADA
Violation
Under the nexus theory recently adopted by California courts
of appeal, “websites are covered by the ADA only if there is a nexus between
the websites and access to a physical place of public accommodation.
[Citation.]” (Thurston v. Midvale Corp. (2019)
39 Cal.App.5th 634, 640-41.) “[D]iscrimination occurring
‘offsite’ violates the ADA if it prevents disabled individuals from enjoying
services a defendant offers from a physical place of public accommodation.” (Id.; see
also Martinez v. San Diego County
Credit Union, supra, 50 Cal.App.5th at p. 1067 [agreeing with the nexus
theory standard and stating it “requires a court to focus on the connection
between the website and the goods and services offered by the defendant”]; Martin v. Thi E-Commerce, LLC (2023) 95
Cal.App.5th 521, 529-531.)  
 
Upon reviewing the Complaint, Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged an ADA violation. First, Plaintiff alleges he is a blind individual who
requires screen reading software to read website content and access the
internet, he attempted to access Defendant’s website in connection with a
desire to visit their store and could not access the website effectively.
(Compl. ¶¶ 5, 9.) Second, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s website provides
access to Defendant’s array of services, description of products, amenities and
services, and other benefits connected to its brick and mortar location.
(Compl. ¶¶ 11, 12.) Third, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed and refused
to remove access barriers on their website. (Compl. ¶¶ 5, 16, 21.) Finally,
Plaintiff alleges that the website’s inaccessibility denied visually impaired
patrons, like Plaintiff, full and equal access to Defendant’s facilities and
services that are available to the non-disabled public, which violates the
Unruh Civil Rights Act. (Compl. ¶ 20.) 
 
Thus, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged an ADA violation.
 
i.                   
Intentional
Discrimination
Upon reviewing the Complaint, Plaintiff has not sufficiently
alleged intentional discrimination. A claimant may not rely on the effects of a
facially neutral policy on a particular group to infer a discriminatory intent.
(See Cot’n Wash, supra, at p. 1036.)
Failure to take affirmative action to correct an alleged barrier to access
after being notified of it is insufficient to demonstrate intentional
discrimination in violation of the Unruh Act. (Id. at pp. 1036-1038; Martin,
supra, at p. 538 [“A disparate impact analysis or test does not apply to
Unruh Act claims.”]).) Here, Plaintiff claim is based on the structure of
Defendant’s website which is a facially neutral action.[1]
(See Cot’n Wash, supra, at p. 1038.) The Court in Martin is particularly instructive here. There, the Court found
that the plaintiff’s pre-suit letter to the defendant was not sufficient to
support intentional discrimination relief under the Unruh Act. (Martin, supra, at p. 538.) Considering
the entire Complaint, here, Plaintiff’s allegations of intentional
discrimination are tied to notifying Defendant via the pre-suit letter that
their website was inaccessible to blind users and that Defendant failed to act
after receiving this letter. (Compl. ¶¶ 5, 16, 21.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff failed to sufficiently allege intentional
discrimination.
 
However, because the court may not split a cause of action,
Plaintiff has sufficiently plead facts supporting his cause of action for
Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act. (Fire
Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
2.      Demurrer
to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              February 14, 2024                   __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


