 Case Number:  24STCV14074    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
JONATHAN PALEY,  


 
 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
24STCP14074




vs.
 
 
MARINA GRASIC, et al.,
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE: PRELIMINARY
  INJUNCTION
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



            Petitioner Jonathan Paley moves for
a preliminary injunction against defendants (1) Marina Grasic, individually and
as trustee of the Coastal Road Trust; (2) Credit Bridge Lending, LLC; (3) Nancy
Laura Stevens, as trustee of the Vardyger Trust; and (4) Jan Korbelin, as
trustee of the Coastal Road Trust.
 
I.       Factual Background
 
            On February 26, 2010, petitioner Jonathan Paley filed a
civil action in New York Supreme Court against defendant Jan Korbelin, Curious
Pictures, LLC (“Curious”) (a production company for which Korbelin was Chief
Executive Officer), and other defendants. (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex. 1.)
Plaintiff sought a buyout of his ownership interest in Curious, his unpaid
salary, and a severance payment. (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex. 1 at ¶¶ 1-3, 8.)
On December 7, 2017, the New York Supreme Court entered a judgment against
Curious solely and in favor of plaintiff in the amount of $1 million.
 
            On December 8, 2015, plaintiff filed another action
against Korbelin, defendant Marina Grasic (Korbelin’s wife), and other
defendants. (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff alleged that, to avoid paying
on the judgment owed by Curious, Korbelin and Grasic had transferred two
projects that had originated at Curious to a company owned by Grasic. (Mobargha
Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 3 at ¶¶ 1-5.) On December 15, 2023, after plaintiff won on
summary judgment, the New York Supreme Court entered judgment against Korbelin,
Grasic, and other defendants, and in favor of plaintiff in the amount of
$1,449,963.75. (Mobargha Decl. ¶¶ 8, 10 & Exs. 5, 7.) 
 
            Through post-judgment discovery in the second New York
action and other investigation (Mobargha Decl. ¶¶ 11-14), plaintiff learned
that, on June 28, 2023, Grasic executed a Short Form Deed of Trust and
Assignment of Rents (“Deed of Trust”), whereby Grasic pledged real property
located at 3453 Rambla Pacifico in Malibu (“Malibu Property”) as collateral for
a $3,425,000 promissory note in favor of defendant Credit Bridge Lending, LLC
(“Credit Bridge”). (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 19 & Ex. 14.) Grasic is the sole
member of Credit Bridge. (Mobargha Decl. ¶¶ 16-18 & Exs. 11-13.) 
 
            On July 6, 2023, Grasic and defendant Nancy Laura Stevens
executed an Irrevocable Trust Agreement establishing The Vardyger Trust, with
Grasic as Grantor and Stevens as Trustee. (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 22 & Ex. 17.) On
the same date, Grasic conveyed the Malibu Property to Stevens, as Trustee for
The Vardyger Trust for no consideration. (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 23 & Ex. 18.) Grasic’s
two children are beneficiaries of The Vardyger Trust. (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 22
& Ex. 17, Article Two.) Grasic has been friends with Stevens, also known as
Natasha Stoynoff, for 25 years. (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 37 & Ex. 32; see also Mobargha
Decl. ¶ 22 & Ex. 17 [email address of Stevens is natashastoynoff@hotmail.com].)
Grasic and Korbelin continue to reside at the Malibu Property. (Mobargha Decl.
¶ 12 & Exs. 8, 9 [Interrogatory Responses dated 2/2/24 at 2].)
 
            On February 11, 2024, Credit Bridge assigned the Deed of
Trust to Stevens, as Trustee for The Vardyger Trust. (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 20 &
Ex. 15.) On March 9, 2024, Stevens assigned the Deed of Trust to defendant Red
Oak Partners LLC (“Red Oak”). (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 21 & Ex. 16.)
 
            On July 6, 2023, Grasic and Korbelin created the Coastal
Road Trust, with Grasic and Korbelin as Grantors and Trustees. (Mobargha Decl.
¶ 24 & Ex. 19.) On the same date, Grasic assigned her interest in Credit
Bridge to herself and Korbelin, as Trustees of the Coastal Road Trust, for no
consideration. (Mobargha Decl. ¶¶ 25, 26 & Exs. 20, 21.) On the same date,
Grasic assigned her interest in Dreamchase Inc. (“Dreamchase”) to herself, as
Trustee of the Coastal Road Trust for no consideration. (Mobargha Decl. ¶¶ 27-31
& Exs. 22-26.) Grasic is President, Secretary, and Treasurer of Dreamchase.
(Mobargha Decl. ¶ 32 & Ex. 27.)
 
            As of July 31, 2023, Grasic had approximately $300 and
$500 in her savings and checking accounts respectively. (Mobargha Decl. ¶¶ 33,
34 & Exs. 28, 29.)  
 


II.      Procedural History 

            On
June 5, 2024, plaintiff filed a Complaint. On August 16, 2024, plaintiff filed
the operative First Amended Complaint against Grasic; Grasic and Korbelin, as
Trustees of the Coastal Road Trust; Credit Bridge; Stevens, as Trustee of The
Vardyger Trust; and Red Oak. 
 
          On August 20, 2024, the Court (Hon. James C. Chalfant, presiding) granted
in part plaintiff’s ex parte application. Judge Chalfant denied plaintiff’s
request for a temporary restraining order but issued an order to show cause why
a preliminary injunction should not issue. Judge Chalfant ordered the summons,
First Amended Complaint, moving papers, and order granting the ex parte
application to be personally served on all named defendants by August 23, 2024.

 
Proofs of service of
summons have been filed for Credit Bridge; Grasic; Grasic and Korbelin, as
Trustees of the Coastal Road Trust; and Stevens, as Trustee for The Vardyger
Trust. With the exception of Stevens, the proofs of service of summons indicate
that all required documents were served on August 22, 2024. Stevens was served
all required papers by substitute service on September 3, 2024.
 
            On September 3, 2024, specially appearing defendants
Grasic and Korbelin, as Trustees of the Coastal Road Trust, filed an
opposition. On September 5, 2024, plaintiff filed a reply. 
 
III.     Analysis
 
Plaintiff seeks a preliminary injunction prohibiting
defendants from further transferring, dissipating, or encumbering the Malibu
Property or the interests in Credit Bridge or Dreamchase (collectively
“Corporate Interests”). 
 
A.          
Defendant Stevens
 
As a preliminary matter, the ruling herein does not
apply to defendant Nancy Laura Stevens, as Trustee of The Vardyger Trust,
because Stevens was not served by August 23, 2024, as Judge Chalfant ordered.
(8/20/24 Minute Order; 9/6/24 Proof of Service of Summons.) The Court will
schedule an Order to Show Cause re: why a preliminary injunction should not
issue with respect to Stevens after discussion with the parties. 
 
B.          
Service on Defendants Grasic and Korbelin
 
Grasic (individually and as Trustee) and Korbelin
(as Trustee) oppose the issuance of a preliminary injunction on the ground that
they were not personally served with the summons, First Amended Complaint, or moving
papers for the order to show cause.[1] 
 
The proofs of service of summons filed on August 26,
2024 indicate that Grasic and Korbelin (as well as Credit Bridge through
Grasic) were personally served by registered process server Diego Vasquez on
August 22, 2024 at 8:10 a.m.
 
            Korbelin
declares that, on August 22 at 7:40 a.m., a man pushed through a gate to his
house into his daughter while his daughter was opening it. (Korbelin Decl. ¶
3.) The man was holding a box and purportedly said he had a delivery. (Korbelin
Decl. ¶ 4.) Korbelin rushed his daughter back into the house, asked the man
what he was doing, informed him that he was trespassing, and asked him to
leave. (Korbelin Decl. ¶ 5.) The man refused to leave. (Korbelin Decl. ¶ 5.) Korbelin
closed the front door and called the police. (Korbelin Decl. ¶ 6.) The man
banged on the front door. (Korbelin Decl. ¶ 7.) When the police arrived at 8:30
a.m., Korbelin noticed that papers had been left on the porch to the front
door. (Korbelin Decl. ¶ 9.) The man purportedly did not identify himself as a
process server or indicate that he was serving legal papers. (Korbelin Decl. ¶
10.) 
 
            Grasic
declares that she did not see, speak with, hear, or otherwise interact with a
process server on August 22, 2024, nor was she outside the house or any place
where the process server could have seen her. (Grasic Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
            By
contrast, Vasquez declares that, on August 22, 2024 at 8:10 a.m., he saw
Korbelin open the front door of the Malibu Property and saw Grasic standing
behind Korbelin. (Vasquez Decl. ¶ 9.) He approached the front door and repeatedly
announced that he needed to personally serve them. (Vasquez Decl. ¶ 10.) Korbelin
demanded that Vasquez exit the property, indicated that the police would be
called, and closed the front door. (Vasquez Decl. ¶ 11.) After waiting a
moment, Vasquez left the papers on the porch in front of the door. (Vasquez
Decl. ¶ 11.) Deputies from the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department later
arrived. (Vasquez Decl. ¶ 12.) One of the deputy sheriffs told Vasquez that Korbelin
accused him of having assaulted his children. (Vasquez Decl. ¶ 12.) Vasquez
identified himself as a process server and denied the assault. (Vasquez Decl. ¶
12.) The deputy later told Vasquez that he was free to leave, having told
Korbelin and Grasic that Vasquez was only serving them. (Vasquez Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
When a process server explains that the defendant is
being served with process and the defendant refuses to accept the documents,
service is valid when the process server leaves the documents as close as
possible to the defendant. (Trujillo v. Trujillo (1945) 71 Cal.App.2d
257, 259-60.) When “facts occur that would convince a reasonable man that
personal service of a legal document is being attempted, service cannot be
avoided by denying service and moving away without consenting to take the
document in hand.” (In re Ball (1934) 2 Cal.App.2d 578, 579.) 
 
Korbelin does not deny that he closed the front door
on Vasquez or that Vasquez left documents on the front porch of his residence. (Korbelin
Decl. ¶¶ 6, 9.) However, Korbelin avers that Vasquez never identified himself
as a process server or said that he was serving legal papers. (Korbelin Decl. ¶
10.) The Court does not find this averment to be credible. Korbelin avers that he
asked Vasquez what he was doing. (Korbelin Decl. ¶ 5.) It strains credulity to
find that Vasquez would not announce that he was serving legal documents, especially
when announcing the attempt to serve process would obligate defendants to
accept. Vasquez had no reason to hide the motivation for his visit. 
 
Further, while Grasic denies seeing Vasquez on
August 22, 2024 (Grasic Decl. ¶ 3), Vasquez avers that he had photographs of both
Grasic and Korbelin, that he recognized from the photos that Grasic was
standing behind Korbelin, and that Vasquez announced to both of them that they
were being served with legal documents. (Vasquez Decl. ¶¶ 6, 9, 10.) Grasic did
not aver where she was on August 22, 2024 when Vasquez claimed that he served
her. Grasic’s conclusory statement of where she was not, coupled with her failure
to state where she actually was on August 22, 2024, causes this Court to doubt
the credibility of her declaration. 
 
Considering all the declarations, the Court credits
Vasquez’s account of what occurred. When Korbelin and Grasic refused to accept
service, Vasquez was entitled to leave the papers on the front porch. The Court
finds that Grasic and Korbelin were personally served the moving papers. The
Court thus rules on the merits of plaintiff’s request for a preliminary
injunction. 
 
C.          
Merits
 
“[T]he question whether a preliminary injunction
should be granted involves two interrelated factors: (1) the likelihood that
the plaintiff will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms
that is likely to result from the granting or denial of interim injunctive
relief.”  (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554.) 

            With respect to likelihood of
prevailing on the merits, the Uniform Voidable Transactions Act (“UVTA”) is
codified in Civil Code §3439, et seq. With respect to the first cause of
action asserted in the First Amended Complaint, Civil Code § 3439.04(a) provides:
 
A transfer made or obligation incurred by a debtor
is voidable as to a creditor, whether the creditor's claim arose
before or after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred, if the
debtor made the transfer or incurred the obligation as follows:
 
(1) With actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud
any creditor of the debtor.
 
“A fraudulent conveyance under the [UVTA] involves a
transfer by the debtor of property to a third person undertaken with the intent
to prevent a creditor from reaching that interest to satisfy its claim.” (Filip
v. Bucurenciu (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 825, 829, quotations omitted.) The
UVTA’s purpose is “to prevent debtors from placing property which legitimately
should be available for the satisfaction of demands of creditors beyond their
reach.” (Chichester v. Mason (1941) 43 Cal.App.2d 577, 584.)
 
Actual intent may be indicated by “[w]hether the
transfer or obligation was to an insider,” “[w]hether the debtor retained
possession or control of the property transferred after the transfer,” and “[w]hether
the value of the consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent
to the value of the asset transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred.”
(Civ. Code § 3439.04(b)(1), (2), (8).)
 
Grasic and Korbelin do not dispute that Korbelin’s
company, Curious, is subject to a judgment of $1,000,000 entered on December 7,
2017. (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex. 2.) Grasic and Korbelin also do not
dispute that they are subject to a judgment entered on December 15, 2023 in the
amount of $1,449,963.75 in an action which arose after assets of Curious were
transferred to a company owned by Grasic. (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 10 & Ex. 7.) 
 
It is also undisputed that, on June 28, 2023, Grasic
encumbered the Malibu Property in favor of Credit Bridge, of which she was the
sole member. (Mobargha Decl. ¶¶ 16-19
& Exs. 11-14.) Credit Bridge later assigned the Deed of Trust to Stevens, as
Trustee of The Vardyger Trust, who then assigned it to Red Oak. (Mobargha Decl.
¶¶ 20, 21 & Exs. 15, 16.) 
 
It is also undisputed that, on July 6, 2023, Grasic
conveyed the Malibu Property to her long-time friend Stevens, as Trustee of The
Vardyger Trust, for no consideration. (Mobargha Decl. ¶¶ 23, 37
& Exs. 17, 32.) Grasic and Korbelin continue to reside at the Malibu
Property. (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 12 & Exs. 8, 9 [Interrogatory Responses dated
2/2/24 at 2].)
 
The foregoing sufficiently demonstrates for purposes
of issuing a preliminary injunction that Grasic, Korbelin, and Credit Bridge
engaged in a scheme to transfer the Malibu Property with actual intent to
hinder plaintiff’s collection on his two judgments. After plaintiff obtained
his first judgment, Grasic appeared to have helped Korbelin transfer projects
of Curious. (Mobargha Decl. ¶ 6 &
Ex. 3 at ¶¶ 1-6.) In 2015, plaintiff sued Grasic and Korbelin for fraudulent
transfer, ultimately resulting in a second judgment in plaintiff’s favor.
(Mobargha Decl. ¶¶ 5, 10 & Ex. 7.) In June and July 2023, before entry of
judgment in the second New York action, Grasic encumbered the Malibu Property
in favor of her company, Credit Bridge, and conveyed the Malibu Property to her
long-time friend Stevens for no consideration. Grasic used straw men—defendants
Credit Bridge, Stevens, and Korbelin—to encumber the Malibu Property, transfer the
Malibu Property for no consideration, while still residing at the Malibu
Property. Grasic’s objective appears to have been to render herself judgment
proof such that plaintiff could not collect once judgment against her was
entered in the second New York action. 
 
With respect to the
Corporate Interests, on July 6, 2023, Grasic assigned her interest in Credit
Bridge to herself and Korbelin, as Trustees of Coastal Road Trust for no
consideration. (Mobargha Decl. ¶¶ 25, 26 & Exs. 20, 21.) On the same date,
Grasic assigned her interest in Dreamchase to herself, as Trustee of the
Coastal Road Trust for no consideration. (Mobargha Decl. ¶¶ 27-31 & Exs.
22-26.)
 
As defendants contend, the
Coastal Road Trust appears to be revocable, which means that, as settlors of
the Coastal Road Trust, Grasic and Korbelin could revoke the trust. (See Mobargha
Decl. ¶ 24 & Ex. 19.) “If the settlor retains the power to revoke the trust
in whole or in part, the trust property is subject to the claims of creditors
of the settlor to the extent of the power of revocation during the lifetime of
the settlor.” (Prob. Code § 18200.) Because the property of the trust remains
subject to creditor claims, including plaintiff’s claims, a transfer to a
revocable trust does not qualify as a fraudulent transfer. (Gagan v. Gouyd
(1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 835, 842 [86 Cal.Rptr.2d 733, 737] disapproved of on
other grounds by Mejia v. Reed (2003) 31 Cal.4th 657.) Nevertheless, based
on Grasic’s attempts for Korbelin’s company to avoid collection on the first
judgment, it is hard to seriously doubt that the transfer of the corporate
interests was likely made for the purpose of evading, hindering, or delaying
creditors such as plaintiff.  It is also
not altogether clear that the Coastal Road Trust is so easily revoked as
defendants claim. Plaintiffs have made a sufficient showing as to the Corporate
Interests for purposes of obtaining a preliminary injunction.
 
Defendants do not show cause why the requested
preliminary injunction should not issue. Defendants demonstrated a willingness
to engage in fraudulent transfers to avoid creditors when Grasic transferred ownership
of the Malibu Property. Plaintiff have sufficiently identified the Malibu
Property and the interests in Credit Bridge and Dreamchase as property for
which transfer, dissipation, or encumbrance should be enjoined. Plaintiff has demonstrated a likelihood of
prevailing on the first cause of action.[2]
 
With respect to the balance
of harms, in light of defendants’ repeated efforts to encumber and transfer the
Malibu Property, a preliminary injunction is proper to preserve the status quo.
(Wind v. Herbert (1960) 186 Cal.App.2d 276, 286 [preliminary injunction
found proper when partnership assets dissipated and disbursements could not be
adequately traced].) Defendants have shown no harm that would result from an
injunction against transfer. As the Malibu Property and Corporate Interests were
transferred for no consideration, yet remain in the control of Grasic and
Korbelin, defendants would not be harmed were further transfer to be enjoined. 
 
Lastly, the Court does not find that the New York
court’s order “suspend[ing] further enforcement activity of the appealed from
money judgment” (Powers Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex. A)
prevents plaintiff from obtaining a preliminary injunction here.  The term “further enforcement activity” is unclear
and does not, on its face, necessarily encompass a UVTA action brought in
California, let alone a preliminary injunction sought to maintain the status
quo while the merits of that UVTA action is pending.  Indeed, given plaintiff’s letter brief to the
New York Clerk of Court “reserv[ing] the right to file a California action to
reverse the [defendant]’s latest fraudulent transfer” and the New York court’s
issuance of its order thereafter (Kaplan Supp. Decl. ¶ 5
& Ex. 4 at 3), it would appear the ambiguous term “further enforcement
activity” is not meant to encompass plaintiff’s participation in this action.
 
The motion is GRANTED. Defendants Marina Grasic, an
individual; Marina Grasic, as Trustee of the Coastal Road Trust; Jan Korbelin,
as Trustee of the Coastal Road Trust; and Credit Bridge Lending, LLC are
enjoined from further transferring, dissipating, or encumbering (1) the real
property located at 3453 Rambla Pacifico, Malibu, California 90265, (2) any
membership interest in Credit Bridge Lending, LLC, or (3) any shares or stock
in Dreamchase Inc. and/or any of the membership interest in Dreamchase Inc. 


