  Case Number:  23STCP04494    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
ALFRED MADAIN,  


 
 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23STCP04494




vs.
 
 
PASADENA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON AMENDED PETITION FOR WRIT
  OF MANDAMUS
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



 
Petitioner
Alfred Madain petitions for a writ of mandate directing respondent Pasadena
Unified School District to reinstate his employment as teacher with back pay
and interest.
 
I.       Factual Background
 
            Petitioner Madain has been, at all
relevant times, a permanent certificated teacher employed by respondent
Pasadena Unified School District (“District”). (Madain Decl. ¶ 2; Answer ¶¶ 5,
7.) He has been represented throughout his employment by the United Teachers of
Pasadena (“Union”), a labor organization which serves as the exclusive
representative of all certificated employees within the District, including
Madain. (Perez Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4.) 
 
            In 2021 or 2022, petitioner was
placed on paid administrative leave so the District could investigate certain
allegations of misconduct involving petitioner’s laptop and the students in his
class. (Perez Decl. ¶ 2; Canal Decl. ¶ 2.) The Union provided representation to
petitioner by appointing attorney Carlos R. Perez to the case through the
Union’s Group Legal Services program. (Perez Decl. ¶ 4.) The District delayed
its investigation pending the negotiation of a possible resolution and formal
separation between the parties; however, the terms of that separation agreement
were never finalized. (Perez Decl. ¶ 5; Canal Decl. ¶ 2.) 
 


While
petitioner continued to be at home on paid administrative leave, in the spring
of 2023, the District became aware of another incident involving petitioner.
(Canal Decl. ¶ 2.) On May 22, 2023, Dr. Sergio Canal, Chief Human Resource
Officer of the District, directed petitioner to come to Human Resources to be
questioned by him on May 24, 2023. Petitioner was initially contacted via
telephone call by Dr. Canal’s assistant but was later sent a formal letter,
dated May 22, 2023, directing him to come on May 24, 2023. (Canal Decl. ¶ 3
& Ex. A.) Perez was also informed of Dr. Canal’s order to petitioner. (Perez
Decl. ¶ 6; Marderosian Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex. B.) When Perez inquired as to the
nature of the specific allegations, the District’s counsel, Jeff C.
Marderosian, declined to elaborate, stating, “The District is entitled to
question an employee without having to lay out the allegations a head [sic] of
time.” (Perez Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 1 at 3.)
 
Perez
replied to Marderosian’s response in an email, dated May 23, 2023, stating:
 
Actually,
no, that is not correct. See the Contra Costa PERB [Public Employment Relations
Board] case. Please be advised that I am not available tomorrow so first, I
would like to know what the meeting is about, and second, once I have that
information, we can schedule a mutually convenient time to meet.
 
(Perez
Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 1 at 2.) On that same day, Perez also responded by letter
to Marderosian, which stated the following:
 
In order to effectively
represent a bargaining unit member, it is imperative that Mr. Madain and his
representative have some basic information about the nature of your interview.
In Contra Costa Community College District (2019) PERB Decision No.
2652E, PERB found that a union has a right to reasonable notice of the alleged wrongdoing
before an investigatory interview. There, PERB specifically held that an
employee must provide reasonable notice of the alleged misconduct. This notice
must be timely and must include sufficient information about the alleged
wrongdoing “to enable a union representative to represent an employee in a meaningful
manner during the interview.”
 
(Perez
Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 2, emphasis in original.)
 
Marderosian
expressed disagreement over the applicability of the Contra Costa PERB
decision to the situation, contending that the decision related to a union’s
right to necessary and relevant information in accordance with the Educational
Employment Relations Act (“EERA”).[1]
(Perez Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 1 at 1.) Marderosian also indicated the District’s
willingness to reschedule the meeting. (Perez Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 1 at 1.)
 
Marderosian
also responded by letter, dated May 26, 2023, disputing any obligation by the
District to provide information to Perez and Madain in advance of the
investigatory meeting and stating the consequences of refusal to submit to
questioning as follows: 
 
As
I said in my May 23 email, the District has received no union request for information
under the EERA. Indeed, Mr. Madain’s union is not representing him in this
matter. Accordingly, your client's refusal to meet without the information requested
has no legal merit. Should Mr. Madain fail to submit to an interview with Dr.
Canal, he will be considered as having taken an unauthorized leave of absence
and his pay will be docked effective May 24, 2023.
 
Once
again, please provide the District with your availability and your client’s
unconditional willingness to meet.
 
(Perez
Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 3; Marderosian Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. D.) 
 
When
Perez refused to coordinate a date for the interview, and petitioner failed to
come to work to submit to the questioning, the District treated petitioner as
being on an unauthorized leave of absence and ceased paying him any salary from
June 1, 2023 onward. (Canal Decl. ¶ 6; Perez Supp. Decl. ¶ 3 & Exs. 1 &
2.) On July 1, 2023, Perez questioned why his client was unpaid from June 1 to
June 20. (Marderosian Decl. ¶ 7 & Ex. E.) Marderosian responded on July 6,
2023, referencing and attaching the May 22, 2023 letter directing petitioner to
come to Human Resources on May 24, 2023, as well as Marderosian’s May 26, 2023
letter discussed above. (Marderosian Decl. ¶ 7 & Ex. E.)
 
On
August 29, 2023, Perez sent Marderosian a letter, stating: “[Y]ou should note
that I am functioning as an agent for the [Union], and essentially function as
Mr. Madain’s union representative for any such meetings.” (Perez Decl. ¶ 6
& Ex. 4.) Perez further indicated his concern that, “apparently in
retaliation for requesting information about such a meeting ahead of time, the
District ha[d] abruptly terminated Mr. Madain’s pay and benefits indefinitely.”
(Perez Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 4.) Perez finally noted that it was unlawful to do
so “without board action, without the service of the statement of charges, without
the opportunity for a Skelly meeting or any opportunity to a Stull hearing
pursuant to Education Code Section 44944.” (Perez Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 4.) Perez
demanded that petitioner’s “pay and benefits” be restored. (Perez Decl. ¶ 6
& Ex. 4.) 
 
            By letter dated September 5, 2023, Marderosian
responded by reiterating the District’s position. (Marderosian Decl. ¶ 8 &
Ex. G.) Subsequent communication from Perez questioned whether petitioner had been
placed “on unpaid leave indefinitely, and that his pay and benefits have been
discontinued.” (Marderosian Decl. ¶ 9 & Ex. H at 2.) Marderosian responded
on September 5, 2023, urging counsel to cause petitioner to submit to the
requested questioning, explaining: “As soon as he submits to the exam, he will
be placed in a paid status pending any disciplinary action that the District
may take.” (Marderosian Decl. ¶ 9 & Ex. H at 1.) On September 7, 2023,
Marderosian advised Perez that petitioner’s benefits had not been affected, stating:
“I am not in the office, but the District has confirmed that his benefits have
not been affected. (Marderosian Decl. ¶ 9 & Ex. H at 1.) Petitioner's
health insurance benefits have remained undisturbed. (Canal Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
In
late November 2023, petitioner's union sought to litigate the PERB issue
advanced by petitioner’s counsel by filing an unfair labor practice charge
against the District with PERB arguing that Perez had union rights.
(Marderosian Decl. ¶ 10.) PERB has yet to act on the charge due to six-month
period of abeyance that was agreed upon by the parties in that matter, but
which has now expired. (Marderosian Decl. ¶ 10.)
 
Petitioner
continues to refuse to come to work to submit to the requested questioning.
(Canal Decl. ¶¶ 7, 12.)
 
II.      Procedural History
 
            On
December 13, 2023, petitioner filed a Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate. On
February 2, 2024, respondent filed an Answer. On June 21, 2024, petitioner
filed an opening brief. On August 9, 2024, respondent filed an opposition. On August
26, 2024, petitioner filed a reply. 
 
III.     Standard of Review
 
CCP
§ 1085(a) provides: “A writ of mandate may be issued by any court to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station, or to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a right or office to which the party is entitled, and from which
the party is unlawfully precluded by that inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person.”
 
“There
are two essential requirements to the issuance of a traditional writ of
mandate: (1) a clear, present and usually ministerial duty on the part of the
respondent, and (2) a clear, present and beneficial right on the part of the
petitioner to the performance of that duty.” (California Assn. for Health
Services at Home v. State Dept. of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus is proper where…the claim is that an
agency has failed to act as required by law.” (Id. at 705.)
 
“When
a party seeks review of an administrative decision pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085, judicial review is limited to examining the agency
proceedings to ascertain whether the agency's action has been arbitrary,
capricious or lacking entirely in evidentiary support, or whether the agency
failed to follow the proper procedure and give notices required by law. And,
where the case involves the interpretation of a statute or ordinance, our
review of the trial court's decision is de novo.” (Ideal Boat & Camper
Storage v. County of Alameda (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 301, 311, citing Pomona
Police Officers' Assn. v. City of Pomona (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 578, 584.)
In independently reviewing legal questions, “An administrative agency's
interpretation does not bind judicial review but it is entitled to
consideration and respect.” (Housing Partners I, Inc. v. Duncan (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 1335, 1343.) 
 
An
agency is presumed to have regularly performed its official duties. (Evid. Code
§ 664.) In a CCP § 1085 writ petition, the petitioner generally bears the
burden of proof. (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. State
Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)         
 
IV.     Analysis
 
1.           
Evidentiary
Matters
 
Petitioner’s
evidentiary objections to the declarations of Dr. Sergio Canal and Jeff C.
Marderosian are OVERRULED. 
 
            Petitioner’s request to take
judicial notice of the Unfair Practice Charge filed with the Public Employment
Relations Board is GRANTED. (El Rancho Unified School Dist. v. National
Education Assn. (1983) 33 Cal.3d 946, 950, fn. 6 [records of state
administrative agencies proper under Evidence Code § 452(c)].) Respondent’s
objection to the request for judicial notice is OVERRULED. 
 
2.           
Merits
 
Petitioner
contends that, by withholding his salary for refusing to report to work and
answer questions, the District has “effectively terminat[ed] him without
providing him the mandatory due process to which he is entitled under Education
Code Section 44932, et seq.” (Opening Br. at 1.)
 
 “A permanent employee, such as a certificated
tenured teacher, has a vested right to her position and may not be deprived of
it without due process of law.” (Raven v. Oakland Unified School Dist.
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1347, 1357.) Permanent employees shall not be dismissed
except for one or more of 11 enumerated causes, including immoral conduct,
unprofessional conduct, or dishonesty. (Ed. Code § 44932(a)(1-11).)[2]
Upon the preparation of a written statement of charges, specifying the acts or
omissions constituting the charge so the employee can prepare a defense, the governing
board of a school district, upon majority vote, may give notice to the
permanent employee of dismissal unless the employee requests a hearing. (§
44934(b), (c).) 
 
            If the employee requests a hearing,
the hearing shall be conducted by a three-person Commission on Professional
Competence, comprised of one member selected by the employee, one member
selected by the governing board of the school district, and an administrative
law judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. (§ 44944(c)(1),
(c)(2).) The first two members shall not be related to the employee or an
employee of the school district initiating the dismissal. (§ 44944(c)(5)(A).) Each
member is required to hold a currently valid credential and have at least three
years’ experience within the past 10 years in the discipline of the employee. (§ 44944(c)(5)(A).)
The employee also has the right of initial disclosure of relevant witnesses and
documents, the opportunity to depose witnesses, and the opportunity to obtain
an administrative order compelling disclosure. (§ 44944.05(b)(1)(A)(i-ii), (c), (d).)

 
            The central issue here is whether,
by placing petitioner on unpaid administrative leave, the District effectively “dismissed”
petitioner without complying with the due process protections under the
Education Code. The Court finds that the answer is no. 
 
“Dismissal”
means a “release or discharge from employment.” (“Dismissal,” Black's Law
Dictionary (12th ed. 2024); see also “discharge,” defined in Black's Law
Dictionary as “firing of an employee].) Here, petitioner has not been released,
discharged, or fired from his employment at the District. Petitioner is still
receiving medical insurance from the District. (Canal Decl. ¶ 8.) Thus, while petitioner
may not be receiving his salary while he declines to report to work as
directed, the District has continued to treat him as an employee who continues
to receive health benefits.  Indeed, the
District has made clear that petitioner would begin receiving pay after
reporting to work to interview with Human Resources. (Canal Decl. ¶ 8.) Instead,
by refusing to report as directed, petitioner is on an unauthorized leave of
absence, with a corresponding reduction in pay from having worked “less than a
full school year” per the terms of section 45041.[3]

 
Petitioner
does not cite any authority indicating that deeming him on unauthorized leave
for declining to report as directed amounts to a discharge or dismissal simply
because he is not paid salary for the period while on unauthorized leave.  The cases petitioner cites are inapposite. For
example, in DeYoung v. Commission on Professional Competence etc. (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 568, the governing board of the school district voted to
dismiss the teacher without filing or preparing written charges, an error which
the Court of Appeal found to be nonprejudicial. (DeYoung, 228
Cal.App.4th at 571, 573.) Here, no formal action to actually dismiss petitioner
has taken place. Similarly, in Forker v. Board of Trustees (1984) 160
Cal.App.3d 13, a school librarian was first laid off and then informed that she
would not be rehired because she was incompetent. (Forker, 160
Cal.App.3d at 17.) The Court of Appeal found that the librarian retained
reemployment rights under section 44956 after having been laid off and was
entitled to an evidentiary hearing before she could be dismissed for
incompetence. (Id. at 19.) Here, the District has not attempted to
terminate petitioner’s employment.
 
As
for Skelly v. State Personnel Bd. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 194, it is true that
there are mandatory preremoval safeguards for a permanent civil service
employee, which include “notice of the proposed action, the reasons therefor, a
copy of the charges and materials upon which the action is based, and the right
to respond, either orally or in writing, to the authority initially imposing
discipline.” (Skelly, 15 Cal.3d at 215.) Here, however, the District has
not sought to remove petitioner from employment. Rather, the District has declined
to pay petitioner while he chooses not to report as directed.
 
            Because the actions of the District
are not tantamount to a dismissal or effective termination of his employment,
petitioner fails to show how he is entitled to the due process protections
against dismissal set forth in the Education Code.
 
V.      Conclusion
 
The petition is DENIED. Pursuant to Local Rule
3.231(n), respondent Pasadena
Unified School District shall prepare, serve, and ultimately file a
proposed judgment.


