 Case Number:  23STCV23848    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTION FOR ORDER APPROVING RECEIVER’S FINAL REPORT AND
ACCOUNTING
 
Date:               9/10/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:                           Ladder Capital
Realty III LLC v. Missouri Villas, LLC et al. (23STCV23848)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff Ladder Capital Realty III LLC and Receiver Chris
Neilson’s Motion for Order Approving Receiver’s Final Report and Accounting; Approving
Final Fees and Costs of Receiver and His Professionals; Terminating
Receivership, Discharging Receivership and Exonerating Receiver’s Bond; and
Approving Disposition of Remaining Receivership Funds is GRANTED. 
 
On 8/14/24, the Court continued the motion and ordered
plaintiff to file a supplemental declaration or declarations “stating what was
done during the receivership” and a “summary of the receivership accounting,
which shall include (i) the total revenues received, (ii) the total
expenditures identified and enumerated by major categories,
(iii) the net amount of any surplus
or deficit, and (iv) evidence of necessary supporting facts.”
(8/14/24 Minute Order; see also 10/6/23 Ex Parte Order at ¶ 24(d)(1-2).)
The Court also required the supplemental declaration to address whether notice
of this motion was provided to every person or entity known to the receiver to have
a substantial, unsatisfied claim that will be affected by the order to
terminate and discharge the receivership.
 
On 8/22/24, plaintiff filed the supplemental declaration of Receiver
Chris Neilson. Receiver states that he (1) examined the receivership Property (10750
Missouri Avenue, 11665 Mayfield Avenue, 1901 Overland Avenue) for safety
issues, (2) opened bank accounts to administer the receivership estate, (3)
arranged for continuation of utility services, (4) ensured the Property was
properly insured, (5) determined the Property’s compliance with local and state
tax’s requirements, and (6) hired Moss Management Services (“Moss”) to manage the
Property, and (7) provided guidance and direction to Moss on outstanding
property management issues on a regular basis. (Supp. Neilson Decl. ¶ 2.) Receiver
seeks the payment of $20,736.47 in fees and expenses. (Supp. Neilson Decl. ¶ 4
& Ex. 1 [Receiver’s invoices].)


Moss provided for maintenance, repair, and security of the
Property, collected rents, and handled labor and employment issues, evidenced
by financial statements. (Supp. Neilson Decl. ¶ 3; Neilson Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex.
A at 32-244.) 
 
Receiver also provided a chart reflecting for each of the three
apartment projects comprising the Property the total revenues received, the
total expenditures identified and enumerated by major categories, and the net
amount of any surplus or deficit. (Supp. Neilson Decl. ¶ 5.) The net balance of
the receivership estate will total $63,389.89. (Supp. Neilson Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
Receiver also confirmed that notice of the motion and the
continued hearing was provided to every person or entity who had any interest
or involvement in this case. (Supp. Neilson Decl. ¶ 8.) As all vendors,
suppliers, and third parties providing services to the Property, as well as
state and local taxes, have been fully paid, Receiver provided notice of the
motion and continued hearing to defendants Missouri Villas, LLC and
NMSLUXE11665, LLC. (See Proofs of Service attached to moving papers and
8/21/24 Notice of Ruling.) 
 
No objection has been received. The Court approves
Receiver’s final accounting and Receiver’s request for reimbursement of fees
and expenses. (Neilson Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. A.) Receiver is entitled to
discharge and termination of the 10/6/23 Ex Parte Order Appointing Receiver. (Vitug
v. Griffin (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 488, 494 [“As a general proposition a
receiver has no official duties and is not a proper party to any action after
being discharged by the court”].) The Court will exonerate Receiver’s bond. 
 
As the Loan has been assigned from plaintiff ultimately to
LOMM, LLC all receivership funds remaining after the Receiver pays all expenses
of the receivership estate, including the final fees and expenses of the
Receiver, may be disbursed to LOMM, LLC. (Exs. 1, 2 to Motion.) 
 
The motion is GRANTED. The Court signs the proposed order
electronically received on 5/16/24. 
 