  Case Number:  21PSCV00585    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Michael  Hashemian v. Hassan Hashemian, et al. 1.      Motion of  Plaintiff to Compel Responses to Supplemental Request for Production of  Documents from Defendant and for Sanctions;2.      Motion of  Plaintiff to Compel Responses to Supplemental Interrogatories from Defendant  and for Sanctions;3.      Motion of  Plaintiff to Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two,  from Defendant and for Sanctions; and 4.      Motion of  Plaintiff to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two, from  Defendant and for Sanctions.  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions.                Defendant Hassan Hashemian is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.  BACKGROUND  This is a breach of contract action. On July 20, 2021, plaintiff Michael  Hashemian (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Hassan Hashemian  (Hassan), Shokufeh Mostofi and Does 1 through 20. On February 28, 2023,  Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint, alleging causes of  action for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty and undivided loyalty –  failure to use reasonable care, breach of covenant of good faith and fair  dealing, fraud and deceit – intentional misrepresentation and concealment,  conversion, negligent misrepresentation, negligence, unfair business practices,  intentional infliction of emotional distress, constructive trust, and violation  of Penal Code section 496(a).  On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel responses to request  for production of documents, set two, supplemental request for production of  documents, special interrogatories, set two, and supplemental interrogatories  from Defendant Hassan and for sanctions. On March 15, 2024, Hassan opposed the  motions. Plaintiff did not reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD              When a party to whom  interrogatories are directed fails to respond, under Code of Civil Procedure  section 2030.290, subdivision (b), the party propounding the interrogatories  may move for an order compelling a response. A party who fails to provide a timely  response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work  product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The court shall  impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) When a party  to whom an inspection demand is directed fails to respond under Code of Civil  Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (b), a party making the demand may move  for an order compelling a response to the inspection demand. A party who fails  to provide timely responses waives any objection, including one based on  privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §  2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any  party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the  sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make  the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES              Given  the March 25, 2024 hearing date for these motions, Defendant Hassan’s  oppositions were due no later than March 12, 2024. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005,  subd. (b).) Hassan’s oppositions were filed on March 15, 2024, and are  therefore untimely. Nevertheless, the Court exercises its discretion to still consider the  oppositions, but admonishes Hassan to comply with the requirements of the Code  of Civil Procedure going forward. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd.  (d); Juarez v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197,  1202.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Although meeting and conferring is not required for  motions to compel initial responses, (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.  Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404), the Court  does request that the parties meet and confer before bringing any motions, (Department  6 Courtroom Information; see also Stewart v. Colonial W. Agency,  Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016 [“’The Discovery Act requires  that, prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the moving party declare  that he or she has made a serious attempt to obtain ‘an informal resolution of  each issue.’ [Citation.] This rule is designed ‘to encourage the parties to  work out their differences informally so as to avoid the necessity for a formal  order....’ [citation.] This, in turn, will lessen the burden on the court and  reduce the unnecessary expenditure of resources by litigants through promotion  of informal, extrajudicial resolution of discovery disputes. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]”)  Analysis  Plaintiff contends that he served Supplemental Requests for  Production of Documents, Set One, and Supplemental Interrogatories, Set One, on  Defendant Hassan on January 18, 2024. (Whitmer-Cabrera Decls., ¶ 2.)[1] Plaintiff also contends he served Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two,  and Special Interrogatories, Set Two, on Defendant Hassan on January 24, 2024.  (Whitmer-Cabrera Decls., ¶ 2.)[2] Plaintiff contends he received no responses at the time the motions were filed.  (Whitmer-Cabrera Decls., ¶ 3.)  In opposition, Defendant Hassan contends his responses to the  supplemental requests were deposited in the mail on February 20, 2024. (Foley  Decls., ¶ 5.)[3] Hassan contends his responses to the second set of discovery requests were  deposited in the mail on February 23, 2024. (Foley Decls., ¶ 5.)[4] Hassan further contends Plaintiff received those responses. (Ramachandani  Decls., ¶¶ 27-28, Ex. 7.)[5] Plaintiff did not file any reply to refute any of Defendant Hassan’s  contentions.  The Court declines to grant Plaintiff’s discovery motions because Defendant  contends all responses were timely served and Plaintiff has received Defendant  Hassan’s responses. Plaintiff filed the motions on February 27, 2024 and the  responses to the discovery, set two were due on February 26, 2024. Plaintiff  did not allow any time for the discovery responses to be delivered by mail  before filing the motions to compel. Plaintiff’s March 6, 2024 meet and confer  letter to Hassan confirms that Plaintiff received the responses on March 1,  2024, and March 4, 2024, respectively. (Ramchandani Decls., Ex. 7.) Accordingly,  since Defendant Hassan’s responses have been received, the Court exercises its  discretion to deny the motions as unnecessary. (See Sinaiko Healthcare  Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 409.) If further issues  arise in connection with the underlying discovery responses, the parties may  seek an Informal Discovery Conference. (Department 6 Courtroom Information.)  With respect to monetary sanctions, the Court  declines to impose any monetary sanctions. The Court finds that Defendant  Hassan acted with substantial justification in timely depositing the discovery responses  in the mail. The Court also finds that the imposition of sanctions would be  unjust given that Defendant Hassan contends that the responses were timely served,  and Plaintiff’s counsel made no effort to see if responses had been served or to  allow time for them to be delivered by mail before filing these motions to  compel.  Notwithstanding, the Court further declines to impose  monetary sanctions due to Plaintiff’s failure to adequately specify the parties  against whom the monetary sanctions are sought. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040,  italics added [“A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion,  identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought,  and specify the type of sanction sought.”]; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.30,  subd. (c), italics added [“A party's motion for sanctions must (1) state the  applicable rule that has been violated, (2) describe the specific conduct that  is alleged to have violated the rule, and (3) identify the attorney, law  firm, party, witness, or other person against whom sanctions are sought.”].)  Plaintiff’s notices fail to identify the parties against whom the sanctions are  sought.  Accordingly, for all of the above reasons, the  requests for monetary sanctions are DENIED.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions.                Defendant Hassan Hashemian is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.     