 Case Number:  24TRCV03317    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JAMAL
  ASIF,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV03317




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GURAMAL
  SINGH, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June
6, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      (1) Defendant Tuffy Trans,
Inc; (2) defendants Gurmail Singh and Lovepreet Singh
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Jamal Asif
(1)  
Motion
for Change of Venue [to Merced County]
(2)  
Motion
for Order Transferring Venue of Action to Fresno County Superior Court
            The court considered the moving and opposition
papers.
RULING
            The motion for change of venue to
Merced County is GRANTED.  The case is
transferred to the Superior Court of the County of Merced.  Plaintiff is ordered to pay the transfer
costs and fees. 
The motion for order transferring
venue to Fresno County is DENIED. 
BACKGROUND
            On February 8, 2024, Jamal Asif
(self-represented) filed a complaint against Guramel Singh, Lovepreet Singh,
and Tuffy Trans Inc for breach of contract and misrepresentation.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            “Venue, the county in which an
action takes place, is statutorily governed by the type or form of the
particular action.  [Citation
omitted.]  ‘Venue is determined based on
the complaint on file at the time the motion to change venue is made.’  [Citations.] 
(Brown v. Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal. 3d 477, 482 . . .
.).”  Lebastchi v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1465, 1469.  
CCP § 395(a) provides, in relevant
part, “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by law and subject to the power of the
court to transfer actions or proceedings as provided in this title, the
superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them reside at the
commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the
action.  If the action is for injury to
person or personal property or for death from wrongful act or negligence, the
superior court in either the county where the injury occurs or the injury
causing death occurs or the county where the defendants, or some of them reside
at the commencement of the action, is a proper court for the trial of the
action. . . .”  
CCP § 396b(a) provides, in relevant
part, “[i]f an action . . . is commenced in a court having jurisdiction of the
subject matter thereof, other than the court designated as the proper court for
trial thereof, . . . the action may, notwithstanding, be tried in the court
where commenced, unless the defendant, at the time he or she answers, demurs,
or moves to strike, or at his or her option, without answering, demurring, or
moving to strike and within the time otherwise allowed to respond to the
complaint, files with the clerk, a notice of motion for an order transferring
the action . . . to the proper court. . . .” 
See Van Gaalen v. Superior Court (1978) 80 Cal. App. 3d 371, 378
(“the time limit for filing a notice of motion for change of venue prescribed
by section 396b is not jurisdictional in the sense that a trial court is
without power to entertain an untimely motion.”). 
CCP § 395.5 states, “[a]
corporation . . . may be sued in the county where the contract is made or is to
be performed, or where the obligation or liability arises, or the breach
occurs; or in the county where the principal place of business of such corporation
is situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place of trial as
in other cases.”
CCP § 397 states, in relevant part,
that, “[t]he court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the following
cases:  (a) When the court designated in
the complaint is not the proper court. . . .” 

CCP § 399 states, in part, “If the
transfer is sought solely, or is ordered, because the action or proceeding was
commenced in a court other than that designated as proper by this title, those
costs and fees, including any expenses and attorney's fees awarded to the
defendant pursuant to Section 396b, shall be paid by the plaintiff before the
transfer is made.” 
DISCUSSION
            Motion
to Change Venue
Defendant
Tuffy Trans requests that the Court transfer venue to Merced County and order plaintiff
to pay the fees and costs associated with transfer or, alternatively, to
dismiss the herein complaint without prejudice.
            The
complaint alleges that plaintiff purchased a “secondhand, defective, repaired
truck with 1500 miles sold as a brand new and substantially much above
market-price.”  Plaintiff has attempted
to have the truck repaired more than five attempts and that it has been under
repair for several days.  The copy of the
bill of sale attached to the complaint indicates that Tuffy Trans Inc. was the
seller and mailing address is 2411 Bailey Ave., Merced, CA 95341, for $200,000
of a 2023 Freightliner Cascadia in an “as is” condition.  The Certificate of Title indicates the
registered owner as Tuffy Trans Inc, 2411 Bailey Ave., Merced, CA.
            Defendant
Tuffy Trans argues that Los Angeles County is an improper venue because
defendant’s principal place of business is in Merced County; the contract that
is the gravamen of the case was entered into in Merced County; and that
plaintiff’s allegation that Los Angeles County is the proper venue because the
matter involves “real property” is “wholly incorrect.”  Defendant further asserts that none of the
named defendants are related to or reside in Los Angeles County.  See Bachitar Singh (CEO of Tuffy Trans)
declaration and Exh. 2 (Statement of Information). 
The Court
finds that Los Angeles County is not a proper venue.  None of the defendants resides in Los Angeles
County or have their principal place of business in Los Angeles County.  Further, the sale of the truck did not occur
in Los Angeles County.  Whether plaintiff
resides in Los Angeles County is of no import. 
In consideration of the individual defendants’ concurrent motion, the
Court finds that both Merced County and Fresno County are proper venues as one
or more defendants reside in Merced County or Fresno County and the contract
was entered into and performed in Merced County.
The
motion is GRANTED as to transferring venue to Merced County in consideration
that the contract was entered into in Merced County (vehicle was purchased in
Merced County) and that the seller corporate defendant’s principal place of
business is located in Merced County.  The
Court further orders that the transfer costs and fees shall be paid by
plaintiff.
 
            Motion
to Transfer Venue
            Defendants
Gurmail Singh and Lovepreet Singh request an order transferring the venue of
this action to the Superior Court of County of Fresno.  
            The
declarations of the individual defendants Gurmail Singh and Lovepreet Singh
state that they have resided in Clovis, California for the last five years and
that Clovis is located in Fresno County and that they have never resided in Los
Angeles.  They also state that they have
never had any business dealings with plaintiff in Los Angeles.  Defendants also point out that plaintiff
improperly marked the box that jurisdiction is proper in Los Angeles because
“real property that is the subject of this action is located here.”  
            In
opposition, plaintiff asserts that his business address is located in Torrance,
which is in Los Angeles County.
            Although
the Court finds that Fresno County is a proper county for venue, the motion is
DENIED in consideration of the corporate defendant’s motion to transfer venue
to Merced County. 
                        Attorney
fees
“In its
discretion, the court may order the payment to the prevailing party of
reasonable expenses and attorney's fees incurred in making or resisting the
motion to transfer whether or not that party is otherwise entitled to recover
his or her costs of action. In determining whether that order for expenses and
fees shall be made, the court shall take into consideration (1) whether an
offer to stipulate to change of venue was reasonably made and rejected, and (2)
whether the motion or selection of venue was made in good faith given the facts
and law the party making the motion or selecting the venue knew or should have
known.”
Defendants
request $2,400 ($300/hr. x 8 hrs.) in attorney’s fees.  See Nathan Miller decl.  According to counsel Miller’s declaration, he
called plaintiff and requested that he stipulate to transfer venue to Fresno
County and informed him that the complaint was filed “in the wrong court.”  Plaintiff purportedly stated that he could
consider doing so but did not return counsel’s second call and agree to
stipulate.
The Court
finds that defendants reasonably made an offer to stipulate to change venue and
that plaintiff’s selection of venue in Los Angeles County was not made in good
faith as indicated by plaintiff marking the box on the complaint regarding
“real property” although real property is not at issue.  Further, plaintiff was aware where he
purchased the truck and where the seller was located.  Although the Court is inclined to award
attorney’s fees, the request is DENIED because defendants are not prevailing parties
on the motion as to Fresno County.
ORDER
The motion for change of venue to
Merced County is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is
ordered to pay the transfer costs and fees. 
The motion for order transferring
venue to Fresno County is DENIED. 
Defendant Tuffy Trans is ordered to give notice of ruling.