  Case Number:  23TRCV03239    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LUIS
  CERDA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03239




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
SOFI
  STADIUM, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 6, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Pincay RE, LLC
and Stadco LA, LLC (erroneously sued and served as Sofi Stadium)
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Luis Cerda
Demurrer
to Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
first and fourth causes of action in the complaint.  Moving defendants are ordered to file an
answer within twenty days.
BACKGROUND
            On October 2, 2023, plaintiff Luis
Cerda filed a complaint against Sofi Stadium, City of Inglewood, County of Los
Angeles, State of California, California Department of Transportation, Pincay
RE, LLC, Blue and God Tenant LLC, Stadco LA, LLC, John Doe 1, John Doe 2, and
John Doe 3 for (1) battery, (2) negligence, (3) negligent hiring, training, and
supervision, and (4) IIED.
            On February 27, 2023, plaintiff
filed a requests for dismissal as to California Department of Transportation
and State of California.
            On March 21, 2024, plaintiff filed a
request for dismissal as to Blue and Gold Tenant LLC.
            On April 2, 2024, plaintiff filed
requests for dismissal as to City of Inglewood and County of Los Angeles.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendants
Pincay RE, LLC and Stadco LA, LLC demur to the first cause of action for
battery and fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress on the ground that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action.
The
complaint alleges that it concerns a security officer, security guard and/or
deputy incident which occurred on October 16, 2022, at or near 1001 Stadium
Drive, Inglewood.  Plaintiff was
attending a function at the subject premises when he was, suddenly and without
warning, physically attacked and assaulted by defendants John Doe 1, 2, and 3
with such force that plaintiff suffered injuries and damages.  Complaint, ¶14.  Both prior to and during the time in which he
was physically attacked and assaulted plaintiff made no aggressive movements,
no furtive gestures, and no physical movements which would suggest to a
reasonable security officer, security guard, and/or deputy that he was armed
with any kind of weapon, or had the will, or the ability to inflict substantial
bodily harm against any individual.  Both
prior to and during the time in which he was physically attacked and assaulted,
plaintiff did not act in such a manner as to suggest to a reasonable officer
that he had the will, or the ability to inflict substantial bodily harm against
any individual.  They were not faced with
any circumstances which would have led a reasonable security officer, security
guard and/or deputy to believe that plaintiff posed the risk of death, or
serious bodily injury to any person. 
Id., ¶15.  The subject incident
was additionally caused by the negligent deployment of defendants’ security
officers, security guards, and/or deputies and the failure of defendants to
develop a tactically sound plan for addressing plaintiff’s presence at the
subject premises.  As a result,
defendants’ negligent actions and negligent decisions led to poor decisions
regarding plaintiff’s presence after a negligent assessment and reassessment of
the nonexistent threat presented by plaintiff. 
The accumulation of these individualized decisions led to injuries to
plaintiff.  Id., ¶16.  The Doe defendants acted in the course and
scope of his/her employment.”  Id.,
¶3.  All claims asserted herein against
Defendants John Doe 1, 2, and 3 are presented pursuant to defendants’ vicarious
liability for acts and omissions undertaken in the course and scope of their
employment.  Id., ¶18.
            First cause of action for battery
“Battery
is an offensive and intentional touching without the victim’s consent.”  Kaplan v. Mamelak (2008) 162 Cal. App.
4th 637, 645.  “The essential elements of
a cause of action for battery are:  (1)
defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent
to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3)
plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable
person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the touching.”  Yun Hee So v. Sook Ja Shin (2013) 212
Cal. App. 4th 652, 669.  Intent is
satisfied if the defendant acted with willful disregard of the plaintiff’s
rights.  See Ashcraft v. King
(1991) 228 Cal. App. 3d 604, 613.
As a
general matter, case law indicates that “the question of whether a tort is
committed within the course of employment turns on whether (1) the act
performed was either required or instant to the employee's duties or (2) the
employee's misconduct could be reasonably foreseen as an outgrowth of the
employee's duties.”  Maria D. v.
Westec Residential Sec., Inc. (2000) 85 Cal. App. 4th 125, 138 (citation
omitted).  Courts have specifically
applied this standard to the conduct of private security guards, stating that
for “respondeat superior liability to apply, the security guard’s acts must
have been engendered by or be an outgrowth of his employment.”  Id. at 146.  “An employer will not be held liable for an
employee’s assault or other intentional tort that did not have a causal nexus
to the employee’s work.”  Kephart v.
Genuity, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal. App. 4th 280, 290.   An
employee’s willful or malicious tort may fall within the scope of employment for
purposes of respondeat superior, even though the employer has not authorized
the employee to commit intentional torts. 
Flores v. AutoZone West, Inc. (2008) 161 Cal. App. 4th 373, 379.  “[T]he determination of whether an employee
has acted within the scope of employment presents a question of fact; it
becomes a question of law, however, when the facts are undisputed and no
conflicting inferences are possible.”  Lisa
M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 299 (internal
quotations omitted).    
Defendants
argue that plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts for vicarious liability
for the alleged intentional tort.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the allegations are sufficient.  Plaintiff also asserts that the cases cited
by defendants arise from a jury verdict and/or judgment based on the merits of
the respective cases.
The Court
finds that the allegations are sufficient as to vicarious liability as
plaintiff has alleged that the Doe defendants were acting within the scope of
their employment as security officers and security guards when they assaulted
and attacked plaintiff.
The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action. 
 
            Fourth
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress
The tort
of intentional infliction of emotional distress is comprised of three
elements:  (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) the plaintiff's injuries were
actually and proximately caused by the defendant's outrageous conduct.  McMahon v. Craig (2009) 176 Cal. App.
4th 222, 234.  “In order to meet the
first requirement of the tort, the alleged conduct . . . must be so extreme as
to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  Id. at 234-35. Whether conduct is
sufficiently extreme and outrageous so as to be actionable may be determined as
a matter of law.  Cochran v. Cochran
(1998) 65 Cal. App. 4th 488, 494. To avoid demurrer, the plaintiff must allege
such acts with great specificity.  Yau
v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014) 229 Cal. App. 4th 144, 160-61.  Mere indignities, insults, threats, annoyances,
petty oppressions and the like are not enough. 
Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal. 4th 1035, 1051.   
Defendants
argue that plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts for vicarious liability
for the alleged intentional tort.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the allegations are sufficient as to
vicarious liability.  
The Court
finds that the allegations are sufficient. 
See under the first cause of action.
The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fourth cause of action.
 
 
ORDER
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
first and fourth causes of action in the complaint.  
Moving defendants are ordered to
file an answer within twenty days.  
            Moving
defendants are ordered to give notice of ruling.
[The Court notes that moving party attached to its 4
page points and authorities a copy of the 13 page Complaint.  This is not necessary and this bench officer
would prefer to not have the Complaint attached to a demurrer as the Complaint
is in the file of the Court.]