 Case Number:  23TRCV04277    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
GENIEZIP
  USA LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV04277




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ROADLIGHT
  INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 6, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiffs Geniezip USA LLC
and FNS, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion for Order
Compelling Responses Without Objections to Special Interrogatories, Form
Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents and Deeming Matters in
Requests for Admissions Admitted
            The Court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED upon payment
of additional filing fees of $120.
Defendant Greta Grigoryan is
ordered to respond without objections to plaintiffs’ Form Interrogatories (Set
One) and Special Interrogatories (Set One) within twenty days. 
Defendant Grigoryan is ordered (1)
to serve on plaintiffs a verified response without objections to plaintiffs’
First Set of Requests for Production and (2) to produce all documents and
things in defendant’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive to plaintiffs’
request, within twenty days.  
The Court orders the truth of the
matters deemed admitted in plaintiffs’ First Set of Requests for Admission
against defendant Grigoryan.
The Court orders defendant
Grigoryan to pay to plaintiffs a monetary sanction in the amount of $1,660, within
thirty days.
BACKGROUND
On December 26, 2023, plaintiff Geniezip
USA LLC filed a complaint against Roadlight Inc. and Greta Grigoryan for (1)
conversion, (2) intentional interference with business relations, and (3)
negligent interference with contractual relations.  
On January 4, 2024, plaintiffs
Geniezip USA, LLC and FNS, Inc. filed a FAC. 
Plaintiffs allege that on December 20, 2023, plaintiff FNS received on
behalf of its customer LG Electronics U.S.A. Inc. two containers from the Port
of Long Beach containing audio products for delivery to LG in Fort Worth,
Texas.  FNS transloaded the contents of
both containers into trailers for domestic transportation and utilized its
affiliated entity, Geniezip, to arrange with Roadlight to transport the
trailers from FNS’s warehouse in Torrance, California to LG’s warehouse in Fort
Worth.  To memorialize such requests,
Geniezip issued to defendants on December 19 and 20, 2023 Rate
Confirmations.  On December 20, 2023,
defendants took possession of both shipments. 
Notwithstanding such commitment, defendants seized such shipments and
refused to deliver such shipments to the rightful consignee, demanding payment
of charges assessed by a wholly separate unrelated corporation, Jayhawk Motor
Freight Inc., for shipments unrelated to those at issue in this case.  Plaintiffs have become liable to their customer
LG for the value of such shipments plus additional costs.
On January 23, 2024, defendant
Grigoryan (self-represented) filed an answer. 
On April 4, 2024, a default was
entered against Roadlight Inc.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Interrogatories
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906. 
Request for Production of Documents
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1487.
Request for Admissions 
Pursuant to CCP § 2033.280(b), a
party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).  “Failure to timely respond to RFA does not
result in automatic admissions.  Rather,
the propounder of the RFA must ‘move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction’ under § 2023.010 et seq.”  Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 8:1370, citing CCP § 2033.280(b).  The court “shall” grant the motion to deem
RFA admitted, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  CCP §
2033.280(c).
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs Geniezip USA LLC and
FNS, Inc. request that the Court compel defendant Greta Grigoryan to respond
without objections to plaintiffs’ initial form and special interrogatories and
requests for production of documents and to deem admitted the requests for
admission.
The Court notes that the motion is
improper to the extent that it combines multiple motions into one.  The Court will still consider the
motion.  Plaintiffs are ordered to pay additional
filing fees in the amount of $120.
Plaintiffs explain that they served
their discovery requests on defendant on March 6, 2024.  Responses were due on April 8, 2024.  When no responses were received, plaintiffs’
counsel sent a letter dated April 19, 2024 to defendant, requesting responses
by April 26, 2024 or plaintiffs would file a motion to compel.  To date, plaintiffs’ counsel has not received
responses.
The Court finds that plaintiffs
properly served discovery requests and defendant failed to respond.  
The motion is GRANTED.
                        Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Plaintiffs
request $2029.50 ($495/hr. x 4.1 hrs.) plus an anticipated $2970 in filing a
reply and appearing at the hearing.  The Court finds that $1,660 ($400/hr.
x 4 hrs., $60 filing fee) is a reasonable amount to be imposed against defendant.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED upon payment
of additional $120 in filing fees.
Defendant Grigoryan is ordered to
respond without objections to plaintiffs’ Form Interrogatories (Set One) and
Special Interrogatories (Set One) within twenty days. 
Defendant is ordered (1) to serve
on plaintiffs a verified response without objections to plaintiffs’ First Set
of Requests for Production and (2) to produce all documents and things in defendant’s
possession, custody, or control, which are responsive to plaintiffs’ request,
within twenty days.  
The Court orders the truth of the
matters deemed admitted in plaintiffs’ First Set of Requests for Admission against
defendant Grigoryan.
The Court orders defendant
Grigoryan to pay to plaintiffs a monetary sanction in the amount of $1,660,
within thirty days.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of ruling.