 Case Number:  23VECV03041    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  9/9/24




Case
  Name: Versailles Legacy Ventures LLC, et al. v. Craftscape Creations, LLC,
  et al. 




Case No.
  23VECV03041




 



 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F49
 

SEPTEMBER 9,
2024
 

MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
[2724]
 

Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23VECV03041

 
Motion
filed: 5/9/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Counsel Jilbert Tahmazian for Defendants
Craftscape Creations, LLC and Craftscape Designs LLC (the “Counsel”)
RESPONDING PARTY: None.
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order relieving Counsel Jilbert Tahmazian as counsel as to Defendants/Cross-Defendants Craftscape Creations, LLC and
Craftscape Designs, LLC
only
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of alleged contractual
fraud.
 
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiffs Versailles Legacy Ventures
LLC (“Versailles”), Aria West Management Inc. (“Aria”), and Calvin Alexander
Kim (“Kim”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against ten named
Defendants and Does 1 to 55, alleging 11 causes of action. Plaintiffs later substituted
several Doe defendants with specific parties, including Shapell Industries,
Inc., PRD Investors, LLC, PRD Investors, Inc., Aleshia Hoover, California
Sunshine Landscape, Inc., Edward A Ibrahim, and Aleshia Hoover (“Hoover”). Subsequently,
Defendants including Sosi Getzoian (“Getzoian”), Toll Brothers, Inc, Toll
Brothers West Inc., Toll Brothers Real Estate, Inc, Porter Ranch Development
Company, Great American Insurance Company, Shapell Industries, Inc., PRD
Investors, LLC, PRD Investors, Inc., and Hoover, have since filed their
respective Answers to the Complaint. 
 
On November 14, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Great
American Insurance Company (“GAIC”) filed a Cross-Complaint in Interpleader
against Versailles, Aria, Kim, Kirk Karamanoukian, Camil Montealegre, Tina
Vaziri (“Vaziri”), Lisa Hannig (“Hannig”), and Roes 1 through 50. Subsequently,
GAIC filed amendments to cross-complaint, substituting Roes 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and
7 with each’s true name. Subsequently, Cross-Defendants Kim, Versailles,
Hannig, Aria, Vaziri, Franciso Navarro, Iris Navarro, and Yosi Yahoudai (“Yahoudai”)
filed their respective Answers to the Cross-Complaint filed by GAIC.  
 
On January 18, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Getzoian filed
a Cross-Complaint against Craftscape Design LLC, Hoover, Craftscape Creations
LLC, and Allen Michael Abraham for Damages and Equitable Relief. 
 
On February 22, 2024, Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Yahoudai filed a Cross-Complaint against GAIC for Recovery against Contractors
Licenses Bond against License Bond Principals and License Bond Sureties.
 
 On May 9, 2024, Counsel
filed the instant Motion to be Relieved as Counsel as to Defendants/Cross-Defendants
Craftscape Creations, LLC and Craftscape Designs LLC (the “Motion”).
Subsequently, on August 12, 2024, the Court continued the hearing, citing
deficiencies in the Proof of Service.
 
            No Opposition papers have been
received by the Court.
 
ANALYSIS
The court may
order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before or after
judgment or final determination upon request by either client or attorney and
after notice from one to the other. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284, subd. (2).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128,
1133.) An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council
Forms MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).)
            In
addition, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subsection (d) requires that
the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order be served on
the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case by personal
service, electronic service, or mail. If the notice is served by mail, it must
be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that either:
            (A) The service address is the current residence or
business address of the client; or
(B)
The service address is the last known residence or business address of the
client and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after
making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the
motion to be relieved.
 
            (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(1)(A) & (2).)
 
Here, Counsel has filed Judicial Council Forms MC-051 and
MC-052. Counsel has also lodged Judicial Council Form MC-053 with the Court. 
 
Counsel
has provided a declaration stating that the Motion is necessitated by the
reason that “Mr. Allen Abraham, Chief Executive Officer of Craftscape
Creations LLC, and Craftscape Designs LLC has failed to abide by the
obligations contained in my employment contract for attorney services on behalf
of Craftscape Creations LLC, and Craftscape Designs LLC. By not doing so, my
representation of Craftscape Creations LLC, and Craftscape Designs LLC is no
longer sustainable. Craftscape Creations LLC, and Craftscape Designs LLC simply
cannot afford to make payments towards my fees; therefore, my office and myself
cannot continue working for free as it is causing a hardship on my firm.” (MC-025, ¶ 2.) 
 
The Court finds Counsel’s reasons for seeking relief to be satisfactory.
Counsel states in his declaration that the Motion was served by mail at the
clients’ last known address. (MC-052, ¶ 3(a)(2).) Additionally, Counsel has
confirmed “by conversation” that this address is current. (Ibid.) Proof
of Service has been attached to the Motion papers, demonstrating proper service
on Craftscape and all other parties who have appeared in the case.
 
The next scheduled hearing is a Status Conference Re:
Bankruptcy, set for October 30, 2024, at 8:30 AM in Department F49 at 9425
Penfield Ave., Chatsworth, CA 91311. The trial date has not yet been set.
(MC-053, ¶ 8.)
 
Previously, the Court found that motion papers lacked
adequate Proof of Service to demonstrate proper service on both Craftscape
Creations, LLC and Craftscape Design LLC. (8/12/2024 Minute Order.) Subsequently,
on August 20, 2024, Counsel submitted additional declarations attesting that
all moving papers were served on Craftscape Creations, LLC and Craftscape
Design LLC on May 14, 2024. (8/20/24 Tahmazian Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. “i.”) The Court
finds this declaration sufficient to meet its requirement. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is
GRANTED.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendants/Cross-Defendants
Craftscape Creations, LLC and Craftscape Design LLC, filed by counsel Jilbert Tahmazian, is GRANTED.
 
Moving counsel to give notice.