 Case Number:  23SMCV04054    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Lone Oak Fund, LLC
v. 1046 Genesee, LLC, Case No. 23SMCV04054
Hearing Date
October 6, 2023 
Plaintiff’s
Application for Temporary Restraining Order and Appointment of Receiver 
 
Plaintiff Lone Oak
Fund alleges defendant 1046 Genesee defaulted on its mortgage. Pursuant to the
deed of trust, the court must issue a temporary restraining order preventing use
of rental income other than discharging mortgage debt. Lone Oak seeks a
receiver. 
 
A court may
appoint a receiver for collection of rents in foreclosure actions if the deed
of trust contains a provision for assignment of rents or appointment of a
receiver. Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §§564, 2938. While a receivership provision
in a deed of trust is enforceable, it is not binding. A private contract cannot
force a court to exercise its inherent equity powers, such as the power to
enforce a receiver. Barclay’s Bank of California v. Superior Court (1977)
69 Cal.App.3d 593. Nonetheless, receivership language in a deed of trust creates
a rebuttable presumption that the beneficiary is entitled to appointment of a
receiver upon default. Id. at 602. Longstanding precedent holds a
receiver will not be appointed unless the party seeking appointment shows a
likelihood of irreparable injury. McNeil v. Graner (1949) 92 Cal.App.2d
371, 373. 
 
The deed of trust states
upon default, the holder has the right “[t]o apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for and obtain appointment of a receiver of the Property as a
matter of strict right,” and “to enter upon, possess, manage, and operate the
property or any part thereof[.]” Complaint, exh. 4 ¶4.2. Lone Oak argues a
receiver should be appointed to manage the property and collect rent, since
1046 is in default and the deed of trust provides for a receiver upon default. 
 
In opposition, 1046
cites Barclay’s for the proposition that a contract cannot force a court
to appoint a receiver. 1046 argues appointment would be improper regardless of
the trust’s terms because there are no tenants, so there is no rent to collect
or safeguard. 1046 also argues there is no risk of irreparable injury shown,
and any diminution of the property’s value is compensable by money damages. 
 
Lone Oak’s showing
of likely irreparable injury is slight. The evidence proffered in support of
this essential element is from James Rothstein, who states, “I am informed and
believe, and on that basis allege, Defendants have mismanaged and continue to
mismanage the business operations and affairs and have been acting in their own
personal interest and not the best interests of the lenders[.]” Rothstein decl.
¶32. He provides no explanation as to the basis for this opinion, nor does he
provide evidence of mismanagement. 
 
Though the
receivership provision is entitled to deference, under Barclay’s this
court retains equitable power to decline an appointment. Lone Oak has not made
a showing of likelihood of irreparable harm, which is required. Appointment of
a receiver is an extreme measure, unjustifiable here. DENIED. 