 Case Number:  23STCP03880    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  39 Shimon Ben-Shushan
v. David Ohana
Case No.
23STCP03880
Petition to Compel
Joinder of David Ohana in Pending Arbitration Action
 
            Petitioner
Shimon Ben-Shushan (“Petitioner”) is engaged in arbitration with M&D
Development & Construction, Inc. (“M&D”).  Petitioner moves to compel Respondent David
Ohana (“Respondent”) to join the arbitration as the alter ego of M&D.  Respondent opposes the petition.
 
The moving
party on a petition to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence,
while a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The
trial court sits as the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits,
declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court
may receive at its discretion, to reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
 
Petitioner
moves to compel Respondent to arbitrate as the alter ego of M&D.  However, Respondent did not sign the
arbitration agreement in his individual capacity.  A party that did not sign an arbitration
agreement is not required to arbitrate a dispute against an affiliated
corporation unless the trial court determines that an alter ego relationship
exists.  (See Benaroya v. Willis
(2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 462, 464-465, 469-470.) 

 
“In California,
two conditions must be met before the alter ego doctrine will be invoked.  First, there must be such a unity of interest
and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist.  Second, there must be an inequitable result if
the acts in question are treated as those of the corporation alone.  Among the factors to be considered in
applying the doctrine are commingling of funds and other assets of the two
entities, the holding out by one entity that it is liable for the debts of the
other, identical equitable ownership in the two entities, use of the same
offices and employees, and use of one as a mere shell or conduit for the
affairs of the other.  Other factors
which have been described in the case law include inadequate capitalization,
disregard of corporate formalities, lack of segregation of corporate records,
and identical directors and officers.  No
one characteristic governs, but the courts must look at all the circumstances
to determine whether the doctrine should be applied.  Alter ego is an extreme remedy, sparingly
used.” 
 
(Sonora Diamond Corp. v.
Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538-539, internal quotations and
citations omitted.)  
 
Petitioner
advances no competent evidence from which the Court could conclude that
Respondent is the alter ego of M&D. 
Petitioner relies on the declaration of his counsel, Christopher L. Mass
(“Counsel”).  Counsel acknowledges that
Petitioner lacks proof that Respondent is the alter ego of M&D, but states
that Petitioner will make such a showing at trial.  (Declaration of Christopher L. Mass, ¶
8.)  The Court cannot compel Respondent
to arbitrate absent a showing on this petition that Respondent is the alter ego
of M&D.
Petitioner also
advances his own declaration stating that Respondent is the president, only
officer, and sole shareholder of M&D. 
(Declaration of Shimon Ben-Shushan, ¶ 4.)  Petitioner also states that Respondent
participated in the construction project that is the subject of the underlying
dispute.  (Ibid.)  This evidence does not establish that
Respondent is the alter ego of M&D.  
 
Petitioner also
cites Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, which applies when, as here,
Petitioner is engaged in arbitration with M&D based on the same transaction
for which Petitioner seeks to hold Respondent liable.  Under Section 1281.2, the Court may: refuse
arbitration and order intervention or joinder of all parties in the pending
litigation; consolidate the arbitration and litigation into the court action;
stay the court action and order arbitration to proceed among the parties who
have agreed to arbitration; or stay the arbitration pending the outcome of the
pending court action.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1281.2, subds. (c), (d).)  Nothing in
Section 1281.2 gives the Court the power to require Respondent to arbitrate
when he did not agree to do so.  
 
Based upon the
foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
1.         The petition is denied.
 
2.         The Court sets no future dates, as the
Court has ruled on the only issue presented in this petition.
 
3.         Petitioner shall provide notice and
file proof of such with the Court.  
 