  Case Number:  23CHCP00073    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
10-11-23 
Case
#23CHCP00073
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Valentine Goelz, et al. 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, Sherry Goldsmith, et al. 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Sherry Goldsmith, individually and on behalf of Electropath, alleges joint
ownership of 10137 Canoga Ave., Chatsworth, with joint ownership of the
corporate entity identified as Electropath—50% ownership by Goldsmith and 25%
each by Valentine and Goel.
 
Goldsmith
alleges the other defendants conspired to deprive Goldsmith’s participation in
corporate operations, or other adherence to corporate formalities. Goldsmith
additionally allege improper conduct on the premises. 
 
On
February 20, 2023, Goldsmith filed a verified complaint for Civil Extortion,
Breaches of Fiduciary Duties, Unauthorized Distributions, Dissolution, Compel
Issuance of Shares, Breach of Duty to Transfer Shares, Breach of Duty to
Maintain Records, Declaratory Relief, False Reports – Derivative, Compel Annual
Meeting, Accounting of Rents, and Quiet Title.
 
On
September 19, 2023, the court denied Defendants motion to compel arbitration. 
 
RULING:
Overruled/Denied.
“Objections to Untimely Demurer and Motion to Strike” SUSTAINED.
The April 25, 2023, ex parte order specially set the responsive
filing deadline for June 1, 2023. Even with more than five weeks notice (38
days), Defendants still untimely filed their responsive pleadings one day late
on June 2, 2023. Defendants in reply requests the court allow the late filed
pleading due to “excusable mistake, inadvertent (sic) or neglect” on third
party delivery service “USA Express.” Defendant maintains the pleading was
“rejected” by the clerk only to be resubmitted the next day, and the
“systematic glitches” with the electronic filing system otherwise precluded
timely filing.
 
The court finds no basis of relief, due to alleged third party
conduct. Other than a conclusion of “glitches” indicated by an e-mail attachment
showing actual submission of the document at 3:56 p.m. on June 1, 2023, and
submission into the court filing queue at 4:23 p.m., the response to the
objection lacks any factual support. A subsequent rejection by the clerk in no
way indicates a problem with the electronic filing system, again, given the
actual notice of submission of the filing to the clerk. The subsequent rejection
by the clerk apparently comes from a defect in the document itself rather than
service provider error.
Given the second e-mail confirmation sent at 3:24 p.m. on June 2,
2023, indicating a new submission, the court concludes an entirely new
submission was in fact presented, rather than the implied refiling of the exact
same previously rejected document. Nothing in the motion or e-mails indicates
whether the documents were actually altered in order to conform to filing
requirements either way, but even assuming the motion was presented as exactly
as the day before, again nothing implicates an error by the service provider.
The court therefore concludes attorney error in filing, and finds no assignable
blame on the third party facilitated filing system. 
 
Given the response actually fails to address whether request for
relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473 even qualifies for relief, and
the mere rejection of a demurrer in no way constitutes a default to dismissal
on the action, the court declines to award relief on this basis. While an
argument can be made of no prejudice to Plaintiff, the court also finds no
material prejudice to Defendants based on the sustaining of the objection.
 
As for the objection to the service of the objections, the
objections were in fact served exactly five court days before the hearing date at
12:17 p.m., and were therefore timely. “Any document that is served electronically between 12:00 a.m.
and 11:59:59 p.m. on a court day shall be deemed served on that court day.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (a)(1)C)(4).)
 
The timely objections
are sustained, the court overrules the demurrer, and denies the motion to
strike on this basis. 
 
Demurrer
Even considering the
merits of the demurrer, the court finds no basis to sustain.
 
Evidentiary Objections
to Declarations of Mark Goelz, Valentine Goelz, Traci Kona, and Brett
Goldsmith: SUSTAINED.
·        
The declarations were
improperly submitted with the reply thereby depriving Plaintiff of the
opportunity to respond. 
·        
The declarations offer
opinions on matters extrinsic to the scope of consideration for the demurrer.
 
Request for Judicial
Notice: DENIED.
The court can only take
judicial notice of the existence of the requested documents to the extent
they’re incorporated into the operative pleading. The court can also consider
the content, again, only if submitted with the operative complaint. The court therefore
need not take judicial notice, if any and all documents are incorporated. The
court otherwise remains barred from considering the subject documents as to
their existence or for the truth of the matter asserted if not incorporated. 
 
Defendants
Valentine Goelz, Mark Goelz, Roy & Val Tool Grinding, Inc., Jan Mason
(appearing in pro per), and Elctropath (derivatively) bring the demurrer to the
entire verified complaint based on 25 separately articulated arguments
providing a paragraph-by-paragraph summary of certain portions of selected
challenged causes of action, then single paragraph summaries regarding the
purported defects of the individual causes of action. The essence of the
argument appears as a challenge on standing, misjoinder of parties, statute of
limitations, and general uncertainty arguments. The argument appears to rely on
accusations of Plaintiff “misleading” Defendants regarding the terms of the
pour over trust upon the death of David Goldsmith and Plaintiff assuming
ownership of the subject assets. Plaintiff in opposition challenge the legal
and factual basis of the entire demurrer. Defendants in reply contends the
opposition relies on improper ad hominem attacks, contends the opposition
improperly “lumps together” all defendants under the alter ego umbrella, and
reiterates the challenge on the civil extortion claim, as well as all but the
second cause of action. Defendants continue to rely on claims of “falsely”
based demands, lack of standing, etc.
 
A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where
a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition
Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder
our liberal pleading rules, where the complaint contains substantive factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave
to amend.] 
 
The
court finds the arguments in support of the demurrer constitutes a series of
legal conclusions and opinions based on extrinsic inference, as indicated by
examples such as: “Plaintiff's flim flam, unsupported extortion claim sets the
sick tone for the entire Complaint! (CCP Secs. 128.7, 430.10(f), 446, P.C. 518,
519)” [Demurrer, 7:21-22.] The follow up citations lack a sufficiently apparent
nexus with the presented argument. Thus, even if the court considered the
merits of the demurrer notwithstanding the untimely filing, the court declines
to make the arguments for Defendants, and otherwise finds no defect with the
pleading with the pleading sufficient to sustain the demurrer. The demurrer is
Overruled on this basis as well.
 
The
motion to strike appears as a duplicate, or alternative version of a demurrer.
(PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682-1683 [While a demurrer is not the exclusive means to
challenge a cause of action, a motion to strike generally applies to parts of a
cause of action, claim for damages, or where the cause of action or primary
right is barred as a matter of law.]; Quiroz
v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1281 [“Where a
whole cause of action is the proper subject of a pleading challenge, the
court should sustain a demurrer to the cause
of action rather than grant a motion to strike”].) Again,
the court declines to either reconsider the arguments made in the demurrer or
alternatively determine any new arguments on behalf of Defendants. The motion
to strike is denied.
 
In summary, the demurrer is overruled, and the motion to strike is
denied. Defendants to answer the operative verified complaint within 10 days of
this order.
 
Motion for Security of Costs, et al. set for November 28, 2023
(continued from September 28, 2023, per August 21, 2023, minute order). The
court reserves the right to further continue the hearings due to calendar
congestion, especially depending on the volume of the arguments and additional
work required addressing potentially made and unmade arguments.
 
Defendants
to give notice.
 