  Case Number:  22STCV30356    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  19 On the Court's own motion, Defendants/ Cross-Complainants' Motion for Preliminary Injunction is CONTINUED TO 09/11/2024, at 8:30 a.m. (Code of Civ. Proc. section 128). The Court finds that Moving Defendants/Cross-Complainants again failed to provide courtesy copies of  their opening brief and supporting papers, including the declaration of Sally  S. Chan in support of the opening brief, and the attached exhibits. The Court has only received courtesy copies of the Reply and the supporting reply Declaration of Sally S. Chan.  Again, as previously explained to the parties, the operative General Order regarding the Los Angeles Superior Court  Mandatory Electronic Filing For Civil states that “printed courtesy copies” are  required for "pleadings and motions (including attachments such as declarations and exhibits) of 26 pages or more"  and “pleadings and motions that  include points and authorities.” In addition, as allowed under the operative  General Order, Department 19 requires courtesy copies for law and motion  matters, and such requirement is posted on the Courtroom Information page on  the Los Angeles Superior Court website for Department 19 of the Stanley Mosk  Courthouse, Judge Stephanie Bowick presiding.Plaintiff has provided the Court with printed courtesy copies of their opposition briefing.  On July 29, 2024, at the hearing on the Defendants' Motion for Reconsideration, the Court reminded counsel for Defendants/Cross-Complainants (Attorney Sally S. Chan) of the requirement for courtesy copies for all law and motion briefing in Department 19 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse, Judge Stephanie Bowick presiding.  The Court gives Defendants/Cross-Complainants and their counsel once last opportunity to comply.  The Court orders printed courtesy  copies of Defendants/Cross-Complainants' motion for preliminary injunction opening briefing and supporting documents/declarations, including exhibits, and that such be delivered to Department 19 for Judge Bowick by no later than 4:00 p.m. on August 16, 2024.  If the above printed courtesy copies are not timely received, the Court will not consider Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ motion for preliminary injunction and the motion will be denied.  (Code of Civ. Proc. section 128 and Los Angeles County  Court Rules, rule 3.37).  Counsel for Defendants/Cross-Complainants to give notice.