  Case Number:  23STCV15790    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SANDRA
  GREENE 
                           
         vs.
 
FARMERS
  INSURANCE EXCHANGE, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV15790  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 19, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
            On 7/6/2023, Plaintiff Sandra Greene (Plaintiff) filed
suit against Farmers Insurance Exchange (Defendant or Farmers), alleging: (1)
breach of implied obligation of good faith and fair dealing; and (2) breach of
contract. 
 
            Now, Defendant moves for summary judgment of Plaintiff’s
claims. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for
breach of contract fails because there is no coverage for Plaintiff’s loss, and
that Plaintiff’s cause of action for implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing fails because Defendant’s denial was reasonable. As a result, Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages also fails. 
 
            As for the first contention, the essential elements for a
breach of contract action are: (1) the existence of a contract; (2) plaintiffs’
performance of the contract; (3) defendant's material breach of the contract;
and (4) damages resulting from the breach. (Abdelhamid v Fire Ins. Exchange
(2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 990, 999.) To establish a “breach” of an insurance
contract in a first party claim, a policyholder must show an entitlement to a
benefit that an insurer refused to pay. (Behnke v. State Farm General
Insurance Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1468 (holding an action for an
insurance contract breach requires a showing that the insurer wrongfully
withheld policy benefits due and owing”).) 
 
Here,
the Policy provides, in relevant part:
 
Section I - Extensions of Coverage
 
1.      Limited Water Coverage 
a. We provide limited coverage for accidental, direct,
distinct and demonstratable, physical water damage of covered property from
direct contact with water, but only if the water results from:
 
(2)
hail, rain, snow, or sleet entering through an opening in the roof or wall of a
building structure, and only if the opening is first caused by damage from the
direct force of the following:
 
(ix) windstorm;
                        
(SS 5.) 
 
The
Policy also provides, in relevant part: 
 
A.    Uninsured Types of Loss or Damage.
1.      Water Damage.
 
We do not insure loss or damage which consists of, is
composed of or which is water damage, except as covered in Section I -
Extensions of Coverage, Limited Water Coverage or unless if caused by fire or
lightning.
 
            (SS 6.)
 
Taken
together, the Policy provides coverage for accidental and direct physical water
damage of covered property from direct contact with water, but only if the
water results from rain entering through an opening and only if the opening was
first caused by direct force of the windstorm; otherwise it is excluded.
 
Here,
Defendant does not dispute “accidental, direct, distinct and demonstratable,
physical water damage of covered property or that the damage was caused by
direct contact with water resulting from rain entering through the roof” (MSJ,
10: 18-20.) Rather, Defendant contends that there is no evidence that rain entered
through an opening “first caused by damage from the direct force of a windstorm,”
as required to be covered under the policy.
 
In
support, Defendant submitted evidence that: 
 
-        
FIE received
notice of the loss on or about Friday, March 17, 2023, and assigned the claim
Claim No. 5021956579-1-1. (SS 9.) 
 
-        
On or about
Tuesday, March 21, 2023, FIE claims representative Rodrigo Morales contacted an
independent vendor, LadderNow, to assist with the investigation of the claim.
(SS 10.)
 
-        
On or about March
30, 2023, FIE claims representative Reanne Charuhas spoke with Plaintiff and
advised Plaintiff that FIE had attempted to send LadderNow for an inspection. Plaintiff
responded that LadderNow contacted her several times but she did not allow
Ladder Now to inspect the property because she did not feel it was worth their
time given that she had a roofer that works with many insurance companies. (SS
11-12.) 
 
-        
On or about March
30, 2023, Mr. Morales spoke with Plaintiff’s roofer, David Glover of Kleen Inspection
(SS 13.) 
 
-        
Based on his
conversation with Mr. Glover, Mr. Morales understood that there was no opening
to the roof as a result of wind and that the cause of loss was from wear and
tear to the roof that allowed rainwater to enter the interior of the home. (SS
14.) 
 
-        
Later that day,
Ms. Charuhas spoke with Plaintiff and advised that FIE attempted to inspect the
roof, but the inspection did not occur because Plaintiff did not schedule or
allow the inspection with LadderNow. (SS 15.) Plaintiff reiterated that she did
not feel it was necessary. (SS 16.) 
 
-        
Thereafter, FIE
received a report prepared by Mr. Glover. Photos submitted with the report’s
images did not present evidence of a storm-created opening to the dwelling such
as missing or wind-damaged shingles. (SS 17-18.) 
 
-        
Based on the
information at hand, FIE determined that the water damage was not the result of
water entering the roof through a windstorm-created opening. (SS 19.) 
 
Defendant’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that there was no evidence that the
opening was caused by the direct force of a windstorm. Accordingly, the burden
shifts to Plaintiff to disclose a triable issue of material fact. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff submitted evidence that a report was performed by Mr.
Glover of Kleen Inspection, and that it states the damage to the roof was
caused by the windstorm, which is covered by the policy. (UMF 5.) Additionally,
the letter from the contractor who repaired the roof stated “[i]n the storms of
March and April wind had shifted and blown tiles from the roof. Hail storms and
heavy rain damaged the inside of the house and garage. Water has penetrated
under the titles that was blown from the wind and was cracked by hail.” (Plts
Ex. 2.)
 
However,
first, Plaintiff did not submit a declaration from David Glover of Kleen
Inspections to authenticate his report or his findings. Moreover, Plaintiff
admits that Mr. Glover is not a contractor, and is not licensed by the State of
California. As such, he is not licensed to write any report. 
 
Second,
as noted, Defendant submitted evidence that Mr. Morales spoke to Mr. Glover
about his report on March 30, 2023. Thereafter, FIE received a report prepared
by Mr. Glover. [UMF No. 17] The photos submitted with the report’s images did
not present evidence of a storm-created opening to the dwelling such as missing
or wind-damaged shingles. [UMF No. 18] Based on the information at hand, FIE
determined that the water damage was not the result of water entering the roof
through a windstorm-created opening. [UMF No. 19.] 
 
Third,
it was not until repairs were completed that Plaintiff contacted FIE to perform
a site inspection. (UMF No. 23-25.) As such, any attempt to perform an
inspection by Defendant would have been futile, given that by the time they
were contacted, the damage had already been repair.  
 
As
for the letter from EBA Roofing which Plaintiff points to as an event of
windstorms and hail causing damage to the roof, Plaintiff also did not provide
any declaration from EBA Roofing, Inc., Ben Ari, and/or any roofing expert
regarding the EBA Roofing, Inc. letter. Moreover, the letter fails to provide
any photographic evidence of even one broken, displaced, or missing tile on
Plaintiff’s roof that caused an opening in the roof or otherwise. Rather, the
letter indicates that it removed existing tile and installed tile back. As
such, it does not support a reasonable inference that the damage to the roof
was caused by a windstorm. 
 
As
to the second contention, the “ultimate test of bad faith liability in the
first party cases is whether the refusal to pay policy benefits was
unreasonable.” (Morris v. Paul Revere Life Ins. Co. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 966, 973.) “In other words, before an insurer can be found to have
acted tortiously, i.e., in bad faith, in refusing to bestow policy benefits, it
must have done so without proper cause.” (Opsal v. USAA (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 1197, 1205.)
 
The
mistaken or erroneous withholding of policy benefits, if reasonable or if based
on a legitimate dispute as to the insurer’s liability under California law,
does not expose the insurer to bad faith liability. (Id.) The
reasonableness of the insurer’s decisions and actions “must be evaluated as of
the time that they were made; the evaluation cannot be fairly made in the light
of subsequent events that may provide evidence of the insurer’s errors.” (Id.
at p. 347.) This issue may be resolved as a matter of law. (Id.)
 
Here,
Defendant submitted evidence that: 
 
-        
 FIE retained the assistance of an independent
vendor, LadderNow, to assist with investigating the loss by inspecting the
roof. (SS 10.) 
 
-        
On or about March
30, 2023, FIE claim representative Reanna Charuhas spoke with Plaintiff and
advised Plaintiff that FIE attempted to send LadderNow for an inspection. (SS
11.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff
responded that LadderNow had contacted her several times but did not allow them
to come out and inspect because she did not feel it was necessary given that
she had a roofer that worked with many insurance companies. (SS 12.) 
 
-        
FIE’s Mr. Morales
spoke with Mr. Glover and, based on his conversation, understood that there was
no opening to the roof created by wind and that the loss was from wear and tear
to the roof. (SS 13-14.) 
 
-        
Thereafter, FIE
received a report prepared by Mr. Glover. (SS 17.) 
 
-        
The photos
submitted with the report did not present evidence a storm-created opening to
the dwelling such as missing or wind-damaged shingles. (SS 18.) 
 
-        
Based on the
information at hand, FIE determined that the water damage was not the result of
water entering the roof through a windstorm created opening. (SS 19.)
 
-        
With regards to
the second claim, Claim Number 5022292216-1, FIE made several attempts to
contact Plaintiff in order to schedule a field inspection (SS 23-24.)
 
-        
FIE also advised
Plaintiff of her obligation to provide claims representatives access to the
damaged property. (SS 24.) 
 
-        
Despite these
efforts, FIE only heard from Plaintiff’s husband after repairs to the roof were
completed. (SS 25-27.) 
 
-        
Nonetheless, FIE
conducted a field inspection, requested pre-repair photos of the roof from
Plaintiff, Mr. Glover, Plaintiff’s insurance agent, and EBA Roofing, and
evaluated the photos and report received in order to investigate the claim. (SS
26-29.) 
 
-        
Based on the
investigation, FIE concluded that there was insufficient photographic evidence
to support the claim that wind was the proximate cause of loss for the damages
to the roof given its observation that there were no broken, displaced or
missing tiles on the roof that would have occurred due to wind and no roof
vents, plumbing stacks, or HVAC accessories that were broken or displaced due
to wind. (SS 30.)
 
Defendant’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that it reasonably evaluated, and
denied, Plaintiff’s claim. Accordingly, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to
disclose a triable issue. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Mr. Glover’s report indicated that the
opening was caused by the force of wind, and that Defendant never sent an
inspector to the property. 
 
However,
FIE is not obligated to accept Plaintiff’s roofer’s opinion “without scrutiny
or investigation.” (Wilson v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2007) 42
Cal.4th 713, 722.) As set forth above, Defendant’s evidence supports a
reasonable inference that the images presented in the roofer’s report were
evaluated by two separate FIE claims representatives who independently
evaluated their respective claims, yet came to the same conclusion upon
discussing the roofer’s observation with Plaintiff’s roofer and upon reviewing
Mr. Glover’s report and images. (SS 13-19, 26-31.) Based on their discussions
with the roofer and review of the report, both claims representatives concluded
that there was no evidence that there was a windstorm created opening.
Plaintiff did not submit any evidence which could show that Defendant’s
analysis and discussion based on, and in correspondence with, Mr. Glover’s
report and observation was an objectively unreasonable way to assess
Plaintiff’s claim. 
 
Plaintiff
also claims that Defendant never once spoke to Plaintiff prior to denying her
Claim. Not only is this disputed by evidence which shows Defendant communicated
about attempts to schedule inspections, but even setting this aside, Plaintiff
has not submitted any legal authority which could say that it is required to
communicate with Plaintiff as part of its analysis or before it denies a claim.
Notably, Plaintiff did not cite any case law to show that analogous
circumstances have been deemed unreasonable or deemed to even create a triable
issue as to that issue.  
 
Moreover,
FIE, through LadderNow, made several attempts to conduct the inspection
promptly and before the repairs were made. FIE also made attempts to schedule
the inspection without LadderNow well before repairs were made. However, it was
not until repairs were completed that Plaintiff contacted FIE to perform a site
inspection. 
 
In Paslay
v. State Farm Gen. Ins. Co. (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 639, 655, the California
Court of Appeals affirmed summary judgment in favor of the insurer, State Farm,
on a bad faith claim because the insureds removed damaged ceilings, cabinets,
fixtures and other parts of a bathroom and discarded the debris before State
Farm could investigate. State Farm was only able to review images of the damage
and therefore advised the insureds that their demolition of the bathroom before
an agreement on scope was prejudicial to State Farm. The Paslay Court
found that “[t]he record shows only that State Farm did what it could to assess
the claimed losses before denying them. In our view, even if those denials were
mistaken, nothing suggests that State Farm acted in bad faith.” (Id.)
 
Here,
the only reasonable inference supported by the evidence is that FIE made every
effort to inspect the roof but was turned away or ignored until after the roof
was repaired. Then, based on their discussions with the roofer and review of
the report, both claims representatives concluded that there was no evidence
that there was a windstorm created opening. 
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  