  Case Number:  22NWCV00271    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  C SENIOR OPERATIONS LLC v. CERTIFIED RECORDS MANAGEMENT, LLC 
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV00271
HEARING:
 11/16/23
 
#1
 
Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (set
one) is CONTINUED to Thursday, January 11, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept.
SE-C. 
 
Opposing
Party to give notice.
 
This
action for breach of contract was filed by Plaintiff SENIOR OPERATIONS LLC
(“Plaintiff”) on April 8, 2022. The operative Complaint alleges that: “Senior
Operations contracted with King Data Services… in 2003 to provide document
storage services…. The Contract required that King Data provide 30 days written
notice before implementing a change in rates. The Contract had no set term for
the length of the Contract or any penalty or break-up fee when the Contract or
business relationship ended.” (Complaint ¶7.) Certified Records acquired King
Data Services and assumed its obligations under the Contract with Senior
Operations in 2012. (Complaint ¶9.) Certified records allegedly imposed
unilateral rate increases without notice to Senior Operations. Due to the rate
increases, Senior Operations decided to move its documents to another document
storage provider. (Complaint ¶¶11-12.) “In April 2021, Certified Records issued
a fee quote requiring Senior Operations to pay $183,462,78 if Senior Operations
wanted to remove its documents from storage. This break-up and penalty fee has
no relation to and far exceeds the actual labor costs Certified Records would
incur to simply put Senior Operations’ boxes of records on its dock for
pick-up. Rather, Certified Records insisted on this fee as a penalty and
disincentive for Senior Operations to move its record storage needs elsewhere.
Senior Operations never agreed verbally or in writing to this penalty and
break-up fee.” (Complaint ¶13.) 
 
The
Complaint asserts the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Violations of California’s Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA); and (3)
Violations of the California Unfair Competition Law (UCL). 
 
On
June 3, 2022, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint seeking, in part, a judicial
determination with respect to its “ability to destroy [Plaintiff’s] belongings
that are stored in [Defendant’s] custody.” (XC ¶27.) The XC asserts causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract; and (2) Declaratory Relief. 
 
On
October 17, 2023, this Court granted Plaintiff’s application for a writ of
possession. 
 
Defendant now moves for an order to compel
Plaintiff’s further responses to Request for Production of Documents (set one) 
 
According to Defendant’s Separate Statement,
the following RPDs are at issue: 
·       
RPD No. 2. ALL
COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and CERTIFIED RELATED TO the allegation of YOUR
complaint. 
·       
RPD No. 3. ALL
DOCUMENTS supporting YOUR contention in paragraph 11 of YOUR Complaint that
CERTIFIED increased rates for document storage that “far exceed market rates
for similar services and more than five times their true value and cost.” 
·       
RPD No. 4. ALL
DOCUMENTS supporting YOUR contention in paragraph 12 of YOUR Complaint that
CERTIFIED’S increase in documents storage rates were “exorbitant and
unreasonable.” 
·       
RPD No. 5. ALL
DOCUMENTS supporting YOUR contention that SENIOR’S outstanding invoices and
fees due to CERTIFIED upon SENIOR’S termination of the CONTRACT, on or about
March 2021, with CERTIFIED are “egregious and unconscionable because they are
substantially higher than the average market rate, are unreasonable with no
relation to costs incurred, and are intended to be punitive to prevent clients
from transferring their records and property to other service providers[,]” as
stated in paragraph 14 of YOUR Complaint.
·       
RPD No. 7. All
non-privileged COMMUNICATIONS internally that mention or refer to CERTIFIED. 
·       
RPD No. 8. ALL
COMMUNICATIONS that mention “KING” RELATED TO this lawsuit sent, received,
created, modified, or reviewed on or after September 1, 2020. 
·       
RPD No. 10. All
DOCUMENTS supporting any damages YOU claim to have suffered arising out of the
allegations of YOUR complaint. 
·       
RPD No. 11. All
non-privileged COMMUNICATIONS with any third-party that mention or refer to
CERTIFIED. 
·       
RPD No. 12. All
DOCUMENTS that support YOUR contention in paragraph 28 of YOUR Complaint that
YOU are a “consumer” under California’s Consumers Legal Remedies Act. 
 
Defendant argues that further responses are
warranted because: (1) Senior refuses to clarify whether it is withholding or
intends to withhold any documents based on any of the asserted objections (save
for privilege); (2) for all responses where Senior has agreed to produce
documents, Senior refuses to agree to amend its responses to state that Senior
will produce all response documents in its possession, custody, or control as
required by the CCP; (3) Senior has failed to produce any email correspondence
despite its assertions to the contrary; and (4) Senior has refused to produce
any responsive documents to RPD Nos. 11 and 12. (Cesar Decl., ¶13.) 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues: (1) there is
no duty to confirm if documents are being withheld due to a particular
objection—except for privilege; (2) There is no duty to respond to discovery
using any specific language; (3) Plaintiff’s objections were appropriate as to
RPD Nos. 11 and 12; and (4) Plaintiff raised appropriate and valid objections,
but stated that it would produce communication between Defendant and Plaintiff
and has done so. Plaintiff also argues that “it has been impossible for Senior
Aerospace to conduct a reasonable search for all its potentially responsive
documents” because Defendant has refused Plaintiff access to its stored records
since March 2021. These stored records are dated from 2003 to December 2020,
and “include materials from Senior Aerospace’s accounting, purchasing, and
contracts personnel.” (Opp. 2:6-9.) 
 
“On receipt of a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A state of compliance with the
demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.” (CCP §2031.310(a).) 
 
A motion to compel further
responses to a request for production “shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.” (CCP
§2031.310(b).) 
 
This matter
is CONTINUED as indicated above. On October 17, 2023, this Court granted
Plaintiff’s application for a writ of possession. Regarding Plaintiff’s
arguments in Opposition— it now has access to potentially responsive documents
that it did not have access to at the time the Motion was filed. This is an
important change in the status of the case and the parties abilities to comply
with discovery obligations. 
 
Counsel are instructed
to further meet and confer on the issues outlined in the subject Motion. Counsel
are advised that their meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending
letters stating their respective positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at
informal resolution is adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level
of effort at an informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good
faith attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more
complex discovery request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be
warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort
may suffice. The history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction
between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery
requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant.
Judges have broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and
procedures are appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) 
 
Counsel are ORDERED to make further efforts to
resolve the issues presented. If, after exhausting those efforts, court
intervention is needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the
continued hearing date. If counsel are unable to informally resolve their
discovery disputes, then counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT STATEMENT
outlining the remaining disputed issues for which a ruling is required. The
joint statement must be FILED on or before Thursday, January 4, 2024. 
 
 
 
 