 Case Number:  24STCV23539    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ARA KRIKORIAN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SOLAR OPTIMUM, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV23539
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO FILE
  UNDER SEAL
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 31, 2024



 
On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff Ara Krikorian filed this
action against Defendants Solar Optimum Inc. and Arnou Aghamalian.
On October 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion for leave to file a first amended complaint (“FAC”) under seal.  On October 31, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s
Ex Parte Application For Order Conditionally Sealing and Removing From the Court’s
Website Plaintiff's Motion to File First Amended Complaint Under Seal and All Related
Documents and Removing the Same From the Court’s Website Until The Motion Can Be
Heard by the Court.
On November 7, 2024, the Court’s
Minute Order stated, “Submissions of briefs are due five days prior to the
hearing date.” (Minute Order 11/7/24.)
As of December 27, 2024, briefs have
not been filed. 
DISCUSSION

A
record must not be filed under seal without a court order, and a party requesting
that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order
sealing the record.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(a)-(b).)  The Court may order that a record be filed under
seal only if it finds that (1) there is an overriding interest that overcomes the
right of public access to the record, (2) the overriding interest supports sealing
the record, (3) a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will
be prejudiced absent sealing, (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, and
(5) no less restrictive means exists to achieve the overriding interest.  (California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  A motion seeking an order sealing records must
be accompanied by a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.  (California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).)
Plaintiff asks to seal (1) Exhibit A to the Declaration
of Ara Krikorian in Support of Plaintiff’s Motion to File Under Seal; (2) Paragraphs
7, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 27, 28, and 29 of the proposed FAC;
and (3) all papers and records related to this motion.
Plaintiff argues that “[t]he overriding interest in this
matter for sealing the subject records is that said records are arguably covered
under a contractual confidentiality provision between Plaintiff and Defendants,
and that disclosure to the public of such records unredacted could subject Plaintiff
to a breach of contract action brought by Defendants against Plaintiff.”  (Motion at p. 4.)  “Without requesting the court to permit the filing
of certain records under seal, Plaintiff will be put in the untenable position of
having to choose between exercising his rights to access to the courts as an aggrieved
employee and subjecting himself to allegations of breach of contract for such filing.  Such a result would deprive Plaintiff to his right
to a fair trial by subjecting him to liability for filing his employment claims
in the first instance.”  (Id. at p.
5.)
Plaintiff’s interest does not overcome the right of public
access to the record and does not support sealing the record.  Some of the proposed redactions appear irrelevant
to the confidentiality provision but are very relevant for how this action will
be litigated.  For example, Paragraph 7 contains
allegations of alter ego.  Paragraph 13 sets
forth the structure for Plaintiff’s compensation, benefits, and commissions, which
is necessary for Plaintiff’s claim for unpaid wages.  It is also related to the calculation of Plaintiff’s
unredacted damages.  (See Proposed FAC ¶ 30.)  Paragraphs 14-24 and 27-29 are the essential factual
allegations for Plaintiff’s claims of retaliation and wrongful termination.  This information is necessary to understand Plaintiff’s
allegations and claims for damages in the unredacted portions, and it is necessary
to reference in future motions and orders. 
(See Proposed FAC ¶ 30.)
Sealing is also not the least restrictive means to protect
Plaintiff’s interest in avoiding Defendants alleging violation of the confidentiality
provision, and Plaintiff’s interest will not be prejudiced absent sealing.  The confidentiality provision “shall not apply
to information that . . . (iii) KRIKORIAN is required to disclose by applicable
law, regulation or legal process (provided that KRIKORIAN provides COMPANY with
prior notice of the contemplated disclosure and reasonably cooperates with the COMPANY
in seeking a protective order or other appropriate protection of such information).  (Krikorian Decl., Ex. A at p. 6, ¶ 9(a).)  Plaintiff has provided such notice and cooperation.
CONCLUSION
The
motion to seal is DENIED.
The
Clerk shall unseal the documents that were ordered sealed in the Court’s October
31, 2024 order.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 31st day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 