  Case Number:  20SMCV00872    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  I On September 20, 2023, the court issued the tentative
(reprinted below), which still reflected the court’s tentative thoughts.  It is appended to this tentative for context.
The court has reviewed defendant’s opposition filed October
2, 2023.  Even so, the court believes
that the motion ought to be GRANTED.
The problem is that this is really buyer’s/seller’s
remorse.  There is a settlement
agreement.  It is enforceable under
664.6.  If the court were the settlement
judge, or doing equity, it might find some support in some of defendant’s
arguments.  But as it is, the contract is
the contract and all the opposition says is that the contract was not such a good
deal for the defense.
The court will GRANT the motion with the following
clarifications.  First, the court
does not want to interfere with the receiver. 
To the extent that any of this property is within the receiver’s
jurisdiction, this order will be subject to whatever proper orders (to be
determined by the court appointing the receiver) the receiver might make.  Second, as to the number of paintings,
the court believes that it has already discussed valuation issues.  The court will not re-open that can of
worms.  However, the parties may return
to court to determine who is liable if some paintings are withdrawn from the
sale as unnecessary and a commission remains to be owed.  It could well be that if the additional
paintings were placed at auction at plaintiff’s insistence and over defendant’s
objection, then plaintiff must bear that cost. 
Third, nothing in this order is meant to vitiate a senior
lender’s alleged priority.  If someone
claims to be a senior lender and is therefore allegedly entitled to these
proceeds, that person should make itself known and the court will determine
what best to do.  It could well be that
the money stays with the receiver; it could be that the money is held in escrow
until the seniority issue is resolved. 
The point is that the parties entered into a settlement
agreement.  It had certain terms.  It states it will be enforced per 664.6.  It is not an illegal agreement and defendant
has provided no reason to believe it is void or voidable.  The court will enforce it.  But the court will not interfere in other
proceedings nor prejudice parties who are not before it and whose rights are
otherwise protected.
 
PRIOR TENTATIVE
This is an ex parte application to enforce a
settlement agreement pursuant to CCP section 664.6.  The settlement agreement is in two
parts.  One was entered into in October
2022 and sets forth the amount of the settlement and certain other terms.  Another was entered into in May 2023.  It provides that certain art will be
auctioned off to satisfy the debt (and the auction house is named).  However, it also gives defendant time to sell
the art privately, obviously in the hope that a private sale will generate a
greater return.  Plaintiff has concluded
that the hoped-for private sale will not materialize and therefore wants the
art to be auctioned.  According to the
May Agreement, the sale must occur no later than November 3, 2023.  Plaintiff brings this application to enforce
those terms.
The court will hear from the defense.  However, the settlement agreement does seem
pretty clear and the terms are direct. 
Defendant is required under the May Agreement to cooperate with the
Auction House (Guernsey) to effectuate the auction.  Plaintiff has made out a prima facie
case for enforcement.  The court will
hear from the defense as to why the court should not order defendant to comply
with the agreement.  (The agreement meets
the requirements of section 664.6.  It is
in writing and signed by the parties, and it specifically states that it is
enforceable under the statute.)  Of
course, only enough art need be auctioned to satisfy the debt.  The amount of the debt is as set forth in the
original settlement agreement plus accrued interest.  Plaintiff is to provide a payoff quote
assuming that the sale occurs on November 3, 2023.  This is math, so the court assumes that the
parties will be able to agree on that amount. 
If the sale is earlier, plaintiff will refund whatever unearned interest
there is.  If, however, defendant opposes
the ex parte, then the court will continue the matter for a relatively
short time to allow the defense to submit a written opposition.
