 Case Number:  21STCV17437    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
AXE
WHEELS, INC.’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT AND QUASH PLAINTIFFS’ SUMMONS AND
COMPLAINT FOR LACK OF PERSONAL JURISDICTION is GRANTED in that Specially
Appearing Defendant (as to Plaintiffs’ complaint) is dismissed. The court requests EMS be prepared to
discuss the merits of Axe’s motion as to EMS’ CC because the facts strongly
evidence that Axe should be dismissed from the action entirely
(rendering 4/22 motion moot). 
 
Background
 
This is a
negligence case. Plaintiffs MELISSA MOORS (wife) and KAYLEAH MOORS (daughter)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) bring forth the instant action for the death of
Julian Moore (“decedent”) who was struck when the wheel of Defendant ALBERT
BENJAMIN ESQUEDA’s vehicle detached and struck decedent’s motorcycle. 
 
On May 10,
2021, Plaintiffs filed suit. 
 
On June 8,
2022, EMS filed their Answer to Plaintiffs' Complaint.
 
On September
28, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint (FAC) against Defendants
ALBERT BENJAMIN ESQUEDA (“Esqueda”); ANGELINA ULLOA (“Ulloa”); ADRIANA SIORDIA
JIMENEZ; MARIO SIORDIA JIMENEZ; IN AND OUT TIRE, LLC a limited liability; EMS
DISTRIBUTING LLC d/b/a ELEMENT WHEELS COM (sued herein as DOE 1); EMS
DISTRIBUTING, LLC, d/b/a ) ELEMENT WHEELS, (sued herein as DOE 2); (“EMS”);[1]
and AFFORDABLE WHEEL REPAIR (sued) herein as DOE 3) for: 1. NEGLIGENCE 2.
NEGLIGENCE PER SE 3. STRICT LIABILITY 4. PRODUCT LIABILITY and 5. SURVIVOR
ACTION.
 
On February 10, 2023, default was entered against
Axe Wheels 2/10/23 as to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
On February
24, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Defendants ADRIANA SIORDIA JIMENEZ and MARIO SIORDIA
JIMENEZ (collectively as the “Jimenez Defendants”) filed a motion for
determination of good faith settlement, which the court granted.[2]
 
On August 4,
2023, EMS filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Axe Wheels
and other defendants seeking equitable indemnity, negligence,
contribution, apportionment of fault and declaratory relief regarding the duty
to defend and duty to indemnify, which the court granted on 8/20/23.[3]
 
On August 30,
2023, EMS filed its cross-complaint (CC) against Axe Wheels, Esqueda, Ulloa, In
and Out Tires, Flores, and Alberto Sr. dba Affordable Wheel Repair for: 
 
1.     Total Indemnity 
2.     Equitable Indemnity
3.     Negligence
4.     Contribution 
5.     Apportionment
6.     Declaratory Relief
 
On September
19, 2023, Esqueda and Ulloa filed his answer to EMS’ cross-complaint.
 
On September 19, 2023, Flores, Alberto Sr. dba
Affordable Wheel Repair filed their answer to the CC of “Mission Oaks National
Bank.”[4]
 
On February
9, 2024, Axe Wheels filed the instant motion to set aside/vacate default. 
 
On February
16, 2024, Axe Wheels filed a Motion To Quash Service Of Summons And
Cross-complaint For Lack Of Personal Jurisdiction. (Hearing on this motion is
set for 4/22/24; CMC set for 7/1/24; and Trial Setting Conference set for
7/1/24.) 
 
On March 4,
2024, Axe Wheels filed a ‘Notice of Non-Opposition to [the Motion]’ indicating
that it received no opposition or any other party. 
 
Discussion[5]
 
Axe Wheels
bring forth the motion on two grounds: 
 
1.     Axe Wheels, Inc. is not subject to
this Court’s jurisdiction because it was not properly served with copies of
Plaintiffs’ summons and complaint and
2.     The Court lacks personal jurisdiction
over the Arizona corporation.
(Motion
p. 2:21-23; see also Motion p. 9:16-19.)  
 
The court
will address each point ad seriatim.[6]

 
1.     Service Upon a Corporation 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Defendant
brings forth this motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section
473(d) [improper service]. 
 
Section 473(d) provides that “[t]he court may . . . on
motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void
judgment or order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(d).) A default judgment is void
against a defendant who was not served with a summons in the manner prescribed
by statute. (See Sakaguchi v. Sakaguchi (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 852,
858). Relief pursuant to section 473(d) may be made at any time. (See Manson,
Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36, 42). “Because the law favors disposing of
cases on their merits, any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in
favor of the party seeking relief from default.” Lasalle v. Vogel (2019)
36 Cal.App.5th 127, 134-35.) 
 
Discussion
 
On 9/28/22,
Plaintiffs filed a FAC. According to the proof of service (POS) filed on
10/26/22, Defendant was served on 10/19/22 via substituted service by leaving
the documents with a “Frank Rivers –Person in Charge” at 5640 S. 40TH STREET,
STE. 5 PHOENIX, AZ 85040. Richard Stokes, however, is the person authorized to
accept service on behalf of the corporation.
 
To effectuate service on a corporation, summons may be delivered
to the agent for service of process or to the president, chief executive
officer, or other head of the corporation, a vice president, a secretary or
assistant secretary, a treasurer or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief
financial officer, a general manager, or a person authorized by the corporation
to receive service of process. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 416.10(a), (b).) 
 
“By its terms, section 416.10 permits service on a corporation
[] by way of service on an individual or entity designated as an agent for
service of process (§ 416.10,
subd. (a)); service on one of the 11 officers or managers of the corporation
specified in section
416.10, subdivision (b); service on a person authorized by the corporation to
receive service (§ 416.10,
subd. (c)); or service in a manner authorized by the Corporations Code (§ 416.10,
subd. (d)). In turn,
section 415.20 permits substituted service on a person specified in section 416.10 by
leaving the summons and complaint “in his or her office ...
with the person who is apparently in charge thereof.’ [Citation].” (Ramos v.
Homeward Residential, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1434, 1441, emphasis
added.) Simply put, a required condition of proper service is that the POS
identify the requisite person who is authorized to receive service by one of
the ways prescribed by section 416.10. (Id. at pp. 1441-42 [“[W]here the
proof of service fails to identify any such person, the proof of service
is defective.”].) 
 
That said, “[i]t is axiomatic that strict compliance with the code's
provisions for service of process is not required.” (Id. at p. 1442.) The burden is on the plaintiff
to make this showing of substantial compliance. (Ibid.) For
example, substantial compliance occurs when the person to be served in
fact actually received the summons (i.e., authorized person was received but
plaintiff merely did not mail one olng f the persons to be served. (Id.
at p. 1443.) “However, mere receipt of the summons by an unknown employee
of the corporation who is not a person specified in section 416.10 does not necessarily establish
substantial compliance. [Citation]. Evidence that shows the name of the person
who received the summons and complaint as well as the person's title or
capacity is required by statute (§ 417.10) and, without it, a trial court need
not infer that a person specified in section 416.10 actually received the summons and
complaint.” (Id. at p. 1443, emphasis and underline added.) 
 
Here,
Defendant states that the person served was merely an employee in a warehouse.
(Motion p. 10, see als Stokes Decl., ¶7 [“I learned that Plaintiffs had these
documents delivered to an employee at Axe Wheels, Inc.’s warehouse, who placed
the documents in a desk drawer, and was later terminated for unrelated reasons,
so I was not provided actual notice of Plaintiffs’ summons and complaint or
their request for entry of default against Axe Wheels, Inc.”].) 
 
To the extent
that the person served was a person “in charge” of Stokes’ office, Plaintiffs
have not filed an opposition to meet their burden. 
 
Therefore, as
Richard Stokes (or an otherwise statutorily authorized person) was not served
in compliance with service upon a corporation, the default entered was
improper, and consequently is set aside. 
 
2.     Personal Jurisdiction 
 
Personal
jurisdiction refers to a court’s authority to adjudicate the rights and
liabilities of a defendant. The doctrine arises from the US Constitution’s Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment which limits the power of a state
court to assert personal jurisdiction (i.e., power) over a nonresident
defendant. (Asahi Metal Indus. Co. v. Superior Court (1987) 480 U.S.
102, 113.) Under California’s long-arm statute, California state courts may
exercise personal jurisdiction “on any basis not inconsistent with the
Constitution of this state or of the United States.” (Civ. Proc. Section
410.10.) Thus, California’s exercise of personal jurisdiction must comport with
the limits imposed by federal due process.
In International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310, 316
(1945), the Supreme Court explained that
a state court may exercise personal jurisdiction over an out-of-state defendant
who has “certain minimum contacts with [the State] such that the maintenance of
the suit does not offend ‘traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.’”

 
“Personal
jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” (Motion p. 12, citing Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.) General jurisdiction is also referred to as
“all-purpose jurisdiction” and specific jurisdiction is referred to as
“conduct-linked jurisdiction.” (See Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations,
S.A. v. Brown 564 U.S. 91, 919 (2011).) “The
standard for general jurisdiction is considerably more stringent than that for
specific jurisdiction.” (Strasner, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at p. 222.)
 
The constitutional
bases of jurisdiction exist in five general sources: 
 
(1) personal service of process on a defendant while he is physically
present within the forum state (general jurisdiction). 
(2) consent either by defendant’s consent in advance or general
appearance in the action (general jurisdiction). 
(3) relationship to the forum state (e.g., domicile) (general
jurisdiction). 
(4) contacts or affiliations with the forum state that are so continuous
and systematic as to render them essentially at home in the forum state. 
(5) some activity of the defendant in or affecting persons in the forum
state (specific jurisdiction). 
 
Here, Axe
Wheels addresses both forms of personal jurisdiction, focusing largely on
general jurisdiction. 
 
 
a.     General Jurisdiction 
 
Axe Wheels is
a corporation organized under the laws of Arizona and maintains its principal
place of business in Phoenix, Arizona. (Motion p. 14, see Stokes Decl.) 
 
Therefore,
absent service in California, absent consent to appear in the action, and
absent domicile in California,[7]
the remaining way for California to establish general jurisdiction over Axe
Wheels is if its “affiliations with the State are so ‘continuous and
systematic’ as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum
State.” (Goodyear
Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v. Brown 564 U.S. 91, 919 (2011), emphasis
added; see also see also International Shoe, supra, 326 U.S. at p. 318 [“instances in which the continuous corporate
operations within a state [are] so substantial and of such a nature as to
justify suit ... on causes of action arising from dealings entirely distinct
from those activities” renders all-purpose jurisdiction appropriate.].) 
 
The Supreme Court in Daimler AG v. Bauman clarified the general jurisdiction principles articled in Goodyear. Justice
Ginsburg, in delivering the unanimous opinion of the Court, explained that the
“paradigm” places where a corporation can be “fairly regarded” as at home are
its place of incorporation and its principal place of business. (Daimler AG.
v. Bauman, 571 U.S. 117, 137-138 (2014).) The Court also emphasized that Goodyear did
not hold that a corporation may be subject to general jurisdiction only in a forum where it is incorporated or has
its principal place of business. (Ibid.) The Court suggested
there might be “exceptional case[s]” in which a corporation’s operations in
a forum other than its place of incorporation and principal place of business
are “so substantial and of such a nature as to render the corporation at
home in that State.” (Motion p. 14, citing Daimler, supra, 571
U.S. at 139, n.19.) Put another way, general
jurisdiction is proper when “a defendant's contacts with the forum are so
wide-ranging that they take the place of physical presence in the forum as
a basis for jurisdiction.” (Motion p. 13, quoting Vons Companies, Inc. v.
Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445-446, emphasis added.) 
 
Absent
explicit definitions, the court turns to a some seminal cases to illustrate
what constitutes contacts that are so ‘continuous and systematic’ as to render
[it] essentially at home in the forum State,” or the lack thereof. 
 
Perkins
 
In Perkins
v. Benguet Consol. Mining Co., 342 U.S. 437 (1952), war had forced the defendant corporation's (Philippines mining
corporation) owner to temporarily relocate the enterprise from the Philippines
to Ohio. (Id. at pp. 447-448.) Although the claim-in-suit did not arise
in Ohio, the Perkins determined Ohio’s exercise of general jurisdiction
was permissible because the corporation's president maintained his office in
Ohio, kept the company files in that Ohio office, and supervised from the Ohio
office such that Ohio became the “center of the corporation’s wartime
activities.” (Daimler, supra, 571 U.S. at p. 130, n. 8.) Thus, in
summary, general jurisdiction is proper when all the defendant corporation’s
activities were directed from the forum state. (Ibid.) 
 
Helicopteros
 
To the
contrary, “mere purchases, even if occurring at
regular intervals are not enough to warrant a State's assertion of in personam jurisdiction over a nonresident
corporation in a cause of action not related to those purchase
transactions.” (Id. at p. 131, citing Helicopteros Nacionales de
Colombia, S.A. v. Hall, 466 U.S. 408 (1984) [in a case arising from a
helicopter crash in Peru, the Court determined that Texas could not exercise
personal jurisdiction over the Colombian corporation even though the company
had contacts with Texas (e.g., accept checks drawn from a Houston bank; purchasing
helicopters, equipment, and training services from a Texas-based helicopter
company for substantial sums; and sending personnel and chief effective officer
to Houston].)  Thus, in summary, a
case is not exceptional merely because the corporation makes purchases from the
forum state. 
 
Goodyear
 
In Goodyear—a case that arose from a bus accident outside Paris
that killed two boys from North Carolina—the Court determined that North
Carolina lacked general jurisdiction over the foreign subsidiaries of Goodyear
Tire and Rubber Company even though “[a] small percentage of tires manufactured
by the foreign subsidiaries distributed in North Carolina.” (Daimler, supra,
571 U.S. at p. 131-132, citing Goodyear, supra.) Thus, in
summary, a case is not exceptional merely because of the distribution (sales
and purchase) of a corporation’s goods in the forum state. 
 
Daimler
 
In Daimler, the complaint alleged that during Argentina's
1976–1983 “Dirty War,” DaimlerChrysler Aktiengesellschaft’s (Daimler)
Argentinian subsidiary, Mercedes-Benz Argentina (MB Argentina) collaborated
with state security forces to kidnap, detain, torture, and kill certain MB
Argentina workers, among them, plaintiffs or persons closely related to
plaintiffs. The plaintiffs sued Daimler in California. The Court
held that California could not exercise personal jurisdiction over Daimler, a German public stock company, because the
corporation was neither incorporated in California nor have its principal place
of business in California. As for the sufficiency of the contacts, Daimler's
subsidiary had multiple California-based facilities; was the “largest supplier
of luxury vehicles to the California market; 10% of all sales of new vehicles
in the United States took place in California; and California sales accounted
for 2.4 of Daimler’s worldwide sales. (Daimler, supra, 571 U.S. at p.
123.) Despite those numbers, the Court determined them insufficient to allow
adjudication of the Argentina-rooted case in California because “the same
global reach would presumably be available in every other State in which [the
corporation’s] sales are sizable. No decision of this Court sanctions a
view of general jurisdiction so grasping.” (Daimler, supra, 571 U.S. at
p. 119.) Thus, in summary, a case is not exceptional merely because its
sales in the forum state are sizable or because of the “magnitude of the
defendant’s in-state contacts.” (Id. at p. 139, fn. 20, emphasis and
underline added.) 
 
BNSF
 
The Supreme Court underscored the notion that a nonresident corporation’s
operation of in-state business is insufficient to maintain general jurisdiction
in BNSF Ry. Co. v. Tyrrell (2017) 581 U.S. 402. (See Motion p. 14.)[8] In BNSF, the plaintiffs
sued the railroad company for work-related injuries in a Montana state court,
even though “[n]either worker was injured in Montana; Neither incorporated nor
headquartered there, [the company] maintains less than 5% of its work force and
about 6% of its total track mileage in the State.” (Id. at p. 402.)[9]  In emphasizing the canon that in-state
business, as clarified in Daimler and Goodyear, does not suffice to permit the
assertion of general jurisdiction over claims that are unrelated to any
activity occurring in the forum state, the Court observed that “the general
jurisdiction inquiry does not focus solely on the magnitude of the defendant's
in-state contacts . . . Rather, the inquiry ‘calls for an appraisal of a
corporation's activities in their entirety’; ‘[a] corporation that operates in
many places can scarcely be deemed at home in all of them.’” (Id. at p. 414.)
Thus, in summary, a case is not exceptional merely because it has as work
force and some tracking (literally and figuratively) in the forum state.
  
 
Based on the foregoing cases, the
specific issue is whether Axe Wheel’s contacts with California are “so
exceptional” as to render it virtually “at home” in California. (Motion p. 14:9-11.)

 
Here, Plaintiffs allege no facts
to support the proposition that Axe can be at home when it is not incorporated
in the state nor even conducted temporary business here. Instead, the pleading
merely sets forth a blanket jurisdictional allegation. (See FAC ¶13 [“Defendant
AXE WHEELS, INC., is a Florida corporation operating in the county of Polk,
Florida (hereinafter, “AXE WHEELS”). AXE WHEELS allegedly was the manufacturer
or distributor who provided the WHEELS which were involved in the subject
incident to EMS DISTRIBUTING.”]; see also EMS Cross-Complaint ¶2
[“Cross-Defendant Axe Wheels, Inc. was at all times mentioned, an entity
qualified to do business in the State of California.”].) 

Therefore, absent an opposition to meet their heavy burden, the court determines
that California cannot exercise general jurisdiction over Defendant.[10] 
 
 
b.     Specific Jurisdiction
 
Specific jurisdiction is concerned with the “relationship among the
defendant, the forum, and the litigation.” (Daimler, supra, 571 U.S. at
p. 132-133, quoting Shaffer v. Heitner, 433 U.S. 186, 204 (1977). “[I]t is the defendant's conduct
that must form the necessary connection with the forum State that is the basis
for its jurisdiction over him…. To be sure, a defendant's contacts with
the forum State may be intertwined with his transactions or interactions with
the plaintiff or other parties. But a defendant's relationship with a plaintiff
or third party, standing alone, is an insufficient basis for jurisdiction.” (Walden
v. Fiore, 571 U.S. 277, 285-286, emphasis added.)
 
California courts routinely apply a three-part test to determine whether
a court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant: 
 
(1) the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself
of forum benefits,
(2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the
defendant’s purposeful contacts with the forum, and 
(3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would
comport with fair play and substantial justice. (Motion p. 14, citing See,
e.g., Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, emphasis
added.) 
 
Here, Defendant focuses on the second prong and advances a point that is
convincingly dispositive of the issue: it is inconceivable for Axe’s conduct to
have given rise to Plaintiffs’ claims because the corporation did not exist
at the time the subject wheel was “manufactured, distributed, sold, and
provided,” as alleged in the complaint. (See Motion p. 19, see Ford
Motor Co. v. Montana Eight Judicial District Court, 592 U.S. 351, 352-353
[“[B]ecause Ford had systematically served a market in Montana and
Minnesota for the very vehicles that the plaintiffs allege malfunctioned and
injured them in those States, there is a strong ‘relationship among the
defendant, the forum, and the litigation’—the ‘essential foundation’ of
specific jurisdiction.”], emphasis added.)[11] 
 
Therefore, as
Plaintiffs’ claims do arise out of or relate to any purposeful contacts between
Axe Wheels and California (nor could they given that Axe Wheels was not
incorporated until 9 months after Lenso Wheels sold the tire to EMS, it
is impermissible for California to exercise specific jurisdiction over
Defendant.[12]

 
Based on the foregoing, as Axe Wheels was not
involved in any way with the subject wheel, to exercise personal jurisdiction
would surely offend the traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice, which would circumvent the directive crafted in International Shoe. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, absent an opposition by any party, the motion is granted. The court
requests all parties be prepared to discuss whether Axe Wheels should be
entirely dismissed from the action.  
 
 
 


