  Case Number:  20STCV24771    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF BOBBY CAGLE is
DENIED, notably as Plaintiffs have set forth no factual basis
that Cagle has direct factual information pertaining to the policies and
procedures. 
 
Background[1]
 
This case
arises from the death of NOAH CUATRO (“Noah”). Plaintiffs EVANGELINA HERNANDEZ
(“Eva”), individually and as Successor in Interest to the Estate of NOAH
CUATRO; A.C. (“AC”), a minor, by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Evangelina
Hernandez; E.C. (“EC”), a minor, by and through his Guardian ad Litem,
Evangelina Hernandez; R.C. (“RC”), a minor, by and through his Guardian ad
Litem, Evangelina Hernandez[2]
allege the following against Defendants COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES (“County”) and
HATHAWAY-SYCAMORES CHILD AND FAMILY SERVICES (“Hathaway-Sycamores” or
“Hathaway”)[3]:
On July 6, 2019, Noah was murdered by his parents, both of whom are awaiting
trial. Noah’s death occurred after
multiple reports of abuse and torture had been made to the Los
Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services ("DCFS"). The allegations against Hathaway
are predicated upon vicarious liability (retaining an unlicensed trainee (Erika
Schreefel (“Schreefel”)) who did not communicate accurate information to the
dependency court (DC) that created the misimpression that Noah and his parents
were progressing towards reunification when in fact the family problems
remained the same or worsened during this time frame) and independent
negligence for its failure to supervise an unlicensed trainee. As for the County’s liability, it is
predicated upon DCFS’s alleged breaches of various duties.  
 
On July 1, 2020, Plaintiffs filed the action. 
 
On June 26, 2023, the County filed a demurrer to the 5AC, which
this court sustained with leave to amend and determined the MTS was moot. 
 
On August 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their sixth amended complaint
(6AC) alleging eight causes of action (COA) for: 
 
1.     Wrongful death (Minor
Plaintiffs v. County)
2.     Negligence (Eva v. County)
3.     Wrongful Death (Negligent
retention and supervision) (Eva and Minor Plaintiffs v. County and Hathaway)
4.     Wrongful death (negligence)
(Minor Plaintiffs v. Hathaway)
5.     Survival action (negligence)
(Minor Plaintiffs v. Hathaway)
6.     Survival action (negligence)
(Minor Plaintiffs v. County)
7.     Wrongful death (negligence)
(Minor Plaintiffs v. Doe Defendants)
8.     Negligence (Minor Plaintiffs v.
County)
 
On November 15, 2023, the court heard oral argument on the
demurrer to the 6AC and the MTS, which the court’s tentative was to overrule as
to the 2nd COA and sustain with leave to amend as to the 8th
COA. The court continued the hearing to allow for supplemental briefing as to
both COAs. 
 
On February 5, 2024, the court issued a final ruling on the
demurrer and MTS as to the 6AC: “Defendant County of Los Angeles’ Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ Sixth Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART (i.e., 2nd COA;
Plaintiffs have pled a mandatory duty (see State Manual Provisions) but the
regulation must be pled in the Seventh Amended Complaint) and SUSTAINED IN PART
with Leave To Amend as to the 8th COA. Defendant County of Los Angeles’ Motion
to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ Sixth Amended Complaint is MOOT as a Seventh
Amended Complaint is to be filed. The Plaintiff is Order to file a seventh
amended complaint due on or before March 6, 2024.”
 
On February 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion.
 
On February 27, 2024, the County filed its opposition.
 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their reply. 
 
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to
CCP section 2025.010, any party may obtain discovery by taking the oral
deposition of any person to the action, including an organization such
as a private corporation. Specifically, CCP section 2025.420 states the
following: “The court,
for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any
party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.420(b).) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs seek to depose Bobby Cagle,
the director of DCFS at the time of Noah’s death, on the following
six subject matters: 1) comments Mr. Cagle made to the press; 2) protocol for
applying for a removal order; 3) policies and procedures related to executing a
removal order once issued by the court; 4) policies and procedures related to
notification of a child's former and current caregivers re a removal order; 5)
meetings Mr. Cagle attended with social workers and supervisors that were
involved in Noah's case (as testified to in the depositions of County
employees, Nancy Bryden and Keith Blyn); and 6) the DCFS internal investigation[4]
into the plaintiff's government tort claim related to the incident alleged in
plaintiffs' complaint, including Noah’s death. (Motion p. 3.)[5] 
 
The County opposes the motion on the
grounds that it violates the Apex Doctrine.[6] 
 
The
court fully agrees with the County. 
 
The Apex
Doctrine provides that before a plaintiff may take the deposition of a
high-ranking or a “Apex” corporate officer (i.e., executives at the “apex” or
the top of a company), the plaintiff must demonstrate both that (i) the
corporate officer possesses superior or unique information relevant to the
issues being litigated and that (ii) the information cannot be obtained by a
less intrusive method (e.g., deposing a lower-ranking employee). (86 A.L.R.6th 519.) The seminal case discussing the
Apex doctrine is Liberty Mut. Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1282 (Liberty).  
 
Here,
however, Plaintiffs have set forth no reasons as to why Bobby Cagle is the
person that has information as to DCFS’ protocols, policies, procedures, and
training regarding removal orders. As noted by Defendant in opposition, Cagle
was not responsible for making or enforcing the policies as they were
most recently revised in 2014, years before Cagle joined DCFS in 2017. (Opp.
5:21-27.) This point was not addressed in Reply. 
 
In fact, Plaintiffs’ own arguments
undermine their position that Cagle has knowledge or was involved in Noah’s
case before his death. 
 
First,
Plaintiffs rely upon the following argument: “DCFS employees have testified
about Mr. Cagle’s direct factual information pertaining to the aftermath of
Noah’s death and how it was handled by DCFS and Mr. Cagle . . . Mr. Cagle
was present for at least one DCFS internal meeting relating to Noah’s death.”
(Motion p. 6:7-18, emphasis added.) This underscores the fact that Cagle was
not involved with matters before Noah’s death, but after his death. 
 
Another of
Plaintiffs’ arguments also undermines their position. Plaintiffs rely upon
Cagle’s statement to the LA Times wherein he stated that he “think[s]
[his] staff actually carried that process out well” and that he is
“confident that the decisions that were made were the right ones.”
(Reply p. 3, emphasis added.) This however is no affirmative statement that
Cagle was involved with handling Noah’s case. If anything, it suggests that others
(i.e., his staff) were involved and that he speculates that the
decisions they/staff made were appropriate. 
 
Thus, by Plaintiffs’ own recitation, if Cagle has
any knowledge, it relates to the aftermath of Noah’s death, which he is
amenable to being deposed about. 
 
To the extent
that there are PMQs, the County responded to Notices of PMQ depositions
regarding various topics associated with removal orders, but Plaintiffs have
not suggested new dates for the depositions. The Reply does not address this
argument. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, as Plaintiffs’ motion (nor Reply) makes any showing that Cagle has unique or superior personal knowledge of
discoverable information, the motion is DENIED. 
 


