 Case Number:  23PSCV02440    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   Defendants TBC Corporation’s and TBC
Brands, LLC’s (collectively, the “TBC Defendants”) MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF
SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT (“TBD Motion”) IS GRANTED. 
 
(2)   Defendants Shandong Linglong Tyre Co.,
Ltd.’s (“Shandong”) and Linglong Americas’s, Inc. (“Linglong”) (collectively,
the “Linglong Defendants”) MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT (“Linglong
Motion”) is GRANTED. The claims against the moving Defendants are dismissed with prejudice. 
 
Background
 
This case
arises from a car accident that happened in Virginia wherein the subject tire
separated from the vehicle, causing decedent (Maryland resident) to lose
control of his vehicle and crash into a guardrail.[1]

 
On August 9,
2023, Plaintiffs BENJAMIN ANDREWS, an individual, as personal representative of
the ESTATE OF CRAIG RICARDO ARTHURS, deceased, and on behalf of decedent’s
heirs and successors in interest TRINITY ARTHURS, and CRAIG ARTHURS, JR. filed
suit against Defendants SHANDONG LINGLONG TYRE CO., LTD, F/K/A ZHAOYUAN LEO
RUBBER CO., LTD., A/K/A SHANDONG LINGLONG RUBBER CO., LTD., LINGLONG AMERICAS,
INC., HORIZON TIRE NJ, LLC D/B/A HORIZON TIRE, INC., TBC CORPORATION, D/B/A
TBC-TIRE and BATTERY CORPORATION, TBC BRANDS, LLC, D/B/A TBC-TIRE and BATTERY
CORPORATION for the following causes of action (COAs):[2] 1.     Strict Products Liability 2.     Negligence 3.     Wrongful Death and Survival Action
 
On January 1,
2024, HORIZON TIRE NJ, LLC D/B/A HORIZON TIRE, INC. (“Horizon”) filed its
answer.
 
On January
26, 2024, TBD and Linglong Defendants (collectively, “Defendants”) filed the
instant motions to quash.  
 
On March 1,
2024, moving Defendants filed a ‘Notice of Non-Opposition to Defendants’ Motion
to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint’ indicating that they have not
received an opposition to their motions.[3]

 
Discussion
 
1.     Linglong Defendants  
 
Defendants
argue the court lacks personal jurisdiction over Defendants, a point which they
make by heavily relying upon a federal court’s evidentiary and legal findings.[4]

The Virginia Action made an
evidentiary finding that the subject tire was built/manufactured by Defendant
Shandong. (Complaint ¶6, emphasis added; see also
Linglong Motion p. 1:11-14 [“Judge Novak specifically found that the tire at
issue [] manufactured no later than September 6, 2014 [], was sold in China by
Shandong to Defendant [] Horizon]; see also Linglong Motion p. 2:24-26 [“[T]he
subject tire was sold in China by Shandong.”]; see also Linglong Motion
p. 4:10-14 [“The uncontroverted facts stand as …Shandong asserts that it sold
and shipped the subject tire . . . to [] Horizon …[Horizon] makes no denial
that took possession of the tire in China in 2014.”], emphasis added.) Therefore,
the Virginia Action made it clear that Linglong never had any contact
with the Tire.
 
As to the basis of Defendants relationships and relevant facts,
they are as follows: 
 
In 2006, Shandong and Horizon entered into an agreement wherein
Horizon became the
exclusive distributor of Defendant Shandong’s “Crosswind” line of tires.
(Complaint ¶38); Prior to
2014, SHANDONG entered into a contract with the TBD wherein TBD would
distribute the Defendant the tires throughout the US (¶29); From 2006 through 2023,
Defendant Shandong, made approximately 2,832 shipments of tires to different
ports in the state of California including Los Angeles and Oakland (¶30); From 2009 through 2010, Defendant
SHANDONG, made approximately 119 shipments of tires through the ports of
California, including 5 shipments of Crosswind tires to Defendant HORIZON (¶31); From on or about August
31, 2014 through to September 6, 2014, Defendant SHANDONG , manufactured the
SUBJECT TIRE for the purposes of exporting the Subject Tire to the United
States (¶33);
Alternatively, prior to June 4, Shandong placed the Subject Tire into the
stream of commerce via either Horizon (¶34), Linglong (¶35), or TBD (¶36), one which then imported the Subject Tire into
the United States and placed the Subject Tire into the stream of commerce in
the United States (¶¶37-39);
Sometime in late 2014 to early 2015 the exclusive distributorship agreement
between Defendant SHANDONG and Defendant HORIZON, began to break down as the
two companies fought over the price of Crosswind tires. As a result,
Defendant SHANDONG created a subsidiary, Defendant Linglong to compete with and
ultimately replace the distribution function formerly performed by Defendant
HORIZON (¶40);[5]
From approximately 2014 through the present, Defendant SHANDONG, made
approximately 489 shipments of tires though ports located in the state of
California which were consigned by Defendant LINGLONG (¶42); Beginning in May 2015
through April 2016, Defendant SHANDONG, made 9 shipments of new tires to the
Defendant LINGLONG through ports located in the state of California (¶43). 
 
General Jurisdiction
 
It is
undisputed that neither Shandong or Linglong are incorporated, have their
headquarters, or their principal place of business in California. These facts
alone are sufficient to determine that Defendants are not “at home.” (See Goodyear
Dunlop Tire Operations, S.A. v. Brown (2011) 564 U.S. 915, 924 [For a corporation, its domicile, place of
incorporation, and/or principal place of business within a state constitute the
paradigm bases for establishing general jurisdiction.].) 
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs attempt to impute minimum contacts via a
stream of commerce theory, that “may bolster an affiliation germane to specific jurisdiction … ties
serving to bolster the exercise of specific jurisdiction do not warrant a
determination that, based on those ties, the forum has general jurisdiction
over a defendant.” (Linglong Motion p. 8, citing Goodyear, supra, 564
U.S. at p. 927.) 
 
Therefore, as the paradigm bases for the exercise of general
jurisdiction are not met and there no facts to demonstrate that this is an
exceptional case to render Shandong and Linglong at home, the court, exercising
“even more caution”, finds no general jurisdiction. (Motion p. 7, quoting In
re Automobile Antritrust Cases I and II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 109.) 
 
Specific Jurisdiction
 
California courts routinely apply a three-part test to determine whether
a court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant: 
 
(1) the defendant has purposefully availed himself or
herself of forum benefits,
(2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the
defendant’s purposeful contacts with the forum, and 
(3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would
comport with fair play and substantial justice. (Pavlovich v. Superior Court
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, emphasis added.) 
 
Here, the
court will focus on the second prong as there is a dispositive fact: Plaintiffs do not allege that
the tire entered California. (See Motion Linglong Motion p. 13, quoting Morrison v. Ross Stores, Inc. (N.D. Cal., Nov. 14, 2018, No. 18-CV-02671-YGR) 2018
WL 5982006 [“Based upon Bristol-Myers and Walden, a plaintiff, as here, who is not a California
resident, does not allege to have suffered harm in California, and does not
allege any conduct by the defendant occurred
in California, has not established specific personal jurisdiction as to her
claims.”].)[6]

 
To the extent that the subject tire may have entered California,
that, as Judge Novak observed, is based on pure speculation, which falls wholly short of the
preponderance of evidence requirement. (See Motion p. 7, quoting Aquila,
Inc. v. Super. Ct., 148 Cal. App. 4th 556, 568 (2007) [“The plaintiff must
establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”].) Accordingly, absent an
opposition to contend otherwise, the facts and evidence indicate that Linglong
Defendants conducted no activity whatsoever in California. 
 
Therefore, without an affiliation between California and the
underlying controversy, specific jurisdiction is lacking “regardless of the
extent of a defendant's unconnected activities in the State.” (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co., supra, 582 U.S. at p.
256.)
 
2. TBC
Defendants[7]
 
As the
arguments, allegations, and cited case law are largely similar to those
presented in the Linglong Motion (including a federal opinion regarding these
defendants), the court will not provide a thorough analysis. 
 
a.    
General Jurisdiction
 
TBD is
neither incorporated in California nor has its principal place of business in
California. To the extent that Plaintiff seeks this court to find general
jurisdiction based upon the allegation that TBD is “engaging in
business” in California (¶11), that falls
wholly short of the standard that the corporation’s presence be “so substantial
and of such a nature as to render the corporation at home in that State.” (Daimler
AG. v. Bauman, 571 U.S. 117, 139, n.19 (2014); see also Helicopteros Nacionales de Colombia, S.A. v. Hall, 466 U.S. 408 (1984); see BNSF Ry. Co. v. Tyrrell (2017)
581 U.S. 402.) 
 
Therefore, the TBC Defendants are not subject to general jurisdiction. 
 
b.    
Specific Jurisdiction
 
As with the
Linglong Defendants, the analysis ends with the following fact: there is no
connection between TBC Defendants, the decedent, California, the tire, and the
accident that gives rise to Plaintiff’s claims. (See also TBC Motion p. 12.) 
 
Therefore, as
Plaintiffs have not satisfied the second prong of the jurisdictional analysis,
TBC Defendants are not subject to specific jurisdiction. 
 
All in all,
as to both moving Defendants, Plaintiff has not alleged where or when the
subject tire was sold, other than that the tire arrived in Maryland by some
unknown means at some unknown point in time before the decedent purchased the
tow truck from Divaz Towing. As there are no sufficient allegations, let alone
evidence, the motions are granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, motions are granted; the court grants the motions to quash the
summons for lack of personal jurisdiction and dismisses the claims against them
with prejudice. 


