


[1] According to the
instant motions, the decedent bought the tow truck with the subject tire
already installed from Maryland Company Divaz Towing, and the company does not
know where the tire came from. (TBC Motion pp. 2-3.) 


[2] According to the
complaint, Shandong is a foreign corporation; Linglong (the American
affiliate of Shandong) is a Ohio corporation with its principal place of
business (PPB) in Ohio who “engag[es] in the business of manufacturing and
packaging certain products, including automobile tires, for sale to and for use
by members of the general public;” TBC Brand Defendants (both the LLC and
Corporation) are Delaware corporations headquartered in Florida who “engag[e]
in the manufacturing and packaging of certain products, including automobile
tires, for sale to and for use by members of the general public;” Horizon is a
California corporation with a with a principal place of business located in
4818 4th Street, Irwindale, CA 91706 that is “engaged in the business of
importing, shipping, selling and distributing tires, including the SUBJECT
TIRE.” (See generally Complaint pp. 3-4.) 
 


[3] Failure to file an opposition may be
treated as “an admission that the motion is meritorious, and therefore [the
court may] refuse to hear oral argument from such party. The purpose is to
prevent introduction of legal theories without notice to opposing counsel and
the court.” (C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac.
Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) 
 


[4] Andrews v.
Shandong Linglong Tyre Co., No. 3:21cv794 (DJN), 2022 U.S. Dist. LEXIS
119316, at *22 (E.D. Va. July 6, 2022) (“Andrews I”); Andrews v.
Shandong Linglong Tyre Co., 656 F. Supp. 3d 583, 589 (E.D. Va. 2023) (“Andrews
II”) (collectively, the “Virginia Action”). (See Akerman Decl.) 
 


[5] The court doesn’t
dispute that placing a product into the stream of commerce without more is not
an act purposefully directed toward the forum state. (See e.g., Pavlovich,
infra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 274; see also Motion p.11, citing Harvest USA,
LLC v. Boley Int’l HK Ltd., 2020 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 247232, at *21 (C.D. Cal.
Sept. 22, 2020) [shipments via a California port are insufficient to establish
foreign corporation was “expressly aiming” California]; see Motion p. 11,
citing Aurora Corp. of Am. v. Michlin Prosperity Co., 2015 U.S. Dist.
LEXIS 133340, at *16 (C.D. Cal. Sept. 29, 2015) [shipment of goods through
California is insufficient to establish minimum contacts]. But Defendants do not address
the issue that competing with a California corporation could support a
finding that Defendants purposefully availed themselves of California (prong #1
for specific jurisdiction). After all, the
purposeful availment inquiry “focuses on the defendant's intentionality… [it]
ensures that a defendant will not be haled into a jurisdiction solely as a
result of ‘random,’ ‘fortuitous,’ or ‘attenuated’ contacts [citations], or of
the ‘unilateral activity of another party or a third person.’” (Pavlovich,
infra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 269, quoting Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985)
471 U.S. 462, 572-473.) Competing with a California corporation by changing the
course of business is not random, but deliberate (i.e., intentional conduct). To the extent
that competition with Horizon was mentioned by the federal court, it was in
relation to Virginia. (See Akerman, Ex. 4, p. 4 of opinion, fn. 5, p. 52 of 78
of PDF [“Plaintiff invites the Court to make an inferential leap that Linglong
distributed tires in Virginia, because it competed with Horizon, who
distributed tires in Virginia. However, such an inference requires the Court to
leap over gaps in Plaintiff's evidence - such as that Linglong competed with
Horizon in Virginia - which it will not do.”].)


[6] In Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Super. Ct., 582 U.S. 255 (2017), the plaintiffs, who were
mostly of non-California residents, sued the Bristol–Myers
Squibb Company (BMS), a corporation incorporated in Delaware and
headquartered in New York, and that maintains substantial operations in both
New York and New Jersey, in California state court. The plaintiffs alleged that
the pharmaceutical company's drug had damaged their health. Aside from
conducting some business in California and selling the subject drug in
California, “BMS did not develop, create a marketing strategy for, manufacture,
label, package, or work on the regulatory approval for Plavix in the State. And
the nonresident plaintiffs did not allege that they obtained Plavix from a California source, that
they were injured by Plavix in California, or that they were
treated for their injuries in California.” (Ibid.) The Supreme rejected an assertion of specific jurisdiction where
the non-resident plaintiffs had not “identif[ied] any adequate link between the
State and the nonresidents' claims.” In Walden v. Fiore, 571
U.S. 277, 284 (2014), the Court emphasized that what is needed is a
connection between the forum and the specific claims at issue. 
 


[7] As with the instant,
Plaintiffs did not oppose TBC Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss the federal case.
(See TBC Motion pp. 1, 14.)
 

