  Case Number:  23STCV08440    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California County of Los  Angeles   DEPARTMENT 17   TENTATIVE RULING      JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO- RODRIGUEZ, et al.                   vs.   AKG TRADING (USA) INC., et al.        Case    No.:  23STCV08440          Hearing Date:  April 23, 2024       Defendant’s  motion for an order allowing Lydecker to withdraw its appearance entered on  behalf of Defendant Caesarstone, Ltd. on January 22, 2024, and permit the  Motion to Quash to be heard on the merits is DENIED.   On 4/17/2023,  Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara Sanchez (collectively,  Plaintiffs) filed suit against 39 Defendants, alleging: (1) negligence; (2)  strict liability—warning defect; (3) strict liability—design defect; (4) fraudulent  concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of consortium.    On 2/5/2024,  Defendant Caesarstone LTD (Defendant or Caesarstone) moved for an order  allowing Lydecker to withdraw its notice of appearance made on behalf of  Defendant on January 22, 2024.     Discussion                Defendant  seeks an order allowing Lydecker to withdraw its notice of appearance on the  grounds that the appearance was entered due to inadvertence and/or mistake.   On November  9, 2023, Plaintiffs served Defendant with the Summons and Amendment to  Complaint in Israel under the Hague Convention. While Lydecker had previously  been retained to represent Caesarstone USA, a separate and distinct legal  entity from Caesarstone Ltd, it had not been retained to represent Caesarstone,  Ltd., and Lydecker was not aware of Plaintiffs’ intent to include Caesarstone,  Ltd. as a named Defendant prior to his amendment of the pleading.    Prior to Lydecker’s retention, Tara Pehush,  outside counsel for Caesarstone Ltd., was granted an extension of time on  behalf of Caesarstone Ltd. to retain adequate counsel to evaluate service of  process and determine an appropriate response on its behalf to the Amended  Complaint. (Brice Decl. ¶ 5.)   On January  12, 2024, Christine Brice sent an email to Plaintiffs’ counsel Raphael Metzger  advising him that Lydecker was recently retained to represent Caesarstone Ltd.  in the above-referenced matter and requested an extension of time until  February 12, 2024, in which to file a responsive pleading. (Brice Decl. ¶ 6,  Exhibit “B”.)   On January  12, 2024, Mr. Metzger responded to the email and conditioned the requested  extension on Lydecker filing a notice of appearance on behalf of Caesarstone  Ltd. by close of business on Monday, January 15, 2024. (Brice Decl. ¶ 7,  Exhibit “C”.)   On January  16, 2024, Lydecker’s office filed a Notice of Appearance on behalf of  Caesarstone Ltd. (Brice Decl. ¶ 8, Exhibit “D”.)   On January  17, 2024, Caesarstone Ltd. advised Lydecker of its objection to jurisdiction of  the Court and provided its limited authority to enter a special appearance for  the sole purpose of filing a Motion to Quash and objection to personal  jurisdiction. (Brice Decl. ¶ 9.)   The court  may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal  representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken  against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or  excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., §473(b).)   Here, the  Court finds insufficient cause to conclude that Lydecker’s Notice of Appearance  was based on a mistaken belief.                 As  noted by Plaintiff, Caesarstone Ltd.’s motions to withdraw its Notices of  Appearance in all 20 cases come almost 3 months after it was served in all the  cases, and after having been granted multiple extensions to file its responsive  pleadings. Caesarstone’s motion to withdraw its Notice of Appearance in this  case is set for April 23, 2024 - approximately 5½ months after it was served and  4 ½ months after its responsive pleading was due.      Based on the  foregoing, Defendant’s motion for an order allowing Lydecker to withdraw its  appearance entered on behalf of Defendant Caesarstone, Ltd. on January 22,  2024, and permit the Motion to Quash to be heard on the merits is denied.      It is so ordered.    Dated:  April     , 2024                                                                                                                                                                Hon. Jon R.  Takasugi    Judge of the  Superior Court       Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must  send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits  on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must  identify the party submitting on the tentative.   If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this  tentative as the final order.  If the department  does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the  tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed  off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)  633-0517.      