 Case Number:  23SMCV05590    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May 15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05590




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended
  Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant General Motors LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Adam Mermel



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff Adam Mermel’s (“Plaintiff”) First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleges five causes of action against Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”
or “GM”) for (1) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subd. (d); (2)
violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subd. (b); (3) violation of Civil Code
section 1793.2, subd. (a)(3); (4) breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability; and (5) fraudulent inducement – concealment, stemming from
Plaintiff’s purchase of a 2021 Chevrolet Silverado.  
 
Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent
inducement – concealment on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10, subdivision (e).  Defendant also
moves to strike punitive damages from the FAC.
 
Plaintiff opposes both motions and Defendant replies.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Fifth Cause
of Action – Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
 
“The required elements for
fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact;
(2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or
suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact” 
(Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Defendant argues that the
fifth cause of action fails because Plaintiff fails to allege with requisite
specificity (i) who at GM concealed material facts or made untrue
representations; (ii) their authority to speak on behalf of GM; (iii) GM’s
knowledge about defects in Plaintiff’s car at the time of purchase; (iv)
interactions with GM before or during the purchase; or (v) GM’s intent to
induce reliance.  Defendant also argues
the fifth cause of action fails because the FAC does not allege that Plaintiff
purchased the vehicle directly from Defendant or any other “direct dealings”
with Defendant, other than the warranty agreement.   The FAC alleges:
 
6. On or about January 24, 2021, Plaintiff
entered into a warranty contract with Defendant GM regarding a 2021 Chevrolet
Silverado vehicle identification number 1GCUYEED1MZ190346 (hereafter
"Subject Vehicle" or “Vehicle”), which was manufactured and or
distributed by Defendant GM. Subject Vehicle was purchased at Win Chevrolet
Hyundai in Carson, CA (GM’s authorized dealer).
 
[…]
 
21. On or about July 6, 2023, with approximately
33,343 miles on the odometer, Plaintiff presented the Subject Vehicle to
Defendant’s authorized repair facility with various concerns, including
electrical concerns. The authorized repair facility performed warranty repairs,
after which, the authorized repair facility represented to the Plaintiff that
the Subject Vehicle had been repaired. 
 
22. On or about September 5, 2023, with
approximately 35,213 miles on the odometer, Plaintiff presented the Subject
Vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair facility with various concerns,
including electrical concerns. The authorized repair facility performed
warranty repairs, after which, the authorized repair facility represented to
the Plaintiff that the Subject Vehicle had been repaired. 
 
23. On or about September 28, 2023, with
approximately 35,847 miles on the odometer, Plaintiff presented the Subject
Vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair facility with various concerns,
including gas and electrical concerns. The authorized repair facility performed
warranty repairs, after which, the authorized repair facility represented to
the Plaintiff that the Subject Vehicle had been repaired. 
 
24. Plaintiff has experienced symptoms of the
Vehicle’s defects. Plaintiff has experienced: 1) repeated issues with the park
assist function, as it would randomly turn on and off while driving, 2) a “park
assist blocked” message coming on, 3) the Vehicle’s gas mileage going down.
Subject Vehicle’s defects are a safety hazard.
 
[…]
 
38. Defendant (and its agents, representatives,
officers, directors, employees, affiliates, and/or dealerships) concealed the
defects, minimized the scope, cause, and dangers of the defects with inadequate
TSBs and/or Recalls, and refused to investigate, address, and remedy the
defects as it pertains to all affected vehicles as set forth herein. 
 
39. Furthermore, Defendant’s fraudulent
concealment was ongoing. Defendant blamed the symptoms of the defects on other
issues and not the actual defect itself and purported to be able to repair.
 
[…]
 
62. Defendant GM committed fraud by allowing the
Vehicle to be sold to Plaintiff without disclosing that the Vehicle and its
8-speed transmission were defective and susceptible to sudden and premature
failure. Plaintiff purchased the Subject Vehicle equipped with GM’s defective
8-speed transmission. 
 
63. Plaintiff is informed, believes, and thereon
alleges that prior to Plaintiff acquiring the Vehicle, Defendant GM was well
aware and knew that the 8-speed transmission installed on the Vehicle was
defective but failed to disclose this fact to Plaintiff prior to and at the
time of sale and thereafter.[1] 
 
64. Specifically, Defendant GM knew that the
8-speed transmission had one or more defects that can result in various
problems, including, but not limited to hard or harsh shifts, jerking,
lurching, hesitation on acceleration, surging and/or inability to control the
vehicle’s speed, acceleration, or deceleration (“Transmission Defect”). These
conditions present a safety hazard and are unreasonably dangerous to consumers
because they can suddenly and unexpectedly cause the driver to be unable to
control the speed and acceleration/deceleration of the vehicle. Such unexpected
inability to control the vehicle’s speed and acceleration/deceleration thereby
exposes Plaintiff and his passengers (along with other drivers who share the
road or garage with Plaintiff) to a serious risk of accident and injury.
 
65. Plaintiff is informed, believes and thereon
alleges that Defendant GM acquired its knowledge of the Transmission Defect
prior to Plaintiff acquiring the Vehicle, through sources not available to
consumers such as Plaintiff, including but not limited to pre-production and
postproduction testing data; early consumer complaints about the Transmission
Defect made directly to Defendant GM and its network of dealers; aggregate
warranty data compiled from Defendant GM’s network of dealers; testing conducted
by Defendant GM in response to these complaints; as well as warranty repair and
part replacements data received by Defendant GM from Defendant GM’s network of
dealers, amongst other sources of internal information. 
 
66. Plaintiff is a reasonable consumer who
interacted with sales representatives, considered Defendant GM’s advertisement,
and/or other marketing materials concerning GM Vehicles prior to purchasing
Subject Vehicle. Had Defendant GM and its dealership(s) revealed the
Transmission Defect in these disclosures, Plaintiff would have been aware of it
and would not have purchased Subject Vehicle. For example, Defendant GM
marketed and sold its new 8- speed automatic transmissions as having
“world-class performance” rivaling top performance vehicles, lightning-fast and
smooth shifting, along with improved fuel efficiency, among other
representations. Defendant GM’s own press release dated January 13, 2014,
introduced the new 8-speed transmission as being “tuned for world-class
shift-response times,” and “deliver[ing] shift performance that rivals the
dual-clutch/semi-automatic transmissions found in many supercars – but with the
smoothness and refinement that comes with a conventional automatic fitted with
a torque converter.” 
 
67. However, prior to Plaintiff’s purchase of the
Subject Vehicle, Defendant GM was internally referring the 8-speed transmission
as a “neck snapper.” Defendant GM engineers even considered stopping production
in 2015 (but did not) and in 2016, President Johan de Nysschen acknowledged
customer frustration surrounding the Transmission Defect internally and meeting
with its authorized repair facility. Nonetheless, Defendant GM continued to
conceal the Transmission Defect from consumers, including in its marketing
materials, and advised any complaining customers that poor shifts were
“normal.”
 
68. In fact, Defendant GM’s Mark Gordon lamented
in February 2019 that “shift quality issues are an ongoing concern with the
8-Speed transmission. Unfortunately, these issues have been through an Op-ex
and a service solution is not going to be developed due to cost.” 
 
69. From September 2014 to at least February
2019, Defendant GM issued many service bulletins and service bulletin updates
to its dealers in the United States, but not its customers, acknowledging
problems of harsh shifting, jerking, clunking, and delays in acceleration or
deceleration relating to the 8-speed transmission.[2]
 
70. Therefore, Plaintiff is informed, believes,
and thereon alleges that while Defendant GM knew about the Transmission Defect,
and its safety risks since prior to Plaintiff’s purchase of the Subject
Vehicle. Defendant GM and its directors, officers, employees, affiliates,
and/or agents nevertheless concealed and failed to disclose the defective
nature of the Vehicle, its 8- speed transmission to Plaintiff prior to and at
the time of sale. Had Plaintiff known that the Vehicle suffered from the
Transmission Defect, Plaintiff would not have purchased the Vehicle. In other
words, Defendant GM’s concealment of this safety defect was material and
Plaintiff relied on Defendant GM’s advertising materials which did not disclose
the defect. As a result, the purchase of the Subject Vehicle was fraudulently
induced. 
 
71. To make matters worse, thereafter, Defendant
GM continued to conceal the defect and its inability to repair it, making it
difficult for Plaintiff to discover Defendant GM’s wrongdoing. For example,
Defendant GM did not disclose its wrongdoing nor offer to rectify it during
successive repair visits to Defendant GM’s authorized dealership. In addition,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant GM failed to disclose the existence of the
Transmission Defect and rectify its wrongdoing.
 
72. Indeed, Plaintiff alleges that prior to the
sale of the Vehicle to Plaintiff, Defendant GM knew that the Vehicle and its
8-speed transmission suffered from an inherent defect, was defective, would
fail prematurely, and was not suitable for its intended use. 
 
73. Defendant GM was under a duty to Plaintiff to
disclose the defective nature of the Vehicle, its transmission, its safety
consequences and/or the associated repair costs because: 
 
a. Plaintiff is informed, believes and thereon
alleges that Defendant GM acquired its knowledge of the Transmission Defect and
its potential consequences prior to Plaintiff acquiring the subject vehicle,
though sources not available to consumers such as Plaintiff, including but not
limited to pre- production testing data, early consumer complaints about the
Transmission Defect made directly to Defendant GM and its network of dealers,
aggregate warranty data compiled from GM’s network of dealers, testing conducted
by Defendant GM in response to these complaints, as well as warranty repair and
part replacements data received by Defendant GM from Defendant GM’s network of
dealers, amongst other sources of internal information; 
 
b. Defendant GM was in a superior position from
various internal sources to know (or should have known) the true state of facts
about the material defects contained in vehicles equipped with the 8-speed
transmission; and 
 
c. Plaintiff could not reasonably have been
expected to learn of or discover the Vehicle’s Transmission Defect and its
potential consequences until well after Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle. 
 
74. In failing to disclose the defects in the
Vehicle’s 8-speed transmission, Defendant GM has knowingly and intentionally
concealed material facts and breached its duty not to do so. 
 
75. The facts concealed or not disclosed by
Defendant GM (and its directors, officers, employees, affiliates, and/or
agents) to Plaintiff are material in that a reasonable person would have
considered them to be important in deciding whether or not to purchase the
Vehicle. Had Plaintiff known that the Vehicle, and its 8-speed transmission,
were defective prior to and at the time of sale, Plaintiff would not have
purchased the Vehicle. 
 
76. Plaintiff is a reasonable consumer who does
not expect the 8-speed transmission to fail and not work properly. Plaintiff
further expects and assumes that Defendant GM will not sell or lease vehicles
with known material defects, including, but not limited to, those involving the
vehicle’s 8-speed transmission and will disclose any such defect to its
consumers before selling such vehicles. 
 
77. All acts of corporate employees as alleged
herein, were authorized or ratified by GM’s officers, directors or managing
agents, including approving GM’s marketing materials and product disclosures
which failed to disclose the Transmission Defect and which were relied upon by
Plaintiffs, thereby inducing them into purchasing Subject Vehicle. 
 
78. Defendant concealed the Transmission Defect
with the intent to induce Plaintiff to purchase Subject Vehicle. 
 
79. All acts of corporate employees as alleged
herein, were authorized or ratified by GM’s officers, directors or managing
agents, including approving GM’s marketing materials and product disclosures
which failed to disclose the Transmission Defect and which were relied upon by
Plaintiffs, thereby inducing them into purchasing Subject Vehicle. 
 
80. All acts of corporate employees as alleged
herein, were authorized or ratified by GM’s officers, directors or managing
agents, including approving GM’s marketing materials and product disclosures
which failed to disclose the Transmission Defect and which were relied upon by
Plaintiffs, thereby inducing them into purchasing Subject Vehicle. 
 
81. All acts of corporate employees as alleged
herein, were authorized or ratified by GM’s officers, directors or managing
agents, including approving GM’s marketing materials and product disclosures
which failed to disclose the Transmission Defect and which were relied upon by
Plaintiffs, thereby inducing them into purchasing Subject Vehicle.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 6, 21-24, 38-39, 62-81.)
 
Identity
of Individuals at GM who Allegedly Concealed Information
 
With regard to Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff does not allege who
specifically at GM concealed information from Plaintiff, “One of the purposes of the specificity
requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant with certain
definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff identifies GM
President Johan de Nysschen (FAC ¶ 67) and Mark Gordon (FAC ¶ 68.)  To the extent other individuals at GM
concealed information about defective transmissions from the public, the
identities of the specific individuals at GM are necessarily more within GM’s
knowledge.  Therefore, the FAC satisfies
the pleading requirements with respect to identifying the individuals at GM who
allegedly concealed information regarding the defective transmission.
 
GM’s
Prior Knowledge
 
            Further, with respect to GM’s prior
knowledge, the FAC is replete with examples of GM acknowledging the
transmission problem prior to Plaintiff’s January 2021 purchase.  (See FAC ¶ 67 [“prior to Plaintiff’s purchase
of the Subject Vehicle, Defendant GM was internally referring the 8-speed
transmission as a ‘neck snapper.’ Defendant GM engineers even considered
stopping production in 2015 (but did not) and in 2016, President Johan de
Nysschen acknowledged customer frustration surrounding the Transmission Defect
internally and meeting with its authorized repair facility”]; ¶ 68 [“Defendant
GM’s Mark Gordon lamented in February 2019 that ‘shift quality issues are an
ongoing concern with the 8-Speed transmission. Unfortunately, these issues have
been through an Op-ex and a service solution is not going to be developed due
to cost.’”]; ¶ 69 [“From September 2014 to at least February 2019, Defendant GM
issued many service bulletins and service bulletin updates to its dealers in
the United States, but not its customers, acknowledging problems of harsh
shifting, jerking, clunking, and delays in acceleration or deceleration
relating to the 8-speed transmission.” (listing service bulletins)].)
 
            Moreover, the FAC alleges GM had
prior knowledge about the transmission defect from “pre- production testing
data, early consumer complaints about the Transmission Defect made directly to
Defendant GM and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data compiled from
GM’s network of dealers, testing conducted by Defendant GM in response to these
complaints, as well as warranty repair and part replacements data received by
Defendant GM from Defendant GM’s network of dealers.”  (FAC ¶ 73 a.)
 
            Therefore, the FAC adequately
alleges GM’s prior knowledge with requisite specificity.
 
GM’s
Intent to Induce Reliance
 
            With regard to GM’s intent to induce
reliance, paragraph 67 of the FAC alleges:
 
GM was internally referring the 8-speed
transmission as a “neck snapper.” Defendant GM engineers even considered
stopping production in 2015 (but did not) and in 2016, President Johan de
Nysschen acknowledged customer frustration surrounding the Transmission Defect
internally and meeting with its authorized repair facility. Nonetheless,
Defendant GM continued to conceal the Transmission Defect from consumers,
including in its marketing materials, and advised any complaining customers
that poor shifts were “normal.”
 
            The logical implication of these
allegations that GM knew of the problem, but rather than stopping production of
the faulty transmissions in 2015, chose instead to continue to market and sell new
vehicles with the transmission defect, including in the 2021 Chevy Silverado
sold to Plaintiff, was to induce customers to continue to purchase vehicles
with the faulty transmission.
 
            Therefore, Plaintiff has adequately
alleged GM’s intent to induce reliance.
 
Duty
to Disclose
 
“There are four circumstances
in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.”  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311 (hereafter Bigler-Engler).)  In the absence of a fiduciary duty, “[a] duty
to disclose facts arises only when the parties are in a relationship that gives
rise to the duty, such as seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee,
doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual
arrangement.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Defendant emphasizes the
seller/buyer relationship example of Bigler-Engler, and contends that
because there is no direct seller-purchaser relationship alleged between
Defendant manufacturer and Plaintiff purchaser, Defendant does not owe a duty
to disclose to Plaintiff.  In support,
Defendant points out that in Bigler-Engler the Court of Appeal reversed
a verdict for fraudulent concealment against the manufacturer of a medical
device on the basis that there was no direct transactional relationship with
the plaintiff patient.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff cites
to OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp.
(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 859 (hereafter OCM), which held, “Under
California law, a vendor has a duty to disclose material facts not only to
immediate purchasers, but also to subsequent purchasers when the vendor has
reason to expect that the item will be resold.” 
Plaintiff also relies on Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 828, 843-844 (hereafter Dhital), where the appellate court
held:
 
In its
short argument on this point in its appellate brief, Nissan argues plaintiffs
did not adequately plead the existence of a buyer-seller relationship between
the parties, because plaintiffs bought the car from a Nissan dealership (not
from Nissan itself). At the pleading stage (and in the absence of a more
developed argument by Nissan on this point), we conclude plaintiffs’
allegations are sufficient. Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the car from a
Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and
that Nissan's authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of
Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold
plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring
Nissan to disclose known defects.
 
            Defendant
does not address Plaintiff’s legal authority in reply.  As such, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
the better argument.  Per OCM, GM
has a duty to disclose material facts about its vehicles, not only to the
dealerships immediately purchasing the vehicles from GM, but also to the
customers who will ultimately purchase those vehicles.  Here, Plaintiff specifically alleges that GM
failed to do that.  “From
September 2014 to at least February 2019, Defendant GM issued many service
bulletins and service bulletin updates to its dealers in the United States, but
not its customers, acknowledging problems of harsh shifting, jerking, clunking,
and delays in acceleration or deceleration relating to the 8-speed
transmission.”  (FAC ¶ 69.)
 
Moreover, per Dhital, allegations
that the plaintiff purchased the vehicle from an authorized dealership (and
therefore an agent of the manufacturer), that was backed with an express
warranty, is sufficient to allege a relationship requiring the manufacturer to
disclose known defects at the pleadings stage. 
(Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 844.)  Similarly, here, Plaintiff alleges, “On
or about January 24, 2021, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with
Defendant GM regarding a 2021 Chevrolet Silverado vehicle identification number
1GCUYEED1MZ190346 (hereafter "Subject Vehicle" or “Vehicle”), which
was manufactured and or distributed by Defendant GM. Subject Vehicle was
purchased at Win Chevrolet Hyundai in Carson, CA (GM’s authorized
dealer).”  (FAC ¶ 6.)  
 
Therefore, the Court finds the
allegations sufficiently specific to withstand demurrer regarding the fifth
cause of action.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3).)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
            
            Here, as discussed above,
Plaintiff’s allegations sufficiently plead fraud on the part of GM’s upper
management, including President Johan de Nysschen.  Therefore, Defendant’s motion to strike the
request for punitive damages is denied.    
            
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Having found Plaintiff’s allegations adequately allege fraud with requisite
particularity, and that the fraud was specifically alleged as to Defendant’s
upper management, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause
of action and denies Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file an Answer to the First
Amended Complaint on or before May 31, 2024. 

 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  May 15, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


