  Case Number:  21SMCV01637    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV01637




MOTIONS


1.    
  Application for Sale of Dwelling
2.    
  Application to Stay or Vacate




MOVING PARTIES


1.    
  Plaintiffs and Judgment Creditors Jeremy Golan and
  Tammy Golan 
2.     Third
  Party Creditor US Construction Law Plaintiffs and Judgment Creditors 




OPPOSING PARTIES


1.    
  Third Party Creditor US Construction Law Plaintiff Derek
  Underwood  
2.    
  Plaintiffs and Judgment Creditors Jeremy Golan and
  Tammy Golan



 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 6, 2021, Plaintiffs and Judgment Creditors Jeremy Golan and
Tammy Golan (“Plaintiffs”) filed suit against Defendants and Judgment Debtors Craig
Linch (“Linch”) and Real Property Masters, LLC (“Real Property”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) alleging three causes of action for (1) to set aside fraudulent
transfers pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 3439 et seq.; (2)
conspiracy to defraud judgment creditor; and (3) unjust enrichment.  The complaint alleges a dispute arose between
Plaintiffs and Linch, which was litigated in the Superior Court, County of Los
Angeles, Case number 18SMCV00216, resulting in a judgment against Linch in the
amount of $376,180.56 on January 22, 2021. 
(Complaint ¶¶ 6-7.)
 
Plaintiffs further allege that Linch subsequently fraudulently
transferred the title to his real property, located in Malibu, for no
consideration to Defendant Real Property, an entity Linch owns, while Linch
continues to live there, in order to shield the property from Plaintiffs.  (Complaint ¶¶ 2-3, 8.)
 
On January 27, 2023, Default Judgment was entered against Defendants
in favor of Plaintiffs in the amount of $450,865.68.  
 
On January 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an ex parte application for an
order for the sale of the dwelling.  On
January 8, the Court set an order to show cause why the application for sale of
dwelling should not be granted for February 20, 2024.
 
On February 15, 2024, third party creditor US Construction Law (“USCL”)
filed an ex parte application to stay, vacate, or transfer this action under
exclusive concurrent jurisdiction.  
 
USCL asserts that an action against Linch is currently pending in the
Superior Court, County of San Diego (Case No. 37-2019-0005150090CU-OR-CTL) regarding
Linch’s alleged fraudulent transfer of a house and a condominium in Malibu,
including the property at issue in this action. 
USCL further claims that it has a higher priority lien and Plaintiffs
have a junior lien vis-à-vis the subject property.  Further, USCL asserts that Plaintiffs received
actual notice of its superior lien by virtue of the Lis Pendens served in
connection with the San Diego County action. 
USCL also contends that Plaintiffs copied the complaint and lis pendens
from the San Diego case nearly verbatim. 

 
At the hearing on February 16, 2024, the Court permitted the parties
to provide additional briefing, and continued the hearing to March 1, 2024,
with additional points and authorities, if any, to be filed by February 26 and
additional replies to be filed by February 28, with courtesy copies delivered
to the Court.  
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel filed a notice of ruling, erroneously indicating
that the ex parte hearing was continued to April 1, instead of March 1, but
correctly noting the supplemental briefing deadlines.  On March 1, 2024, there were no appearances
by Plaintiffs’ counsel or Counsel for USCL, so the Court continued the hearing
date to May 15, 2024, with supplemental opposition papers due by April 24,
2024, and supplemental replies due by May 8.
 
Plaintiffs oppose the application to stay, vacate, or transfer, and
note that if they had been previously aware of the San Diego action, they would
have included the other properties that are subject to that action in this
action.  USCL opposes the OSC re
Application for Sale of Dwelling.  No
further replies have been filed.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS 
 
1.     SALE OF DWELLING
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 704.740, subdivision (a) provides: “Except as provided in subdivision
(b), the interest of a natural person in a dwelling may not be sold under this
division to enforce a money judgment except pursuant to a court order for sale
obtained under this article and the dwelling exemption shall be determined
under this article.”  Subdivision (b) does
not apply here.  Section 704.750,
subdivision (a) provides:
 
Promptly
after a dwelling is levied upon (other than a dwelling described in subdivision
(b) of Section 704.740), the levying officer shall serve notice on the judgment
creditor that the levy has been made and that the property will be released
unless the judgment creditor complies with the requirements of this section.
Service shall be made personally or by mail. Within 20 days after service of
the notice, the judgment creditor shall apply to the court for an order for
sale of the dwelling and shall file a copy of the application with the levying
officer. If the judgment creditor does not file the copy of the application for
an order for sale of the dwelling within the allowed time, the levying officer
shall release the dwelling.
 
            “Upon
the filing of the application by the judgment creditor, the court shall set a
time and place for hearing and order the judgment debtor to show cause why an
order for sale should not be made in accordance with the application.  The time set for hearing shall be not later
than 45 days after the application is filed or such later time as the court
orders upon a showing of good cause.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 704.770, subd. (a).)
 
2.     EXCLUSIVE CONCURRENT JURISDICTION
 
“The rule of exclusive
concurrent jurisdiction provides that when two or more courts have subject
matter jurisdiction over a dispute, the court that first asserts jurisdiction
assumes it to the exclusion of the others.” 
(Lofton v. Wells Fargo Home Mortgage (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 1050,
1062.)  “It makes no matter whether the
parties to the various actions and the remedies sought are not precisely the
same.”  (Ibid.)  It is sufficient so long as the issues are
the same and both suits arise out of the same transaction[s] or events.  (Ibid.)
 
“Jurisdiction in this context
refers to a mandatory procedural rule, not to authority over the subject matter
or parties in a fundamental sense.”  (Consumer
Advocacy Group, Inc. v. ExxonMobil Corp. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 675, 682
(hereafter Consumer).)  In other
words, failure to comply does not make subsequent proceedings void.  (Id. at p. 683.)  Rather, the purpose of the rule is “not so
much to protect the rights of parties as to protect the rights of Courts of
coordinate jurisdiction to avoid conflict of jurisdiction, confusion and delay
in the administration of justice.”  (Ibid.)
 
Exclusive concurrent
jurisdiction does not require absolute identity of the parties, causes of
action, or remedies in the two actions, so long as the court in the first
action has the power to determine all issue sand grant all relief.  (County of Siskiyou v. Superior Court
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 83, 89 (hereafter Siskiyou).)  The rule does not apply, however, when
neither court has the power to bring all the parties before it or to order all
relief sought.  (In re B.S. Jr. (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 183, 191.)  The issues in
both proceedings must also be substantially the same and the individual suits
must have the potential to result in conflicting judgments.  (Siskiyou, supra, 217
Cal.App.4th at p. 91.)
 
“The rule of exclusive
concurrent jurisdiction is a rule of policy and countervailing policies may
make the rule inapplicable.”  (People
ex rel. Garamendi v. American Autoplan, Inc. (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 760, 770.)  Moreover, the rule should not be rigidly
applied in a manner that unfairly rewards the winner of the “race to the
courthouse,” especially where multiple suits were filed essentially
simultaneously.  (Williams v. Superior
Court (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 36, 53.)
 
The issue of exclusive
concurrent jurisdiction “should be raised by demurrer where the issue appears
on the face of the complaint and by answer where factual issues must be
resolved.”  (People ex rel. Garamendi
v. American Autoplan, Inc. (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 760, 771.)  “After it has been raised by answer, the
party asserting the application of the rule may obtain a trial court ruling on
the issue by a motion to dismiss or abate or a motion for summary judgment.”  (Ibid.)  If the party asserting application of the
rule does not properly raise it by demurrer, answer, or motion to dismiss,
stay, or transfer, the court in the later-filed action retains jurisdiction to
rule on the merits of that action.  (Id.
at pp. 773-774.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     EXCLUSIVE CONCURRENT JURISDICTION
 
            Taking
the issue of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction first, although the rule is
mandatory, it also has very specific procedural requirements.  Specifically, the issue must be raised by
demurrer or answer, and if raised by answer, must thereafter be raised by a
motion to dismiss or abate or a motion for summary judgment.  (People ex rel. Garamendi v. American
Autoplan, Inc. (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 760, 771.)  
 
            Here,
the issue was not raised by demurrer or answer. 
Nor does USCL have standing to raise the issue, as USCL is not a party
to this lawsuit, nor has USCL moved to intervene in this lawsuit.
 
            Moreover,
the purpose of the rule is not to protect the parties’ interests, but rather to
safeguard the right of courts to coordinate jurisdiction to avoid conflict,
confusion, and delay in the administration of justice.  (Consumer, supra, 168 Cal.App.4th at p.
682.)  As judgment was already entered in
this action over a year ago, the request does the opposite.  Due to the passage of time, the Court no
longer has jurisdiction to set aside or vacate the judgment that has been
entered.  In fact, the request has added
to the confusion and delayed the sale of the property – an outcome that both
Plaintiffs and USCL desire.
 
            Furthermore,
Plaintiffs have accounted for USCL’s senior lien in the amount of $150,000 in
making their request.  (See Verified
Application for Order for Sale of Dwelling at ¶ 12.d.)  USCL’s dispute arises because of the
attorneys’ fees USCL has incurred in connection with the San Diego County
action, which USCL contends should also come out of the proceeds of the sale, depleting
the equity to the point where Plaintiffs will recover nothing.  (Declaration of Sean P. Reynolds, Feb. 15,
2024, at ¶ 14 [listing attorneys’ fees and costs in excess of $742,000.)
 
            Ultimately,
because the issue of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction was not raised by answer
or demurrer, and because USCL lacks standing to bring the instant motion to
stay, vacate, or transfer, the Court denies USCL’s request.
 
2.     PLAINTIFFS’ APPLICATION FOR SALE OF
DWELLING
 
The
judgment creditor’s application shall be made under oath, shall describe the
dwelling, and shall contain all of the following:
 
(a) A
statement whether or not the records of the county tax assessor indicate that
there is a current homeowner’s exemption or disabled veteran’s exemption for
the dwelling and the person or persons who claimed any such exemption.
 
(b) A
statement, which may be based on information and belief, whether the dwelling
is a homestead and the amount of the homestead exemption, if any, and a
statement whether or not the records of the county recorder indicate that a
homestead declaration under Article 5 (commencing with Section 704.910) that
describes the dwelling has been recorded by the judgment debtor or the spouse
of the judgment debtor.
 
(c) A
statement of the amount of any liens or encumbrances on the dwelling, the name
of each person having a lien or encumbrance on the dwelling, and the address of
such person used by the county recorder for the return of the instrument
creating such person’s lien or encumbrance after recording.
 
(d) A
statement that the judgment is based on a consumer debt, as defined in
subdivision (a) of Section 699.730, or that the judgment is not based on a
consumer debt, and if the judgment is based on a consumer debt, whether the
judgment is based on a consumer debt that was secured by the debtor’s principal
place of residence at the time it was incurred or a statement indicating which
of the exemptions listed in subdivision (b) of Section 699.730 are applicable.
If the statement indicates that paragraph (7) of subdivision (b) is applicable,
the statement shall also provide the dollar amount of the original judgment on
which the lien is based. If there is more than one basis, the statement shall
indicate all bases that are applicable.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 704.760.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ application
for sale of dwelling satisfies all procedural requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 704.760.  And although
USCL does not have standing in this action, USCL’s opposition to the Order to
Show Cause does not demonstrate that any of the procedural or substantive
requirements have not been met.  In fact,
both Plaintiffs and USCL seek the same outcome – that the property be sold to
pay the judgment creditor lienholders.  
 
Therefore, the Court Orders
the sale of the dwelling.
 
3.     SANCTIONS
 
USCL seeks sanctions pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure sections 435-437, 128.5, and 128.7 for Plaintiffs’ “bad
faith” in litigating this action. 
Sections 435-437 pertain only to procedural rules for moving to strike a
pleading, but do not address sanctions.  
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.5 provides, “A trial court may order a party, the party's attorney,
or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in
bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a)
(emphasis added.))
 
As a threshold matter, and as
discussed above, USCL is not a party to this action.
 
Moreover, USCL has not
demonstrated bad faith.  Although USCL
promulgates a theory that Plaintiffs filed this action in bad faith and knowingly
omitted naming or serving USCL, possibly in concert with the noteholder on the
property, Wilmington Trust National Association, as Trustee, Plaintiffs’
counsel has provided a declaration, indicating that he was unaware of the San
Diego County action until February 15, 2024, when served with USCL’s ex parte
application to stay, vacate, or transfer, and that had counsel been aware of
it, he would have advised his client to pursue the condominium property as
well.  (Declaration of Joshua P.
Friedman, Feb. 15, 2024, at ¶ 11.)  
 
The Court finds Plaintiffs’
counsel’s declaration credible.  Although
the senior lien came up on the title search, the San Diego lawsuit would not
have necessarily surfaced.  Counsel for
USCL declared that the lis pendens it filed and recorded on September 24, 2019
provides notice of USCL’s May 15, 2019 abstract of judgment.  (Declaration of Sean P. Reynolds, April 24,
2024, at ¶ 9.)
 
And although Plaintiffs’
counsel was in communication with USCL’s counsel in connection with USCL’s
attempt to set aside or vacate the judgment in Plaintiffs’ underlying case
against Linch in June 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel declares he was under the
impression that USCL’s counsel was retained for the limited purpose of
attempting settlement and attempting to set aside the judgment in Plaintiffs’
underlying case, and USCL’s counsel did not respond to Plaintiffs’ counsel’s
email correspondence.  (Friedman Decl.,
Feb. 15, 2024, at ¶¶ 4-8.)
 
Therefore, the Court finds
sanctions are inappropriate both because Section 128.5 does not permit the recovery
of attorneys’ fees by a non-party to the litigation, and because USCL has not
demonstrated Plaintiffs’ bad faith.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court denies non-party USCL’s request
to stay, vacate, or transfer, and denies USCL’s request for sanctions and
grants Plaintiffs’ application for an order for sale of dwelling, and orders
the property to be sold.
 
Plaintiffs shall prepare and file a proposed Order in conformance with
the Court’s ruling on or before May 29, 2024. 
Further, Plaintiff’s shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
the notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
 
 
DATED:  May 15, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 