  Case Number:  19STCV27545    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 January 19, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  19STCV27545
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Mihwa Kim, et
al. v. Prime Pan-Pacific Co., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Prime Pan-Pacific Co. ¿ 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs, Mihwa Kim, Kwangwoo Kim, and Kwang Hee Kim¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Tax Costs
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED, subject to clarification at oral argument as to
what IS and what IS NOT included in Cost Bill item 11 (Court reporter fees of
$35,283.00).  GRANTED as to item 16 (Other
in the amount of $6,223.81) until and unless plaintiffs’ counsel can direct the
Court to the specific items included in the over 80-page attachment to the Cost
Bill that plaintiffs claim should be awarded
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On January 8, 2024, this Court
continued the hearing on this motion to allow declarations to be filed on
behalf of defense counsel and to unbundle the court reporter charges and the other
charges that made it difficult for the Court to simply grant or deny specific
line items.  On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a supplemental briefing. On January 17, 2024, Defendant Prime filed a
supplemental declaration. 
 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
The
supplemental briefs and declarations provide greater clarity for the Court.  Plaintiffs attached the declaration of
Matthew Spievak, Vice president of Operations for California for Veritext, the
company which provided court report services for the trial. Spievak notes that:
“[t]he additional in-person attendance fee [of $500 per day during the trial] has
arisen due to the extreme shortage of court reporters in California. The
reporters know they are in high demand; so they bid up the prices of jobs and
demand these extra fees. They are independent contractors, and if [Veritext]
want[s] to provide coverage to [Veritext’s] clients, [Veritext has] to pay
their fees and charge[Veritext’s] clients appropriately. [Spievak] believe[s]
that the court system is down at least 1,300 official reporters. [Veritext has]
covered over 2,700 in-person fee[s] in order to get the jobs covered. Thus,
[Veritext] believe[s] the fees are reasonably and necessary given the
shortage.” (Declaration of Matthew Spievak (“Spievak Decl.”), ¶ 7.)
 
Plaintiffs
note that section 1033.5(c)(2) states that allowable costs must “be reasonably
necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or
beneficial to its preparation.” Based on this, Plaintiffs argue that because
the “in-person coverage fee” is in fact due to a shortage of court reporters, Plaintiffs
are required to pay this cost to Veritext else they would not have had an
in-person court reporter for the trial.
 
In
Defendant Prime’s supplemental declaration, they argue that the award of $6,500
for “in person coverage fees” is improper as it is expected that the Court
Reporter for a Jury Trial would appear in person. 13 days at $500 per day
equals the $6,500 amount.  Defendant
Prime argues that there is no basis for an additional charge for the use of an
“in person” court reporter. 
 
This
Court notes that based on the declaration of Matthew Spievak, the labeling of
the charge “in-person coverage” does not properly describe what the charge is
actually for. It appears that it is a euphemism to address the laws of supply
and demand, i.e., a charge that is made to compensate the court reporter’s monetary
demands in a climate where their services are in higher demand. Based on this,
the Court now denies the Motion to Tax Costs as to the “in-person coverage” fee.  Further, based on Plaintiffs’ supplemental brief
and declaration, Plaintiffs are not claiming any amount in their cost bill for the
“Litigation Package and Hosting and Delivery of Encrypted Files.”   Further, Plaintiff is not claiming in their cost
bill the “Priority request and rough draft charges.”  
 
Plaintiffs’
supplemental brief in support of its cost bill finally attached a summary of the
court reporter services broken down by type of service and amount per day, in a
single chart.  The Realtime services which
varied in amount I each day appear per that summary to total $5,893.40, the $1,750
per day court reporter fee added up to $22,750, plus the $500 per day in-person
coverage fee, which when adding in daily parking billed to plaintiffs for the court
reporter totaled out to $35,260.40, the amount claimed on item 11 of the Cost
Bill.  In the Court’s view, if the daily
fee had been $1,750 plus $500 or $2,250 per day, there would have been no
confusion by defense counsel nor by the Court. 
But Veritext unbundled those amounts in tehri bill, per the Spievak
declaration.  
 
No
such summary helps the Court address the over $6,000 in “Other” charges so the Court
can assess what is disallowable and what is allowable.  Oral argument and perhaps a still further
hearing might be needed.
 
 