 Case Number:  23STCV28540    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MILDRED
  O. WATSON, et al., 
  
         vs.
 
BEVERLY
  HILLS REHABILITATION CENTRE, LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV28540
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 21, 2024



 
Defendant Beverly Hills
Rehabilitation Centre, LLC dba Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Centre’s motion to
compel arbitration of Plaintiffs Mildred O. Watson by and through her successor
in interest Lisa Watson’s and Lisa Watson’s claims in this action is granted. This
case is stayed pending arbitration.
The Court sets a non-appearance case review for May 21, 2025, at 8:30
a.m.  The parties are directed to submit
a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising the Court of the
status of the arbitration.
 
Defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Centre, LLC dba Beverly
Hills Rehabilitation Centre (“BHRC”) (“Moving Defendant”) move for an order
compelling arbitration of Plaintiffs Mildred O. Watson by and through her
successor in interest Lisa Watson’s (“Mildred”) and Lisa Watson’s (“Lisa”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) complaint (“Complaint”) and staying the instant action during the
pendency of arbitration.  (Notice of
Motion, pg. 2; 9 U.S.C. §3; C.C.P. §§1281, 1281.2, 1281.4, 1290 et. seq.)  
 
Evidentiary Objections
Moving Defendant’s 5/16/24 evidentiary objection to Plaintiffs’
surreply is sustained.  The Court will
not consider Plaintiffs’ sur-reply because its procedurally improper. The CRC
contemplates only moving, opposition, and reply papers.  (CRC, Rule 3.1113(d).)  Sur-replies are not contemplated by the rules
and are thus not permitted.  Plaintiff’s
sur-reply was filed without leave of this Court and as such will not be
considered.
 
Background
Plaintiffs filed the operative Complaint on November 21, 2023,
against Moving Defendant and Non-moving Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (“Cedars”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
alleging four causes of action: (1) elder abuse; (2) negligence; (3) violation
of residents rights; and (4) wrongful death. 
Plaintiffs’ causes of action stem from Mildred’s death on March 28,
2023.  (See Complaint ¶1.)
On March 29, 2024, this Court sustained Cedars’ demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ Complaint with 20 days leave to amend.  (3/29/24 Minute Order.)  As of the date of this hearing no amended
complaint has been filed.
BHRC filed the instant motion on January 10, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed their opposition on May 8,
2024.  BHRC filed its reply on May 14,
2024.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
A.  Arbitration Agreement
1.    
The Arbitration
Agreement is enforceable
Federal
law provides for enforcement of this Arbitration Agreement. The Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §1, et seq. (“FAA”), establishes a strong
federal policy in favor of arbitration of disputes where a written arbitration
agreement exists. Section 2 of the FAA provides, in pertinent part that “[a]
written provision . . . to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter
arising out of such contract . . .  shall
be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable.”  (9 U.S.C. §2.) 
The purpose of the FAA is to “reverse the longstanding judicial
hostility to arbitration agreements.” (Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane
Corp. (1991) 500 U.S. 20, 24.)  The
FAA places arbitration agreements “on an equal footing with other contracts and
[requires courts] to enforce them according to their terms.”  (AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011)
563 U.S. 333, 339; see also Rent-A-Center West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 67 [“The FAA reflects the fundamental principle that arbitration
is a matter of contract.”].)  The FAA will
preempt not only a state law that “discriminat[es] on its face against
arbitration,” but also a state law that “covertly accomplishes the same
objective by disfavoring contracts that (oh so coincidentally) have the
defining features of arbitration agreements.”  (Kindred Nursing Centers Limited
Partnership v. Clark (2017) 137 S.Ct. 1421, 1426.)
Here,
the Arbitration Agreement expressly states that it is governed by the FAA.  (Decl. of Flores, Exh. A at ¶4 [“The parties
therefore acknowledge and agree that the Resident’s admission to the Facility
(including any readmissions) evidences a transaction in interstate commerce
governed by the F.A.A. The parties to this Agreement further acknowledge and
agree that this Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with
and governed by the F.A.A. and that the procedures set forth in the F.A.A. shall
govern any petition to compel arbitration.”].)
The
FAA restricts a court’s inquiry related to compelling arbitration to two
threshold questions: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between
the parties; and (2) whether the agreement covers the dispute.  (Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002)
537 U.S. 79, 84.)  Here, both criteria
are satisfied. First, Lisa agreed to arbitration when she entered into the
Arbitration Agreement with BHRC individually and as Mildred’s agent.  (Decl.
of Flores ¶¶2-3, Exhs. A, B.) 
Second, the Arbitration Agreement
expressly covers, 
[A]ll other disputes, controversies, demands, or claims that relate to
or arise out of the provision of services by the Facility to Resident,
including, but not limited to, any action for injury or death arising from
negligence, wrongful death, intentional tort, or statutory causes of action,
including, but not limited to, the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil
Protection Act, the Unfair Competition Act, the Consumer Legal Remedies Act,
and Health & Safety Code Section 1430.
 
(Decl. of Flores ¶2, Exh. A at ¶2.)  
California
law also favors arbitration for dispute resolution. The California Arbitration
Act (“CAA”), codified at C.C.P. §1281 et seq., provides, “A written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such
grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”  (C.C.P. §1281; see also Grafton Partners
L.P. v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 955 [“[U]nlike predispute
jury waivers, predispute arbitration agreements are specifically authorized by
statute.”].)  
“California
law, like federal law, favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97, 99.)  The public policy in favor of arbitration is
so strong that California courts have held that an employee is “bound by the
provisions of the [arbitration] agreement regardless of whether [he] read it or
[was] aware of the arbitration clause when [he] signed the document.”  (Brookwood v. Bank of America (1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 1667, citing Macaulay v. Norlander (1992) 12 Cal.App.4th
1.)  The only prerequisite for a court to
order arbitration is a determination that the parties have entered into an
agreement to arbitrate the dispute.  (United
Transportation Union v. Southern California Rapid Transit District (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 804, 808.)  Thus, arbitration
must be ordered “unless the agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in
question.”  (Vianna v. Doctors’
Management Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)
BHRC
proved the existence of an arbitration agreement with Lisa.  BHRC submitted evidence that on January 16,
2023, at 10:14 PST, Lisa e-signed the Arbitration Agreement as Mildred’s
authorized agent.  (Decl. of Flores ¶2, Exh. A at pg. 4.)  Lisa argues she did not sign the Arbitration
Agreement personally nor electronically, and BHRC did not submit legally
admissible evidence demonstrating she signed the Arbitration Agreement
electronically.  (See Opposition,
pg. 3; Decl. of Watson ¶¶2-3.)
Lisa’s
position that she did not sign the Arbitration Agreement is refuted by the
Declaration of Vanissa Genit (“Genit”), BHRC’s Admissions Coordinator. Genit
declares the Arbitration Agreement in question was maintained in the normal
course and scope of business at BHRC. 
(Decl. of Genit ¶2.)  Genit’s
declaration also provides BHRC’s process for authenticating electronic
signatures on admission packets, and states that the program for authenticating
signatures, One Span, reflects that Lisa electronically signed the admission
packet on January 16, 2023.  (See Decl.
of Genit ¶¶3, 5, Exh. C.)  BHRC submitted
sufficient evidence to establish Lisa executed the agreement, based on the fact
that authentication required the signer of the Arbitration Agreement to access
Lisa’s private e-mail account, open the e-mail sent to Lisa containing the
admission packet, click on the link to access the admission packet, and obtain
the password sent only to Lisa Watson’s cell phone in order to access the
admission packet, and then execute the admission packet.  BHRC further submitted evidence that a
confirmation of execution was sent to Lisa on January 16, 2023, to her private
e-mail address.  (See Decl. of
Genit ¶¶4, 5, Exhs. B, C.)
Based
on the foregoing, BHRC proved the existence of a valid Arbitration Agreement
that is enforceable by BHRC.
 
2.    
Covered Claims
The
Arbitration Agreement states that it applies to “all other disputes,
controversies, demands, or claims that relate to or arise out of the provision
of services by the Facility to Resident, including, but not limited to, any
action for injury or death arising from negligence, wrongful death,
intentional tort, or statutory causes of action, including, but not limited
to, the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act, . . .
and Health & Safety Code Section 1430.”  (Decl. of Flores ¶2, Exh. A at ¶2.)  Plaintiffs’ claims arise from f the provision
of services by BHRC to Mildred and are therefore governed by the Arbitration
Agreement.  Based on the foregoing, BHRC
met its burden of establishing the Arbitration Agreement covers the causes of
action asserted in Plaintiffs’ Complaint.
 
B.
Unconscionability
“[P]rocedural
and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Armendariz,
24 Cal.4th at pg. 102.)  Courts invoke a
sliding scale which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the
contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves, i.e., the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.  (Id.,
at pg. 114.)  Plaintiffs bear the burden
of proving that the provision at issue is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable.  
Plaintiffs
do not argue the issue of unconscionability in their opposition and only
focused on the issue of authenticating Plaintiff’s signature on the Arbitration
Agreement.  Therefore, Plaintiffs did not
meet their burden to demonstrate that the provision at issue is both
procedurally and substantively unconscionable.
Accordingly,
BHRC’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.
 
C.   
Stay of Current
Action
Pursuant
to C.C.P. §1281.4, if an application has been made to a court involving order
to arbitrate a controversy and such application is undetermined, the court
where the application is pending shall, upon motion of a party to the action,
stay the action until the application for an order to arbitrate is determined.  (C.C.P. §1281.4.)
Accordingly,
this case is stayed pending arbitration.
 
D.  
Conclusion
BHRC’s motion to
compel arbitration is granted.  
The case is
stayed pending arbitration. The Court sets a non-appearance case review for May
21, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are
directed to submit a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising
the Court of the status of the arbitration.
Moving Party to
give notice.

 
Dated:  May _____, 2024
                                                                             





  