 Case Number:  23STCV31384    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BRITTANY NAJERA,  
  
         vs.
 
CITY OF SAN FERNANDO.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV31384
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 21, 2024



 
Defendant City of San Fernando’s demurrer
to Plaintiff Brittany Najera’s first amended complaint is sustained with
20 days leave to amend as to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th causes of action.
 
Defendant City of San Fernando (“City”) (“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff
Brittany Najera’s (“Najera”)
(“Plaintiff”) first amended complaint (“FAC”) on the basis the entire FAC fails
to state facts sufficient to allege causes of action against Defendant and is
uncertain.  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e),
(f).)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed her initial Complaint against Defendant on December
22, 2023.  Plaintiff filed the operative
FAC on March 6, 2024, alleging four causes of action: (1) harassment; (2) discrimination;
(3) FEHA retaliation; and (4) failure to take corrective action.[1]
Plaintiff’s FAC arises out of her employment by Defendant, which
began on or about September 2015, with the San Fernando Police Department.  (See FAC ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges at the time of her hiring,
there were three female officers in the department, which had a total of 30 officers,
however, Plaintiff was the only female officer in patrol.  (FAC ¶11.) 
Plaintiff alleges the department’s command staff was hostile to females
from the beginning.  (FAC ¶12.)  
Plaintiff alleges Police Chief Vairo told Plaintiff after a few
months on the force that it was okay to quit, and law enforcement was not for
everyone. (FAC ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges
she was objectively doing well on the force, and thus, the comments were
unwanted and unwarranted.  (FAC
¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges Chief Vairo did
not make such comments to male officers. 
(FAC ¶13.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about 2016, at a retirement party for a
male officer, Lt. Hanchett suddenly put money down Plaintiff’s chest, which was
unwelcome and unwanted.  (FAC ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges despite the presence of
command staff, no one said anything or initiated an investigation.  (FAC ¶14.) 
Plaintiff alleges Hanchett was not disciplined in any manner. (FAC
¶14.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about 2016, Plaintiff was required to
testify in a deposition.  (FAC ¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges Chief Vairo attempted to
prevent and dissuade Plaintiff from testifying, yet Plaintiff provided truthful
testimony.  (FAC ¶15.)  
Plaintiff alleges at the end of 2020 she was instrumental in the
arrest of an individual for illegally having a large quantity of guns.  (FAC ¶16.) 
Plaintiff alleges Lt. Rosenberg was the supervisor involved and oversaw
the warrant. At a meeting, Rosenberg ignored Plaintiff, and asked to speak with
the remaining team members.  (FAC
¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges Rosenberg instructed
Plaintiff to leave the meeting.  (FAC
¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges when she stayed
to brief Rosenberg, he ignored her even though she was the only knowledgeable
team member.  (FAC ¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges when a male team member
repeated Plaintiff’s comments, then Rosenberg finally listened.  (FAC ¶16.) 
Plaintiff alleges that after, the warrant was executed.  (FAC ¶16.) 
Plaintiff alleges she gave instructions on how the weapons should be
packed up.  (FAC ¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges Rosenberg arrived and
refuted Plaintiff’s instructions.  (FAC
¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges when a male team
member repeated Plaintiff’s instructions and reasoning, Rosenberg accepted it.  (FAC ¶16.) 

Plaintiff alleges on or about 2020, she put in for the k-9 unit,
which is a specialized assignment that comes with a pay increase.  (FAC ¶17.) 
Plaintiff alleges Chief Vairo tried to discourage Plaintiff from
pursuing the k-9 position.  (FAC
¶18.)  Plaintiff alleges Vairo told
Plaintiff that the assignment was “hard work,” and implied frequently that
Plaintiff or women were not suited for demanding assignments.  (FAC ¶18.) 
Plaintiff alleges eventually, a male officer was selected for the k-9
position.  (FAC ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges the officer was given
preferential treatment, special training ahead of time, and the interview
questions.  (FAC ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges she was denied the position,
and not given an explanation for her score(s). 
(FAC ¶19.)  
Plaintiff alleges soon thereafter, an two FTO positions were
available.  (FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges ahead of the selection, Lt.
Rosenberg told Plaintiff that “she needed to talk to him” if she wanted the
position.  (FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges she was uncomfortable with
Rosenberg’s proposition and applied for the FTO position through the formal
process.  (FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges while there were two FTO
positions available, and only two candidates (Plaintiff and a male officer),
Plaintiff was denied the FTO position, which left a vacant position.  (FAC ¶20.)
Plaintiff alleges when applications opened again for the vacant
FTO position, a sergeant with the FTO program told Plaintiff that she had no
chance of getting the position because Rosenberg would block it.  (FAC ¶21.) 
Plaintiff alleges on or about January 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint
of sexual harassment and discrimination, which included complaints about
Rosenberg.  (FAC ¶22.)  Plaintiff alleges the night that the
complaint was filed, Rosenberg gave Plaintiff a reprimand for allegedly
violating COVID rules.  (FAC ¶23.)  Plaintiff alleges Rosenberg and other
officers present were also in violation of the same COVID rules.  (FAC ¶23.) 

Plaintiff alleges on or about April 2021, Plaintiff and other
officers were involved in an officer-involved-shooting.  (FAC ¶24.) 
Plaintiff alleges when Plaintiff asked for time to recover, Chief Vairo
derisively said no need to be babies. 
(FAC ¶24.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about September 2021, Plaintiff was
counseled by Lt. Hanchett for a social media post that Plaintiff’s father had
made.  (FAC ¶25.)  Plaintiff alleges she did not make the social
media post, and analogous posts were made by other officers without any
counseling or discipline.  (FAC
¶25.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about September 2021, an FTO complained to
Lt. Hanchett about Plaintiff’s alleged failure to respond to a call.  (FAC ¶26.) 
Plaintiff alleges the FTO was actually at fault.  (FAC ¶26.) 

Plaintiff alleges on or about November 2021, Plaintiff was
involved in a shooting with a suspect.  (FAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges despite being ambushed by the suspect, Plaintiff did
not receive much assistant from the command staff.  (FAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges the supervising sergeant did not arrive until 20
minutes after the incident.  (FAC
¶27.)  Plaintiff alleges the supervising sergeant
fabricated his initial report, and was not investigating for lying in the
report.  (FAC ¶27.)  Plaintiff alleges Lt. Rosenberg interrogated
Plaintiff after the incident, and asked for her recorder, which was in
violation of department policies.  (FAC ¶27.)  Plaintiff alleges that later, the command
staff did not want to give Plaintiff time off to recover, which prompted action
by the legal defense fund.  (FAC
¶27.)  
Plaintiff alleges she attempted to get departmental awards that
she was entitled to and the awards were based on objective evidence such as
arrest statistics, and should not have been discretionary.  (FAC ¶28.) 
Plaintiff alleges she had to hound her supervising sergeant to nominate
her for the award.  (FAC ¶28.)  Plaintiff alleges that nevertheless, she was
passed over for three earned awards.  (FAC ¶28.) 
Plaintiff alleges awards improve an officer’s chances at obtaining promotions
and specialized assignments.  (FAC
¶28.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about January 2022, Lt. Hanchett, who was
acting chief of police, decided to open an IA against Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶29.) 
Plaintiff alleges Lt. Rosenberg reviewed Plaintiff’s PUMA recording, and
decided to contact the suspect involved in the incident. Rosenberg’s actions
were contrary to policy and procedures. 
(FAC ¶30.)  Plaintiff alleges through
Rosenberg’s fabrication, the suspect accused Plaintiff of excessive force.  (FAC ¶31.) 
Plaintiff alleges even though there were numerous other officers
involved in the incident, Plaintiff was the only one subject to an IA and charges.  (FAC ¶31.) 
Plaintiff alleges that subsequently, she was targeted with multiple
internal investigations that were meant to adversely affect Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶32.) 
Plaintiff alleges male officers and/or officers who did not engage in
protected activity were not subject to investigation for analogous conduct.  (FAC ¶32.) 

Plaintiff alleges on or about February 22, 2022, Chief Valdez
started as Chief.  (FAC ¶33.)  Plaintiff alleges on or about March 2022, she
was placed on administrative leave without justification.  (FAC ¶34.) 
Plaintiff alleges as result of pressure from Defendant, Plaintiff went
into labor one month before her due date. 
(FAC ¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges later,
Defendant would use Plaintiff’s emergency labor as a negative factor against
her in the termination.  (FAC ¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges from November 2022 to
January 2023 she was on maternity leave. 
(FAC ¶36.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about February 2023, Plaintiff’s LEXIPOL
was audited.  (FAC ¶37.)  Plaintiff alleges male officers and/or
officers who did not engage in protected activity were not audited.  (FAC ¶37.) 

Plaintiff alleges Lt. Rosenberg routinely scrutinized Plaintiff’s
work without any legitimate basis.  (FAC
¶38.)  Plaintiff alleges Rosenberg
criticized Plaintiff frequently without basis, and fabricated a narrative that
Plaintiff was a sub-par officer.  (FAC
¶38.)  Plaintiff alleges male officers
were not subject to such scrutiny or disparagement.  (FAC ¶38.) 
Plaintiff alleges Rosenberg refused to respond to Plaintiff’s greetings
and did not acknowledge her even in front of other officers.  (FAC ¶39.) 
Plaintiff alleges Rosenberg made demeaning facial expressions and
gestures toward Plaintiff.  (FAC
¶39.)  Plaintiff alleges Rosenberg’s
improper behavior were continuous and occurred until Plaintiff’s termination.  (FAC ¶40.) 
Plaintiff alleges on or about March 10, 2023, Plaintiff was terminated
without justification.  (FAC ¶41.)  
On April 8, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer.  On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed her
opposition.  Defendant filed its reply on
May 14, 2024.
 
           Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer. 
(C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the
meet and confer process.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(3).)
Defendant’s counsel declares she met and conferred telephonically
with Plaintiff’s counsel on April 8, 2024, and the parties were unable to
resolve the issues in the demurrer. 
(Decl. of Hilgers ¶2.) 
Defendant’s counsel’s declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a).
 Accordingly, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s entire FAC on the basis the causes
of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action against
Defendant and are uncertain.[2]  (Demurrer, pgs. 3-6;
C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
           
           Failure to
State a Claim
           Entire FAC
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s FAC on the basis none of the
causes of action are pled with the requisite specificity in order to withstand
a demurrer on the basis that “because under the [Government] Claims Act all
governmental tort liability is based on statute, the general rule that
statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity is applicable.
Thus, to state a cause of action against a public entity, every fact material
to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded with particularity.”
 (Hood v. Hacienda La Puente Unified
Sch. District (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 435, 439, internal citations and
quotations omitted.)  Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s entire FAC on this basis is generalized and
defective—it is necessary to examine each cause of action to make such a
determination.
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s entire FAC is
overruled.
 
Harassment & Discrimination (1st & 2nd COAs)
“To establish a prima facie case of a hostile work environment,
[the plaintiff] must show that (1) [plaintiff] is a member of a protected
class; (2) [plaintiff] was subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3) the
harassment was based on [plaintiff’s] protected status; (4) the harassment
unreasonably interfered with [plaintiff’s] work performance by creating an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) defendants are
liable for the harassment.”  (Ortiz v.
Dameron Hospital Association (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 568, 581.)
“California has adopted the three-stage burden-shifting test for
discrimination claims set forth in McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green
(1973) 411 U.S. 792. ‘This so-called McDonnell Douglas test reflects the
principle that direct evidence of intentional discrimination is rare, and that
such claims must usually be proved circumstantially. Thus, by successive steps
of increasingly narrow focus, the test allows discrimination to be inferred from
facts that create a reasonable likelihood of bias and are not satisfactorily
explained.’”  (Sandell v.
Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297, 307, internal citations
omitted.)
Defendant argues (1) the alleged harassment
and discrimination is all based on the same alleged conduct, and Plaintiff does
not specify whether the alleged harassment/discrimination is on the basis of
gender, race, or pregnancy status; (2) the conduct complained of is not severe
or pervasive, and some of the alleged events fall outside the three-year
statute of limitations applicable to FEHA claims; and (3) Plaintiff’s DFEH
complaint was filed on 12/21/23, so any events occurring prior to 12/21/20
would not be actionable and are irrelevant because the timely filing of an
administrative complaint and exhaustion of that remedy is a prerequisite to
maintenance of a civil action for damages under FEHA.  (Demurrer, pg. 5.)
Defendants’ arguments are unavailing.  First, there is no separate cause of action
necessary to allege discrimination on the basis of different protected
characteristics.  (Soria v. Univision
Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 585 n.4 [“Whether
captioned as one or more causes of action in a complaint, discrimination based
on each protected characteristic is a separate claim under FEHA. (Mathieu v.
Norrell Corp. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1187, 10 Cal.Rptr.3d 52
[allegations of sexual harassment and retaliation actually alleged two separate
causes of action under FEHA even though pleaded in single count of complaint]; see
Skrbina v. Fleming Companies (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1364, 53
Cal.Rptr.2d 481 [plaintiff who alleges defendant's single wrongful act invaded
two different rights has stated two causes of action even though pleaded in a
single count of the complaint].”].)
Second, Defendant’s argument regarding the
standard of “severe and pervasive” conduct is not in line with current case law
regarding allegations of harassment.  Government
Code §12923(b) states that “[a] single incident of harassing conduct is
sufficient to create a triable issue regarding the existence of a hostile work
environment if the harassing conduct has unreasonably interfered with the
plaintiff’s work performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work
environment.”  (Gov. Code §12923(b).)
Third, Defendant’s argument pertaining to the
statute of limitations on conduct that occurred prior to Plaintiff filing her
DFEH complaint is not sufficient to eliminate an entire cause of action that
alleges conduct that occurred subsequent to the filing of the DFEH complaint.   (See Wyatt v. Union Mortgage
Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 773, 786 [stating statute of limitations on
continuing tort cause of action does not begin to run until commission of last
overt act].)  Further, allegations that
an event occurred “on or about” the crucial date for statute of limitations
purposes overcome a general demurrer. It is enough that the claim may be
timely.  (Childs v. State of California
(1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 155, 160; see Esparza v. Kaweah Delta District Hospital
(2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 547, 556 [stating allegation that claim timely
presented “on or at” specified date not ambiguous or inconsistent with general
allegation of compliance with claims presentation statute].)
However, based on the face to the FAC, Plaintiff’s
causes of action do not identify the statute these causes of action are
allegedly based on.  (Zuniga v.
Housing Authority (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 82, 96 [stating to adequately state
a cause of action against a public entity, every fact essential to the
existence of the statutory liability must be plead with particularity, and the
statute or enactment claimed to establish the duty must at the very least be
identified].)
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st and 2nd causes
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Retaliation (3rd COA)
“[I]n order to establish a prima facie case of retaliation under
the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected
activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment
action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s
action.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA,
Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042, internal citations omitted.)
For the same reason the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to
the 1st and 2nd causes of action, that Plaintiff’s cause of action does
not identify the statute these causes of action are allegedly based on, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action is
sustained.
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, or Retaliation (4th
COA)
“Once an employer is informed of the sexual harassment, the employer
must take adequate remedial measures. The measures need to include immediate
corrective action that is reasonably calculated to (1) end the current
harassment and (2) to deter future harassment. [Citation.] The employer’s
obligation to take prompt corrective action requires (1) that temporary steps
be taken to deal with the situation while the employer determines whether the
complaint is justified and (2) that permanent remedial steps be implemented by
the employer to prevent future harassment … .”  (M.F. v. Pacific Pearl Hotel Management LLC
(2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 693, 701.)
A finding of actual discrimination or harassment under FEHA is a
required element for a plaintiff to prevail on a failure to prevent claim.  (Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1314.)
This Court sustained Defendant’s demurrers to Plaintiff’s
discrimination and harassment causes of action. 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s derivative cause of action for failure to prevent
must also be sustained. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4th cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is sustained with
20 days leave to amend as to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  May _____, 2024
                                                                                     





  