 Case Number:  24STCP01101    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



BLUE BEAR
  WASTE SERVICES, LLC,  
  
         vs.
 
BOND
  ENTERPRISES, INC.


 Case No.: 
  24STCP01101
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 9, 2024



 
Petitioner Blue Bear Waste
Services, LLC’s unopposed application for an order admitting Bruce E.
Rhode to appear pro hac vice is granted upon receipt of Bruce E. Rhode’s
Colorado Bar Number at this hearing.

 
          Petitioner Blue Bear Waste Services, LLC (“Blue Bear”) (“Petitioner”)
applies unopposed to admit Bruce E. Rhode (“Rhode”) to appear pro hac
vice on its behalf.  (Notice Pro Hac
Vice, pg. 2.) 
 
          Background
On July 2, 2024, Petitioner
filed the instant application for Rhode to be admitted pro hac vice.  As of the date of this hearing no opposition
has been filed.
 
Motion
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice
C.R.C.,
Rule 9.40(d)
provides that an application to be admitted pro hac vice must state the
following:
(1)   The applicant’s residence and
office address;
(2)   The courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)   That the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts; 
(4)   That the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; 
(5)   The title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel¿pro
hac vice¿in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6)   The name, address, and
telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record.
C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e) provides
as follows, “[a]n applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice
under this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of
California with the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is
served on the State Bar.”
Petitioner’s application on
behalf of Rhode provides the information required by C.R.C., Rule 9.40(d).  Petitioner submitted proof that the $50.00
fee was paid to the State Bar of California. 
(C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e); Decl. of Rhode, Exh. A.)  Petitioner submitted proof of service of the
instant application on the State Bar of California.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(c)(1); 7/2/24 POS, pg. 3;
Decl. of Muse-Fisher ¶6.)
However, Petitioner has not
provided this Court with Rhode’s bar number in Colorado. While this requirement
is not enumerated in C.R.C., Rule 9.40, the Court needs this number to enter Rhode’s
application into the Court’s system.
Accordingly, Petitioner’s unopposed
motion for an order admitting Rode to appear pro hac vice is granted, pending
the Court receiving Rhode’s Colorado bar number; should this bar number not be
received at this hearing, the instant motion is denied.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated:  October _____, 2024
                                                                             





  