..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 2024-XXXX
Plaintiff's Name: Peacock Homestead LLC, et al.
Defendant's Name: Jeffrey Prang, as Assessor for the County of Los Angeles, and the County of Los Angeles
People-Names: Jeffrey Prang
Company-Names: None
Places: Portuguese Bend, Los Angeles County, City of Rancho Palos Verdes
Dates: March 20, 2024, June 4, 2024
Events: Demurrer filed by Defendants
Money: Property taxes
Intentions: Plaintiffs seek declaratory relief, writ of mandate, and government waste
Facts: Property lines in Portuguese Bend move due to landslide, affecting property taxes
Disputes: Whether property lines move with landslide movement of surface improvements
Acts: Defendants demur to FAC, claiming Plaintiffs improperly seek to enjoin unpaid taxes, failed to exhaust administrative remedies, lack of actual controversy, and failure to allege non-discretionary ministerial duty
Agreements: None
Laws: California Constitution Article XVI, Section 6, Proposition 13, Code of Civil Procedure Section 526a
Case Citations: Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591; Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967; Evid. Code § 452(h); Consolidated etc. Corp. v. United A. etc. Workers (1946) 27 Cal.2d 859, 863
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Constitution
Roles: Jeffrey Prang as Assessor for the County of Los Angeles, Plaintiffs as property developers
Significant Statements: 
  - "One of the really interesting things for my office that makes it very difficult in Portuguese Bend is that when you own property in the County, your piece of property is in a fixed location. We use a number of geographic pointers that establish where your parcel is. As you know the properties in these landslides are moving. So we actually have homes that are located on somebody else's parcel. There is nothing in the law that guides my office on how to deal with this situation. We have houses that may be two or three parcels away from the one that they own. So we've been asked how do we assess that and the truth is we pretend that they haven't moved. So you're still assessed with your parcel even though your home is on somebody else's parcel because the law doesn't give us any guidance on how to do things differently. And I'm not the guy who's charged with trying to figure that out. We're just paper pushers in a lot of ways."
```

And here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The Judge's tentative ruling sustains the demurrer filed by the Defendants, without leave to amend. The Plaintiffs, Peacock Homestead LLC, et al., alleged that the property lines in Portuguese Bend move due to landslide, affecting property taxes. The Judge finds that the Defendants have a policy in which they deem property lines not to have moved, making the Plaintiffs' claims moot. The Judge concludes that there is no actual controversy and that the Plaintiffs are seeking to force the Defendants to adopt a policy, which is not necessary. The Judge notes that the Plaintiffs have informed the Court that the Assessor for the County of Los Angeles stated that the office has been unable to provide guidance on how to deal with moving property lines. The Judge takes judicial notice of this statement. The Judge finds that the Plaintiffs' claims are moot because the Defendants have already confirmed that property lines do not move. As a result, the Judge sustains the demurrer, without leave to amend.
