On March 20, 2024, Plaintiffs Peacock Homestead LLC, et al. filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for declaratory relief, writ of mandate, and government waste against Defendants Jeffrey Prang, as Assessor for the County of Los Angeles, and the County of Los Angeles.  The allegations of the FAC are as follows.  Plaintiffs are property developers with properties in the Portuguese Bend, an area that is subject to a slow-moving landslide.  Because of the landslide, the improvements on the land shift over time.  “The dispute is whether the property lines are moving along with the improvements or whether the property lines remain static. This issue affects the property taxes each Plaintiff pays each year. If the property lines are moving, particularly since they move at different speeds and in different directions, then the location of the parcels, the square footage of the parcels, the nature of the parcels, and other features change on a continuous and ongoing basis. As such, the associated property taxes would need to be reassessed and changed each year to reflect the conditions on the ground. On the other hand, if the property lines are static, then the property taxes do not need to be reassessed continuously.”  “Plaintiffs have sought guidance on this issue from the LA Assessor’s Office, but have not received an answer as the office staff have all taken the position of ‘we don’t know.’ ”The declaratory relief claim asks three questions: “Do Defendants have an affirmative duty to adopt a rule regarding whether property lines in Portuguese Bend move with the landslide movement of the surface improvements? b. Do the property lines in Portuguese Bend move with the landslide movement of the surface improvements? c. If so, does the Los Angeles County Assessor need to reassess each affected parcel in Portuguese Bend every year to provide an accurate basis for assessment including the new square footages and the conditions of the properties?”For the writ of mandate claim, Plaintiffs allege: “If it is determined that the Defendants have violated their mandatory duties by failing to adopt a rule regarding landslides and property values, then a writ of mandate is required. [¶] Accordingly, a writ of mandate should issue ordering the Defendants to issue the order/policy.”For the government waste claim, Plaintiffs allege: “If it is determined that the property lines do move with the landslide, then under Proposition 13 the new boundaries require reassessment, as each parcel will now have either more or less square footage, and to the extent that there is new property added, a new base year value for the new property portion of the parcel. [¶] Failing to reassess the parcels constitutes governmental waste under Code of Civil Procedure Section 526a and California Constitution Article XVI, Section 6.”Defendants demur to the FAC because (a) Plaintiffs improperly seek to enjoin unpaid taxes; (b) Plaintiffs did not exhaust their administrative remedies by presenting a claim before the State Board of Equalization; (c) there is no actual controversy for a declaratory relief claim; and (d) Plaintiffs have not alleged the failure to perform a non-discretionary ministerial duty.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) Plaintiffs have informed the Court that on June 4, 2024, at a city council meeting for the City of Rancho Palos Verdes, Jeffrey Prang, as Assessor for the County of Los Angeles, stated that: “One of the really interesting things for my office that makes it very difficult in Portuguese Bend is that when you own property in the County, your piece of property is in a fixed location. We use a number of geographic pointers that establish where your parcel is. As you know the properties in these landslides are moving. So we actually have homes that are located on somebody else’s parcel. There is nothing in the law that guides my office on how to deal with this situation. We have houses that may be two or three parcels away from the one that they own. So we’ve been asked how do we assess that and the truth is we pretend that they haven’t moved. So you’re still assessed with your parcel even though your home is on somebody else’s parcel because the law doesn’t give us any guidance on how to do things differently. And I’m not the guy who’s charged with trying to figure that out. We’re just paper pushers in a lot of ways.” The Court takes judicial notice of this statement.  (See Evid. Code § 452(h).)  On this basis, it is now clear that all causes of action are, at the very least, moot because Defendants currently have a policy in which they have deemed property lines not to have moved and, thus, continuous assessments are not needed.  Indeed, this obviates the second and third claims, which seek to force Defendants to adopt a policy.  With respect to declaratory relief, Plaintiffs ultimately wish for Defendants not to find that property lines are moving.  (See, e.g., Opposition at fn. 1 [“[T]o the extent that the LA Assessor’s failure to reassess the parcels constitutes a policy that the property lines remain consistent and do not move, Plaintiff agrees with that interpretation.”].)  Defendants have now explicitly confirmed that finding.   Because “ ‘the duty of . . . every . . . judicial tribunal . . . is to decide actual controversies by a judgment which can be carried into effect, and not to give opinions upon moot questions or . . . to declare principles or rules of law which cannot affect the matter in issue in the case before it[,] [i]t necessarily follows that when . . . an event occurs which renders it impossible for [the] court, if it should decide the case in favor of plaintiff, to grant him any effectual relief whatever, the court will not proceed to a formal judgment . . . .’ [Citations.]”  (Consol. etc. Corp. v. United A. etc. Workers (1946) 27 Cal.2d 859, 863.)There is nothing on the record by way of allegation or evidence that anyone will subject Plaintiffs to continuous reassessments.  Until that threat tangibly arises, there is no place for a lawsuit. Thus, the Demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 