On February 15, 2024, the Court entered a default for Defendant SLSLT Underlying Trust 2020-1.Defendant SLSLT Underlying Trust 2020-1 now seeks to set aside its default due to excusable neglect, surprise, inadvertence, or mistake.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).)  Defendant contends that “Defendant SLSLT Underlying Trust 2020-1 (the ‘Trust’) was served in or around July 2023. Unfortunately, that service package was misrouted and never delivered to the Trust’s counsel. When Plaintiff served the Trust a second time on January 24, 2024, counsel for the Trust promptly reached out to Plaintiff’s counsel on February 14, 2024 and the Trust filed its Answer to the Complaint on February 15, 2024. The same day, however, Plaintiff requested, and the clerk entered, a default.”The discretionary provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) provides, “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief . . . shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”  The statute is liberally construed in order to give effect to the policy favoring resolution of disputes on their merits.  (Hopkins & Carley v. Gens (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410.)  To be entitled to relief under the statute, the moving party must demonstrate a satisfactory excuse for his or her default, as well as diligence in seeking relief after discovery of the default.  Whether the moving party has carried this burden is a question to be resolved in the discretion of the trial court.  (Ibid.)For relief to be warranted, any mistake must be something other than professional incompetence or ignorance of the law.  (Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206.)  The term “surprise” refers to “some condition or situation in which a party is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.”  (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.)  Similarly, to be excusable, a litigant’s inadvertence or neglect must have been “such as might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.”  (Ibid.)Plaintiff Rana Rabadi first argues that the Motion should be denied because a proposed answer was not attached. This argument is rejected because a proposed answer was filed on February 15, 2024, after a default was entered.  That is, if the Motion were granted, the Court could simply deem that answer as an operative pleading.  There is no meaningful distinction between this situation and attaching the answer to the actual Motion.Plaintiff also argues that “any knowledge that Defendant’s authorized agent had of Plaintiff’s Summons and Complaint is imputed to Defendant. Therefore, Defendant knew of Plaintiff’s Summons and Complaint as early as July 2023. Instead, Defendant took a ‘wait and see’ approach to answering Plaintiff’s Complaint. Moreover, after Defendant was served with the Summons and Complaint, Plaintiff thereafter served Defendant with a total of four (4) requests to enter default before Defendant’s default was successfully entered. Based on the procedural history, it defies logic to accept that Defendant ‘had no idea’ of this lawsuit before February 14, 2024.”Here, diligence has not been established by Defendant.  Defendant filed an answer on February 15, 2024, apparently without knowledge of default.  However, Defendant never makes clear when it actually learned of the default.  Further, the final request for default, which was ultimately approved, was served by mail on February 15, 2024, and the instant Motion was not filed until April 18, 2024.  There is no explanation for why it took Defendant until April 18, 2024, to seek relief.  (See Younessi v. Woolf (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 1137, 1145 [unexplained delay of 7 weeks rendered motion untimely].)  Therefore, the Motion to Set Aside Default is denied.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.