 Case Number:  24STCP00961    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  85 
 
Mary Wright v. Housing
Authority of the City of Los Angeles, 24STCP00961
 
Tentative decision on motion
to amend complaint: granted 



 
 
 
            Petitioner
Mary Wright (“Wright”) moves for leave to file a First Amended Petition (“FAP”).  
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers (no opposition was filed) and
renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Petition
Wright is a 60-year-old African-American woman. She relies
solely on her fixed supplemental security income.  She has been in good standing with HACLA,
paying her rent on time and complying with the terms of her lease. She has
lived in her current home for nine years. 
Pet., ¶15.
Wright suffers from schizophrenia, a mental disability that
affects her thinking, emotions, and behavior.  She often finds it difficult to plan and carry
out daily activities like grocery shopping. Her energy levels are low, and she
frequently has trouble processing information to make decisions.  Pet., ¶16.
Wright’s daily life greatly depends on the vital help from
her caretaker for essential tasks like grocery shopping, cooking, keeping her
home clean, managing medications, handling laundry, checking the mail, and even
ensuring the bath water doesn’t overflow.  Pet., ¶17. 
Throughout her tenancy, Wright has had various caretakers
and she currently is being assisted by Donnie Jackson Sr., her long-time
partner and the father of her son, Donnie Jackson Jr.  Pet., ¶18. 
Throughout her tenancy, Wright was approved by HACLA on
several occasions to have a live-in caretaker, yet she has not used this
opportunity.  In February 2017, she
requested to add her son, Donnie Jackson Jr., as her live-in caretaker.  Despite the approval, he never moved in.
Although a caretaker is crucial for her well-being, Wright does not require
around-the-clock care.  Pet., ¶19.
On or about September 1, 2022, HACLA sent Wright a “Notice
of 20 Intended Action” stating that HACLA had discovered evidence that (a) she committed
fraud in connection with a federal housing program by allowing an unauthorized
tenant, Kim McZeal, to reside at the subsidized rental premises, (b) she and
Donnie Jackson Jr. had vacated the subsidized rental premises without reporting
the vacancy, and (c) she failed to disclose Donnie Jackson Jr.’s criminal
conviction for petty theft.  The notice
further stated that, if Wright did not provide adequate evidence in response,
HACLA would take action to terminate her Section 8 benefits.  Pet., ¶20.
On or about September 19, 2022, HACLA sent Wright a “Notice
of Intended Action and Right to Hearing” asserting that HACLA had determined
that Wright’s Section 8 would be terminated based on the above-described
allegations. The notice advised Wright of her right to request a hearing, which
she did.  Pet., ¶21.
HACLA scheduled the informal hearing for September 19, 2023
but rescheduled the hearing to November 14, 2023, to accommodate Wright’s
attorneys.  Pet., ¶22.  On November 14, 2023, HACLA conducted the
informal hearing.  Pet., ¶23.
At the informal hearing, the hearing officer found the
following: (a) The allegation that Ms. Wright had an unauthorized tenant, Kim
McZeal, was sustained despite the fact that Wright testified that McZeal was
her caretaker; (b) The allegation that Wright failed to promptly report changes
in her household composition on the HAPP-27P Eligibility Questionnaire was
sustained, despite the fact that Wright promptly reported that there were no
changes to her household composition; (c) The allegation that Wright failed to
provide true and correct information about her household composition on the
HAPP-27P Eligibility Questionnaire was sustained, despite the fact that Wright
provided true and correct information that there were no changes to her
household composition; (d) The allegation that Wright had vacated the
subsidized rental premises without reporting the vacancy was not sustained; and
(e) The allegation that Wright failed to disclose Donnie Jackson Jr.’s criminal
conviction for petty theft was not raised by the hearing officer.  Pet., ¶24. 
The hearing officer upheld HACLA’s proposal to terminate Wright’s
Section 8 benefits and set the termination date for March 31, 2024.  Pet., ¶25. 
On or about January 31, 2024, HACLA sent Ms. Wright a
“Notice of Termination of Section 8” stating that she will lose her Section 8 benefits
on March 31, 2024.  Pet., ¶26.
On February 29, 2024, Ms. Wright requested that HACLA
reconsider its decision to terminate her Section 8 and a reasonable
accommodation to reinstate her Section 8 because her mental disability was not
taken into consideration as mitigating circumstances during the informal
hearing. To date, HACLA has failed to respond or otherwise engage in the interactive
process. Pet., ¶27.
HACLA’s termination of Petitioner’s Section 8 is invalid for
the following reasons: (a) There is no evidence to support the finding that
Wright has an unauthorized occupant; (b) There is no evidence to support the
finding that Wright failed to promptly report changes in her household
composition on the 26 HAPP-27P Eligibility Questionnaire; (c) There is no
evidence to support the finding that Wright failed to provide true and correct
information about her household composition on the HAPP-27P Eligibility
Questionnaire; (d) The hearing officer committed an error of law when he found
that Wright committed fraud, without a finding that Wright knowingly included
false information to obtain a thing of value; (e) The hearing officer
prejudicially abused discretion by failing to consider all relevant
circumstances before terminating Wright’s voucher as required under 24 C.F.R.
section 982.552(c)(2)(i).  The hearing
officer did not take into account mitigating circumstances related to
Petitioner’s mental disability.  Pet., ¶32.
Petitioner prays for a judgment of mandate ordering
Respondents to set aside the hearing decision terminating her Section 8 and
reinstate her to the Section 8 Voucher Program, enjoining Respondents from
terminating Petitioners from Section 8 based on any of the allegations on which
she was terminated, and attorney’s fees and such other further relief as the
court may issue.  Pet., Prayer.
 
2. Course of
Proceedings
On March 29, 2024,
the court denied Wright’s ex parte application for a stay of HACLA’s decision.
On April 4, 2024,
HACLA Answered the Petition.
On April 5, 2024,
the court granted Wright’s renewed ex parte application for a stay of HACLA’s
decision.
 
            B.
Applicable Law
            California
courts employ a liberal approach to amendment of pleadings in light of a strong
policy favoring resolution of all disputes between parties in the same
action.  Nestle v. Santa Monica, (‘Nestle”)
(1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939; Morgan v. Superior Court, (“Morgan”) (1959)
172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.  Pursuant to
this liberal policy, requests for leave to amend will normally be granted
unless (a) the party seeking to amend has been dilatory in bringing the
proposed amendment before the court, and (b) the delay in seeking leave to
amend will cause prejudice to the opposing party if leave to amend is
granted.  Hirsa v. Superior Court,
(“Hirsa”) (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Absent a showing of prejudice, a delay in
seeking an amendment alone does not justify denial of leave to amend.  Higgins v. Del Faro, (“Higgins”)
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-65. 
Moreover, where the plaintiff is the party seeking leave to amend, mere
proximity to the trial date, absent any prejudice, does not constitute ground
for denial if the plaintiff is amenable to a continuance of the trial
date.  Mesler v. Bragg Mgt. Co.,
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 297.
            The
reason for a liberal policy is that if a plaintiff has a good cause of action,
which by accident or mistake he has failed to set out in his complaint, the
court should permit him to amend.  Higgins,
supra, 123 Cal.App.3d at 564-65. 
Hence, where an amendment provides merely the addition of matters
essential to make the original cause of action complete, effecting no change in
the nature of the case and thus causing no surprise or prejudice to the adverse
party, the amendment should be allowed by the court.  Id.,
at 565.
            A
motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment
or amended pleading; (2) be serially numbered to differentiate the amendment
from previous amendments; and (3) state the page, line number, and wording of
any proposed interlineation or deletion of allegations or material.  CRC 3.1324(a).  The motion shall be accompanied by a separate
declaration specifying the effect of the amendment, why it is necessary and
proper, when the facts giving rise to it were discovered, and the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. 
CRC 3.1324(b).
            In
ruling on a motion for leave to amend, a trial court will not normally consider
the viability of the proposed amendments. 
Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court, (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1048.  The court, however, has
discretion to deny an amendment that fails to state a cause of action or
defense.  Foxborough v. Van Atta,
(1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 217, 230.  The
court also has discretion to deny “sham” amendments -- i.e., those that
omit or contradict harmful facts alleged in the original pleading, unless
sufficient excuse exists.  Green v.
Rancho Santa Margarita Mortgage Co., (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 686, 692; Berman
v. Bromberg, (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945-946 (sham amendment rule does
not apply to change of legal theories).
 
            C.
Analysis
Petitioner Wright seeks leave to file a FAP.  No opposition was filed.
Wright argues that, since the Petition was filed on March
27, 2024, she has determined that an amendment is necessary.  The proposed amendment seeks to add and
refine legal theories based on facts already pleaded, clarify other facts, and
provide additional detail pertinent to the case.  Specifically, the proposed amendment adds a
second cause of action seeking policy changes under CCP section 1085. 
The proposed FAP will ensure that all relevant issues are
properly before the court. The facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered through ongoing review and analysis of the case following the
filing of the Petition on March 27, 2024. 
Villagomez Decl., ¶4.  This review
process revealed the need for an additional cause of action and factual
clarifications.   Id.  The request for amendment was not made
earlier because the necessity for these changes became apparent only after
thorough review and consideration of the Petition in the context of the
developing case.  Villagomez Decl., ¶5. 
On June 27, 2024, Wright’s counsel provided HACLA's counsel
with a copy of the proposed FAP. 
Villagomez Decl., ¶6.  On the same
date, HACLA's counsel informed Wright's counsel that HACLA would not stipulate
to filing the proposed FAP.  Villagomez
Decl., ¶7.
As Wright argues, no prejudice will result from granting the
motion as no trial date has been set.  While
the amendment will expand the scope of litigation, this is not a basis for
denial of a motion for leave to amend.  Defendants
will suffer no prejudice.  
            The
motion for leave to file the FAP is granted and the proposed FAP is ordered
filed.  HACLA need not file a new answer
unless it wishes to do so.