 Case Number:  22STCV11085    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  29  
TENTATIVE
 
The Court excuses the personal appearance of the claimant
and the guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference
call. 
 
On April 1, 2022,
Plaintiff Angel G. Payan, a disabled adult, by and through his Guardian ad
Litem Alma Media, filed this action asserting one cause of action for
negligence. Plaintiff asserts injuries, including bilateral lower extremity second degree burns, arising out
of an incident in which he was left in a hot bathtub by his home nurse. Plaintiff
received initial emergency room care, and was later seen for follow-up with a
plastic surgeon. The Claimant has not recovered completely as he has permanent
discoloration and erythema from the burns. 
 
The
Court previously continued this hearing to allow Plaintiff to comply with
Probate Code section 3604(a)(1). 
 
The
Court has reviewed the Petition to Approve Compromise of the Pending Action as to the
 Adult with a Disability. The overall terms of the settlement appear to
be reasonable, as does the attorney’s fee request. At this time, however, the
Court cannot approve the petition for numerous reasons.  Accordingly, the hearing is CONTINUED.
 
PROOF
OF NEGOTIATED REDUCTION
 
As a
preliminary matter, Petitioner has not filed proof of the negotiated reduction
with Dr. Ruben Abrams. This is required, separate from and independently of the
issues noted below with regard to the proposed Special Needs Trust (SNT).
 
SNT ISSUES
 
Petitioner proposes to fund the entire net settlement ($100,670.58)
into an SNT for the benefit of Plaintiff. An SNT is used to receive the
settlement funds in these situations so that plaintiff does not lose benefits
eligibility for Medi-Cal, SSI, and other benefits. Historically, a person
receiving Medi-Cal or SSI benefits could have only up to $2,000 in non-exempt
assets, and any additional non-exempt assets over $2,000 would cause the loss
of benefits eligibility under the relevant federal and state law. Funds held in
a valid SNT, however, are exempt assets that do not count toward the $2,000
asset limit for purposes of calculating benefits eligibility. On July 1, 2022,
the Medi-Cal asset qualification limit was raised to $130,000 for individuals,
but asset qualification for other benefits, including SSI, did not change.  
 
NOTICE TO STATE AGENCIES WHEN PROPOSED TRUST IS AN SNT:
 
When seeking approval of an SNT, notice of the hearing and
service of the petition must be made upon three state agencies including the
Dept. of Mental Health, Dept. of Developmental Services, and Dept. of Health
Care Services. (Probate Code sections 3602(f), 3611(c).). There is no such
proof of service for this petition. The issue is complicated by the fact that
petitioner provided the proposed trust instrument not with the petition, but
with a separate Supplemental List of Attachments filed on 9/29/23, bit there is
no proof of service on the state agencies for that document, either. Attached
to that Supplemental List are three Notices of Proposed Special Needs Trust
letters that petitioner sent to each of the three state agencies (collectively
Attachment 20a to Supplemental List). Those letters indicated the date of this hearing
on the compromise petition but apparently did not convey the petition. The
probate code sections above require simple notice of hearing with proof of
service of the petition documents which is not what the three letters
accomplished.
 
The Court CONTINUES the hearing so that Petitioner may
effect traditional notice of hearing with proof of service to the three
agencies that conveys the petition and any amendments.  
 
DEFECTS IN PROPOSED TRUST INSTRUMENT:
 
Petitioner provides the proposed trust instrument at Attachment
19 to the Supplemental List of Attachments to Petition to Approve Compromise of
a Pending Action for Person with a Disability (court’s pdf, p. 6).
 
The trust instrument satisfies the requirement of a
mandatory payback provision to require, upon the death of the trust
beneficiary, that the trust pay back states that have provided medical
assistance to the trust beneficiary, up to the amount of remaining trust assets.
 
The trust instrument DOES NOT satisfy the requirement that it
provide that upon the death of the trust beneficiary/plaintiff, any trust
assets remaining after payback of medical assistance to the states shall be
distributed to the trust beneficiary’s heirs at law and not to any specific
persons.  At Section 4.03, the proposed
trust instrument names plaintiff’s mother as the residual trust beneficiary. This
is impermissible estate planning for a disabled adult (the plaintiff). Petitioner
must revise the trust instrument to name the residual trust beneficiary as
plaintiff’s “heirs at law.”  
 
The trust instrument satisfies the requirement that the
trust make itself subject to the continuing jurisdiction and supervision of the
court.
 
The main requirements for court created or funded trusts are
set forth at California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 7.903(c) and LASC rule
4.116(b). The proposed trust instrument does not meet the following
requirements of CRC rule 7.903(c), labelled by quoted subsection. The Court
CONTINUES the hearing so that Petitioner may submit as revised SNT instrument
that complies with these requirements:
 
(c)(6) Require the trustee to file
accounts and reports for court approval in the manner and frequency required by
Probate Code sections 1060 et seq. and 2620 et seq. (Section 6.04 requiring an
accounting to the court every six months is not the same.)
 
(c)(7) Require court approval of
changes in trustees and a court order appointing any successor trustee. (Section
7.02 does not meet this requirement.)  
 
The proposed trust instrument does not contain the following
terms as required by LASC rule 4.116(b), labelled by quoted subsection.  The Court CONTINUES the hearing so that
Petitioner may submit as revised SNT instrument that complies with these
requirements:
 
(b)(2) Any purchase of a personal
residence for a beneficiary may be made only if authorized by the court
pursuant to the rules applicable to conservatorships and guardianships. (See
Prob. Code, § 2571);
 
(b)(3) Any sale of a personal
residence of the beneficiary may be made only if authorized by the court
pursuant to the rules applicable to conservatorships and guardianships. (Prob.
Code, § 2540(b).) Such sales must be returned to court for confirmation. (See
Prob. Code, § 10300 et seq.); and
 
(b)(4) The trustee may not borrow
money, lend money, give security, lease, convey, or exchange any property of
the estate without prior authorization of the court. (Prob. Code, § 2550.)
 
The proposed trust instrument also impermissibly allows
additional trust funding or transfers of assets to the trust without court
order; this violates the requirements of Probate Code section 3604(b)(3). 
 
The proposed trust instrument is stated throughout with very
unusual first person language (“My Trustee shall …” or “Upon my death, my
Trustee must …”). This is not appropriate for a court-approved trust instrument
to be signed by others on behalf of the plaintiff trust beneficiary and must be
revised.
 
FINDINGS WHEN THE PROPOSED TRUST IS AN SNT:
 
When approving the establishment or funding of a SNT from
settlement proceeds, the court must make the following findings pursuant to
Probate Code section 3604(b):
 

The
     SNT beneficiary has a disability which substantially impairs the
     individual’s ability to provide for her own care or custody and
     constitutes a substantial handicap;
The
     SNT beneficiary is likely to have special needs that will not be met
     without the trust; 
The
     money to be paid to the trust does not exceed the amount that appears
     reasonably necessary to meet the SNT beneficiary’s special needs.

 
There are factual
allegations in the Petition to Approve Compromise and its attachments
supporting the settlement that generally cover the requisite findings.
 
TRUSTE AND BOND:
 
The proposed initial trustee is Alma Media, petitioner.
 
Normally,
bond must be required of a trustee unless the trustee is a corporate
fiduciary.  (California Rules of Court,
Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code section 2320.) Petitioner does not address bond
in the briefing but indicates “No Bond” as Section 11 of the form proposed
order. The proposed trustee is not a corporate fiduciary and bond should be
required.  
 
Petitioner
did not provide a bond calculation or request bond. A proper bond calculation
based upon the assets to be funded into the trust, plus anticipated annual
income from investments and any annuity, plus an additional amount required for
the costs of any recovery on the bond, is $117,000. The proposed trustee must
submit a bond in the amount of $117,000 to this department (the bond will later
be resubmitted to the Probate court in any trust supervision action).     
 
ORDERS/PROPOSED ORDER:
 
These must be revised to comply
with all applicable requirements.
Among other issues, the
findings required by Probate Code 3604(b) are included only partially, do not
include the required verbiage, and do not include all of the three required findings.  
The order must require trust
accounting in one year and set a 14 month calendar due date:
The order must set an OSC in
this department in approximately 60 days to ensure funding of settlement, submission
of bond if required, purchase of annuity if relevant, and filing of LASC Form
PRO 044 to open trust supervision action in probate.
CONCLUSION
The hearing on the Petition is CONTINUED so that Petitioner
may address each issue identified in this Order and resubmit the trust
documents and proposed order.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.