 Case Number:  20STCV39446    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
Plaintiff’ Maria Avalos and Alfonso Avalos Cervantes’ Motion to Set
Aside and Vacate Order of Dismissal is GRANTED.
 
Background 
 
On October 14, 2020, Plaintiff Maria Avalos and Alfonso Avalos Cervantes (Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendant Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Defendant MTA) and DOES 1-20,
inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) motor vehicle negligence and (2) general
negligence. The complaint asserts that on March 14, 2020, Defendant operated
its vehicle in a negligent manner that caused Plaintiffs to be injured and
damaged. 
 
On February 16, 2023, this Court entered an
Order dismissing the complaint without prejudice. (Min. Order 2/16/23.)
On August 16, 2023, Plaintiffs moved to
set aside and vacate order of dismissal. On October 20, 2023, Defendant MTA
filed an opposition. No reply has been filed. 
Legal
Standard
Pursuant the Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b), a court may “relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” In addition, a court must vacate
a default or dismissal when a motion for relief under Code of Civil Procedure §
473(b) is filed timely and accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit
attesting to the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect “unless
the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b).)  
The party or the legal representative must seek such relief “within a
reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th
975, 980 [“because more than six months had elapsed from the entry of default,
and hence relief under section 473 was unavailable”]; People v. The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th
712, 721 [motion for relief under section 473 must be brought “within a
reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months”]). “The six-month limit is
mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under section 473,
subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the six-month
period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 333, 340,
citations omitted.)  ¿¿ 
Discussion
 
Here, the Court entered an order dismissing
this case without prejudice on February 16, 2023. (Min. Order 2/16/23.) Based
on the date of dismissal, Plaintiff Maria Avalos and Alfonso Avalos Cervantes
(Plaintiffs) had until August 16, 2023 to file a motion to set aside the
dismissal because it would be within the six (6) month limit set by statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b).) Plaintiffs
filed the motion to set aside dismissal on August 16, 2023, which makes it
timely because it was within the six (6) months required by statute. 
 
Furthermore, Plaintiffs argue that their
failure to attend trial on February 16, 2023 occurred as a result of mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, and excusable neglect on behalf of their counsel.
Plaintiffs advance the Declaration of Kelly Lawrence Casado, their counsel of
record. Counsel avers that he failed to appear for the hearing on February 16,
2023 as a result of being sick and oversleeping. (Casado Decl., at ¶ 2.)
Counsel avers that on the evening before the hearing, he fell ill developing
symptoms of vomiting, fever, chills, and other flu-like symptoms. (Id.)
Counsel further avers that he hoped the symptoms would subside over the night
so he could attend the hearing the next morning. (Id.) Moreover, Counsel
avers that due to his sickness he failed to set an alarm to wake up for the
hearing in the morning and did not wake up until well after the hearing had
concluded. (Id. at ¶ 3.) Additionally, Counsel avers that he had advised
Plaintiffs to remain on-call to receive instructions on where and when to attend
trial as to minimize the burden on their schedules, which resulted in them not
appearing in court that morning. (Id. at ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs’ also argue
that the law favors disposing of cases on their merits and any doubts must be
resolved in favor of the party seeking relief under Code of Civil Procedure
(CCP), Section 473.
 
By contrast, Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Defendant MTA) argues that Plaintiffs’
are not in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure (CCP), Section 473(b)
because there is (1) no mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect
and (2) no diligence. Defendant MTA contends that Plaintiffs’ did not show up
to trial because they were unprepared. Defendant MTA further contends that
Plaintiffs’ counsel never mentioned being sick while communicating with their
counsel the day before trial and did not reach out concerning the dismissal for
six months. Defendant MTA also asserts that CCP, Section 473(b) does not allow
for unexplained delay. 
 
Moreover, Defendant MTA argues that setting
aside the dismissal would be greatly 
prejudicial to Defendant MTA because they spent a lot of time and money
to be prepared for the trial including hiring multiple experts. Additionally,
Defendant MTA argues that Plaintiffs have alternative recourse through the
Error and Omissions insurance of their attorney, which is specifically for such
error and omissions as the ones admitted to by counsel in his motion.
 
Nevertheless, this present motion was
brought within the six-month time limit as discussed above. Thus, Counsel
demonstrates his failure to appear for the hearing on February 16, 2023 was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and neglect on his part. Under all
of the circumstances, counsel’s conduct and declaration submitted to the Court
mandates relief from dismissal. (Leader v. Health Industries of America,
Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 618.)
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS the motion. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’ Maria Avalos and Alfonso Avalos
Cervantes’
Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Order of Dismissal is GRANTED.
 
The
Court sets a TSC in approximately 120 days.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.
 
 