 Case Number:  24STCV01150    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Leslie Pleitez,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV01150




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Ebonie Fong, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 22, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint and Motion to
Strike
Moving Party: Defendant Ebonie Fong
Responding Party: Plaintiff Leslie Pleitez
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED AS TO
THE PRAYERS FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES AND PUNITIVE DAMAGES.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff Leslie
Pleitez filed a complaint against Defendants Ebonie Fong and William Harrison
Kelly asserting one cause of action for negligence. Plaintiff alleges
Defendants owned or operated a vehicle while under the influence and collided
with Plaintiff’s vehicle, causing Plaintiff personal injury. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Demurrer to
Complaint
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendant Ebonie Fong demurs to the complaint on the grounds that it
fails to state sufficient facts and is uncertain. 
 
To plead a cause of action for negligence, one must allege (1) a legal
duty owed to plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and
(4) damage to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant Fong “and/or”
Defendant Kelly owned the vehicle “and/or” operated the vehicle under the
influence that collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle. Defendant Fong asserts that
the complaint is uncertain because it does not state which Defendant owned the
vehicle and which Defendant operated the vehicle. The Court declines to sustain
the demurrer on these grounds. Plaintiff may allege ultimate and alternative
facts. 
 
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
B. Motion to
Strike
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the Court."
(CCP § 436.)
 
Defendant moves to strike the cause of action for negligence, the prayer
for attorney’s fees and prayer for punitive damages. The Court will not strike
the cause of action for negligence for the reasons stated. The Court agrees,
however, that Plaintiff has not alleged entitlement to attorney’s fees or
punitive damages. Plaintiff does not allege statutory or contractual
entitlement to attorney’s fees, and punitive damages must be alleged with
specificity.
 
The motion to strike is GRANTED as to the prayers for attorney’s fees
and punitive damages only.
