 Case Number:  22STCV34229    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 2, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Elysian Health, LLC, et al. v. Justin
White, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV34229            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIFTH AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Justin White, Applied Approach Services,
Inc., Deena Manion, and David Bifulco, joined by Defendants Gerry & Lisa
Van Nortwick.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Modern
Management Solutions, Inc., and Zachary Ament.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
10/24/22: Complaint filed.
·        
11/03/22: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
03/20/23: Second Amended Complaint filed.
·        
08/21/23: Third Amended Complaint filed.
·        
11/20/23: Fourth Amended Complaint filed.
·        
02/13/24: Fifth Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of fiduciary duty. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants engaged in extensive self-dealing and misappropriation of corporate
assets and improperly excluded Plaintiffs from participating in the operation
of nominal Defendant Elysian Health, LLC.  
 
Defendants White, Applied Approach
Services, Inc., Manion, & Bifulco demur to the ninth cause of action for
dissolution in the Fifth Amended Complaint. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants
White, Applied Approach Services, Inc., Manion, & Bifulco’s Demurrer to the
Fifth Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
            Defendants
Gerry & Lisa Van Nortwick’s Joinder to the Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to Fifth Amended Complaint
 
Defendants White, Applied Approach
Services, Inc., Manion, & Bifulco demur to the ninth cause of action for
dissolution in the Fifth Amended Complaint. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of George S. Burns
in support of the Demurrer states that counsel for the parties met and
conferred via telephone on April 10, 2024 regarding the issues raised in the
demurrer, but were unable to reach a resolution. (Declaration of George S.
Burns ISO Demurrer ¶ 2.) Defendants have thus satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer
obligations.
 
//
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of the Declaration of Zachary Ament
filed in support of Plaintiffs’ ex parte application for a Temporary
Restraining Order on November 17, 2022, and certain verified admissions
contained therein. This document is not relevant to the Court’s ruling, and
Defendants’ request is therefore DENIED. (Gbur v.
Cohen (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 296, 301 (“[J]udicial notice . . . is always
confined to those matters which are relevant to the issue at hand.”].) 
 
Ninth Cause of Action: Judicial Dissolution
 
            Defendants
demur to the ninth cause of action for judicial dissolution of Elysian Health,
LLC. 
 
            Corporations
Code section 17707.03 permits a member or manager of a limited liability
company to commence an action seeking a decree of dissolution of the company when
specified events occur. (Corp. Code § 17707.03(a).) Circumstances which warrant
dissolution include, as relevant here, when “dissolution is reasonably
necessary for the protection of the rights or interests of the complaining
members” (Id. subd. (b)(2)), “the management of the limited liability
company is deadlocked or subject to internal dissension” (Id. subd.
(b)(4)), or “those in control of the limited liability company have been guilty
of, or have knowingly countenanced, persistent and pervasive fraud,
mismanagement, or abuse of authority.” (Id. subd. (b)(5).) 
 
            As alleged
in the pleadings, nominal defendant Elysian Health, LLC is a member-managed
limited liability company (5AC ¶ 3.) Plaintiff Modern Management Solutions,
Inc., (“MM”) is the manager of Elysian and holds a 42%-member interest. (¶ 1.)
Plaintiff Ament is the principal and shareholder of MM, and is also a director
of Elysian. (¶ 2.) The other members of Elysian are Defendants Applied, White,
and LAVN Investment QSST U/A DTD 9/1/2009, through its trustee, Lisa Van
Nortwick. (5AC ¶ 4-6.) Defendant Gerry Van Nortwick and Plaintiff Ament are
directors of Elysian. (5AC ¶ 2, 6.) Defendant White is principal and
shareholder of Applied and CFO and co-CEO of Elysian. (¶ 5.) Defendant Manion
is Elysian’s Executive Director. (5AC ¶¶ 7-8.) Defendant Bifulco is Chief
Operating Officer of Elysian. (5AC ¶ 9.)
 
`           Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant White led the other Defendants in a scheme to usurp
control of Elysian and misappropriate its assets and funds for their own gain,
at the expense of the corporation’s ability to operate as a going concern. (See
¶¶ 24-26.) Plaintiffs claim that they were excluded from corporate meetings and
affairs (¶¶ 27-28), that Defendant White exploited Ament’s grief over the death
of Ament’s husband to improperly influence Plaintiff to support decisions
favorable to Defendants (¶¶ 29-38), that Defendants engaged in self-dealing (¶¶
39-40), and that Defendants excluded Plaintiffs from access to company records
(¶ 41), hindered the corporation’s ability to regain essential licensing which
had been revoked (¶¶ 42-46), improperly attempted to remove MM as manager (¶
49), and started a separate business in competition with Elysian. (¶ 51.) Plaintiff
MM therefore seeks dissolution of Elysian under subdivision (b)(2), (b)(4), and
(b)(5) of Corporations Code section 17707.03. (5AC ¶ 102.) 
 
            Defendants
contend that the Fifth Amended Complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for dissolution because the circumstances
described in the pleadings are not sufficient to warrant relief. Defendants’
sole authority for this position is Stuparich v. Harbor Furniture Manufacturing,
a 2000 appellate opinion affirming dismissal of an action for dissolution on
summary judgment because the evidence presented did not establish sufficiently
grave circumstances to warrant the drastic remedy of dissolution. (Stuparich
v. Harbor Furniture Manufacturing (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 1268, 1278-79.) Defendants
have not brought a summary judgment motion. Defendants have brought a demurrer.
Stuparich is therefore inapposite, and the Court is not persuaded by
Defendants’ otherwise-unsupported argument. 
Further, the facts offered by the Stuparich plaintiffs in support
of their dissolution request amounted to complaints that they were denied
meaningful participation in the corporation, that strong animosity had arisen
between plaintiff and the majority shareholder, and that plaintiffs had an
economic interest in protecting the company against losses incurred in recent
years.  (Id., at p. 1277.)  The allegations here go well beyond the
evidence offered in Stuparich and include serious contentions of
self-dealing, interference with critical licensing necessary for company
operations, and creating a competing company that would undermine Elysian’s
success.  
 
            Defendants
also contend that Plaintiffs are not entitled to assert a “deadlock of
management” under subdivision (b)(4) because the Court has already ruled that
MM was one of three members of the LLC. (E.g., July 31, 2023 Order Sustaining
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint p.9:4-9.) Although true, the claim that
Elysian is “deadlocked” is only one ground asserted for dissolution, and this
argument therefore does not suffice to defeat the ninth cause of action in
light of the other grounds for dissolution listed in the Fifth Amended Complaint.
 
 
            Finally,
Defendants contend that there has been a misjoinder of parties because the
ninth cause of action does not name Elysian as a defendant to that cause of
action. None of the authority cited in the demurrer addresses whether the
corporation that is the subject of a request for dissolution must be named as a
defendant. (See Stuparich, supra; see also Stumpf v. C.E. Stumpf
& Sons, Inc. (1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 230.) In fact, the Court has
unearthed at least one appellate opinion concerning buyout proceedings pursuant
to Corporations Code section 17707.03 where the LLC was not a named party. (Friend
of Camden, Inc. v. Brandt (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 1054, 1058 [directing trial
court to dismiss buyout proceeding as moot and direct the parties to wind up
activities following dissolution].) Defendants have therefore not demonstrated
a misjoinder of parties in this respect. 
 
            Defendants
also assert that the ninth cause of action is improperly asserted against Defendant
White and Defendant Gerry van Nortwick, who joins in this demurrer, because
neither are alleged to be members of the LLC themselves. A bare conclusion such
as this unsupported by legal authority establishing the proper parties is not
sufficient to defeat a cause of action.
            For the
reasons stated above, the Court finds Defendants’ challenges to the ninth cause
of action to be without merit.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
the Demurrer to the Fifth Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Joinder to Demurrer
 
            Defendants Gerry
and Lisa Van Nortwick join the Demurrer, contending that the ninth cause of
action is deficient for the reasons stated therein. As the Court has overruled
the demurrer, the Van Nortwick Defendants’ Joinder to the Demurrer is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants White, Applied Approach Services, Inc., Manion, & Bifulco’s
Demurrer to the Fifth Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
            Defendants
Gerry & Lisa Van Nortwick’s Joinder to the Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 2,
2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 