 Case Number:  24STCV04311    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 2, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Kelly Moss, et al. v. eBay Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV04311            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant eBay, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Kelly, Dylan,
& Zack Moss
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/21/24: Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a wrongful death and products liability action brought by the
family of the decedent, Jerry Moss. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants sold a
series of dietary supplements which contained hidden active ingredients that
caused the decedent’s death. 
 
Defendant eBay, Inc. moves to
compel arbitration.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant eBay, Inc. moves to
compel arbitration based on a user agreement containing an arbitration
provision to which it contends Plaintiff Kelly Moss[1]
assented. \
 
//
 
//
Plaintiffs’ Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiffs
object to portions of the Declaration of Nic Conlin in support of the Motion.
The Court rules on these objections as follows:
 
            Objection
No. 1: OVERRULED. This testimony is laying the
foundation for subsequent testimony.
 
            Objection
No. 2: SUSTAINED as a conclusion of law to the extent the statement
is offered to prove a valid agreement. (E.g. Dais v. Kiewit Pacific Co. (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 358, 369.) 
 
Objection No. 3: OVERRULED.
This testimony is laying the foundation for the admission of documents as
business records.
 
            Objection
No. 4: OVERRULED. Objections go to weight, not admissibility.
 
            Objection
No. 5: SUSTAINED as a conclusion of law to the extent the statement is
offered to prove a valid agreement (E.g. Dais v. Kiewit Pacific Co. (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 358, 369), but OVERRULED to demonstrate the process of making a
purchase through eBay’s marketplace.
 
            Objection
No. 6: OVERRULED. Objections go to weight, not admissibility.
 
            Objection
No. 7: SUSTAINED as a conclusion of law to the extent the statement is
offered to prove a valid agreement. (E.g. Dais v. Kiewit Pacific Co. (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 358, 369.) 
 
            Objection
Nos. 8-11: OVERRULED. Objections go to weight, not admissibility.
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendant
raises evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Kelly Moss in opposition to
the motion. As the Court does not rely on that declaration in reaching its
decision, the Court declines to rule on those objections.
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiffs
request that the Court take judicial notice of (1) a Declaration filed in
support of a Motion to Compel Arbitration in the action Jason McGuiness, et al.,
v. eBay Inc., et al., in the Superior Court of the State of California, County
of San Diego – Central Division, Case No. 37-2018-00031242-CU-FR-CTL; (2) the
opinion in Daniel v. eBay Inc. (D.D.C. 2018) 319 F.Supp.3d 505; and (3) McCoy
v. Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Utah (Utah 2001) 20 P.3d 901. These
materials are entirely irrelevant to the Court’s ruling. Plaintiffs’ Requests
are DENIED. (Gbur v. Cohen
(1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 296, 301 [“[J]udicial notice . . . is always confined to
those matters which are relevant to the issue at hand.”].) 
 
Existence of an Arbitration Agreement
 
Under California law, arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Blake v. Ecker (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th
728, 741 (overruled on other grounds by
Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094).) A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement
to arbitrate, and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by
a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.) 
 
Defendant contends that Kelly consented
to arbitration by agreeing to Defendant’s User Agreement when she purchased the
products that are alleged to be the cause of the decedent’s death. 
 
An agreement to arbitration must be
mutual as “[t]here is indeed a strong policy in favor of enforcing agreements
to arbitrate, but there is no policy compelling persons to accept arbitration
of controversies which they have not agreed to arbitrate…”  (Freeman v.
State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, 481.)  “This
requirement applies with equal force to arbitration provisions contained in
contracts purportedly formed over the Internet.”  (Long v. Provide
Commerce, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 855, 862.)  “Federal law is
wholly congruent with these principles.”  (Fleming v. Oliphant
Financial, LLC (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 13, 19.) As the Court of Appeal
stated in Sellers v. JustAnswer LLC: 
 
Most courts now have
identified at least four types of internet contract formation, most easily
defined by the way in which the user purportedly gives their assent to be bound
by the associated terms: browsewraps, clickwraps, scrollwraps, and sign-in wraps.  A “browsewrap” agreement is one in
which an internet user accepts a website's terms of use merely by browsing the
site. A “clickwrap” agreement is one in which an internet user accepts a
website's terms of use by clicking an “I agree” or “I accept” button, with a
link to the agreement readily available. A “scrollwrap” agreement is
like a “clickwrap,” but the user is presented with the entire agreement and
must physically scroll to the bottom of it to find the “I agree” or “I accept”
button.... “Sign-in-wrap” agreements are those in which a user signs up
to use an internet product or service, and the sign-up screen states that
acceptance of a separate agreement is required before the user can access the
service. While a link to the separate agreement is provided, users are not
required to indicate that they have read the agreement's terms before signing
up.’ [Citations.]”  
 
(Sellers v. JustAnswer LLC (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 444,
463-64.) Scrollwrap and clickwrap agreements are generally found to be
enforceable, and browsewrap agreements generally are not. (Id. at 466.) “[T]he
Long court and federal courts have reached consistent conclusions when
evaluating the enforceability of agreements at either end of the spectrum,
generally finding scrollwrap and clickwrap agreements to be enforceable and
browsewrap agreements to be unenforceable.”  (Sellers, supra, 73
Cal.App.5th at 466.) “[T]he onus must be on website owners to put users on
notice of the terms to which they wish to bind consumers.” (Long, supra, 245
Cal.App.4th at 867.) 
 
According to Defendant, Kelly
created an eBay user account on March 21, 2002, and, in doing so, agreed to
eBay’s then-operative User Agreement, which contained an arbitration provision.
(Declaration of Nic Conlin ISO Mot. ¶ 9; Exh. 4.) Defendant provides no
evidence of Kelly’s assent to that agreement beyond the assertion that an
agreement is reflected in eBay’s user account records. (Id.) In August
2012, Defendant updated its User Agreement and sent a message to all users’ My
eBay Message Centers advising them of the changes to the Agreement. (Id.
¶¶ 10-11; Exh. 5.) Defendant contends that users receive notices sent to their
registered email alerting them that “a message . . . was posted to the My eBay
Message Center,” but does not state that the email notification reflected or
referenced changes to the Agreement. (Id. ¶ 10.) The revised Agreement
required users to mail a written Opt-Out notice on or before November 9, 2012
if they wished to reject the modified Agreement to Arbitrate included as part
of the User Agreement. (Id. ¶¶ 12-14; Exh. 6.) Defendant also states
that users must agree to the User Agreement as part of executing a transaction
on the website, as the button to complete a purchase is accompanied by text
which states “By placing your order, you agree to eBay’s User Agreement and
Privacy Notice.” (Conlin Decl. ¶ 7.) The “User Agreement” and “Privacy Notice”
are hyperlinked to the documents bearing those titles. (Id.) Although
Defendant provides a screenshot of the button and notice, Defendant does not
provide the context in which it appears. (Id.) 
 
Defendant does not clearly indicate
the form of the User Agreement with respect to the framework described in Sellers.
That said, the confirmation page suggests that the agreement is, at best, a
sign-in-wrap, rather than a clickwrap or scrollwrap. Under Sellers, the Court
must therefore look to the context in which notice of the Agreement was presented
and determine whether a reasonably prudent offeree would be on inquiry notice
of the terms at issue. (Sellers, supra, 73 Cal.App.5th at 461.) The
Court is not satisfied by Defendant’s production. Defendant offers a bare assertion
that Kelly agreed to the 2002 Agreement, a second-hand description of an email “notification”
regarding revisions to that agreement posted on a separate website message
board without any detail in the email as to the contents of the revisions, and
a highly-cropped and contextless screenshot of a webpage with a link to a User Agreement.
To make matters worse, this webpage is described as the current version of the
checkout page, not the 2022 page that Kelly actually confronted when she bought
the products through eBay.  (Conlin
Decl., ¶ 7.)  This meager showing is not
sufficient to demonstrate even on a prima facie basis that Kelly
assented to the arbitration agreement or was on constructive—let alone
actual—notice of its existence. 
 
Defendant has not demonstrated that
Plaintiff Kelly Moss was on notice of any agreement to arbitrate, and therefore
has not demonstrated her consent to such an agreement. Although not necessary
to its conclusion, the Court also notes that Plaintiff denies any knowledge of
the 2012 email notification of a revised arbitration agreement, the website
message about a revised arbitration clause and need to opt out, or the revised 2012
User Agreement. (Declaration of Kelly Moss, ¶¶ 4-5.) Because there is no evidence
that Plaintiff received notice of the relevant arbitration agreement or that
she agreed to be bound by it, Defendant is not entitled to an order compelling
arbitration. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 2,
2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 


