 On July 28, 2021, Plaintiff Jeremy Pfau filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Riko Wiemer International, LLC and Riko Wiemer (actually spelled “Weimer”) for (1) violation of Labor Code §§ 1182.12, 1194, 1197, 1197.1, and 1198 (Unpaid Wages); (2) violation of Labor Code §§ 226.7 and 1198 (Failure to Authorize and Permit Rest Periods); (3) violation of Labor Code § 2802 (Unreimbursed Business Expenses); (4) violation of Labor Code §§ 201-202 (Wages Not Timely Paid Upon Termination); (5) violation of Business & Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq., (6) retaliation in violation of Labor Code § 1102.5; and (7) wrongful termination.  Plaintiff alleges he was a piano instructor for Defendants and that he was not paid for all hours worked, not paid for business expenses, and not given rest breaks.  Plaintiff alleges he was terminated for complaining about these issues.On July 29, 2024, Riko Weimer International, LLC and Riko Weimer filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) against Jeremy; this pleading also identified Does 1 and 2 as Jeremy’s parents, Bruce and Amy Pfau.  The SACC asserts causes of action for (1) concealment, (2) abuse of process, (3) breach of duty of loyalty, and (4) violation of the UCL.Riko contends that Jeremy’s parents were part of some sort of conspiracy in which they aided Jeremy with his wage and hour complaints and settlement, “concealed” that Jeremy had depression, and objected to a subpoena for phone records.  The SACC goes as far as saying that the Pfaus were “acting in a conspiracy with one another to accomplish the unlawful purpose of extracting money from Cross Complainants via poorly researched and understood claims in this lawsuit, and/or intentional misuse of litigation processes to pay Pfau family medical and business expenses attributable to Jeremy’s chronic mental health condition and to support Jeremy’s business in competition with RWI.”On November 7, 2024, the Court granted motions to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction;  Bruce and Amy were dismissed.  On November 22, 2024, the Court sustained Jeremy’s demurrer to the entirety of the SACC, without leave to amend.Bruce and Amy now each assert a special motion to strike as to the entirety of the SACC pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16.Jeremy also asserts a special motion to strike, but only with respect to the second cause of action for abuse of process.Given the aforementioned rulings on the demurrer of Jeremy and the motions to quash of Bruce and Amy, the Anti-SLAPP Motions are denied as moot; however, the Court will still evaluate the merits of the Motions because Cross-Defendants continue to seek their attorneys’ fees and costs.  (See Pfeiffer Venice Properties v. Bernard (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 211, 218 [“because a defendant who has been sued in violation of his or her free speech rights is entitled to an award of attorney fees, the trial court must, upon defendant's motion for a fee award, rule on the merits of the SLAPP motion even if the matter has been dismissed prior to the hearing on that motion.”].)  Jeremy seeks fees and costs in the amount of $10,980.84 within his moving papers.  Bruce and Amy do not mention the amount of fees and costs they seek in their Anti-SLAPP Motions.  Instead, they filed separate motions for fees and costs set for February 2025.  Therein, Bruce and Amy together request $23,000.  If there is no objection, these fee motions are advanced to this date and the Court rules as follows.  Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure section 425.16 sets forth the procedure governing anti-SLAPP motions.  In pertinent part, the statute states, “A cause of action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(b)(1).)  The purpose of the statute is to identify and dispose of lawsuits brought to chill the valid exercise of a litigant’s constitutional right of petition or free speech.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(a); Sylmar Air Conditioning v. Pueblo Contracting Services, Inc. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1049, 1055-1056.)Courts employ a two-step process to evaluate anti-SLAPP motions.  (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61.)  To invoke the protections of the statute, the defendant must first show that the challenged lawsuit arises from protected activity, such as an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.  (Ibid.)  From this fact, courts “ ‘presume the purpose of the action was to chill the defendant’s exercise of First Amendment rights.  It is then up to the plaintiff to rebut the presumption by showing a reasonable probability of success on the merits.’ ”  (Ibid.)  In determining whether the plaintiff has carried this burden, the trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(b)(2); see Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291 (“Soukup”).)Protected Activity To meet their burden for the first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis, Cross-Defendants must demonstrate that the SACC’s claims arise from protected activity.  That is, it must be that “defendant’s conduct by which plaintiff claims to have been injured falls within one of the four categories described in subdivision (e) . . . ‘the act underlying the plaintiff’s cause’ or ‘the at which forms the basis for the plaintiff’s cause of action’ must itself have been an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.’ ”  (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 63 (internal citations omitted).)  An “ ‘act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue’ includes: (1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e).)Jeremy, Bruce, and Amy contend that the SACC’s claims arise from protected activity under CCP § 425.16(e)(1)-(2).  Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e)(1) relates to statements made before an official proceeding.  Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e)(2) relates to statements made in connection with an issue under consideration by a government body.  (See City of Costa Mesa v. D’Alessio Investments LLC (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 358, 372-273.)  The challenged statements need not be made before an official body, but must “relate[] to the substantive issues in the [underlying] litigation and [must be] directed to persons having some interest in the litigation.”  (Neville v. Chudacoff (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1266.)  The defendant need not separately demonstrate that a statement or writing concerned an issue of public significance if it was made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by an official proceeding or body.  (Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope and Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1113.)Such includes acts “ ‘preparatory to or in anticipation of’ ” the bringing of an action or other official proceeding.  (Id. at p. 1115.)   Courts look to the litigation privilege “as an aid” in determining whether a given communication falls within the ambit of Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e)(2).  (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 323.)  “In California, the courts have held a prelitigation statement is protected by the litigation privilege of section 47, subdivision (b) when the statement is made in connection with a proposed litigation that is contemplated in good faith and under serious consideration.  In other words, the prelitigation statements must have some connection or logical relation to the action . . . .”  (A.F. Brown Elec. Contractor, Inc. v. Rhino Elec. Supply, Inc. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1128.)  The second cause of action for abuse of process is premised on the filing of “poorly researched and understood claims in this lawsuit”. There are also allegations pertaining to Jeremy resisting discovery and Amy levying objections to a business record subpoena issued to her phone provider.  This cause of action plainly falls within the ambit of CCP § 425.16(e)(1) because filing a lawsuit and participating in discovery are basic litigation activities.  The first cause of action for fraud alleges that Jeremy and his parents are liable for not disclosing that Jeremy had preexisting depression.  It also states that Cross-Defendants improperly resisted Riko’s discovery efforts.  The idea behind the SACC is apparently that Jeremy, Bruce, and Amy fabricated this lawsuit as a way to obtain money to pay for Jeremy’s psychological counseling for his concealed depression.  Notably, the SACC states, “Plaintiff concealed his mental health condition and related treatment while admittedly intending to sue Cross Complaints for injuries AOE/COE (see¶¶47 to 49). proximately [sic] caused Cross Complainants to incur attorney’s fees and costs defending Plaintiff’s within cause of action for retaliation and wrongful discharge according to proof.”  That is, because Jeremy, Amy, and Bruce concealed Jeremy’s condition, Riko has suffered damages by having to defend this suit, rather than having insurance pay for Jeremy’s condition.  This cause of action also arises from protected activity because Riko plainly states that her damages are premised on the existence of this lawsuit.  This lawsuit is more than merely contextual.  Additionally, as stated above, participating in discovery plainly constitutes protected activity.     Riko makes the general argument that fraud cannot be protected activity.   This is incorrect as Riko failed to establish by conclusive evidence that Jeremy, Bruce, and Amy participated in illegal or fraudulent conduct.   (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 320.)  Indeed, Cross-Defendants categorically deny any wrongful conduct.    The fourth cause of action is a derivative claim that, for Amy and Bruce, relies on the fraud and abuse of process claims.  (See SAC ¶ 136 [“Cross Complainant hereby submit as predicates for a monetary award under the unfair competition law their claims for fraudulent concealment and abuse of process in this Second Amended Cross Complaint.”].)The third cause of action is not at issue. As stated above, Cross-Defendants have carried their burden to show that the subject causes of action arise from protected activity.        (c) Minimal MeritOn the second component of the analysis, courts employ a “summary-judgment-like” procedure, “accepting as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff and evaluating the defendant’s evidence only to determine whether the defendant has defeated the plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law.”  (Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein, LLP (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 435, 444.)  In other words, the Court does not assess credibility, and the plaintiff is not required to meet the preponderance of the evidence standard.  The Court accepts as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff, who need only establish that his or her claim has “minimal merit” to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.  (Soukup, supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 291.)“The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638, internal quotation marks omitted.) “[F]raud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. [Citations] Thus the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings . . . will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect.  This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645, internal quotation marks omitted.)  There is no duty to disclose a preexisting medical condition to an employer.  If any injury arose from the normal course of the employment relationship, Riko can prove her defense relating to the workers’ compensation exclusivity rule.  She, however, has not pleaded any affirmative claim for fraud.  Aside from there being no duty to disclose a preexisting condition, Riko failed to sufficiently and specifically plead intent, causation, reliance, and damages.  Additionally, the allegation that Cross-Defendants improperly resisted discovery by levying objections and withholding documents is subject to the litigation privilege.  (Civ. Code § 47.)   Next, “to establish a cause of action for abuse of process, a plaintiff must plead two essential elements: that the defendant (1) entertained an ulterior motive in using the process and (2) committed a wilful act in a wrongful manner.”  (State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Lee (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 34, 40.)The abuse of process claim is also defective.  This claim is primarily premised on the filing of “poorly researched and understood claims in this lawsuit”.  However, “the mere filing or maintenance of a lawsuit—even for an improper purpose—is not a proper basis for an abuse of process action.”  (Oren Royal Oaks Venture v. Greenberg, Bernhard, Weiss & Karma, Inc. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 1157, 1169.)  Furthermore, Riko failed to cite any case establishing that objecting to discovery constitutes an abuse of process.The UCL claim fails against Bruce and Amy because it is derivative of the other unsuccessful claims.  Furthermore, Riko failed to plead or show evidence of a right to restitution or an injunction. Because Cross-Complainants have not shown a reasonable probability of prevailing, the anti-SLAPP motions would have been granted if the subject causes of action had not already been dismissed.  That is, Jeremy, Bruce, and Amy are entitled to their attorneys’ fees and costs. The Anti-SLAPP Motions are denied as moot, but the Court awards Jeremy $8,000 in fees and costs.The Motions for Attorneys’ Fees of Bruce and Amy are granted in part—Bruce and Amy are awarded a total of $8,000 in fees and costs. The RJNs are granted.   Moving party to give notice.