 Case Number:  22STCV32363    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING
DATE:                 Monday, July 22,
2024
CASE
NUMBER:                   22STCV32363
CASE NAME:                        Boyle Flats Food & Beverage, Inc., et al. v. Alex Koons
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Daleyn Accountancy, Inc. 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Boyle Flats Food & Beverage, Inc. and Ted Yenawine
TRIAL DATE:                         Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to Strike Third Amended
Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        08 July 2024
REPLY:                                  12
July 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant Daleyn’s demurrer is
sustained with leave to amend. The motion to strike is denied. Plaintiff is
granted 30 days leave to amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint
for _, at 8:30 a.m. Defendant to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This is an action arising out of the formation
of a California entity, Plaintiff Boyle Flats Food and Beverage, Inc dba Purgatory
Pizza (“BFFB”) by Plaintiff Tad Yenawine (“Yenawine”) and Defendant Alex Koons
(“Koons”). Plaintiffs and Defendant operated a restaurant business thus called
“Purgatory Pizza.” The Complaint alleges Defendant took monies from Plaintiff
BFFB’s bank accounts for expenses to open his own pizza restaurant in 2020. The
Complaint alleges Defendant applied for and received an Emergency Incident
Disaster Loan (“EIDL”) in BFFB’s name which was transferred to Defendant’s own
account and no payments were made by Defendant for the EIDL afterwards. The
Complaint also alleges Defendant abandoned his duties as manager of Purgatory
Pizza and continued to pay himself his salary.¿¿ 
 
TheComplaint alleges the four causes of
action: (1) breach of contract; (2) conversion; (3) fraud; and (4) breach of
fiduciary duty.¿¿ 
 
On June 23, 2021, Petitioner filed a Request
for Dismissal without prejudice as to his claim for writ of mandate.¿¿ 
 
 On
October 23, 2023, Defendant Coons filed the operative Third Amended
Cross-Complaint (“TACC”) alleging four causes of action: (1) Dissolution of
Corporation, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Derivative, (3) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty – Individual, and (4) Failure to Reimburse Business Expenses.
 
On February 28, 2024, the court sustained the
demurrer of Defendant Daleyn Accountancy, Inc. (“Daleyn”) to the First Amended
Complaint with leave to amend. 
 
On May 28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the
operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleging eight causes of action
against Defendants Koons, Daleyn, and Does 2 to 10. The TAC alleges:
 
1)    
Breach
of Contract – against Defendant Koons;
2)    
Conversion
- against Defendant Koons;
3)    
Fraud
- against Defendant Koons;
4)    
Breach
of Fiduciary Duty - against Defendant Koons;
5)    
Breach
of Contract – against Defendant Daleyn; 
6)    
Conversion
– against Defenant Daleyn;
7)    
Fraud
– against Defendant Daleyn; and
8)    
Breach
of Fiduciary Duty - against Defendant Daleyn;
 
The TAC alleges that Defendant Daleyn is an accounting
corporation, the former corporate accountant for Plaintiff BFFB, and the current
corporate accountant for Hot Tongue Pizza and the personal accountant for the
Koons family. (TAC, ¶ 4.) 
 
Defendant Daleyn now moves to strike the TAC and demurs
to the TAC. Plaintiffs oppose both motions. The matter is now before the court.

 
request for JUDICIAL notice
 
The court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative,
executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of
the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court
of record of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and
“[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are
capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) “Taking judicial notice of a document
is not the same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a
particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986)
184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)
 
Defendant Daleyn requests judicial notice of the
following: 
 
1)     Exhibit B: BFFB’s
corporate bylaws. (Russell Decl., Ex. B; see also Ex. C.)
 
2)     Exhibit C:
Boyle Flats Food & Beverage, Inc. Action By Written Consent In Lieu Of
Meeting of Board of Directors. (Russel Decl. ¶ 7, Ex C [04/06/2023 Decl. of
Koons, Ex. A].)
 
Defendant
Daleyn’s request for judicial notice is granted. The court takes judicial
notice of BFFB’s Bylaws and BFFB’s Action by Written Consent but not the
declarations and other attachments as the authenticity of those documents has
not been established nor acquiesced to by the parties. The existence and
content of the BFFB’s Bylaws and BFFB’s Action by Written Consent are not
disputed by the parties, only the interpretation of these documents.
Accordingly, judicial notice is appropriate. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal
Standard
            
A.        Motion
to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a
pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part
thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion
or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out
any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2)
strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §
436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
B.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are
apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court
may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient
to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form
part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the
demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
  
C.        Leave
to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is
reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted
to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Motion to
Strike
Defendant
Daleyn moves to strike the entire TAC because under the 4/23/2024 Stipulation,
the court ordered Plaintiffs to file the TAC on or before May 14, 2024, but the
TAC was not filed until May 28, 2024. Plaintiffs assert that the May 28, 2024,
Order required Plaintiffs to file the TAC within 15 days of receipt of notice
and Plaintiffs did not serve the notice until May 13, 2024, making the May 28, 2024,
filing timely. 
 
The
court denies the motion to strike on the basis that Defendant Daleyn suffered
no prejudice in Plaintiffs’ delay in filing the TAC and this case should be
tried on the merits. “Leave
to amend may be denied if there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as
delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation. (Bidari
v. Kelk (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1173.)
 
Moreover, even if the court were to grant the
motion to strike pursuant to Leader v. Health Industries of
America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 613,
Plaintiffs would be given leave to amend. Accordingly,
the motion to strike is denied and the court addresses the demurrer on the
merits. 
 
III.      Demurrer[1]
 
A.        Yenawine’s
Lack of Standing to Bring Action on Behalf of BFFB
 
Defendant Daleyn asserts that under Anmaco, Inc. v. Bohlken (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th (Anmaco),
Plaintiff Yenawine lacks standing to bring an action on behalf of Plaintiff
BFFB. As previously noted by this court in its February 28, 2024, ruling, the Anmaco
Court found that
because a corporate president has no greater power than any other director, the
president had no power to initiate a lawsuit in the name of the corporation
against a co-director and equal shareholder. (Id. at p. 900.) 
 
Pressing the corporation
into litigation as a plaintiff is inappropriate where the other
shareholder-director could claim equal authority to bring suit in the corporate
name. This is particularly
obvious in the instant case where Bohlken is not only an equal director and
shareholder, but is also Chief Executive Officer of the company. The proper vehicle for such a suit, when the gravamen
of the complaint is injury to the corporation, is a shareholders’ derivative
action. 
 
(Id. at p.
900.)  
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the Anmaco does
not apply.   
 
We
express no view on the president's power to institute or defend litigation in
an emergency or involving an outsider or where the bylaws may grant the power
to do so.
(Anmaco, supra, 13 Cal.App.4th
at p. 900, fn. 2.) 
 
The TAC does not allege that Plaintiff
Yenawine's authority to initiate this action stemmed from an emergency or
involved an outsider in a manner that would permit Yenawine to file this
action. Plaintiffs cite no statute or case law that would permit Yenawine, as President
of BFFB, to initiate an action against a third party without board approval.
The Anmaco Court was clear that when the bylaws of the corporation do
not permit the President to act without board approval “[t]he president does not
have the power to enter into contracts or execute other instruments or render
the corporation ‘liable for any purposes or any amount’ without Board
authorization” including the “power
to institute litigation in the corporate name against the other 50 percent
shareholder.” (Anmaco, supra, 13 Cal.App.4th at p. 898.) 
 
Plaintiffs ignored other persuasive authority
cited by this court stating, “the relevant inquiry is whether the president has authority
to initiate any suit on behalf of the corporation when the
directors are deadlocked.” (Icon Internet Media, Inc. v.
Johnson (C.D. Cal., Oct. 22, 2021, No. 819CV01579FLADFMX) 2021 WL
6104314, at *4 [underline original].) “The California position with reference
to the authority of corporate officers has been strict. Even the president,
apart from acts done in the course of ordinary business, or in pursuance of
apparent authority depends upon the powers conferred upon him, either by
statute, corporate charter, by-laws or the directors. The mere fact that he is
president, without more, does not necessarily give him greater power than any
other director.” (Sealand Inv. Corp. v. Emprise Inc.
(1961) 190 Cal.App.2d 305, 321–322; see also O'Flaherty v. Belgum
(2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1044, 1062.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ opposition takes the position
that there are provisions in the BFFB’s bylaws that permit Yenawine to initiate
this action. In a conclusory manner, the TAC alleges “Plaintiff Yenawine has standing to bring this
action, under Corporations Code §§312, 315 and 316(c) and under terms of the
BFFB bylaws and Board of Directors’ resolutions.” (TAC, ¶ 2.) “Plaintiffs BFFB and Yenawine have standing
to sue Daleyn under Corporations Code §207, 315, 316(c), and the BFFB corporate
Bylaws and resolutions.” (TAC, ¶ 47.) The TAC fails to attach the bylaws to the
complaint and fails to state under what specific provisions of the BFFB bylaws
or under what specific board of director resolutions did Yenawine have the
authority to bring this action. Without such facts, the allegations that
Yenawine has the authority to act are conclusory. A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” 
(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)
 
Furthermore, Plaintiffs’ opposition fails to
explain how Corp. Code §§ 207, 312, 315, and 316(c) give Yenawine the authority
to bring this action against Daleyn. Plaintiffs point out that under Corp. Code, § 315(a), a
majority of shareholders are needed to approve the loan to Koons, yet
Plaintiffs fail to explain how majority shareholder approval gives Yenawine
standing to initiate this action against Daleyn on behalf of BFFB. (See
Opposition, at p. 3:27-4:2.) Plaintiff fails to cite case law showing that
Yenawine as President and without board approval had the right to commence this
action and what specific corporate bylaw or corporate duty Yenawine was
enforcing in suing Daleyn. 
 
Lastly, the court declines to interpret BFFB’s bylaws to
determine if they give Yenawine the right to bring suit on behalf of BFFB
without board approval when the specific provisions are not cited in the
pleadings and the parties dispute the interpretation of those provisions. “The
hearing on demurrer may not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing through the guise of having the
court take judicial notice of documents whose truthfulness or proper
interpretation are disputable.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v.
Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 114; see also Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 605.) Moreover, matters that may be judicially
noticed are “dispositive
only in those instances where there is not or cannot be a factual dispute
concerning that which is sought to be judicially noticed.” (Cruz v. County of Los Angeles (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 1131, 1134.)
                              
Should Defendants wish the court to determine
if the bylaws give Yenawine standing to sue on behalf of BFFB, Defendants
should bring a motion for summary judgment, or summary adjudication, so that
the court can address the issue on the merits. “Interpretation of a written instrument
becomes solely a judicial function only when it is based on the words of the
instrument alone, when there is no conflict in the extrinsic evidence, or when
a determination was made based on incompetent evidence.” (City of Hope National Medical Center v. Genentech, Inc.
(2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 395.)
 
The demurrer to the entire complaint is
sustained with leave to amend. The court next addresses Daleyn’s specific
demurrer to the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action but issues
no ruling as the demurrer to the entire TAC is already sustained. 
 
B.        Fifth
Cause of Action - Summary of Allegations against Defendant Daleyn
 
On July 29, 2020, Defendant Daleyn contracted with
Plaintiff BFFB to provide accounting and business advisory services (the
“Daleyn Contract”). (TAC, ¶ 44, Ex. A.) Under Section VI of the Daleyn
Contract, Daleyn was obligated to keep BFFB’s financial and business operations
information confidential and not misuse the information. (TAC, ¶ 45.) Section
IV of the Daleyn Contract states: 
 
VI.       CONFIDENTIALITY
 
Any
confidential information (including all technology, processes, trade secrets,
contracts, proprietary information; the nature of the information and the
manner of disclosure are such that a reasonable person would understand it to
be confidential) exchanged between the Accountant and the Client in connection
with the performance of the Services shall be held by the Accountant in trust
for the benefit of the Client only, and the Accountant will not divulge or
authorize anyone to divulge during the term of this Contract, or any period
thereafter, any information or knowledge acquired in the course of its
performance. 
 
(TAC, ¶ 45, Ex. 1.) 
 
The TAC alleges that when Defendant Koons began to
develop plans to operate his own competing pizza restaurant, Koons contracted
with Daleyn to provide accounting and business advisory services to Koons. (TAC,
¶ 47.) “Daleyn became aware that
Koons was taking money from BFFB bank accounts to fund his separate business.”
(TAC, ¶ 47.) Daleyn breached the Daleyn Contract by concealing from BFFB and
its Director, Yenawine, Koons theft. (TAC, ¶¶ 47, 49.) 
The TAC also alleges that Daleyn suggested Koons file an
“Economic Injury Disaster Loan (“EIDL”)
application in BFFB’s name, with the intent that the proceeds of the loan be
diverted to Koons “not-yet existent new business.” (TAC, ¶ 48.) Daleyn and
Koons failed to report to Plaintiffs that an EIDL had been submitted in BFFB’s
name and that such an application would expose Plaintiffs to potential civil
and criminal penalties under federal law because Defendants intended to divert
the loan proceeds to Koons’ new business. (TAC, ¶ 48.) 
                                               
Section VI prevents Daleyn from divulging
confidential information to third parties but does not necessarily obligate
Daleyn to disclose Koons’ conduct to Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs’ opposition fails
to cite case law showing that the duty to maintain confidentiality requires a
party to divulge information to the other party. However, the court finds that
violations premised on Section V rather than Section VI may allow Plaintiffs to
state a viable breach of contract claim, if Plaintiff Yenawine has standing to
sue on behalf of BFFB. (See TAC, ¶ 64.) 
 
C.        Sixth
Cause of Action – Conversion
 
To plead a cause of action for
conversion, one must allege: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to
possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property
inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “Money
may be the subject of conversion if the claim involves a specific, identifiable
sum . . . .” (WelcoElectronics, Inc. v. Mora(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202,
209.) 
 
The
TAC alleges that Daleyn assisted Koons “in converting not less than $949,000
from BFFB’s accounts.” (TAC, ¶ 54.) As the TAC fails to state that a specific
sum was converted or that the sum can become identifiable, the court would be
inclined to sustain the demurrer to the sixth cause of action with leave to
amend. (See SP Investment Fund I LLC v. Cattell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th
898.) Moreover, the court agrees that the TAC fails to allege that Daleyn
disposed or exercised dominion over the converted funds. 
 
D.        Seventh
Cause of Action – Fraud
 
 “The elements of fraud, which give rise
to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court¿(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)
“In California, fraud must be pled specifically;
general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”¿(Id. at p. 645.)
 
The
TAC alleges that in July 2020, Daleyn assisted Koons in fraudulently preparing
and applying for an EIDL loan in BFFB’s name without the Plaintiffs’ permission
or authorization. (TAC, ¶ 56.) The TAC alleges that by not disclosing the
fraudulent loan, Daleyn acted “in violation of her statutory duties to BFFB and
its directors.” (TAC, ¶¶ 48, 56.) In addition, in June 2020, Daleyn advised
Plaintiffs to execute a lease agreement personally guaranteed by Plaintiff
Yenawine for a new location for BFFB when it was in fact a location for Koons’
planned separate business. (TAC, ¶¶ 27, 57.) 
 
In
December 2020, Daleyn drafted a loan agreement wherein BFFB would loan Koons
$150,000 despite knowing that Koons had converted at least $479,900 of BFFB’s
money for Koons’ personal use and that Koons had no intention of replaying the
loan. (TAC, ¶ 58.) Daleyn had no reasonable expectation that Koons would repay
the loan. (TAC, ¶ 58.) Moreover, Daleyn concealed Koons’ conversion and
fraudulent EIDL loan application and diversion. (TAC, ¶ 58.) Plaintiffs
reasonably relied on Daleyn’s fraudulent representations based on the written
Daleyn Contract and Daleyn’s status as a state-licensed accounting firm with
duties governed by state accountancy licensing law. (TAC, ¶ 60.) Daleyn’s
omissions and failure to disclose caused Plaintiffs damages as Daleyn was helping
Koons at the expense of Plaintiffs. (TAC, ¶ 61.) 
 
The
court agrees that the TAC fails to allege that Daleyn intentionally concealed
facts about Koons’ conduct with the intent to defraud Plaintiff. The TAC also
fails to allege that Daleyn knowingly concealed or suppressed facts about
Koons’ actions. 
 
E.        Eighth
Cause of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
“The elements of a cause of action for breach
of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach,
and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Meister v. Mensinger
(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 381, 395.) A fiduciary relationship is “any relation
existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is duty
bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party.” (Cleveland
v. Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1338.) “Such a relation ordinarily
arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity of
another.” (Ibid.) “[B]efore a person can be charged with a fiduciary
obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act on behalf and for the
benefit of another, or must enter into a relationship which imposes that
undertaking as a matter of law.” (Ibid.)  
 
Plaintiffs
assert that the breach of the Daleyn Contract was a breach of Daleyn’s
statutory duties owed to Plaintiffs pursuant to Cal. Code of Reg 16:56-56.3 and
16.57. (TAC, ¶ 63, Ex. A.) Plaintiffs also assert Daleyn breaches section V.(b)
of the Daleyn Contract. (TAC, ¶ 64.) 
 
Defendant
Daleyn asserts that under the Daleyn contract, a fiduciary relationship only
exists between Daleyn and BFFB, not Yenawine. Therefore, Yenawine cannot assert
a claim for breach of fiduciary duty. Daleyn also asserts that the TAC fails to
allege that Plaintiffs did not consent to Daleyn’s conduct. (CACI 4102.) The
court finds that the TAC does not specifically allege which specific statutes
impose a fiduciary duty of Daleyn or case law that extends such duty to
Yenawine as President of BFFB. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Daleyn’s demurrer is sustained with leave to
amend. The motion to strike is denied. Plaintiff is granted 10 days leave to
amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint for August 30, 2024, at
8:30 a.m. Defendant to give notice.
 


