  Case Number:  21STCV37401    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  W ROBERT BRAGG vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al. 
 
plaintiff’s motion to transfer the trial to santa monica courthouse
pursuant to ccp §397
 
Date of Hearing:        October 11, 2024                              Trial Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        21STCV37401
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
Robert Bragg 
Responding Party:     Defendant
City of Los Angeles  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 12, 2021, Plaintiff Robert Bragg
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants City of Los Angeles and County
of Los Angeles for injuries Plaintiff sustained after tripping and falling on a
sidewalk. Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint on January 20, 2022. On
April 7, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed the County of Los Angeles. The City of Los
Angeles (“Defendant”) is the only remaining named Defendant.   
 
City of Los Angeles filed a cross-complaint against
County of Los Angeles for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and
declaratory relief. County of Los Angeles then filed a cross-complaint against
the City of Los Angeles for indemnification, apportionment of fault and
declaratory relief. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Transfer the Trial to Santa Monica Courthouse Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 397 is DENIED
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Robert Bragg moves the court for an order transferring the
instant action to Santa Monica Courthouse pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 397. Plaintiff makes the motion on the grounds the ends of justice
would be best served by the transfer as this personal injury matter occurred
near the intersection of Washington Blvd. and Wilson Ave. in the city of Marina
Del Rey. Accordingly, the jurors in Santa Monica will be more familiar with the
location of the incident and have more of an interest in the outcome of a
premises liability action that occurs near their homes. Additionally, Plaintiff
lives in Marina Del Rey and all witnesses will be discussing and possibly from
the area of Marina Del Rey where the incident took place.
 
On timely motion, the court must order a transfer of venue “when the
court designated in the complaint is not the proper court.” (CCP §§ 396b,
397(a).)  A motion to transfer venue on grounds the designated court is
not proper must file and serve the motion before or at the time of filing an
answer, demurer, or motion to strike.  (CCP § 396b.)  “Venue is
determined based on the complaint on file at the time the motion to change
venue is made.”  (Brown v. Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477,
482; Haurat v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1966) 241
Cal.App.2d 330, 337 [“Venue is determined on the basis of the complaint as it
stands at the time the motion to change is made, and the plaintiff is not
permitted to make a subsequent election of theories by proposed amendments
thereto”].)  In an action involving personal injuries, a venue is proper
where a defendant resides or where the injuries occurred.   (CCP §
395(a).)   
 
The burden is on the moving party to establish facts justifying the
transfer.  (Mission Imports, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1982) 31
Cal.3d 921, 928.)  Absent “an affirmative showing to the contrary, the
presumption is that the county in which the title of the action shows that it
is brought is, prima facie, the proper county for the commencement and
trial of the action.”  (Ibid.; Fontaine v. Superior Court¿(2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836.)  The moving party may submit declarations
containing admissible evidence in support of the motion to transfer
venue.  (Mission Imports, supra, 31 Cal.3d at p.
928.)   
 
Plaintiff argues per the Los Angeles Superior Court general orders,
the matter was filed and placed in the general PI hub in the Spring Street
Courthouse. As a result, this action was transferred to the Van Nuys
Courthouse. However, Plaintiff would have filed his action in the Santa Monica
Courthouse as Plaintiff lives in Marina Del Rey and the incident location is in
Marina Del Rey. Plaintiff contends jurors who would be drawn from Santa Monica will
have more interest in justice near their homes as opposed to jurors from Van
Nuys who will have no connections to the area of Marina Del Rey. Moreover, the
fact that witnesses who Plaintiff will likely call to support general damages
claims of the Plaintiff will be from Marina Del Rey will support a finding that
the convenience of witnesses will be promoted. Plaintiff also asserts Plaintiff
will have an unusual circumstance of hardship in being forced to travel
multiple hours each day from San Diego to Van Nuys to give testimony and Santa
Monica is considerably shorter distance from San Diego than Van Nuys. Lastly,
Plaintiff argues that there is no prejudice to the Defendant as their main
offices are in Downtown Los Angeles. 
 
In opposition, City of Los Angeles argues the familiarity of jurors
with the area where the subject incident occurred is simply not a factor under Code
of Civil Procedure section 397. Similarly, jurors’ “interest in the outcome of
the litigation” is also not a factor under Section 397. Even if it was, the
subject incident occurred within the City of Los Angeles, and there would
likely be more jurors from the City of Los Angeles, which includes the entire
Van Nuys area. Moreover, convenience of parties is not a factor to consider
under Section 397. While he argues witnesses may “possibly” be from the area of
Marina Del Rey where the incident took place, the only specific witnesses
identified are family and friends who will testify as to Plaintiff’s general
damages. Instead there are many witnesses and experts, whose addresses include
Palmdale, Bellflower, Van Nuys, Santa Ana, Beverly Hills, Montebello, and so
on. As Plaintiff’s treating physicians are from all over the Los Angeles area,
so the Santa Monica Courthouse will not necessarily be more convenient to them.
Lastly, Defendant argues this motion is an improper Code of Civil Procedure
section 170.6 peremptory challenge. 
 
The court finds Plaintiff has failed to make a showing that the venue
is improper. Jurors’ familiarity with area where the incident occurred does not
fall under the convenience of witnesses or promotion of ends of justice.
Moreover, Plaintiff has not demonstrated that jurors from Santa Monica would
have ‘more interest in justice’ in the action than jurors from Van Nuys because
of where they live. This action involves the City of Los Angeles, which
includes Van Nuys. Santa Monica is not part of the City of Los Angeles unlike
Van Nuys. As for the convenience of witnesses, while a few may be located
closer to Santa Monica, there are many witnesses from all over Los Angeles
County including Van Nuys, Palmdale, Beverly Hills, Bellflower and so on. If
the opposing party has shown that their witnesses will also be inconvenienced
by the change, then there is no abuse of discretion when denying a motion to
change venue. (Hecker v. Ross (1960) 183 Cal.App.2d 30, 33.) 
 
As a result, the court finds either way some witnesses would be
inconvenienced by the travel to either Santa Monica Courthouse or Van Nuys
Courthouse and therefore, the ends of justice would be best served by having
the trial in Van Nuys. The fact that Plaintiff will be commuting from San Deigo
to Van Nuys is not a factor under Section 397. The court need not address
Defendant’s Section 170.6 contention. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Transfer the Trial to Santa Monica
Courthouse Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 397 is DENIED. 