 Case Number:  23TRCV02534    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 January 4, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV02534
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Tylyn Chapel v. APK Investments LLC, et
al. 
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
ATTORNEY NAME:             Plaintiff, Tylyn Chapel’s attorney
of record, Erik Harper
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED. 
 
 
I.                   
Background  
 
On
August 3, 2023, Plaintiff, Tylyn Chapel (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant, APK Investments LLC, Ramesh Patel, William Thurmond, and DOES 1
through 50. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Negligence; and (2)
Premises Liability. 
 
On
December 4, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel, Erik Harper (“Harper”) of Morgan &
Morgan filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. Thereafter, APK filed its
Answer.  
 
II.                
Legal Standard & Discussion  
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 284 states that “the attorney in
an action…may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final
determination, as follows: (1) upon the consent of both client and attorney…;
(2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of either client or
attorney, after notice from one to the other.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 284;
CRC 3.1362.)  The withdrawal request may be denied if it would cause an
injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the court's discretion in this area
is one to be exercised reasonably.  (See Mandell v. Superior (1977)
67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert¿v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161,
1173.) 
 
In making a motion to be relieved as counsel, the attorney
must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362.  The
motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel directed to the client – Civil (MC-051); Declaration
“stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship” reasons the motion was brought (MC-052); and a
Proposed Order (MC-053).  (Ibid.)  The forms must be filed and
served on all parties who have appeared in the case.  (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel, Harper,
moves the Court to relieve him as attorney of
record for Plaintiff. Harper properly filed a Notice of Motion, Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel, Declaration, and Proposed Order in accordance with Cal. Rules of Court
3.1362. On December 4, 2023, all forms for the pending motion were served on Plaintiff
by mail. However, Plaintiff’s counsel, Harper, has not indicated whether he has
confirmed with Plaintiff within the past thirty (30) days that the address is
current. On December 4, 2023 proof of service for said documents were filed
with the Court. 
 
In the declaration Harper notes
that “Communication between attorney and client [has] been broken down to the
point where the attorney is unable to effectively represent the client.” 
 
Since Plaintiff’s attorney has
complied with all procedural requirements in filing a motion to be relieved as
counsel and because the withdrawal would not cause an injustice or undue delay
in proceedings, the Court finds that withdrawal of Erik Harper as attorney of record for Plaintiff can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the Plaintiff’s interests. However, the Court would
like Plaintiff’s attorney to ensure the Court that the address in which mail
was sent to of Plaintiff is current. 
 
III.             
Conclusion & Order 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Erik Harper’s Motion to Be Relieved As Counsel is GRANTED and the Order
will be signed at the hearing. “After the order is signed, a copy of the signed
order must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the
case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) The Order on this Motion will not
be effective “until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on Plaintiff
and Defendant has been filed with the court.” (Id.) 
 
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice and to include Plaintiff’s contact information so the Court and
defendant can communicate directly to the soon-to-be self-represented plaintiff.  