 Case Number:  23PSCV01376    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant
Ralphs Grocery Company’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.

 
Background
 
This is a
negligence case arising from a motor vehicular accident that occurred on 9/15/22
when Plaintiff was rear-ended resulting in fractures and cuts. 
 
On May 5,
2023, Plaintiff
JUSTINE U. USONGO filed suit against Defendants RALPHS GROCERY COMPANY
(“Ralphs”) and SOKHIM YEN for General Negligence. 
 
On June 12,
2023, Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company (erroneously sued as “Ralphs Grocery
Company, a Corporation”) filed its answer.
 
On July 28,
2023, Yen filed his answer.
 
On March
22, 2024, Ralphs
filed the instant motion. 
 
On April 4,
2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition.
 
On April 11,
2024, Ralphs filed its reply.
 
Legal
Standard
Generally, a party must file
a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(a).)The court may
grant leave to file a cross-complaint if the failure to plead a cause of action
was the result of oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50) (emphasis added). 
Where the proposed
cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction as plaintiff’s claim, the court must grant leave to
file the cross-complaint as long as defendant is acting in good faith. (Id.)
If the cross-complaint is compulsory,
the defendant must allege that its failure to timely plead the claim was in good faith. “Good faith” is established by proving a negative—namely, there
is no substantial evidence that the defendant acted in bad faith. (Silver Orgs. V. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 100 (Silvers).) A finding of bad faith requires
evidence of “dishonest purpose, moral obliquity, sinister motive, furtive
design or ill will.” (Ibid.) Evidence of oversight, inadvertence,
neglect, or mistake is, by itself, insufficient to establish bad faith. (Id.
at p. 99.) 
Indeed,
courts at best have only a “modicum of discretion” in denying leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint.  (Gherman v. Colburn (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 544, 550; Sidney, v. Superior Court. (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718; c.f., Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App3d 94, 98-99 [rejecting
view the court may exercise discretion in the denial of a motion to file a compulsory cross-complaint; to the
extent discretion is allowed to deny the motion, there must be substantial evidence[1] to
support the trial court's decision.) 
 
 
 
Discussion
Ralphs moves to file a
cross-complaint (CC) against Plaintiff for (1) motor vehicle negligence and (2)
general negligence (Motion p. 9 of 16 of PDF, Ex. A) based upon ongoing
discovery as to the cause of the accident. 
More specifically, Ralphs explains that the California Highway Patrol
Traffic Crash Report indicates that Plaintiff allegedly caused the
accident by making an unsafe lane change. (See Opp. Ex. 1, p. 14 of 16 of PDF [‘Cause’ as
identified in the police report; see also Motion, Ex. A [Proposed CC], p. 11 of
16 of PDF P12 [“[Plaintiff] was attempting to suddenly exit the SR 60 highway
at the Phillips Ranch Road exit from Lane No. 2 to such an extent that she
could not safely operate her vehicle.”].) This was further corroborated during
Plaintiff’s 1/26/24 deposition (deposition which was continued at Plaintiff’s
request) wherein Plaintiff attested that she never saw the Ralphs Truck prior
to, during or after the accident. Thus, Ralphs seeks to file a CC against
Plaintiff for property damage and loss of use of its truck.
In Plaintiff’s opposition,
Plaintiff argues that “Defendant received the Police Traffic Report on or about
June 23, 2023 and waited for 9 extra months before asking the court for leave
to file cross complaint. Such failure is unreasonable and subjects the
plaintiff to unfairness. Thus, the action of the defendant should be construed
by the court as bad faith.” (Opp. p. 4:21-24.) 
Here, the court is unpersuaded for a couple of reasons. 
First, Plaintiff, aside from
a conclusory statement, makes no real showing of bad faith. While Ralphs
waiting for 9 months from the receipt of the police report to file the motion could
be a result of bad faith, it could very well be the result of other causes, other
reasons which Plaintiff has the burden of crafting and showing, but she has
failed to do. To the contrary, Ralphs appears to be diligently litigating the
matter by engaging in discovery since October 2023 and has made its motion
based upon newly discovered facts.
Second, Plaintiff, aside from
a conclusory statement, makes no real showing of prejudice. How
Plaintiff would be prejudiced from granting of a motion is unclear. If
anything, it would arguably be would be prejudicial to Plaintiff to deny the
motion as Defendant would have to file a separate lawsuit to address its
claims, leading to increases expenses/costs, resources, and time expended by both
parties.  
Even Plaintiff’s citations support a finding that the court must
grant the motion.[2]
For example, Plaintiff cites
to Gherman v. Colburn (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 544. In Gherman, on
the day of trial, defendants, via a cross-complaint, sought accounting claim
with respect to the joint venture they had claimed did not exist. The Gherman court, denying the CC request,
noted that where a “defendant fails to act for a period of over 30 days and
waits until the first day of trial, such conduct may be interpreted as evidence
of a lack of good faith especially when coupled with the long history of
litigation between the parties, which demonstrates that both sides were
jockeying for position over the right to a jury trial... defendants were not
acting in ‘good faith’ but that the motion for leave to file a cross-complaint was
merely a tactical, strategic maneuver to deprive plaintiffs of a right to a
jury trial” (Id. at p. 559-560, emphasis added..) Here, however,
the CMC is barely set for 4/18, far ways from a trial[3]
and there is no showing that Ralphs has made any substantive misrepresentations
to the court. Plaintiff’s reliance upon Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v.
Superior Court (1981) 114 Cal. App. 3d 897 (Foot’s) is equally
unavailing. In Foot’s, the party waited
23 months after service of the complaint, and 16 months after it had filed its
answer to the complaint, before asserting the right to file a
cross-complaint. The appellate court determined that the motion for leave
was improperly denied because no matter how belated the request was,
there was no showing of any substantial injustice or prejudice by the filing of
a cross-complaint. (Id. at pp. 903-904.) Here, however, no such
considerable length of time of has passed as the deposition but only
corroborated the police report a few months ago.[4]
Conclusion­­­­
Based on the foregoing, absent any showing of bad faith, the court must
grant the motion. 
 
 


