  Case Number:  19STCV26696    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  W LANCE
LOBDELL, ET AL. V. REGAL MEDICAL GROUP, INC., ET AL.
 
MOTIONS FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Date
of Hearing:        December 13, 2023                          Trial Date:       June 23, 2024
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        19STCV26696
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 31, 2019, Plaintiffs Lance Lobdell (“Lance”)
and Debra Lobdell (“Debra”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed this action for
damages for medical negligence and loss of consortium. Plaintiffs filed their
complaint against Regal Medical Group, Inc.; Lakeside Community Healthcare; Northridge
Hospital Medical Center; Michael R. Shapiro, M.D.; Michael R. Shapiro, M.D.,
Inc.; Ryan McBirney, PA; Mary Ann H. Trephan, M.D.; Kalpesh Patel, M.D.; Hrair Darakjian,
M.D.; Mission Community Hospital; N’deya Kama, M.D.; Ali Ozhand, M.D.; Emily Alexiadis,
NP; and Aaron M. Shelub. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
I.                   
Defendant Mission
Community Hospital’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative,
Summary Adjudication of Issue is GRANTED
II.                 
Defendants Mary
Ann H. Trephan, M.D. and Ryan Mcbirney, P.A.’S Motion for Summary Judgment is
GRANTED 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
DEFENDANT MISSION
COMMUNITY HOSPITAL’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE,
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUE
 
Defendant Mission Community Hospital moves, under Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, for an order granting summary judgment, or in
the alternative, summary adjudication as to each cause of action in its favor
and against Plaintiffs Lance Lobdell and Debra Lobdell on the grounds that
there is no merit to Plaintiffs’ causes of action for medical malpractice and
loss of consortium asserted in the complaint, there exists no issue of material
fact remaining for trial, and that Defendant Mission is entitled to judgment
against Plaintiffs as a matter of law. 
 
The elements of medical malpractice are:¿“(1) the duty
of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members
of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3)
a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.”¿¿(Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic¿(1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 696, 701-02 (citations omitted).)¿ “Both the standard of care and
defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert testimony in a
medical malpractice case.”¿¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008)
159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
Thus, in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.”¿¿(Munro v. Regents of University of
California¿(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).)¿ An
expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing
standard of care and the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care
provider.¿¿(Starr v.¿Mooslin¿(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)¿
 
Defendant Mission Community Hospital (“MCH”) submits
the declaration of Shahryar Ahmadi, M.D., a board-certified fellowship trained
orthopedic surgeon. (Ahmadi Decl. ¶1.) Dr. Ahmadi obtained his medical degree
in 1994 from Tehran University of Medical Sciences and completed his residency
in orthopedic surgery at University of Toronto in Toronto, Canada in 2010.
(Ahmadi Decl. ¶1.) Dr. Ahamdi also completed a fellowship in shoulder and elbow
surgery at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester in 2011. (Ahmadi Decl. ¶1.) Currently,
Dr. Ahmadi performs orthopedics, shoulder, elbow, and trauma surgeries at the
Memorial Orthopedic Surgical Group in Long Beach, California. (Ahmadi Decl.
¶1.) Dr. Ahmadi attests based upon his education, training, and experience, it
is his expert opinion to a reasonable degree of medical probability that MCH
and its nursing and ancillary staff complied with the applicable standard of care
at all times in the care and treatment of Mr. Lobdell. (Ahmadi Decl. ¶5.)
Moreover, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, it is my opinion that
there was no act or omission to act on the part of MCH or its staff which
caused, contributed to, or was a substantial factor in bringing about the
injuries and damages alleged by Mr. Lobdell. (Ahmadi Decl. ¶5.) Specifically, during
both of Mr. Lobdell’s hospitalizations at MCH, the nursing staff appropriately
and timely monitored and assessed him, reported changes in his condition to his
physicians, provided care and treatments pursuant to physician orders, and ultimately
discharged Mr. Lobdell pursuant to physician orders. (Ahmadi Decl. ¶5i.) The selection
of diagnostic tests to be performed, the evaluation of test results, the
formation and assessment of medical diagnoses and plan of treatment, the
decision to include specialists and/or consultants in the medical care and
treatment of the patient are also all within the scope of the medical staff,
not nursing or ancillary staff. (Ahmadi Decl. ¶5j.) Accordingly, there was not
a breach of the standard of care by the nursing staff of MCH in their care and
treatment of Mr. Lobdell, nothing they did or failed to do caused or
contributed to his injuries, and MCH’s nursing and ancillary staff followed and
implemented physician orders in an appropriate and timely manner. (Ahmadi Decl.
¶¶5i-5k.) 
 
MCH also submits the declaration of Mildred Mejia, the
Pre-operative Logistic Coordinator at MCH, who attests MCH had the resources
(operating room and staff) available had Mr. Lobdell’s physician/surgeon felt
he needed to be taken to surgery sooner. (Mejia Decl. ¶¶3-6.) 
 
Defendant MCH has met their burden of showing, by
expert declaration, they did not breach the standard of care or cause Plaintiff’s
injury.  As Defendant MCH is entitled to
judgment on the first cause of action for negligence, Defendant MCH is also
entitled to judgment on the second cause of action for loss of consortium. (See
Vanhooser v. Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927.) 
 
The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show, by contrary
expert declaration, that a triable issue of fact exists. Plaintiff instead filed
a notice of non-opposition exchange for a waiver of costs and waiving any
potential claim for malicious prosecution. 
Therefore, Defendant MCH is entitled to summary judgment.
 
Accordingly, Defendant MCH’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
II.                 
DEFENDANTS MARY
ANN H. TREPHAN, M.D. AND RYAN MCBIRNEY, P.A.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Defendants Mary Ann H. Trephan, M.D. and Ryan
McBirney, P.A. move the Court for an order that summary adjudication be granted
in their favor and against Plaintiffs on the grounds there is no triable issue
of material fact as to the summary judgment sought and therefore Defendants are
entitled to summary judgment as a matter of law pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §437c. Specifically, Defendants met the standard of care with respect
to the care and treatment he provided to Plaintiff Lance Lobdell and there was
no negligence on the part of Defendants that was a substantial factor in
causing Plaintiff Lance Lobdell’s injuries.
 
As noted above, in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen
a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.”¿¿(Munro v. Regents of University of
California¿(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).)¿ An
expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing
standard of care and the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care
provider.¿¿(Starr v.¿Mooslin¿(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)¿
 
Defendants Mary Ann H. Trephan, M.D. and Ryan
McBirney, P.A. present the declarations of E.R. Physician David Barcay, M.D.
and orthopedic surgeon William Brien, M.D. Dr. Barcay is a physician and board
certified in Internal Medicine and Critical Care Medicine by the American Board
of Internal Medicine. (Barcay Decl. ¶1.) Dr. Barcay testifies to a reasonable
degree of medical probability, that based on his education, training, and
experience, once it was determined that an orthopedic evaluation needed to be done
as a result of the open fracture, then it meets the standard of care to
transfer the care to the orthopedic surgeon for a more complete evaluation.
(Barcay Decl. ¶29.) PA McBirney further met the standard of care in consulting
with orthopedic surgeon Dr. Darakjian, however, Dr. Darakjian advised he could not
consult on the patient as he was not in-house for his insurance but the patient
was stable for transfer. (Barcay Decl. ¶30.) Dr. Barcay attests it was
appropriate and met the standard of care for PA McBirney to rely on Dr.
Darakjian’s assessment that the patient was stable for transfer from an
orthopedic surgery standpoint as this is out of his scope of practice as a Physician
Assistant in the Emergency Department. (Barcay Decl. ¶31.) Moreover, Dr. Barcay
testifies Mr. Lobdell was hemodynamically stable for transfer and his stability
did not decline while waiting for the ambulance to transfer him to Mission
Community Hospital. (Barcay Decl. ¶33.) Thus, there was no need, from an
Emergency Medicine standpoint to make any changes to the transfer plans.
(Barcay Decl. ¶33.)   
 
Dr. Brien, a board
certified in Orthopedic Surgery, similarly testifies to a reasonable degree of medical
probability that there was no negligence on the part of PA McBirney or Dr.
Trephan with regard to not performing any testing to look for a potential
rotator cuff injury in this action. (Brien Decl. ¶19.) Dr. Brien contends even
if diagnosed in the Emergency Department, rotator cuff surgery is an elective
surgery that would be done months after the patient healed from the fracture and
Dr. Brien believes to a reasonable degree of medical probability that once the
x-rays confirmed the comminuted intra-articular fractures, it met the standard
of care to defer to an orthopedic surgeon for any further complete evaluation
of the patient’s injuries. (Brien Decl. ¶19.) Dr. Brien contends the standard
of care did not require that Mr. Lobdell’s injury be surgically repaired
emergently and therefore given Mr. Lobdell’s acceptance at Mission Community
Hospital with information that an orthopedic surgeon agreed to consult was
appropriate and met the standard of care. (Brien Decl. ¶24.) Accordingly, it is
Dr. Brien’s opinion to a reasonable degree of medical probability that there
was no negligence by PA McBirney or Dr. Trephan nor did PA McBirney or Dr.
Trephan cause or contribute to Plaintiffs’ alleged injuries and damages. (Brien
Decl. ¶¶26-30.)  
 
Defendants Mary Ann H. Trephan, M.D. and Ryan
McBirney, P.A. have met their burden of showing, by expert declaration, they
did not breach the standard of care or cause Plaintiff’s injury.  As Defendants Mary Ann H. Trephan, M.D. and
Ryan McBirney, P.A. are entitled to judgment on the first cause of action for
negligence, Defendants Mary Ann H. Trephan, M.D. and Ryan McBirney, P.A. are also
entitled to judgment on the second cause of action for loss of consortium. (See
Vanhooser v. Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927.) 
 
The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show, by contrary
expert declaration, that a triable issue of fact exists. Plaintiff instead filed
a notice of non-opposition exchange for a waiver of costs and waiving any
potential claim for malicious prosecution. 
Therefore, Defendants Mary Ann H. Trephan, M.D. and Ryan McBirney, P.A.
are entitled to summary judgment.
 
Accordingly, Defendants Mary Ann H. Trephan, M.D. and
Ryan McBirney, P.A.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 