  Case Number:  23AHCV00232    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



BE 830 LAKE, LLC, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
EAST
   COAST FOODS, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00232
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

December
   6, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff BE 830 Lake, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) moves for an order awarding $109,459 in attorneys’ fees incurred
as part of its attempt to enforce its judgment against defendant East Coast
Foods, Inc. dba Roscoe’s House of Chicken & Waffles (“Defendant”).
Plaintiff also seeks fees associated with Defendant’s appeal of the Court’s
previous order awarding attorney fees and this fee motion. 
On November 8, 2024, defendant filed an
opposition brief and supporting declaration. 
On November 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief and supplemental declaration. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
The most common method for calculating
reasonable attorneys’ fees begins with the “lodestar” approach which is
calculated as¿“the
number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.” (Margolin
v. Regional Planning Com. (1982) 134 Cal.App.3d 999, 1004-1005.) “[A]n
award of attorney fees may be based on counsel's declarations, without
production of detailed time records. (Raining Data Corp. v. Barrenechea
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1363, 1375.) “In challenging attorney fees as excessive
because too many hours of work are claimed, it is the burden of the challenging
party to point to the specific items challenged, with a sufficient argument and
citations to the evidence. General arguments that fees claimed are excessive,
duplicative, or unrelated do not suffice.” (Premier Medical Management
Systems, Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th
550, 564.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
It is undisputed that the Lease
underlying this action provides the prevailing party with attorneys’ fees.
Here, Plaintiff seeks to recover $109,459.00 in legal fees from August 29,
2023, through October 23, 2024, consisting of 134.8 hours of work. Plaintiff
states that approximately $60,000 can be attributed solely to Plaintiff’s
efforts to enforce the judgment, and approximately $10,000 can be attributed
solely to Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendant’s appeal of the previous
attorneys’ fees award. Plaintiff asserts that the remainder of the fees are a
hybrid of the foregoing categories, including fees incurred in connection with
this motion.
As an initial matter, the Court rejects
Defendant’s argument that its bankruptcy should be considered in determining
Plaintiff’s fee award. (Opp., p. 10.) Defendant previously raised this issue
and cited to the exact same cases included in its opposition brief. The Court
did not find Defendant’s cited authorities persuasive then and does not find
them persuasive now. 
Both of Plaintiff’s attorneys, Thomas
Lombardi and Matthew Anderson, billed at an hourly rate of $675 for work
performed in 2023 and $695 for work performed in 2024. (Motion, p. 10.)
Defendant opposes these rates as unreasonable because it contends that the vast
majority of the work performed by Plaintiff’s counsel was clerical/ministerial
and does not justify billing at partner rates. Defendant contends that the work
performed to enforce the judgment consisted of filling out Judicial Council
forms, filing them, and making telephone calls to the Sheriff, which is
clerical in nature and does not require the application of partner rates.
(Opp., p. 7.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s counsels’ rates should be
reduced to $100 per hour, which is the amount charged by Plaintiff’s counsel
for their clerical person’s time. (Opp., p. 8.) based on the amount at which counsel’s
clerical work is billed. 
On reply, Plaintiff argues that the
allegedly “clerical” work was actually legally substantive because it required
legal research, communications, and continuous negotiations with defense
counsel, as well as the preparation of four stipulations regarding Defendant’s
payments against the judgment and writs of execution, which involved
complicated interest calculations. The Court has reviewed the stipulations and
other documents and disagrees with Defendant’s characterization of this work as
clerical. Plaintiff further explains in its reply brief that the stipulations
were necessary because Defendant “refused to make payments against the Judgment
unless Defendant could continue to occupy the Premises, which Defendant did
through the end of June 2024.” (Reply, p. 5.) The stipulations were drafted to
confirm that the payments were to be applied to the judgment and not to rent,
and confirmed and preserved Plaintiff’s right to possession of the Premises. (Ibid.)
Given Plaintiff’s explanation, and the fact that each billing entry is
typically 0.1 to 0.5 hours for each task, the Court declines to reduce the
hourly rate charged by Plaintiff’s counsel or reduce the number of hours worked
in connection with enforcing the judgment. 
Next, Plaintiff seeks approximately
$10,000 in connection with work performed to address Defendant’s appeal of the
prior attorneys’ fee award, including time spent researching and preparing a
motion to dismiss the appeal, as well as the effect of the appeal on collection
efforts. Defendant filed the notice of appeal on February 5, 2024, and the
appeal was dismissed on July 9, 2024, with the remittitur issued on September
19, 2024. Defendant argues that Plaintiff should not recover any fees related
to the appeal because no opening brief was ever filed and the appeal was
dismissed for reasons which did not involve Plaintiff, therefore Plaintiff was
not required to perform any work. (Opp., p. 5.) Unless defense counsel kept
Plaintiff’s counsel apprised of his intent to not pursue the appeal, defense
counsel cannot now complain about any work performed in response to Defendant’s
decision to file an appeal. The amount of fees claimed equates to about 14.4
hours of work, which is not unreasonable given that the appeal was effectively
pending for 5 months and part of the work was determining whether the appeal
had any merit or effect on Plaintiff’s collection efforts. Therefore, absent
identifying any particular tasks which Defendant deems to be specifically
unnecessary, the Court denies the request to omit the fees incurred in
connection with Defendant’s appeal from the fees award. 
Last, Defendant challenges Plaintiff’s
request for $23,282.50 for the 33.5 hours of work involved in preparing this
fee motion. Defendant states that this instant motion is a reiteration of
Plaintiff’s previous fee motion and, therefore, the award should be reduced by
half. Plaintiff acknowledges that portions of its fee motion overlap with its
prior fee motion, but asserts that these portions consist only of a total of 2
pages out of 12. Plaintiff also emphasizes that the supporting documents,
declaration, and exhibits are unique to the present motion. Having reviewed all
the moving and reply papers, the Court finds that 33.5 hours is an excessive
amount of time to prepare this relatively straightforward motion, which does
not require any complex legal analysis. Therefore, the Court reduces the request
by $6,602.50 for an award of $16,680 for the work performed for this motion,
consisting of 24 hours of work at counsel’s hourly rate of $695. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s
motion for fees is GRANTED subject to a $6,602.50 reduction for a total fee
award of $102,856.50. 
Dated
this 22nd day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 