  Case Number:  20STCV41207    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  54  



Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Gerald Whitt, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV41207




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Vinco Ventures, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: December 18, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
(4) Motions to Quash Service of Summons
Moving Party: Specially Appearing Defendants Phillip
McFillin, Kevin Ferguson, Christopher B. Ferguson and Pearl 33 Holdings, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Gerald Whitt, Alexander
Whitt, Matthew Whitt, Christopher Whitt and Deborah Milam
 
T/R:     PEARL 33’S MOTION TO QUASH IS DENIED.
 
CHRISTOPHER FERGUSON’S MOTION TO QUASH
IS GRANTED.
 
KEVIN FERGUSON’S MOTION TO QUASH IS
DENIED.
 
PHILLIP MCFILLIN’S MOTION TO QUASH IS
DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies.
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of
his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (CCP §
418.10(a)(1).)  “When a motion to quash is properly brought, the
burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)
A. Pearl 33 Holdings, LLC’s Motion to Quash
A non-resident
defendant may be subject to either general or specific jurisdiction. (See Elkman
v. National States Insurance Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1314.)  General jurisdiction exists when a defendant
is domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are substantial,
continuous, and systematic. (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2005)
130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) 
 
Specific
jurisdiction involves a three-part test; California courts adopt the same test
as the test used by the court in Boschetto v. Hansing (9th Cir. Cal.
2008) 539 F.3d 1011,1016: “ ‘(1) The nonresident defendant must do some act or
consummate some transaction with the forum or perform some act by which he
purposefully avails himself of the privilege of conducting activities in the
forum, thereby invoking the benefits and protections of its laws; (2) the claim
must be one which arises out of or results from the defendant's forum-related
activities; and (3) exercise of jurisdiction must be reasonable.’ Panavision
International, L.P. v. Toeppen (9th Cir. 1998) 141 F.3d 1316, 1320
[applying California law].).” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v. Sup. Ct.
of Los Angeles County (Rambam) (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.)
 
Specially
Appearing Defendant Pearl 33 moves to quash service of summons on the ground
that this Court does not have personal jurisdiction over it. Pearl 33 is a
“holding company” incorporated in Delaware with its principal place of business
in Pennsylvania. Pearl 33 represents that its only connection to California is
its 72% ownership interest in California toy company “Cloud B.” Pearl 33 argues
that this contact does not establish “minimum contacts” in California for the
purpose of personal jurisdiction.
 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs, minority shareholders in Cloud B, assert that Pearl 33 purposefully
availed itself of the laws and benefits of California by purchasing and
planning to wrongfully take over Cloud B. Plaintiffs represent that Pearl 33’s
sole manager/owner Defendant Christopher Smedley, along with his associates,
placed themselves on Cloud B’s board of directors to loot its assets. This
action seeks redress for Pearl 33’s and individual Defendants’ takeover of
Cloud B. 
 
Pearl 33 has
sufficient minimum contacts in California to establish specific jurisdiction.
Pearl 33 purposefully availed itself of the laws and benefits of California by
purchasing Cloud B. Plaintiffs’ action arises from this purchase. Exercise of
jurisdiction is reasonable.
 
Pearl 33’s
motion to quash is DENIED.
 
Pearl 33
alternatively requests that the Court dismiss this action because Plaintiffs
have delayed in prosecuting it, and it is barred by a settlement agreement. The
delay in prosecution was caused by a bankruptcy stay. The Court will not
determine on a motion to quash whether the action is barred by a settlement
agreement. 
 
B. Christopher
B. Ferguson’s Motion to Quash
 
Christopher
Ferguson moves to quash service of summons on the ground that he was not
properly served with the first amended complaint. The proof of service shows
Ferguson was served by substitute service on his ex-wife at an address on Red
Hawk Way in Pennsylvania. Christopher represents that the Red Hawk address is
not his “dwelling house,” “usual place of abode,” “usual
place of business,” or “usual mailing address:” he has not lived there since
2018. Christopher also argues that Plaintiffs did not diligently attempt to
personally serve him.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs assert that the Red
Hawk address was listed as Christopher’s address on legal documents from 2020
and 2021. This is insufficient to establish that service at the Red Hawk
address was proper. Christopher does not live at that address, and there were
no attempts to serve Christopher at any other address. 
 
Christopher Ferguson’s motion to quash is
GRANTED.
 
C. Phillip McFillin and Kevin Ferguson’s Motions
to Quash
 
            Phillip McFillin
and Kevin Ferguson move to quash service of summons on the ground that the
Court does not have personal jurisdiction over them. McFillin and Ferguson represent
that they are residents of New Jersey and do not have sufficient contacts with California
for personal jurisdiction. In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the Court has
specific jurisdiction over McFillin and Ferguson because they are members of
Cloud B’s board of directors, and this action arises from their actions as
board members.
 
McFillin and Ferguson have sufficient minimum
contacts with California to establish specific jurisdiction. They have
purposefully availed themselves of the laws and benefits of California by
joining the board of a California corporation. Plaintiffs’ action arises from
their actions as board members. This makes the exercise of jurisdiction
reasonable.
 
McFillin and Ferguson’s motions to quash are
DENIED.

 