 Case Number:  23PSCV00714    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Simply  Crystal Clean, LLC v. Pinhero Construction, Inc., et al.  Amended  Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS the amended motion for leave to file a First  Amended Complaint. Plaintiff must file and serve the proposed First Amended  Complaint within five days of the Court’s order.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a breach of contract action. On March 10, 2023, plaintiff Simply  Crystal Clean, LLC (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Pinhero  Construction, Inc. (Pinhero), Azusa Pacific University (APU) (collectively,  Defendants), and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for breach of  contract and common counts.  On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amended motion for leave  to file a First Amended Complaint.[1] The motion is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  Code of Civil  Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice,  and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or  proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a  mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,  upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,  after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an  amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like  terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)  “This  discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial  policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge  Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Under Rule  3.1324, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court, a motion to amend a  pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended  pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous  pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading  are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line  number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are  proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,  paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules  of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)  Under Rule  3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate  declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the  amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts  giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why  the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1324, subd. (b).)  DISCUSSION  Plaintiff  seeks leave to file a First Amended Complaint to add a request for attorney’s  fees. Plaintiff’s counsel contends that he was unaware of any contract  containing an attorney’s fees provision. (Plummer Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel  also contends he recently learned this information at a mediation on January  17, 2024. (Plummer Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel further indicates that  he attempted to obtain a stipulation to file a First Amended Complaint to add  the request for attorney’s fees, but Defendants did not respond. (Plummer  Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.)  The Court finds Plaintiff’s motion substantially complies with the  requirements for seeking leave to amend. Plaintiff’s motion includes a copy of  the proposed First Amended Complaint with the particular allegations to be  added, per Rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), of the California Rules of Court. (See  Plummer Decl., Ex. B; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) Plaintiff’s  motion also contains a separate declaration indicating the effect of the  proposed amendment would be to add a request for attorney’s fees, and that a  contract providing for the recovery of attorney’s fees here was only recently  discovered, which also explains why the request for amendment was not made  earlier. (See Plummer Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4-5, Ex., A.) The Court further  construes Defendants’ lack of opposition to this motion as a tacit admission  that the motion is meritorious. (Holden v.  City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C.  Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.  Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.)               Based on the  foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s amended motion for leave to file a  First Amended Complaint.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS the amended motion for leave to file a First  Amended Complaint. Plaintiff must file and serve the proposed First Amended  Complaint within five days of the Court’s order.                Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.    