 Case Number:  BC611486    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GABRIEL RUEDA, also known as GABRIEL SALVADOR (an individual),
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EMMANUEL D. PACQUIAO (an individual); FREDERICK ROACH (an
  individual); KEITH M. DAVIDSON (an individual); PARAMOUNT GLOBAL (a Delaware corporation)
  (f/k/a ViacomCBS Inc., f/k/a/ CBS Corp); SHOWTIME NETWORKS, Inc. (a Delaware
  corporation); and DOES 1-25,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          BC611486
 Hearing Date:   6/12/24
 Trial Date:        11/18/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Showtime
  Networks, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Further Responses to
  Requests for Production and Compel Compliance with Production of Documents;
  Request for Monetary Sanctions in the Amount of $6,000.



 
I. Background
On October 6, 2023, Defendant Showtime Networks, Inc. (Showtime)
served its seventh set of requests for production (RPDs, Set Seven) on
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda.
On October 19, 2023, Defendant Showtime Networks, Inc. (Showtime)
served its eighth set of requests for production (RPDs, Set Eight) on Plaintiff
Gabriel Rueda.
On December 12, 2023,
Plaintiff Rueda served responses to RPDs, Sets Seven and Eight.
In January and February
2024, the parties met and conferred regarding the sufficiency of Plaintiff
Rueda’s responses to certain of these production requests. The parties also extended
the deadline to file a motion to compel further responses from Plaintiff Rueda
to February 20, 2024.
On February 16, 2024, based
on Plaintiff Rueda’s failure to supplement responses/production in response to
RPDs, Sets Seven and Eight, Showtime filed a motion to compel further
responses/production in relation to RPDs, Set Seven, No. 56 and in relation to
RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 1, 3-5, 7, 9, 10, 13-40 (with two distinct challenges to
Nos. 16-40).
On May 30, 2024, the
date on which Plaintiff Rueda’s opposition to Showtime’s motion was due, Plaintiff
Rueda served supplemental responses to RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 1, 3-5, 7, 9, 10,
13-40.
That same day,
Plaintiff Rueda filed an opposition to Showtime’s motion.
On June 5, 2024,
Showtime filed a reply to Plaintiff Rueda’s opposition.
Showtime’s motion is
now before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Production and Request for Monetary Sanctions
A.
Mootness
The
Court briefly notes that Plaintiff Rueda’s service of supplemental responses to
RPDs, Set Eight, on May 30, 2024, did not automatically moot a consideration on
whether the Court should order further responses.
“Whether
a particular response does resolve satisfactorily the issues raised by a motion
is a matter best determined by the trial court in the exercise of its
discretion, based on the circumstances of the case.” (Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390,
409 (Sinaiko).)
B.
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Production: GRANTED in part.
1. Legal Standard
a. Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310
A
motion to compel a further response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory
answers or makes untenable objections to demands to produce. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
To
request further production, a movant must establish:
(1)
Good cause for the production (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1); Sinaiko,
supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 403); and
(2)
That a further response is needed because (a) the responding party’s statement
of compliance with the demand to produce is incomplete Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a)(1)), (b) the responding party’s representation that it is
unable to comply is inadequate, complete, or evasive (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a)(2)), (c) the responding party’s objection in the response
is without merit or is too general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(3); Catalina
Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127), or
(d) if the responding party objected to the production of ESI on the ground
that it is not reasonably accessible the movant can show that the (i) ESI is
reasonably accessible or (ii) there is good cause for production of the ESI
regardless of its accessibility (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (e)).
b. Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320
A
discovering party may file a motion to compel compliance with a demand to
produce when the responding party does not permit inspection, copying, testing,
sampling, or measuring in accordance with the compliance statement the
responding party serves in respond to the demand to produce. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.320, subd. (a).) 
2. Analysis
a. Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310
i. RPDs, Set
Eight, Nos. 1, 3-5, 7, 9, 10, 13-40, “Relevance”
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Rueda.
In
response to RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 1, 3-5, 7, 9, 10, and 13-40, Plaintiff Rueda
stated objections and a substantive response stating that Plaintiff Rueda “will
produce all responsive, relevant, non-privileged documents in its possession,
custody, or control that have not already been produced.” (Mot., Sharon Decl.,
Ex. 8; Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 1-75.)
Showtime’s
motion objects to the qualifier “… relevant … documents in [Plaintiff’s]
possession, custody, or control,” which Plaintiff Rueda’s opposition argues is
appropriate under the language of Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010. Plaintiff
Rueda’s opposition also argues that his May 30, 2024, supplemental responses removed
the word “relevant” from his responses to these production requests, thus
mooting Showtime’s motion. (Opp’n, Khan Decl., Ex. E [May 30, 2024,
supplemental responses showing original and amended responses to production
requests].) Showtime argues that the amendments are a step in the right
direction but do not amount to the production of responsive documents, the
production of which is imperative for Showtime to prepare for trial in November
2024. (Reply, p. 4.)
The
parties do not dispute that Plaintiff Rueda served responses that “removed the ‘relevant’
qualifier.” (Reply, p. 4.)
The
Court thus determines that Showtime’s motion is MOOT as to an order compelling
further responses to RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 1, 3-5, 7, 9, 10, and 13-40 that
remove the “relevant” qualifier to the substantive portion of Plaintiff Rueda’s
initial responses to this discovery.
ii. RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 16-40 and Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.230
RPDs,
Set Eight, Nos. 16-40 seek production of photographs, video recordings, and
audio recordings of the various non-parties whom Plaintiff alleges watched,
stalked, harassed, and/or followed him. (Mot., Sharon Decl., Ex. 2.)
In
response to RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 16-40, and subject to objections, Plaintiff
Rueda offered a substantive response containing a statement of compliance
offering to comply with the production requests. (Mot. Separate Statement, pp.
29-75.)
Later,
Plaintiff Rueda produced a series of documents that Showtime described as a compilation
video mixing photographs and video clips with none of the original metadata
attached to the file. (Mot., p. 2.)
Moreover,
Plaintiff Rueda amended his discovery responses to RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 16-40,
all of which now contain a substantive response: “Responding Party has produced
all non-privileged documents in his possession, custody, and control. To the
extent this Request seeks metadata, Responding Party is unable to produce the
requested metadata because, following a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry, Responding Party has determined the metadata has been lost, misplaced,
or stolen.” (Opp’n, Khan Decl., Ex. E, pp. 17-63.)
Showtime
“moves this Court for an order requiring him to provide a statement of
inability to comply specifying, inter alia, what documents are missing, what
happened to the documents, and the name and address of any individual known
or believed to have possession, custody, or control of th[ese] missing
documents.” (Mot., p. 2, emphasis added.)
The
Court agrees that Plaintiff Rueda has failed to provide the names and addresses
of persons or organizations Plaintiff believes have control of responsive
documents, or to state that he does not know. (Opp’n, Khan Decl., Ex. E.) However,
given the facts alleged by Rueda it is unlikely that he will be able to identify
those who are in possession of the responsive documents. Nevertheless, Showtime’s
motion is GRANTED as to compelling further responses to RPDs, Set Eight, Nos.
16-40, specifically to supplement the responses to “set forth the name and
address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party
to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item,” if
any. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.) The Court clarifies that only amended
responses, not further production, is being ordered.
However,
the Court DENIES Showtime’s motion insofar as it requests an order compelling
further responses explaining why documents were, for example, lost or
destroyed.
The
“what happened to the documents” language for which Showtime advocates is not
plain or directly inferable language from the statute. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.230, subd. 2031.230 [“… This statement shall also specify whether
the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party[,] [and] shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item”].)
Other
than citing to the statute itself, Showtime’s papers do not cite any authority
supporting its position that section 2031.230 contemplates ‘the reasons for the
reasons for inability to comply’ as part of the statute’s requirements. (See Mot.,
pp. 1-12 [citing § 2031.230 six time, only once supported by case law at p. 10,
where case law is inapposite to this question].)
Showtime
thus does not provide an authority that on its face states that compliance with
section 2031.230 includes stating not only the reason for inability to comply—e.g.,
“we cannot comply because document(s) were lost or destroyed, etc.”—but also
the reason for the reason for inability to comply—e.g., “we cannot comply
because document(s) were lost or destroyed, etc., when A, B, and C, happened.”
Typically,
a party would follow up on any such response at a deposition or with further
discovery. In this case, there has already been significant discovery on the
issue of the lost metadata in the phone which apparently took the photos. Thus
while the Court sympathizes with the ShowTime Defendants as to the apparent
loss of the metadata, the Court has not been directed to, nor able to locate,
any authority requiring such information in order to constitute a
code-compliant response, and the strict language of the statute does not
support Showtime’s interpretation.
iii. RPDs, Set Seven, No. 56,
Privileges, Etc.
The Court finds in favor of
Showtime.
Where a medical patient tenders his
or her medical condition at issue, the patient-litigant exception applies and communications
between the physician employed to treat a patient and the patient are not
privileged under the physician-patient privilege. (City & County of San
Francisco v. Superior Court In and For City and County of San Francisco
(1951) 37 Cal.2d 227, 237-238 (City & County of San Francisco); see People
v. Hines (1975) 13 Cal.3d 500, 515, fn. 17 (Hynes) [summarizing City
& County of San Francisco].)
On the other hand, fundamental
principles mandate that a counsel’s right to appointment of necessary experts,
including medical or mental health experts, also includes the right to have
communications made to the experts remain confidential to the same extent as
communications directly between client and lawyer. (Elijah W. v. Superior
Court (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 140, 151-153 (Elijah).)
I. Request
Here, RPDs, Set Seven, No. 56
requests production of “ALL COMMUNICATIONS RELATING TO this LAWSUIT between any
of YOUR ATTORNEYS OF RECORD and any of YOUR medical and/or mental health
providers.” (Mot., Separate Statement, p. 6.)
II. Objections
Discussed
Plaintiff Rueda responded to this
request with objections alone, most of which the Court finds inapplicable, and
none of which are fatal. (Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 6-7.)
The request is not unintelligible,
or uncertain, instead clearly seeking communications that relate to this
lawsuit as between Plaintiff’s attorneys of record and Plaintiffs medical
and/or mental health providers. The request is a little ambiguous as to the
meaning of “provider,” as discussed below, but this vagueness is not fatal to
the request.
No overbreadth, overbroad tailoring,
undue and unreasonable burden, oppression, or harassment objection applies to
this the request because, contrary to Plaintiff Rueda’s arguments, the evidence
at issue could lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. As argued in the
moving papers: “Understanding whether Plaintiff’s attorneys have been
communicating with these percipient fact witnesses who possess such key
knowledge is critically important to avoid surprise and prepare for trial.
Indeed, none of Plaintiff’s treating physicians has even been deposed at this
point. Knowing what, if anything, Plaintiff’s counsel has shared with these
witnesses or represented to them about the litigation or the parties involved
is essential for Showtime to conduct effective discovery regarding Plaintiff’s
tort-related allegations.” (Mot., p. 9.)
While a discovery request seeking
expert witness communications could merit a premature discovery objection, the
request by its terms does not apply to experts hired by plaintiff but rather to
“medical and/or menta health providers.” The objection otherwise fails because
it is not clear how the information that is sought here is “premature” in this
eight-plus-years litigation.
 The confidential, proprietary, and sensitive
business information objections fails, as it is not clear what proprietary or
sensitive business information could arise from communications between
Plaintiff’s counsel and Plaintiff’s medical and/or mental health providers.
Such arguments are not elaborated in the objections or in the opposition
papers. Confidentiality, in turn, is undermined by Plaintiff alleging an IIED
claim that has put his medical and/or mental health condition at issue.
The objection based on third-party
privacy rights is not applicable. The discovery at issue relates to
communications relating to this lawsuit, as between Plaintiff’s counsel and
Plaintiff’s medical and/or mental health providers. Plaintiff’s privacy appears
to be the only true privacy interest at issue within that framework, and as
discussed above, Plaintiff has put his medical and/or mental health condition
in relation to his IIED claim and damages. If privacy relates to the
“providers,” the names and addresses or potential witnesses are generally
discoverable (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242,
1249-1250), and the communications with Plaintiff’s counsel do not clearly fall
into any privilege not waived (e.g., patient-litigant exception).
The objection that Plaintiff is
being asked to produce documents on behalf of another person or entity is not
sufficiently elaborated in the objection or opposition papers. Moreover, it is
unclear how Plaintiff does not have access to counsel and counsel’s
communications with Plaintiff’s providers.
The attorney-client privilege, work
product doctrine, and kitchen-sink privilege objections also fail. The specific
attorney-client objection fail based on the principles discussed in City
& County of San Francisco, as summarized by the California Supreme
Court in Hines, supra, 13 Cal.3d at p. 515, fn. 17, stating that
“if a physician is employed to treat a patient rather than as an intermediary
to interpret defendant’s condition to the patient’s attorney, then the results
of such examination are protected by the physician-patient privilege but not by
the attorney-client privilege.” The work product objection is not sufficiently
supported by the objection itself or the opposition papers, as discussed below.
And the kitchen-sink argument fails based on lack of specificity.
The right to privacy objection is
undermined by Plaintiff Rueda putting his medical and/or mental condition at
issue in relation to his IIED claim and damages. A party can waive its right to
privacy by raising a claim or defense in a suit that puts the party’s personal
information at issue. (See, e.g., John B. Superior Court (2006) 38
Cal.4th 1177, 1199.)
III. Opposition
Arguments Discussed
The Court rejects the privilege
argument as discussed in Elijah and other authorities. City &
County of San Francisco makes clear that a treating physician’s
communications with a patient are privileged insofar as they do not fall into
the patient-litigant exception. Here, Plaintiff has brought an IIED claim and
emotional distress damages claims. There is some component of Plaintiff’s
medical condition at issue. Reliance on Elijah specifically is misplaced
where neither Plaintiff’s objections nor his opposition—no separate statement
filed—explain how all communications between his counsel and his medical and/or
mental health providers ONLY involve(d) communications between counsel and
physicians hired to interpret Plaintiff’s condition to his attorneys of record.
The opposition’s Evidence Code
section 952 argument is inapplicable where the request does not involve a
request for communications from a plaintiff to his attorney made through or in
the presence of a treating physician. 
The opposition’s Code of Civil
Procedure section 2018.030 argument—work product, etc.—may be applicable.
However, Plaintiff has not explained what portion of the communications at
issue will result in the production of documents that show only attorney work
product, contrasted from, for example, percipient witness observations
regarding Plaintiff Rueda’s medical and/or mental health condition. Without
that information, the work product argument fails, or at a minimum, such documents
should be included in a privilege log.
Last, the Court is not convinced by
Plaintiff’s argument that he need not provide a privilege log in relation to
this discovery. To the extent the May 11, 2018, protective order excludes
“counsel’s communications with experts, consultants or employees … assisting or
consulting in the prosecution or defense of this case,” and it is, again, not
clear that the communications requested involved only conversations with
experts.
IV. Court’s
Determination
The Court GRANTS Showtime’s motion
as to RPDs, Set Seven, No. 56.
The Court notes that if Plaintiff
has retained as expert witnesses any of his treating physicians who are also fact
witnesses—the “medical and/or mental health providers” in the request— those
relationships must be disclosed.
The Court also notes that as
discussed above, a privilege log exception in the May 11, 2018, protective
order does not appear applicable here, thus necessitating a privilege log if
privileges are raised in response to this discovery, such as in relation to
attorney-client, work product, or a medical-based privilege.
Last, the Court notes that a representation
of inability to comply with the particular production request must affirm that
a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand, whether the inability to comply is because the particular
item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost,
misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession,
custody, or control of the responding party, and set forth the name and address
of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have
possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.230.)
b. Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.320
i. RPDs, Set
Eight, Nos. 16-40, Native Files
The Court finds in favor of Plaintiff
Rueda.
I. Metadata
RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 16-40 seek
production of photographs, video recordings, and audio recordings of the
various non-parties whom Plaintiff alleges watched, stalked, harassed, and/or
followed him. (Mot., Sharon Decl., Ex. 2.)
Part of the request, to which
Plaintiff did not object, was defining “DOCUMENT(S)” in the requests as
involving electronically stored information under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2016.020, subdivision (e), and Instruction No. 2, which included “metadata
pertaining to electronic DOCUMENTS, in their original file folder(s)” as part
of the ESI to be produced. (Mot. Sharon Decl., Exs. 2, pp. 1-2 [RPDs, Set Eight,
define “DOCUMENT(S)”], 8 [Plaintiff Rueda’s initial responses].)
In response to RPDs, Set Eight,
Nos. 16-40, and subject to objections, Plaintiff Rueda offered a substantive
response containing a statement of compliance offering to comply with the
production requests. (Mot. Separate Statement, pp. 29-75.)
Later, Plaintiff Rueda produced a
series of documents that Showtime described as a compilation video mixing
photographs and video clips with none of the original metadata attached to the
file. (Mot., p. 2.)
Plaintiff Rueda does not dispute
this characterization, instead arguing that Plaintiff Rueda does not have control
of the devices from which metadata could be obtained and further explaining why
Plaintiff Rueda does not have access to those devices and how Plaintiff has
already relayed these circumstances to Showtime in the past. (See Opp’n, pp.
7-10.)
Beyond the above production,
Plaintiff Rueda also amended his discovery responses to RPDs, Set Eight, Nos.
16-40, all of which now contain a substantive response: “Responding Party has
produced all non-privileged documents in his possession, custody, and control.
To the extent this Request seeks metadata, Responding Party is unable to
produce the requested metadata because, following a diligent search and a
reasonable inquiry, Responding Party has determined the metadata has been lost,
misplaced, or stolen.” (Opp’n, Khan Decl., Ex. E, pp. 17-63.)
Through the above discussed
production and his amended responses, Plaintiff has MOOTED the need for production
in relation to metadata and RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 16-40—contrasted from the
need to supplement the responses to set forth contact information for
individuals who may have control over the requested documents.
II. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.320 Generally
The Court also notes that to the
extent that Showtime seeks relief in relation to RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 16-40,
based on statements of compliance in Plaintiff’s initial December 2023
responses to these requests (Mot., pp. 8-9), those statements of compliance
were superseded in Plaintiff Rueda’s May 30, 2024, supplemental responses,
which indicate that “[Plaintiff Rueda] has produced all non-privileged
documents in his possession, custody, and control” in relation to RPDs, Set
Eight, Nos. 16-40.
Showtime’s motion is thus MOOT in
this regard.
ii. RPDs, Set
Eight, Nos. 1, 3-5, 7, 9, 10, 13-15
The Court finds in favor of
Showtime, with a caveat as to how Plaintiff should respond.
In response to RPDs, Set Eight,
Nos. 1, 3-5, 7, 9, 10, and 13-15, Plaintiff initially served statements of
compliance qualified by objections, and then served amended responses deleting
the term “relevant” from the objections. (Opp’n, Khan Decl., Ex. E, pp. 4-17
[initial and amended responses].)
The Showtime Defendants argue in
Reply that plaintiff has both claimed to have already produced all responsive non-privileged
documents, and that he will produce all responsive non-privileged documents. (Reply
at p. 5.) Rueda does not clearly indicate in the Opposition whether there are in
fact any additional responsive non-privileged documents that have not already
been produced. If there are, Rueda should indeed produce these now pursuant to
2031.320. If he has produced all such responsive documents, he should at this
time clearly so state in a verified response. 
Showtime’s motion is thus GRANTED
as to production in relation to RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 1, 3-5, 7, 9, 10, and
13-15 insofar as relief is sought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.320. (Mot., pp. 1-2 [Notice], 8-9 [explicit request for this relief].) 
C. Request for Sanctions
1. Legal
Standard
a. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310
Except in certain circumstances
involving electronic stored information, the court must impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(h).)
b. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.320
Except as related to certain ESI
production, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (b).) 
c. Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1348
The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
2. Analysis
Here, the Court has determined that
portions of Showtime’s motion are meritorious and that portions of Plaintiff
Rueda’s opposition arguments are meritorious. 
Thus, while both parties made reasonable
arguments, despite claiming that the other’s perspective lacked merit, the Court
will grant sanctions based on the fact that Plaintiff’s supplemental responses were
not served until the motion to compel was filed and an opposition was due. However,
as the Court did not find merit to all of Showtime’s arguments, the Court will
reduce the sanctions to $2000. 
Last, the Court notes that its
order is made jointly and severally against Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda and his
counsel of record, Withers Bergman LLP. 
Sanctions are thus GRANTED in part
in the amount of $2,000, as against Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda and his counsel of
record, Withers Bergman LLP, jointly and severally, to be paid at the conclusion
of the matter.
 
III. Conclusion
A. Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Production
Defendant Showtime Networks, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Provide
Further Responses to Requests for Production and Compel Compliance with
Production of Documents is MOOT in part, GRANTED in part, and DENIED in part as
follows:
(1) MOOT as to an order compelling further responses from Plaintiff Gabriel
Rueda in relation to RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 1, 3-5, 7, 9, 10, and 13-40,
specifically as relates to removing the “relevant” qualification in Plaintiff
Rueda’s initial responses to this discovery;
(2) GRANTED as to an order compelling
a further response from Plaintiff Garbriel Rueda in relation to RPDs, Set Seven
No. 56;
(3) GRANTED as to an order
compelling further responses from Plaintiff
Gabriel Rueda that “set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item” in RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 16-40;
(4) Otherwise DENIED as to an order
compelling further responses or production in relation to RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 16-40; and
(5) GRANTED as to an order
compelling Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda to
comply with statements of compliance in relation RPDs, Set Eight, Nos. 1, 3-5, 7, 9, 10, and 13-15.
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda is ordered
to produce all responses and non-privileged responsive documents to Defendant Showtime Networks, Inc. within fourteen days
of this ruling.
B. Request for Sanctions
Defendant Showtime Networks, Inc.’s Request for Monetary Sanctions in the
Amount of $6,000 is GRANTED in part in the amount of $2,000 as against
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda and his counsel of record, Withers Bergman LLP, jointly
and severally.
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda and his
counsel of record, Withers Bergman LLP, are ordered, jointly and severally, to
remit sanctions of $2,000 to Defendant Showtime
Networks, Inc. within thirty days of this ruling.