 Case Number:  24SMCV00387    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 
DEPARTMENT                      207
HEARING DATE                   January
9, 2025
CASE NUMBER                    24SMCV00387
(c/w 24STCV02896)
MOTION                                Motion
to Set Aside Entry of Default and Default Judgment
MOVING PARTY                  Defendant
City Street, Inc. dba City Street Commercial
OPPOSING PARTIES           Plaintiffs
The Holy Grail Hospitality Group, Inc.; Maire De         La Torre; and Caitlin Hunt
 
MOTION
 
Consolidated cases 24SMCV00387 and 24STCV02896 stem from a
landlord-tenant dispute.  On January 25,
2024, Cienega Ventures, LLC (“Cienega”) filed a complaint against The Holy
Grail Hospitality Group, Inc. dba Tokyo Kitchen #2 (“Holy Grail”); Maire de la
Torre (“Torre”); and Caitlin Hunt (“Hunt”) alleging two causes of action for
(1) breach of written lease and (2) breach of written guaranty, alleging Holy
Grail, Torre, and Hunt breached the commercial lease.  
 
On February 2, 2024, Holy Grail, Torre, and Hunt (together,
“Plaintiffs”) filed a separate lawsuit against Cienega, Patrick Bertranou
(“Bertranou”); City Street, Inc. dba City Street Commercial (“City Street”) and
Leslie Ann Haro (“Haro”) alleging eight causes of action for (1) breach of
written contract; (2) fraud; (3) negligent misrepresentation; (4) unfair
business practices; (5) fraud; (6) breach of duty to disclose; (7) breach of
duty of honesty; and (8) negligent misrepresentation, alleging that Cienega,
Bertranou, City Street, and Haro breached the lease agreement by providing
premises that, as it turned out, had not been properly constructed and
permitted for Holy Grail to operate as a bar on the Patio there, and allegedly
committed fraud and made misrepresentations regarding the same.
 
City Street moves to set aside the default entered against it in
24STCV02896 on April 11, 2024. 
Plaintiffs oppose the motion and City Street replies.
 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            City Street’s Request for
Judicial Notice       
 
City Street requests judicial notice of the Secretary of State website
filing for City Street, Inc., which indicates City Street’s agent for service
of process as follows:
 
Elan Kermani
280 S Beverly Dr #412
Beverly Hills, CA 90212
 
Official notices, statements, and certificates made by the Secretary
of State and by the Franchise Tax Board are properly the subject of judicial
notice as documents reflecting official acts of the state’s executive
department, pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c).  (Friends of Shingle Springs Interchange,
Inc. v. County of El Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1483–1484.)  However, “materials prepared by private
parties and merely on file with the state agencies” may not be properly judicially
noticed as an official act of a legislative, executive, or judicial department
of the United States or any state of the United States.  (People v. Thacker (1985) 175
Cal.App.3d 594, 598.)
 
Moreover, Courts may not take judicial notice of the truth hearsay
statements contained in documents filed by the parties.  (See, e.g., Lockley v. Law Office of
Cantrell, Green, Pekish, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882.)

 
Here, although the information listed on the Secretary of State’s business
search website was provided to it by a private party, the section of the
website cited is information the Secretary of State has affirmatively listed as
information of record for that entity, including the entity’s status and
standing with various agencies. 
Therefore, the Court takes judicial notice of the requested exhibit as
an official act of an executive department of the State of California, pursuant
to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c).
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs request judicial notice of the proof of service of summons
dated February 20, 2024 and filed with this Court on April 11, 2024, and the
Request for Entry of Default dated April 10, 2024, and filed with this Court on
April 11, 2024.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because these documents are part of the Court’s record for this case,
the Court may take judicial notice of them. 
(Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence and legal implications of the documents filed
in this matter as court records, but not the truth of any hearsay allegations
contained therein.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to City Street’s objections to Plaintiffs’
evidence submitted in opposition to the motion to set aside:
 
1.     Overruled
2.     Overruled
3.     Overruled
 
ANALYSIS
 
                         
I.         
DISCRETIONARY AND MANDATORY RELIEF
 
“Proceeding to judgment in the absence of a party is an extraordinary
and disfavored practice in Anglo–American jurisprudence:  The policy of the law is to have every litigated
case tried upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a party, who,
regardless of the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of the
mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.”  (Au-Yang v. Barton (1999) 21 Cal.4th
958, 963 [cleaned up].)  
 
Code of Civil procedure section 473 “includes a discretionary
provision, which applies permissively, and a mandatory provision, which applies
as of right.” (Minick v. City of Petaluma (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 25
(hereafter Minick).)  “Section 473
is a remedial statute to be “applied liberally” in favor of relief if the
opposing party will not suffer prejudice. 
Because the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits, any
doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking
relief from default.  Unless inexcusable
neglect is clear, the policy favoring trial on the merits prevails.”  (Minick, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 24
[cleaned up].)  
 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than
six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v.
The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Ca.App.4th 712, 721 [motion
for relief under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no
case exceeding six months”]).  “The
six-month limit is mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under
section 473, subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the
six-month period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 333, 340,
citations omitted.)  
 
A.   
DISCRETIONARY
RELIEF
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b), a court may “relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” 
 
B.   
MANDATORY
RELIEF 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  “In considering whether the trial court
properly denied relief under section 473(b), the first question is the
sufficiency of defendants' showing of attorney fault, if believed, to trigger
the mandatory relief provisions of that statute.”  (Standard Microsystems Corp. v. Winbond
Electronics Corp. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 868, 896, disapproved on other
grounds by Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire
Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830 (hereafter Standard).)  “Under section 473(b), a party is entitled to
relief from a default and resulting judgment whenever, on timely application
for relief, his attorney ‘attest[s] to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect’ in connection with the default or the judgment.”  (Ibid.)
 
            As a threshold matter, City Street’s
motion is untimely, as the default was entered on April 11, 2024, and the
motion to vacate/set aside the default was not filed until December 12, 2024, which
is more than six months later.    
 
Further, City Street argues that it was never properly served with the
summons and complaint because the proof of service, which indicates it was
substitute served by leaving the documents with a Hispanic male, is faulty,
because City Street does not have any Hispanic employees.  (Haro Decl. ¶ 4; Kermani Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
A summons may be served on a corporation by
delivering a copy of the summons and the complaint by any of the following
methods:
 
(a) To the person designated as agent for service
of process as provided by any provision in Section 202, 1502, 2105, or 2107 of
the Corporations Code (or Sections 3301 to 3303, inclusive, or Sections 6500 to
6504, inclusive, of the Corporations Code, as in effect on December 31, 1976,
with respect to corporations to which they remain applicable).
(b) To the president, chief executive officer, or
other head of the corporation, a vice president, a secretary or assistant
secretary, a treasurer or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief financial
officer, a general manager, or a person authorized by the corporation to
receive service of process.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 416.10, subds. (a) & (b).)
 
In lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the
summons and complaint to the person to be served as specified in Section
416.10, […], a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and
complaint during usual office hours in his or her office or, if no physical
address is known, at his or her usual mailing address, other than a United
States Postal Service post office box, with the person who is apparently in
charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint
by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place
where a copy of the summons and complaint were left. When service is effected
by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at a mailing address, it shall
be left with a person at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the
contents thereof. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the
10th day after the mailing.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (a).) 
 
            Here, the proof of service indicates
the documents were left with “John Doe” described as “(Hisp/M/30/160/5’7/Black
H/Brown E) – Employee)” at 280 S. Beverly Dr. Suite 412 in Beverly Hills, CA
90212 and was also mailed to Elan Kermani at that same address the same
day.  
 
            The address at Beverly Drive is City
Street’s registered address.  (See City
Street’s RJN Exhibit.)  Thus, the process
server left a copy of the summons and complaint with someone over the age of 18
“apparently” in charge at City Street’s registered address and subsequently
mailed a copy to City Street’s registered agent at the same address.  
 
            The Code does not require that the
person with whom the documents are left actually be in charge of City
Street’s operations.  The combination of
leaving the summons and complaint with someone who appears to be in charge,
informing that person of the contents, and subsequently mailing a copy to the
registered address is designed to give the recipient actual notice of the
lawsuit and suffices to effectuate service.
 
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, because City Street’s motion is untimely
and City Street has not demonstrated that service of the summons was improper, the
Court denies City Street’s motion to set aside the default entered against it
on April 11, 2024.   The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling. 
 
DATED:
January 9, 2025                                                       ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court