 Case Number:  23SMCV01271    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 9, 2025




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01271




MOTION


Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Sara Toribio-Ruiz




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from an automobile collision.  On March 22, 2023, Plaintiffs Sara
Toribio-Ruiz and Paul Parra brought suit against Defendants Liliana Barrios
Viamari and Michael Viamari, alleging two causes of action for (1) negligence;
and (2) loss of consortium. 
 
The Court initially set the final status conference on August 23, 2024
and the trial on  September 9, 2024.  
 
On July 25, 2024, counsel for Plaintiffs and counsel for Defendants
filed a joint stipulation to continue the final status conference and trial on
the grounds that they “have been unable to complete crucial discovery prior to
the current trial date[.]”  The Court
rejected the stipulation, expressly finding “no good cause to continue the
trial as requested as the parties have not been diligent in completing
discovery, especially non-expert discovery” but indicated it would “consider
continuing the trial if the parties schedule mediation no later than November
1, 2024.”  (Minute Order, Aug. 9, 2024.)
 
On August 23, the parties filed another joint stipulation to continue
the trial, final status conference, and related deadlines, which the Court
granted because the parties indicated they scheduled a mediation with Barry
Plotkins for November 1, 2024. 
Accordingly, the Court continued the final status conference to March
21, 2025 and the trial to April 7, 2025. 
In granting the stipulation, the Court noted, “Per the Discovery Act,
the Court orders the parties to meet and confer forthwith […] to obviate the need
for a further continuance of the Trial” and that the Court would grant “[n]o
further continuance of the Trial absent sufficient good cause.”  (Stipulation and Order, Aug. 23, 2024.)
 
Thus, the final status conference is currently scheduled for March 21,
2025, and the trial is scheduled for April 7, 2025.  
 
Plaintiff Sara Toribio-Ruiz (“Plaintiff”) now moves to continue the
trial again on the grounds that Defendants have not responded to Plaintiff’s
discovery requests, preventing Plaintiff from adequately preparing for
trial.  The motion is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c), provides:
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits.  The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include:
 
(1)  The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
 
(2)  The unavailability of a
party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(3)  The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(4)  The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice;
 
(5)  The addition of a new party
if:
 
(A)  The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
 
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
 
(6)  A party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or
 
(7)  A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.
 
Factors the Court considers in ruling on a motion for continuance
include:
 
(1)  The proximity of the trial
date;
 
(2)  Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
 
(3)  The length of the
continuance requested;
 
(4)  The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance;
 
(5)  The prejudice that parties
or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
 
(6)  If the case is entitled to
a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
 
(7)  The court's calendar and
the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;
 
(8)  Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial;
 
(9)  Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;
 
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
 
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
            As
the Court previously indicated, Counsel’s failure to timely and diligently
conduct routine non-expert discovery and file the appropriate discovery motions
does not constitute an excused inability to obtain essential testimony,
documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.      
 
Moreover, Counsel has not
detailed any efforts to obtain the requested discovery, which Counsel
propounded in April 2024, from June 13, 2024, approximately a week after the
extended deadline to provide responses, to November 7, 2024, when Counsel “sent
another email to defendant’s counsel” which defendant’s counsel ignored.  
 
            As
such, Counsel has neither demonstrated that the inability to obtain the
requested documents was excused, nor that Counsel made diligent efforts to
timely obtain them.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for a continuance of
the final status conference, trial, and related discovery cut-off dates.  In short, the Court finds no good cause to
grant another continuance of the trial.
 
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of the
Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED:  January 9, 2025                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court