 Case Number:  23SMCV01858    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January
  9, 2025




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01858
  (c/w 23SMCV04518)




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Subpoena; Monetary Sanctions




MOVING PARTY


Cross-Complainant
  Daniel Salcido, Jr.




OPPOSING PARTY


Cross-Defendant
  Miguel Anaya



 
MOTION
 
This action stems from a multi-vehicle motor collision.  On April 28, 2023, Plaintiff Sophia Kraft (“Plaintiff”
or “Kraft”) sued Defendant Miguel Anaya (“Anaya”) for motor vehicle negligence.  On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff added Defendant
Daniel Salcido, Jr. (“Salcido”) via Doe amendment.  On September 27, 2023, Salcido
cross-complained against Anaya for declaratory relief and apportionment of
fault.  On March 27, 2024, the Court
granted the good faith settlement between Kraft and Anaya, and Anaya subsequently
dismissed the original complaint.
 
On June 20, 2024, the Court consolidated 23SMCV01858 with 23SMCV04518,
filed by Plaintiff Ashlee Zamora against Anaya for motor vehicle.  
 
Salcido now moves to quash the third-party subpoena Anaya served on his
insurer, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company, seeking the entirety
of Salcido’s claims file.  Anaya opposes
the motion and Salcido replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.               
Motion to
Quash
 
If a subpoena requires the production of documents, the court may
quash the subpoena entirely or modify it. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd.
(a).) 
 
On November 5, 2024, Anaya served a business records subpoena on
Salcido’s insurer, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“State
Farm”), seeking the entirety of Salcido’s claim file, including records
relating to an incident subsequent to the accident at issue in this litigation.  (Mukhina Decl. ¶ 9 and Ex. D.)  
 
Salcido moves to quash the subpoena in its entirety on the grounds
that (1) the subpoena is overbroad and seeks irrelevant information; and (2)
the subpoena seeks the disclosure of information protected by the Insurance
Information Act, Salcido’s constitutional right to privacy, information
accumulated in anticipation of litigation, confidential settlement information,
and information violative of third party medical privacy rights.  
 
Anaya opposes the motion, arguing that it is moot because in
conferring with Salcido about the issues raised, Anaya has since withdrawn the
subpoena and intends to issue another, more narrowly-tailored subpoena.  In reply, Salcido concedes that the motion to
quash is now moot.
 
Therefore, the Court denies the Motion to Quash as moot.
 
II.            
Sanctions
 
In ruling on a motion to quash, “the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one
or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.2, subd. (a).)
 
Anaya argues that sanctions are not warranted because although it has
voluntarily agreed to narrow the scope of the requested information, all the
information previously requested in Salcido’s file is relevant to the
litigation.
 
In reply, Salcido argues that Anaya has engaged in a pattern of
discovery abuse, issuing overbroad subpoenas violative of Salcido’s and others’
privacy rights, which conduct continued after the Court’s prior order quashing
one of Anaya’s prior subpoenas and awarding monetary sanctions.
 
Those other subpoenas are not properly before the Court at this
juncture.  However, the Court generally
agrees with Salcido that information in the claims file that was either
gathered by or at the direction of an attorney in anticipation of litigation
(whether this litigation or a lawsuit pertaining to Salcido’s subsequent collision),
confidential settlement communications, Plaintiff’s medical records not
pertaining to body parts at issue in this lawsuit, and private third-party
records are protected from disclosure. 
Because Anaya has agreed to narrow the scope of the requested discovery,
the Court finds that “one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive” warranting monetary sanctions.
 
As such, the Court awards Salcido monetary sanctions in the amount of $968.91, representing 3 hours of time to
prepare the motion at counsel’s hourly rate of $300, plus the $68.91
reservation fee for the motion.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies Salcido’s Motion to Quash as moot, but
grants Salcido’s request for monetary sanctions against Anaya’s counsel, Tharpe
& Howell, in the amount of $968.91, payable to Salcido, by and through
counsel for Salcido, within thirty days of notice of this order.  
 
Salcido shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file the notice
with a proof of service forthwith. 
 
 
 
DATED:  January 9, 2025                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court