 Case Number:  23SMCV00187    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 9, 2025




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV00187




MOTION


Amend Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff and Judgment Creditor International Gems &
  Minerals, Incorporated




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
On January 18, 2023, Plaintiff (and now Judgment Creditor)
International Gems & Minerals, Incorporated (“Plaintiff”) filed suit
against Defendants Jeffrey Monroe (“Monroe”), Elizabeth Rollins (“Rollins”) and
Cabin Creek Crystals, a business entity form unknown (“Cabin Creek”), alleging
two causes of action for (1) breach of contract; and (2) common counts.
 
On May 11, 2023, the clerk granted Plaintiff’s request for voluntary
dismissal of Defendant Monroe and the Doe defendants.  
 
On June 7, 2023, Plaintiff and the remaining Defendants filed a
stipulation for entry of judgment, which the Court entered on June 20,
2023.  Defendant Rollins signed the
stipulation in her individual capacity and also on behalf of Cabin Creek
Crystals, LLC, a Nevada limited liability company doing business as Cabin Creek
Crystals.
 
Plaintiff now moves to amend the judgment entered pursuant to the
parties’ stipulation on June 20, 2023, to correct the legal name of the entity
Defendant from “Cabin Creek Crystals, a business entity unknown” to “Cabin
Creek Enterprises LLC.”
 
The Motion is unopposed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
116.560, subdivision (b) provides that “The plaintiff may request the court at
any time, whether before or after judgment, to amend the plaintiff’s claim or
judgment to include both the correct legal name and the name or names actually used
by defendant.  Upon showing good cause,
the court shall amend the claim or judgment to state the correct legal name of
the defendant, and the name or names actually used by the defendant.”
 
            Similarly, Section 116.630 provides
that “The court may, at any time after judgment, for good cause, upon motion by
a party and notice by the clerk to all affected parties at their last known
address, amend the name of any party to include both the correct legal name and
the actually used name or names of that party.” 

 
            Plaintiff has provided Cabin Creek’s
application to register a foreign limited liability company as “Cabin Creek
Enterprises LLC” signed by Elizabeth Rollins and filed with the California
Secretary of State; a copy of Cabin Creek’s website, indicating that “Cabin
Creek” was established in 2018 as a brick and mortar operation in Reno, Nevada,
but has since grown to serve the community of Santa Monica, California; and a
2022 filing for Cabin Creek Enterprises LLC filed with the California Secretary
of State and signed by Elizabeth Rollins.
 
            However, Plaintiff has not provided
a proof of service demonstrating that this motion was properly served on
Rollins or Cabin Creek.
 
Furthermore,
Plaintiff’s evidence only demonstrates that Elizabeth Rollins also created an
LLC called “Cabin Creek Enterprises LLC.” 
It does not demonstrate that Cabin Creek Enterprises LLC is the correct
legal entity name for the company doing business as “Cabin Creek Crystals.”
Notably, the stipulation was signed by Rollins on behalf of “Cabin Creek
Crystals, LLC” not “Cabin Creek Enterprises LLC.”  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion is denied without prejudice.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 
 
 
 
DATED:  January 9, 2025                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court