  Case Number:  22VECV02485    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  W ALLIANT
CAPITAL LTD., ET AL. V. SANTORO HOLDINGS LLC, ET AL.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH COURT ORDER AND ORDER
IMPOSING EVIDENCE AND ISSUE SANCTIONS AGAINST CAROLINE SMITH, AND HER COUNSEL
MARC H. RICHARDS AND MARC H. RICHARDS, APC
 
Date of Hearing:        February
28, 2024                             Trial Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV02485
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs
Alliant Capital, LTD. and ADC Communities II, LLC
Opposing Party:        No
opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 20, 2022, Plaintiffs Alliant Capital LTD
and ADC Communities II, LLC filed a complaint against Defendants Santoro
Holdings LLC, Black Swan Properties, LLC, Craig Thomas individually and as
trustee of the Carpe Vitam Revocable Trust dated July 13, 2017, Caroline Smith
individually and as trustee of the CS Administrative Trust under the Santoro
Family Trust dated September 29, 2010 for declaratory relief. Plaintiffs allege
they have been forced to bring this action for declaratory relief because, following
the death of Christopher Santoro (“Santoro”), with whom Plaintiffs developed
several substantial multi-family rental projects, the trustees of the trusts
that Plaintiffs understand hold Santoro’s interests have failed and refused,
despite multiple requests over an eight-month period, to provide Plaintiffs
with information demonstrating which of them is entitled to receive
distributions in connection with each of the subject properties. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Monetary Sanctions for Failure to Comply with Court Order and Order
Imposing Evidence and Issue Sanctions against Caroline Smith, and Her Counsel
Marc H. Richards and Marc H. Richards, APC is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiffs Alliant Capital Ltd. and ADC Communities
II, LLC move the court for: (a) an order requiring Defendant Caroline Smith,
individually and as the trustee of the CS Administrative Trust under the
Santoro Family Trust dated September 29, 2010 (“Smith”) to comply with this court’s
prior orders compelling the production of documents within 14 days; (b) an
order imposing issue and evidence sanctions as to Smith for failure to produce
documents and failure to comply with this court’s orders; and (c) an order
imposing monetary sanctions for abuse of the discovery process against Smith
and her attorney in the sum of $16,188.75, jointly and severally. This
$16,188.75 sum consists of $8,907.75 in previously ordered and unpaid
sanctions, plus $7,281.00 in sanctions in connection with this motion. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 permits
courts to impose sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that constitutes
a misuse of the discovery process. Section 2023.010 provides a non-exhaustive
list of conduct that is considered misuse of the discovery process, including
as relevant here, failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery and disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (CCP §
2023.010(d), (g).)  
 
This motion is brought on the grounds that Smith and Richards
have failed to comply with the September 12, 2023 Court Order which ordered Defendants
to respond to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests and imposed monetary sanctions in
the amount of $ 4,725.00 and the December 13, 2023 Court Order compelling
Defendants to produce all outstanding responsive documents and imposing
monetary sanctions for failure to produce documents and for failure to comply
with a court order. The issue and evidence sanctions Plaintiffs now seek are the
following: (1) that the court order and declare that Alliant has no obligation
to release any funds relating to the AVS portfolio to Caroline Smith
individually or the trust of which she is trustee; (2) that the court order and
declare that Alliant breached no obligation to and committed no misconduct with
respect to Ms. Smith individually or the trust of which she is trustee; and (3)
the court preclude Smith from making any showing or introducing any evidence
seeking or attempting to collect any monies from Alliant, through legal action,
or otherwise.
 
The court denies the motion for sanctions at this
time. The court does not see such willful misconduct deserving severe
nonmonetary sanctions. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771793
[holding that discovery sanctions should be appropriate to the dereliction, and
should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party
entitled to but denied discovery].) The court notes until Defendants partake in
their discovery obligations, however, Plaintiffs are relieved of having to
release any funds to these defendants.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Monetary Sanctions for Failure to Comply with Court
Order and Order Imposing Evidence and Issue Sanctions against Caroline Smith, and
Her Counsel Marc H. Richards and Marc H. Richards, APC is DENIED. 
 
 