  Case Number:  19STCV29783    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  A 
19STCV29783
 Ignacio Escalante v. County of Los Angeles, et al.
Tuesday,
 December 5, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE
SETTLEMENT
 
      The First Amended
Complaint, filed on May 12, 2022, alleges that Defendants violated Plaintiff’s
civil rights in violation of the Bane Act. The parties settled this case on March
23, 2023, which settlement Plaintiff now seeks to set aside.
      Plaintiff argues that
the settlement was conditioned upon Defendant, County of Los Angeles, using
their best efforts to expedite the settlement’s approval by the Los Angeles
County Board. Plaintiff argues that it has been nearly eight months since
settlement, and Plaintiff has not received the settlement funds.
      Defendant argues Plaintiff
relies on language contained in a confidential mediator’s proposal which is
irrelevant, not binding, and unenforceable. Plaintiff does not contend that
Defendant breached the agreement or that Plaintiff has been harmed. The motion
is baseless and is made for the purpose of harassing Defendant and wasting
judicial resources.
      In reply, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s opposition makes clear that Defendant did not make any
legitimate efforts to expedite the approval process. Defendant breached a material
term of the settlement agreement, and time was of the essence. 
      The Court has
discretion to set aside a stipulation for settlement “entered into through
inadvertence, excusable neglect, fraud, mistake of fact or law, where the facts
stipulated have changed or there has been a change in the underlying
conditions that could not have been anticipated, or where special
circumstances exist rendering it unjust to enforce the stipulation.” (Roth v. Morton's Chefs Services, Inc. (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 380, 385–386 [relying on Civil Procedure, section 473, which is applied
liberally “where there is a prompt request for relief and the party opposing
the motion will not suffer prejudice if relief is granted.”].)
      Plaintiff argues that
the unreasonable delay “with no valid explanation” suggests that Defendant has
“clearly not used its best efforts to expedite the approval process.” (Mot. 7:20-21.
 Defendant, however, submits evidence of
the settlement approval process which explains the delay in obtaining approval.

      After
settlement, the agreement moves to the Corrective Action Plan Phase (“CAP”),
which involves its own investigation, drafting, revision, and multiple-level
approvals. (Decl. of Lt. Brown, ¶ 5.) This process is outlined in the Sheriff’s
Department Manual of Policy and Procedures. (Decl. of Inyang, Ex. A-B.) The
agreement is then submitted to County Counsel, and then to the CEO’s office for
additional corrections, revisions, and approvals. (Id.) The delay in finally
approving the settlement agreement was due to a “restructuring” of the CAP
process. Lt. Brown anticipates the entire process will be completed the week of
November 20, 2023, and placed on the County Board’s agenda for approval. (Id.,
¶ 9.) 
      There is no evidence of
fraud, breach, of a material term, or other circumstances that would warrant
setting aside the settlement agreement. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is
DENIED. 