 Case Number:  24STCV01606    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   July
2, 2024                                        
 
CASE NAME:           Marielita
Palacios v. Lolliprops, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV01606

 
MOTION
TO DISMISS THE ACTION ON THE GROUND OF INCONVENT FORUM AND QUASH SERVICE OF
SUMMONS ON THE GROUND OF LACK OF PERSONAL JURISDICTION PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA
CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE § 418.10(a)(1)
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Lolloprops Inc. d/b/a WWW.TEMPAPER.COM
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Marielita Palacios
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order Dismissing the Complaint due to inconvenient forum;
2.      An
Order Quashing service of the summons.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Dismiss is DENIED;
2.      Motion
to Quash is GRANTED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On January 22, 2024, Plaintiff Marielita Palacios
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Lolliprops Inc., d/b/a www.tempaper.com
(Defendant) for Violation of California Invasion of Privacy Act, Penal Code
Sec. 638.51.
 
According to the Complaint, Defendant uses spyware on its website to
obtain user data in real-time and share it with others. Plaintiff is a consumer
privacy advocate who works as a tester to ensure that companies abide by the
privacy obligations imposed by law. 
 
On May 6, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to
Dismiss, or Alternatively, Motion to Quash Service of Summons. On June 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On June 25, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s requests
for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452(c), (d); See Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing Solutions, LLC (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the court only takes judicial notice of the
foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of
public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice
of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App.
5th 389, 400.)¿
 
Motion to Dismiss
 
CCP § 410.30(a) provides that “When a court upon motion of
a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice an
action should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay or
dismiss the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be
just.”  
 
Plaintiff’s choice of forum will not be disturbed unless
the court is convinced that: (1) a “suitable” alternative exists, and (2) the
balance of private and public interest factors makes it “just” that the
litigation proceed in the alternative forum. (Stangvik v. Shiley, Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744,751 (Stangvik).) After balancing the relevant
factors, the trial court decides which party will be more inconvenienced. (Rinauro v. Honda Motor Co. (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 506, 510.) 
 
Defendant bears the burden of proving the action should be
tried elsewhere. (Fox Factory, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 197, 204; see also Stangvik , supra, 54 Cal.3d at p. 751.) 
 
Motion to Quash
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time
to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow,
may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following
purposes: ¶ To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction
of the court over him or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1).)  A defendant has 30 days after the service of the summons to file
a responsive pleading, or 40 days if service was effectuated by substitute
service.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 412.20, subd. (a)(3); Code Civ. Proc., §
415.20, subd. (b).) 
 
“A motion to quash service of summons lies on the ground
that the court lacks personal . . . jurisdiction over the moving party.” 
(Greener v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd.¿(1993)
6 Cal.4th 1028, 1036, citing to Code of Civil Procedure § 418.10.) “A court of
this state may exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the
Constitution of the United States.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) “The exercise
of jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant comports with these Constitutions
if the defendant has such minimum contacts with the state that the assertion of
jurisdiction does not violate traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.” (Elkman v. National States Ins.
Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1313.) “An essential criterion in all
cases is whether the ‘quality and nature’ of the defendant’s activity is such
that it is ‘reasonable’ and ‘fair’ to require him to conduct his defense in
that state.” (Kulko v. Superior Court of
California in and for City and County of San Francisco (1978) 436 U.S. 84,
92.)  
 
“Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific.
[Citation.] ‘The nature and quality of the defendant’s contacst determine
whether jurisdiction, if exercised, is general or specific. General
jurisdiction exists when a defendant is domiciled in the forum state or his
activities there are substantial continuous, and systematic.’ [Citation.] Where
the contacts are sufficiently substantial, continuous, and systematic, it is
not necessary that the cause of action alleged be connected with the defendant’s
business relationship to the forum. [Citation.] However, ‘contacts that are
random, fortuitous, or attenuated do not rise to the minimum level, and general
jurisdiction cannot be exercised under these circumstances.’ [Citation.] If a
defendant’s contacts with the forum state are not substantial, continuous, and
systematic, the defendant may be subject to specific jurisdiction. ‘A court may
exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: (1) “the
defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits”
[citation]; (2) “the ‘controversy is related to or “arises out of” [the]
defendant’s contacts with the forum’ ” [citations]; and (3) “ ‘the assertion of
personal jurisdiction would comport with “fair play and substantial justice.” ’
” [Citations.]’ ” (Shisler v. Sanfer
Sports Cars, Inc. (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 1254, 1258-59.)  
 
Although the defendant is the moving party, the burden of
proof is on the plaintiff to demonstrate sufficient minimum contacts exist. (Milhon v. Superior Court (1985) 169
Cal.App.3d 703, 710 [“[W]hen jurisdiction is challenged by a nonresident
defendant, the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to demonstrate that
‘minimum contacts’ exists between defendant and the forum state to justify
imposition of personal jurisdiction.”]; see also Floveyor International, Ltd. V. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
789, 793.) If the plaintiff is able to meet this burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant to demonstrate the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable. (Buchanan v. Soto (2015)
241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362.)  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Motion to Dismiss
 
Defendant contends that the court should dismiss this action
because there is an enforceable forum selection clause in their website’s Terms
of Use (the Terms). Plaintiff argues that the Terms are unenforceable because
they are a browsewrap agreement. 
 
A browsewrap agreement assumes a website user’s assent to terms
and conditions of use by using the website. (Long v. Provide Commerce, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 855, 862 (Long).) There is no other affirmative
action required by the user. (Ibid.) As
such, courts enforce browsewrap agreements if “the website puts a reasonably
prudent user on inquiry notice of the terms of the contract.” (Id. at p. 863.) Hyperlinks to the terms
on a website alone is insufficient to enforce a browsewrap agreement. (Id.at p. 865.) This is especially true
for inconspicuous hyperlinks. (Id. at
p. 865-866.) 
 
Here, the browsewrap agreement is unenforceable because it
is inconspicuous. Notably, Defendant appears to concede this point and instead
asks this court to confer heightened knowledge on Plaintiff as a “tester.”
(Mot. P. 6:2-7:17.) This argument lacks authority and is implicitly disregarded
by Long. (See Long, supra, 245 Cal.App.4th at p. 865 [noting that hyperlinks must
be conspicuous even for “an especially observant Internet consumer.”)
Additionally, the Terms here are one of thirty-one hyperlinks at the bottom of
Defendant’s website and is included under the “Contact” heading. (Declaration
of Scott J. Ferrell (Ferrell Decl.) ¶ 2, Exhibit 1.) As in Long, this is not conspicuous.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss.
 
Motion to Quash
 
Alternatively, Defendant contends that the court lacks
personal jurisdiction over Defendant because it did not purposefully avail
itself of California as a forum. Plaintiff argues that Defendant does have
sufficient minimum contacts to warrant personal jurisdiction. Plaintiff
additionally requests leave to conduct jurisdictional discovery should the
court grant the motion to quash.
 
In Shisler v. Sanfer
Sports Cars, Inc. (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 1254, a California plaintiff sued
a Florida defendant over the sale of a vehicle. (Id. at p. 1257.)  The Court found that a Defendant’s
website that merely advertised vehicle and presumably provided an online
application, was not subject to specific jurisdiction in California, in part,
because there was no evidence the website targeted California residents. 
 
Indeed, “ ‘[t]he purposeful availment inquiry…focuses on the
defendant’s intentionality. [Citation.] This prong is only satisfied when the defendant purposefully and voluntarily directs
his activities toward the forum so that he should expect, by virtue of the
benefit he receives, to be subject to the Court’s jurisdiction based on’ his
contacts with the forum. [Citation.] Thus, the ‘ “purposeful availment”
requirement ensures that a defendant will not be haled into a jurisdiction
solely as a result of “random,” “fortuitous,” or “attenuated” contacts
[citatons], or of the “unilateral activity of another party or a third person.”
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Pavlovich v.
Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269.)  
 
The court of appeal in Thurnston v. Fairfield Collectibles of
Georgia, LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 1231, discussed internet websites and
purposeful availment:  
 
“To determine whether a Web site is sufficient to establish
purposeful availment, we first look to [a] sliding scale analysis ....
[Citation.] ‘At one end of the spectrum are situations where a defendant
clearly does business over the Internet. If the defendant enters into contracts
with residents of a foreign jurisdiction that involve the knowing and repeated
transmission of computer files over the Internet, personal jurisdiction is
proper. [Citation.] At the opposite end are situations where a defendant has
simply posted information on an Internet Web site which is accessible to users
in foreign jurisdictions. A passive Web site that does little more than make
information available to those who are interested in it is not grounds for the
exercise [of] personal jurisdiction. [Citation.] The middle ground is occupied
by interactive Web sites where a user can exchange information with the host
computer. In these cases, the exercise of jurisdiction is determined by
examining the level of interactivity and commercial nature of the exchange of
information that occurs on the Web site.’ [Citation.]” (Snowney v. Harrah's Entertainment, Inc., supra, 35 Cal.4th at p.
1063…)  
 
“ ‘Some courts have held that sufficient minimum contacts
are established, and the defendant is “doing business” over the Internet, where
the defendant's website is capable of accepting and does accept purchase orders
from residents of the forum state.’ [Citation.] Other courts have suggested
that ‘ “something more” ’ is necessary, such as ‘ “deliberate action” within
the forum state in the form of transactions between the defendant and residents
of the forum or conduct of the defendant purposefully directed at residents of
the forum state.’ [Citations.] Other courts ‘have criticized ... emphasis on
website interactivity’ [citation] and focus instead on ‘traditional due process
principles’ [citation], asking whether the site expressly targets ‘residents of
the forum state’ [citation]. According to these courts, ‘Website interactivity
is important only insofar as it reflects commercial activity, and then only
insofar as that commercial activity demonstrates purposeful targeting of
residents of the forum state or purposeful availment of the benefits or
privileges of the forum state.’ [Citations.]” ( **371 Snowney v. Harrah's
Entertainment, Inc., supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1064, 29 Cal.Rptr.3d 33, 112 P.3d
28.) 
 
(Thurnston v.
Fairfield Collectibles of Georgia, LLC, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p.
1237-38.)  
 
The court of appeal then went on
to summarize California case law, stating that “making a substantial number of sales of goods or services to California
residents via one’s own website constitutes purposeful availment.” (Id. at p. 40.) (Emphasis added.) Sales
must be substantial; they are not enough if they are “random, isolated, or
fortuitous.” (Id.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff
has not met her burden showing that Defendant purposefully availed itself of
California as a forum by merely operating its website. Plaintiff presents no evidence demonstrating that Defendant
targeted or made a substantial number of its sales to California residents.
Indeed, Plaintiff claims she
interacted with Defendant’s website – not any intentional interaction by
Defendant. (See generally, Complaint.) The only claim is that Defendant’s website violations a
California law. (Ibid.) This,
however, is insufficient to exercise personal jurisdiction. Likewise, Plaintiff
has failed to present any evidence, credible or othwerise, that jurisdictional
facts sought through discovery are likely to substantiate Plaintiff’s claim
that Defendant purposefully availed themselves to California jurisdiction.[1]
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion
to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED.  
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Dismiss is DENIED;
2.      Motion
to Quash is GRANTED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              July 2, 2024                            __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


