  Case Number:  23STCV29042    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   July
2, 2024                                        
 
CASE NAME:           Jane
Doe v. Medtronic PLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV29042

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND TO STAY ACTION
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Aerotek, Inc.; Joinder by Defendants Medtronic Minimed, Inc. and Jovie Quijano
(Incorrectly Sued as Juvy Quiano)
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Alma Alidio
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order Compelling Arbitration before JAMS;
2.      An
Order Staying the Action Pending Arbitration.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      The
court ORDERS this action STAYED pending arbitration.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On November 28, 2023, Plaintiff Jane Doe (Plaintiff) filed a
Complaint against Defendants Medtronic PLC, Aerotek, Inc., and Juvy Quiano
(Defendants) with ten causes of action for: (1) FEHA Violations Based Upon
Sexual Harassment, (2) FEHA Violations Based Upon Sex & Gender Discrimination,
(3) FEHA Violation Based Upon Retaliation, (4) Violation of Labor Code Section
1102.5 Subdivision (c), (5) FEHA Violations for Failure to Prevent
Discrimination, Harassment, & Retaliation, (6) Wrongful Termination in
Violation of FEHA & Public Policy, (7) Violation of Civil Code Section 43,
(8) Violation of Civil Code 52.1, (9) Sexual Battery in Violation of Cal. Civ.
Code Section 1708.5, and (10) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
Plaintiff alleges that she was employed by Defendants
Medtronic, Medtronic MiniMed, and Aerotek where she was subjected to sexual
harassment, unwanted sexual advances, threats, bullying, and sexual assault and
battery. Defendant Quijano allegedly sexually battered Plaintiff. Plaintiff
alleges she was terminated for reporting this conduct as well as for reporting
product quality issues. 
 
On November 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to
Complaint to correct the name of Defendant Juvy Quiano to Jovy Quijano.
 
On January 2, 2024, Defendant Aerotek Inc. (Aerotek) filed
an Answer.
 
On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to
Complaint to correct the name of Defendant Medtronic PLC to Medtronic, Minimed,
Inc.
 
On February 23, 2024, Defendant Medtronic MiniMed, Inc.
(Medtronic MiniMed) filed an Answer.
 
On May 6, 2024, Aerotek filed the instant Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Action.
 
On May 15, 2024, Defendant Jovie Quijano, incorrectly sued
as Juvy Quiano (Quijano) filed an Answer.
 
On May 15, 2024, Defendants Medtronic and Quijano filed a
Joinder to Aerotek’s Motion to Compel Arbitration.
 
On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint
to replace DOE 1 with Medtronic, Inc.
 
On May 31, 2024, the parties filed a Stipulation and Order
to allow Plaintiff to file a First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed Amendments to Complaint to correct
the name of Defendant Jovy Quijano to Jovie Quijano and Medtronic PLC to
Medtronic MiniMed, Inc.
 
On June 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the FAC against Defendants
Medtronic MiniMed, Inc., Medtronic, Inc., Aerotek, Inc., and Jovie Quijano. The
FAC added an eleventh cause of action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision,
Retention and/or Training.
 
On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the
Motion to Compel Arbitration. Aerotek filed a reply on June 25, 2024.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
The court
grants Aerotek’s request for judicial notice as to 1-32. (Evid. Code §
452(d), (h); See Kalnoki v. First
American Trustee Servicing Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23,37.)
However, the court only takes judicial notice of the foregoing documents only
as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public records and other
specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the
factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)¿¿ 
 
Compel Arbitration
 
Under California
law, the trial court has authority to compel arbitration pursuant to CCP
§1281.2 where a written agreement for such arbitration exists and one of the
parties refuses to arbitrate.¿ Specifically, the statute provides that, “[o]n
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
arbitrate the controversy exists.”¿ The statute further sets forth four grounds
upon which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to
compel arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a
pending action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the
same transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered
depository institution.¿ 
 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first
identified and the issue is whether that controversy is within the scope of the
contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional
Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“[A] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at
p. 1284.)¿¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Existence of an
Arbitration Agreement & Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff did not oppose the validity of the arbitration
agreement and did not oppose enforcement due to procedural or substantive unconscionability.
For completeness, the court nevertheless quickly addresses each.
 
i.                   
Existence
of an Arbitration Agreement
In determining the enforceability of an arbitration
agreement, the court considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1)
whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between the parties, and (2)
whether the agreement covered the dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).)¿
 
a.     
Agreement
Between Parties:
The moving party can meet its initial burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement by attaching a copy of the Agreement to
this motion bearing the signature of the opposing party. (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC
(2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 541-543 [“The party seeking arbitration can meet its
initial burden by attaching to the petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the¿respondent's signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving
party can meet its initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions
in the motion. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)
 
Here, Defendants established an Agreement exists by attaching
a copy of it to the instant motion. (Declaration of Lindsey Collum (Collum
Decl.) ¶ 20, Exhibits 4 & 24.) Defendants also provide evidence that
Plaintiff electronically signed the Agreement. (Collum Decl. ¶¶ 18-20.)
 
“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and
the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal. App. 5th 158,165 (Gamboa).) The evidence must be
sufficient to create a factual dispute to shift the burden back to the
arbitration proponent who retains the ultimate burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the authenticity of the signature. (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 747, 755 (Iyere).)¿ 
 
Here,
Plaintiff does not disputes that the Agreements exist.
 
Therefore,
Defendants have established that the Agreement exists.
 
b.     
Applicability
of Agreement to Subject Dispute:
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s FAC is subject to
arbitration because the dispute arose before the Ending Forced Arbitration of
Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act’s (EFAA) enactment and is otherwise
covered by the Agreement.[1]
Plaintiff argues that there was no dispute until she filed her FEHA complaint
which occurred after EFAA’s enactment. Thus, the issue is not whether the
Agreement covers the subject dispute but whether enforcing it is prohibited
under EFAA.
 
The term “sexual harassment dispute” means a dispute relating
to conduct that is alleged to constitute sexual harassment under applicable
Federal, Tribal, or State Law. (9 U.S.C.A. § 401(d).) “[A]t the election of the
person alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute . . . no
predispute arbitration agreement . . . shall be valid or enforceable with
respect to a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the . . . sexual
harassment dispute.” (Id. at §
402(a).) (italics added.) “An issue as to whether this chapter applies with
respect to a dispute shall be determined under Federal Law.” (Id. at subd. (b).) Until further
guidance from the courts of appeal, this court interprets this statute to
involve any claims related to the sexual assault or sexual harassment dispute.
 
“For a dispute to arise, a party must first assert a right,
claim, or demand.” (Kader v. Southern
California Medical Center, Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214, 218 (Kader).) While “the date that a dispute
[arose] is a fact-specific inquiry in each case . . . a dispute does not arise
solely from the alleged sexual conduct” but “arises when one party asserts a
right, claim, or demand, and the other side expresses disagreement or takes an
adversarial posture.” (Id. at p.
222.) “Until there is a conflict or a disagreement, there is nothing to resolve
in litigation.” (Id. at p. 223.) 
 
In Kader, the
Court of Appeals affirmed an order denying a motion to compel arbitration.
There, the plaintiff did not complain or tell anyone about the alleged sexual
misconduct until he filed charges with the DFEH in May 2022 – after the
enactment of EFAA. (Kader, supra, at
p. 224.) The Court found there was no evidence that the defendants “disagreed
with any claim asserted by [the plaintiff] until after he filed charges with
the DFEH.” (Ibid.) Here, unlike in Kader, there is evidence of a
disagreement because Plaintiff complained on at least two separate occasions to
Aerotek or Medtronic and they in turn acted adversely to those complaints. (FAC
¶¶ 29 [“Plaintiff’s complaints were, however, ignored and no corrective action
was taken with regards to said unwanted sexual harassment and bullying.”]
32-33, [“Plaintiff participated in a meeting with Aerotek . . . regarding the
harassment and bullying . . . During the meeting, . . . [various named
individuals] yell[ed], and act[ed] aggressively towards Plaintiff. Said
individuals pointed their fingers at Plaintiffs and threatened her to stop
reporting them to management . . . Plaintiff was not given a chance to explain
her side and the sexual harassment, bullying and hostile work environment
continued.”] 36, [“Mr. Schredle declined to accept the notes and told Plaintiff
to ‘settle it outside.’”] 37, [“Plaintiff complained to Medtronic Human
Resources . . . [who] refused to accept Plaintiff’s complaint letters and told
her . . . he would not address Plaintiff’s concerns and complaints. Plaintiff
pleaded with Mr. Short to address her concerns and take corrective actions . .
. but Mr. Short refused . . . .”] 38-39, [Plaintiff’s contract was not renewed
after the continued to complain about the hostile work environment] 43
[Plaintiff complained about continued harassment and those complaints were
ignored and Defendants “did not take any corrective action.”] 49-51 [Plaintiff
reported sexual assault to her supervisors and was terminated.])  It is clear from these excerpts that there
was a dispute before EFAA’s enactment. First, Plaintiff alleges that Mr. Short
of Medtronic “refused” to handle her complaints even though she “pleaded” with
him to do so. Second, failing to renew her employment contract and terminating
her is clearly an “adversarial response” to Plaintiff’s complaints of sexual
harassment and sexual abuse.[2]
As all of these events occurred on or before November 21, 2020, the dispute
arose before EFAA’s enactment. 
 
Therefore, arbitration is appropriate.[3]
 
ii.                 
Defenses
to Arbitration - Unconscionability
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court stated
that when determining whether an arbitration agreement was unconscionable,
there is both a procedural and a substantive element. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Service, Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 82, 114 (Armendariz)).¿¿While
Plaintiff does not argue that the Agreement is unconscionable, the court
nevertheless briefly addresses procedural and substantive unconscionability.
 
a.       Procedural Unconscionability
Courts determine whether an agreement is procedurally
unconscionable by looking at surprise and oppression. Oppression is an
“inequality of bargaining power, when one party has no real power to negotiate
or a meaningful choice. Surprise occurs when the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden.” (Carmona v. Lincoln
Millennium Car Wash, Inc.¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 (Carmona).) Examples of contracts that
are procedurally unconscionable are contracts of adhesion, which is a
“standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it.” (Armendariz, supra, at p. 113). “The
circumstances relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not limited
to (1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract;
(2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed
contract; (3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity
of the challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and
(5) whether the party’s review of the proposed contract was aided by an
attorney. (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019)
8 Cal.5th 111, 126-27 (OTO).)
 
Here, there is minimal, if any, procedural unconscionability.
“When arbitration is a condition of employment, there is inherently economic
pressure on the employee to accept arbitration. This alone is a fairly low
level of procedural unconscionability.” (Cisneros
Alvarez v. Altamed Health Services
Corporation (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 572, 591). Plaintiff could had refused to
sign the Agreement without affecting her employment status. (Collum Decl. ¶¶ 14,
17.) Plaintiff was not rushed to complete the Agreement. (Collum Decl. ¶ 9.) 
 
Accordingly, there is no procedural unconscionability.
 
b.     
Substantive
Unconscionability
“Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an
agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly harsh or
one-sided.” (Carmona, supra, at p.
85). There are five minimum substantive requirements to an enforceable
arbitration agreement: (1) neutral arbitrators, (2) more than minimal
discovery, (3) written award sufficient for judicial review, (4) all types of
relief otherwise available in court, and (5) no unreasonable costs or fees as a
condition of access. (Armendariz, supra,
at p.102.) When there is little procedural unconscionability, a party opposing
arbitration must show substantial substantive unconscionability. (Id. at 114.)
 
Here, there is minimal substantive unconscionability, if any.
First, the Agreement calls for a “single Arbitrator in California” rather than
a “neutral” Arbitrator. However, the JAMS employment arbitration rules and
procedures that are incorporated into the Agreement provide for the appointment
of a neutral arbitrator.  (JAMS Employment Arbitration Rules, Rule 7
[providing for a neutral Arbitrator] and Rule 15 [providing for a strike list
of Arbitrator candidates.]) Second, the Agreement, by incorporating the JAMS
Rules, provides for more than minimal discovery. (JAMS Employment Arbitration
Rules, Rule 17.) Third, the Agreement calls for a “final and binding written
award, subject to review on the grounds set forth in the FAA.” (Collum Decl.,
Exhibits 4, 24.) Fourth, the Agreement allows claims “subject to the same
affirmative rights to individual damages and other relief and the same
limitations regarding damages and ability to obtain other relief as would have
applied in a judicial forum.” (Ibid.)
And finally, the Plaintiff’s costs are akin to those she would expect by
proceeding in a judicial forum – initial filing fee and her own attorney’s
fees. (Ibid.)
 
Accordingly, there is no substantive unconscionability.
 
Therefore, the Agreement is enforceable and the Motion to
Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      The
court ORDERS this action STAYED pending arbitration.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              July 2, 2024                            __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


