  Case Number:  23VECV04892    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  W MICHAEL PINSON
vs LOANDEPOT.COM, LLC
 
DEMURRER OF
DEFENDANT LOANDEPOT.COM, LLC TO PLAINTIFF MICHAEL PINSON’S FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT and plaintiff’s motion for preliminary injunction
 
Date of Hearing:        June
5, 2024                                      Trial
Date:       None Set
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04892
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March, 7, 2024, Plaintiff Michael
Pinson filed a first amended complaint against Defendant LoanDEPOT.com, LLC for
1. Breach of Contract; 2. Breach of the
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 2. Violations of California Civil Code
Section 2923.7; 3. Violations of California Civil Code Section 2924.11; and 4.
Violation of Cal. Business & Professions Code section 17200, et seq. 
 
Plaintiff alleges in November 2019, Plaintiff
obtained a first-position refinance mortgage from Defendant Loan Depot in the
amount of $386,000.00. Loan Depot was also servicer of the loan. Plaintiff
alleges they elected to execute a COVID-19 forbearance agreement with Loan
Depot and stopped making payments as a result. Upon the forbearance expiring,
Plaintiff alleges he entered into a 3-month trial payment plan (“TPP 1”), which
would then convert into a loan modification upon successful completion.
Plaintiff contends Loan Depot then neglected to transfer over the paperwork
authorizing automatic withdrawal and as a result, Loan Depot did not withdraw
the payments from Plaintiff’s account and payments were therefore not made on
time and Loan Depot revoked TPP 1. After months and months of trying to resolve
the issue, Loan Depot marched towards foreclosure and recorded a Notice of
Trustee’s Sale setting the property for auction on December 14, 2023. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff Michael Pinson’s Motion for
Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant LoanDEPOT.com, LLC’s Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED, in part. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.                   
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
 
Plaintiff Michael Pinson moves for a
preliminary injunction to enjoin the foreclosure sale of his property located
at 21551 Burbank Blvd. Unit 99, Woodland Hills CA 91367 pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure sections 526, 527 and Civil Code section 2924.12. 
 
The purpose of a preliminary injunction
is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon a trial. (See¿Scaringe¿v.¿J.C.C.
Enterprises, Inc.¿(1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1536.) The status quo has been
defined to mean the last actual peaceable, uncontested status which preceded
the pending controversy. (14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v.¿VRT¿Corp.¿(1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.) Preliminary injunctive relief requires the use of
competent evidence to create a sufficient factual showing on the grounds for
relief. (See, e.g.,¿ReadyLink¿Healthcare v. Cotton¿(2005) 126
Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016;¿Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v. Green¿(1974) 41
Cal.App.3d 146, 150.) Injunctive relief may be granted based on a verified
complaint only if it contains sufficient evidentiary, not ultimate, facts. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 527(a).) For this reason, a pleading alone rarely suffices.
(Weil & Brown, California Procedure Before Trial, 9:579, 9(ll)-21 (The
Rutter Group 2007).) The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as moving party. (O’Connell
v. Superior Court¿(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.) A plaintiff seeking
injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate damages remedy at law.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 526(4);¿Thayer Plymouth Center, Inc. v. Chrysler Motors¿(1967)
255 Cal.App.2d 300, 307.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
The trial court considers two factors
in determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood
the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the
interim harm the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as
compared to the harm the defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants a
preliminary injunction. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a);¿Husain v. McDonald’s
Corp.¿(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 860, 866-67.) The balancing of harm between
the parties “involves consideration of such things as the inadequacy of other
remedies, the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving the
status quo.” (Husain, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at 867.)¿Thus, a
preliminary injunction may not issue without some showing of potential
entitlement to such relief.¿ (Doe v. Wilson¿(1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 296,
304.) The decision to grant a preliminary injunction generally lies within the
sound discretion of the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal absent
an abuse of discretion. (Thornton v. Carlson¿(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1249,
1255.)¿¿ 
¿ 
A preliminary injunction ordinarily
cannot take effect unless and until the plaintiff provides an undertaking for
damages which the enjoined defendant may sustain by reason of the injunction if
the court finally decides that the plaintiff was not entitled to the
injunction. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 529(a); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1150(f);¿City
of South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn Cemetery Assn.¿(1992) 11 Cal.App.4th
916, 920.)¿¿ 
 
Objections
 
Defendant LoanDepot.com LLC submits 62
evidentiary objections to the declaration of Michael Pinson in support of the
motion for preliminary injunction. The court OVERRULES the objections. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant LoanDepo.com LLC requests
this court take judicial notice of certain court records and recorded public
documents in support of its opposition to Plaintiff Pinson’s Motion for
Preliminary Injunction (Exhs. 1-10.) The court GRANTS Defendant’s request for
judicial notice as to the existence of these documents. 
 
Likelihood of Prevailing
 
Plaintiff argues they are likely to
prevail on their Homeowner’s Bill of Rights claims, breach of contract claim,
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing claim, and violation of
Business and Professions Code 17200. 
 
Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that he
is a borrower, as defined by Civil Code § 2920.5, and is eligible for a
foreclosure prevention alternative program offered by, or through, his mortgage
servicer. However, Defendant violated California Civil Code § 2923.7(b) by
failing to provide Plaintiff with a single point of contact who could carry out
all their statutory duties. Moreover, Defendant’s violations were material in
that they affected the loan modification review process and interfered with
Plaintiff’s ability to be reviewed for all foreclosure prevention alternatives
offered by and through Defendant. Plaintiff further shows Defendant breached
the agreement by failing to permanently modify the loan pursuant to the terms
of TPP 1 (breach of contract) and frustrated the agreeing by refusing the
payments (breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing). As a direct and
proximate result of Defendant’s unfair and unlawful conduct, Plaintiff contends
his interests in the subject property is in jeopardy, as Defendant is
unlawfully proceeding with the foreclosure process.
 
In opposition, Defendant argues (1)
Plaintiff has not proved the existence of a contract, Plaintiff was offered a Trial
Period Plan that if successfully completed may lead to a permanent
modification, but a condition precedent of the TPP was that three payments
would need to be made and they never were; (2) the Property is not Plaintiff's
primary residence and as such Plaintiff is not entitled to relief under HBOR;
(3) the moving papers are not supported by competent and admissible evidence;
and (4) Plaintiff have failed to meet their burden of showing they have a
reasonable probability of prevailing on the merits at trial. 
 
Defendant first contends HBOR does not
apply to Plaintiff because Plaintiff has admitted in multiple applications for
a loan modification that the Property is not owner-occupied, but renter occupied.
Furthermore, Plaintiff's address for mailing correspondence has been several
addresses other than the Property. Section 2924.15 defines the term
“owner-occupied” to mean "the property is the principal residence of the
borrower and is security for a loan made for personal, family, or household
purposes.” (Adams v. Bank of America, N.A. (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 666,
672.) 
 
The court finds that for purposes of
this motion, plaintiff has adequately attested that the subject property was
his primary residence.  That he travelled
and worked remotely during a certain period of time, as he attests  in his declaration, does not negate the fact
that the property was his primary residence. 
While defendant has presented some evidence that in other property
documents he has at times given other addresses as his residence, the times are
uncertain and do not precisely match the period in which he seeks to invoke the
protections of HBOR.  It is true that in
various loan modification documents he indicated that the property was
renter-occupied, but in the same documents, he continued to state that it was
his primary residence.   It will be for a
trier of fact to ultimately decide whether the property was his primary
residence or not.  
 
Lastly, Defendant argues Plaintiff has
failed to meet their burden of showing that they have any reasonable likelihood
of prevailing on the merits of their claims. First, Defendant asserts the
breach of contract claim fails because the TPP was only an offer and even so,
Plaintiff did not perform under the required condition precedent. Defendant also
refers to a phone call Plaintiff had with a customer advocate, Tanjala Porter
who informed Plaintiff there was no record of any TPP payments. The court finds
Plaintiff has sufficiently demonstrated the existence of a contract (TPP 1) and
Plaintiff performed their portion of the contract (attempted to pay). Moreover,
as for the phone call with Ms. Porter, Ms. Porter advised Plaintiff that the
TPP was still open but also advised Plaintiff that she was reaching out to her
manager to investigate the issue. As such, it could be found that Plaintiff
never knew the issue would not be remedied. 
 
Defendant makes the same arguments for
the breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing claims. Again, the court
finds Plaintiff has submitted competent evidence of an actual agreement between
the parties and Plaintiff’s performance. 
 
Defendant next argues Plaintiff cannot
show a reasonable likelihood of prevailing on the Civil Code §2923.7 cause of
action or Civil Code 2924.11 cause of action. Defendant contends the evidence
presented by loanDepot shows that Plaintiff had a SPOC that was able to fulfill
the statutorily required duties. Moreover, the violation is only actionable
when the violation is material. As for Civil Code section 2924.11, Defendant
contends there was no permanent modification and there are no allegations that
Plaintiff had satisfied subsections (b)(1) or (1). 
 
Defendant does provide evidence they
assigned a SPOC and Plaintiff spoke with them. However, the evidence
establishes the SPOC failed to carry out all of their statutory duties.
Moreover, Plaintiff has sufficiently demonstrated Defendant breached the TPP 1
by failing to withdraw the auto drafts as agreed upon and permanently modify
the loan pursuant to the terms of TPP 1. (See West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 797 holding when a borrower complies with
all the terms of a trial period plan (TPP) and the borrower's representations
remain true and correct, the loan servicer must offer the borrower a good-faith
permanent loan modification.) However, as noted above, Plaintiff has not
sufficiently demonstrated the property was owner occupied under the Homeowner’s
Bill of Rights. 
 
Lastly, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s
cause of action for violation of California’s unfair competition law is
predicated on Plaintiff’s HBOR claims and since those claims fail, this cause
of action must fail as well.  As the
court believes plaintiff has presented sufficient evidence to support his HBOR
claims, defendant’s argument fails. 
 
Based on the review of the above, the
court finds that Plaintiff is likely to prevail on at least some of the merits.

 
Irreparable Harm 
 
The court does find that Plaintiff will
suffer irreparable harm. If the preliminary injunction is not granted,
Plaintiff’s property will be foreclosed on. However, the court is also
cognizant of the fact that Defendant will also suffer prejudice as it would
further delay is recovery of recovery of money owed. When trying to balance the
harms to each party, the court finds that Plaintiff will suffer more prejudice
than Defendant if the preliminary injunction is not granted. As indicated,
Plaintiff will lose their property to a foreclosure sale. Defendant’s prejudice
is merely that they will be further delayed in obtaining their contractual
remedies. Based on this, the court finds that Plaintiffs will be irreparably
harmed.  
 
Bond

 
Defendant asks Plaintiff be required to
post a bond to compensate loanDepot for all reasonably foreseeable damages that
may be proximately caused by issuance of the injunction. loanDepot requests a
bond in the amount equal to the current delinquency, plus any monthly mortgage
payments accruing during the pendency of the injunction, and the anticipated
attorney's fees and costs to be incurred in this lawsuit.
 
A party who requests an injunction must
also present an undertaking to compensate the defendant for his harms if the
defendant prevails. (CCP § 529(a).)
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues since there
is sufficient security interest, the only requirement for imposing the bond
that Plaintiff keep up the taxes and insurance during the course of the
injunction, in order to protect Defendant’s security interest. (See Abba
Ruber Co. Seaquist (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1.) Moreover, Defendant has not
established any harm that would result from the issuance of the injunction. In
fact, Defendant cites no harm whatsoever that it would face if the injunction
were imposed. Plaintiff contends if the court is inclined to issue a bond,
Plaintiffs ask the court to enter a de minimis undertaking equal to one payment
under the 2022 TPP. 
 
As a condition of entering a
preliminary injunction, the court requires plaintiff to pay the taxes and
insurance on the property and to provide proof of payment to defendant
(recipient to be designated by defendant). 
In addition, plaintiff is to post an undertaking in an amount to be
determined at the hearing of this matter. 
 
II.                 
DEMURRER
 
Defendant demurs to the first amended
complaint on the grounds the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to state
a valid claim against loanDepot.
 
Request for Judicial Notice 
 
Defendant
LoanDEPOT.com, LLC requests this court take judicial notice the following
documents: (1) Loandepot.com, LLC Deed of Trust recorded in the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office on November 1, 2019, as Document No. 20191184312 (Exh
1); (2) Notice of Default recorded in the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office
on April 3, 2023, as Document No. 20230209144 (Exh. 2); and (3) Notice of
Trustee’s Sale recorded in the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on July 11,
2023, as Document No. 20230452157 (Exh. 3). 
 
The court
GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff Pinson requests this court take judicial notice of the Declaration
of Michael Pinson in Support of Motion For Preliminary Injunction, filed on
April 25, 2024 in Case Number 23VECV04892 of the Los Angeles County Superior
Court (Exh. 1). 
 
Defendant
objects to the request for judicial notice on the grounds the document is
irrelevant and is an out of court statement offered to prove the truth of the
matter. While the Court may take judicial notice of the document, the Court may
not take judicial notice of the truth of its contents. (See Herrera v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) Accordingly,
the court will take judicial notice of the existence of the declaration
submitted in support of the preliminary injunction only. The other objections
are sustained. 
 
First Cause of Action
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause of
action for breach of contract on the grounds Plaintiff fails to allege
sufficient facts regarding the existence of the contract to show a breach of
contract and provides no justifiable excuse for nonperformance.
 
“The standard elements of a claim for
breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) “A written contract may be pleaded by its
terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to
the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect.” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff admits in
his FAC “Plaintiff no longer has a copy of TPP 1 but remembers returning the 50
to 100 page packet immediately.” (FAC, ¶¶ 15, 35). Accordingly, Plaintiff has a
duty to either allege the relevant terms of the written contract or attach the
contract to his operative complaint. Moreover, Plaintiff’s alleged loan
modification was a not a final and binding loan modification, as Plaintiff
alleges he was approved for a “3-month trial payment plan, which would convert
into a loan modification upon successful completion.” (FAC, ¶ 14). Thus,
Plaintiff has failed to properly allege the existence of a contract between him
and loanDepot. Lastly, Defendants contend Plaintiff admittedly did not perform
under the required condition precedent under the alleged contract (making his
TPP payments) and Plaintiff never bothered to try to make the first TPP
payment, which was a condition precedent for a permanent loan modification.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues they
have plainly alleged that the modification terms were evidenced in writing,
that the TPP 1 was supposed to convert into a permanent modification that modified
his payments and despite Defendant’s contention otherwise, Plaintiff has
alleged performance and Defendant’s interference therewith. Per Defendant’s
instructions on how to accept the TPP, Plaintiff contacted Defendant and had
his account set up to auto draw the three TPP payments. By failing to
permanently modify the loan pursuant to the terms of TPP 1, Defendant thereby
breached TPP 1. 
 
The court finds Plaintiff’s breach of
contract allegations are sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. Taking the
allegations as true, Plaintiffs allege in March 2022, Plaintiff entered into a
valid contract (TPP 1), whereby Defendants agreed to modify Plaintiffs’ loan
according to the terms set out in the agreement. (FAC ¶34.) Per the terms of
the TPP 1, Plaintiff’s monthly payments were lowered approximately $200 per
month. (FAC ¶35.) Additionally, LoanDepot advised that all Plaintiff had to do
was schedule the three payments via auto draft, which Plaintiff did. (FAC ¶35.)
TPP 1 required Defendant to accept Plaintiff’s TPP payments and modify
Plaintiff’s performance under TPP 1. (FAC ¶35.) Moreover, Plaintiff alleges
Defendant breached the TPP 1 by failing to withdraw the auto drafts as agreed
upon and permanently modify the loan pursuant to the terms of TPP 1. (FAC ¶¶37,
39.) 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Second Cause of Action
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of
action for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing on the grounds
it is duplicative of the first cause of action for breach of contract. 
 
The covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is implied by law in every contract, and it acts “as a supplement to
the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging
in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants)
frustrates the other party’s rights to the benefits of the contract.” (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-1032.) When the allegations for breach of the
implied covenant “do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach,”
then demurrer to the implied covenant claim may be sustained on the grounds
that it is duplicative of, and entirely contained within, the corresponding
breach of contract claim. (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business
Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 139.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff has failed
to prove the existence of the alleged contract, or how his non-performance was
excused. Simply, Plaintiff seeks to impose a duty upon loanDepot that never
existed, which is improper and cannot serve as the basis for a breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
Plaintiff avers for the same reasons in
the breach of contract section, Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action
fail. The court agrees. Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged Defendant’s breached
the TPP 1. Moreover, the instant claim goes beyond the breach of contract claim
as Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s conduct frustrated Plaintiff’s rights to the
benefits of the contract. (See FAC ¶¶51-53.) 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the second
cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Third Cause of Action 
 
Defendant demurs to the third cause of
action for violation of Civil Code section 2923.7 on the grounds the claim is
non actionable. 
 
Civil Code section 2923.7 provides that
a mortgage servicer must promptly establish a single point of contact when a
borrower requests foreclosure prevention alternatives. The single point of contact shall be responsible for: communicating
the process by which a borrower may apply for an available foreclosure
prevention alternative and the deadline for any required submissions to be
considered for these options; coordinating receipt of all documents associated
with available foreclosure prevention alternatives and notifying the borrower
of any missing documents necessary to complete the application; having access
to current information and personnel sufficient to timely, accurately, and
adequately inform the borrower of the current status of the foreclosure
prevention alternative; ensuring that a borrower is considered for all
foreclosure prevention alternatives offered by, or through, the mortgage
servicer, if any; and having access to individuals with the ability and
authority to stop foreclosure proceedings when necessary. 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff has not
plead sufficient facts to show that he requested a foreclosure prevention
alternative from loanDepot as required by California Civil Code § 2923.7(a). Plaintiff
admits in his FAC that he was offered an alleged loan modification. (FAC, ¶
14). As such, there is no requirement under HBOR for loanDepot to appoint a
SPOC as Plaintiff has stated he was allegedly approved for a foreclosure prevention
alternative. Further, Plaintiff still has not pled sufficient facts to show
that Defendants materially violated California Civil Code § 2923.7.  
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant
violated California Civil Code § 2923.7(b) by failing to provide Plaintiff with
a single point of contact who could carry out all their statutory duties. Moreover,
Plaintiff properly alleged he requested a foreclosure protection alternative. (FAC
at ¶ 12-13, 22-23, 28.) A borrower is not required to make an explicit request
for a single point of contact in order to invoke the protections of Civil Code
§ 2923.7. (Morris v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 279,
301.) Moreover, the violations were material as in that they affected the loan
modification review process and interfered with Plaintiff’s ability to be
reviewed for all foreclosure prevention alternatives offered by and through
Defendant. (FAC ¶59-62.) 
 
The court finds the claim for violation
of Civil Code section 2923.7 sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. When
applying for the loan modification (FAC ¶22), Plaintiff requested a foreclosure
prevention alternative. This would be a explicit request. The request for a
SPOC does not need to be explicit (see Morris, supra, 78
Cal.App.5th at p. 301.) Additionally, the court finds the complaint
sufficiently alleges a material violation. As noted above, “[a] material
violation is one that affected the borrower's loan obligations, disrupted the
borrower's loan-modification process, or otherwise harmed the borrower.” (Billesbach
v. Specialized Loan Servicing LLC (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 830, 837.) Here,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges the violation disrupted Plaintiff’s
loan-modification process by forcing him to speak to multiple people, none of
whom could inform him of the status of his application, failing to notify
Plaintiff of missing documents, and failing to timely inform Plaintiff of the
status of the loan. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third
cause of action is OVERRULED.  
 
Fourth Cause of Action
 
Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of
action for violation of Civil Code section 2924.11 on the grounds fails to
state sufficient facts. 
 
California Civil Code § 2924.11(c)
provides “[w]hen a borrower accepts an offered first lien loan modification or
other foreclosure prevention alternative, the mortgage servicer shall provide
the borrower with a copy of the fully executed loan modification agreement or
agreement evidencing the foreclosure prevention alternative following receipt
of the executed copy from the borrower.” “If a borrower has been approved in
writing for a first lien loan modification or other foreclosure prevention
alternative, and the servicing of that borrower's loan is transferred or sold
to another mortgage servicer, the subsequent mortgage servicer shall continue
to honor any previously approved first lien loan modification or other
foreclosure prevention alternative, in accordance with the provisions of the
act that added this section.” (Civ. Code §2924.11(g).) 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff fails to
plead any facts to show that a permanent modification was signed by both
parties, much less attach a copy of the putative “loan modification” to the
FAC. Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to show that a foreclosure prevention
alternative was ever approved in writing or that a permanent foreclosure
alternative was ever executed between the parties. Further, there are no
allegations by Plaintiff that he satisfied subsections (b)(1) and (2) of
Section 2924.11, which outline that if a foreclosure prevention alternative has
been approved in writing after the recordation of a notice of a default, a
mortgage servicer, mortgagee, trustee, beneficiary, or authorized agent shall
not record a notice of sale or conduct a trustee’s sale if 1) the borrower is
in compliance with the terms of a written trial or permanent loan modification,
forbearance, or repayment plan or 2) a foreclosure prevention alternative has
been approved in writing by all parties. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant
Loan Depot violated Civ. Code § 2924.11(c) because after Plaintiff successfully
accepted TPP 1, which would have resulted in a permanent loan modification,
Plaintiff did not receive any copy of an agreement evidencing the acceptance of
the foreclosure prevention alternative. Moreover, Defendant violated Civil Code
§ 2924.11(g) by failing to honor the terms of TPP 1 after it acquired the
servicing of Plaintiff’s loan while the first TPP was still pending. 
 
The court finds the allegations for
violation of Civil Code section 2924.11(c) sufficient for the purposes of a
demurrer. The court notes the complaint does not actually allege that the loan
modification or foreclosure prevention alternative was approved. The complaint
merely alleges that the 3-month trial payment plan would convert into a loan
modification upon successful completion. (Civ. Code §2924.11(g).) However, the
complaint sufficiently alleges Plaintiff accepted the TPP 1 which included the
loan modification and Defendant failed to provide a copy upon receipt of the
executed copy of the borrower. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action 
 
Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of
action for violation of Business and Professions code 17200 on the grounds the
claim fails to state sufficient facts against Defendant. 
 
To successfully plead a UCL claim for
unfair business practices, a plaintiff must allege facts justifying relief in
the form of protecting the public from unfair business practices or deceptive
advertising. (Day v. AT&T Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 325, 331-332.)
A plaintiff must plead and prove that the defendant engaged in a business
practice that was either unlawful (i.e., is forbidden by law) or unfair (i.e.,
harm to victim outweighs any benefit) or fraudulent (i.e., is likely to deceive
members of the public).  (Albillo v. Intermodal Container Services,
Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 190, 206.) 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff pleads in a conclusory
fashion simply that loanDepot’s violations of California Civil Code § 2923,
breach of contract and breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing
constitute unfair business practices in violation of California Business and
Professions Code § 17200, et seq. Plaintiff has not shown how loanDepot’s
alleged conduct was immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous, etc.
Moreover, Plaintiff fails to allege any facts suggesting a causal relationship
between the supposed harm he has suffered, and Defendants alleged unfair,
unlawful, or fraudulent conduct. 

The court finds the allegations insufficient. Plaintiff allege unlawful
business practice when Defendant allegedly violated California Civil Code
sections 2923. However, Plaintiff has not alleged injury in fact. “This
requires a plaintiff to ‘(1) establish a loss or deprivation of money or
property sufficient to qualify as injury in fact, i.e., economic injury, and
(2) show that that economic injury was the result of, i.e., caused by, the
unfair business practice or false advertising that is the gravamen of the
claim.’” (Majd v. Bank of America, N.A. (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 1293,
1304.) Imminent loss of the home is not sufficient.   Plaintiff must allege the nature of the loss
and delete the reference to emotional distress damages (the entirety of Paragraph
77), as such damages are not available as remedies under the UCL.  
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 