 Case Number:  23STCV02290    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On February
2, 2023, Plaintiffs Bayron Gonzalez and Andrew Zaldivar (“Plaintiffs”) filed
this action against Defendant Kurtis Dale Kitchens, Just Pushing Dirt, Inc.,
and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle negligence, negligence per se, and negligent
hiring, retention, and supervision. 
On
June 23, 2023, Defendants Kurtis Kitchens (“Kitchens”) and Just Pushing Dirt,
Inc. (“JPD”) filed an answer. 
On
October 3, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file an amended
complaint.  The motion was set for
hearing on November 19, 2024.  On
November 4, 2024, Defendants Kitchens and JPD ("Defendants") filed an opposition.  On November 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for February 3, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court for leave to file a first amended complaint adding a claim for punitive
damages and related allegations. 
Defendants
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Leave to amend complaint 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily, the judge will not consider the validity
of the proposed amended pleading in deciding whether to grant leave to amend. .
. . After leave to amend is granted, the opposing party will have the
opportunity to attack the validity of the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice
Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189 to 6-190.) 
B.   Punitive damages 
Civil
Code section 3294 provides in part: 
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant. 
“(b) An employer shall not be
liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee
of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of
the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights
or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which
the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and
conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud,
or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation. 
“(c) As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply: 
“(1) ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
“(2) ‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
“(3) ‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. . . .” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subds.
(a), (b), (c).) 
“In
addition to the requirement that the complaint set forth the elements as stated
in [Civil Code] section 3294, it must include specific factual allegations
showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to
support a claim for punitive damages.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137,
1193, citing Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872 (Brousseau).)
“Punitive damages may not be pleaded generally.”  (Ibid., citing Brousseau,
supra, 73 Cal.App.3d at p. 872.) 
“Simple
negligence will not justify an award of punitive damages.” (Spencer v. San
Francisco Brick Co. (1907) 5 Cal.App.126, 128.)
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiffs’ complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On December
14, 2021, Kitchens suddenly made an improper left-hand turn while driving JPD’s
Ford F-350 truck.  After illegally
maneuvering the truck over train tracks, through a red light, and around a cone
barricade, Kitchens collided with the vehicle in which Plaintiffs were
traveling as passengers, injuring Plaintiffs. 
The collision took place at or near the intersection of Exposition
Boulevard and Bill Robertson Lane in the City of Los Angeles. 
Kitchens
was driving JPD’s truck as an authorized (or at least as an apparent) agent of
and/or within the course and scope of his employment with JPD. 
Kitchens
and JPD “negligently, carelessly, recklessly, unskillfully, unlawfully,
tortuously, wrongfully, wantonly, maliciously, willfully, oppressively, and
despicably entrusted, managed, maintained, operated, controlled and/or drove
the TRUCK at issue in this case.” 
(Complaint ¶ 21.) 
The
complaint prayed for special and general damages. 
B.   Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend the complaint 
Plaintiffs
move for leave to amend their complaint to add new factual allegations and a
prayer for punitive damages against Kitchens and JPD.  To support a punitive damage claim against
Kitchens, Plaintiffs propose amending their complaint to allege that Kitchens saw
but deliberately ignored traffic control devices when he drove into the
intersection and collided with Plaintiffs, showing a conscious disregard for
the safety of others.  To support a
punitive damage claim against JPD, Plaintiffs propose amending their complaint
to allege (1) JPD acted with malice, oppression, and conscious disregard for
the safety of others because it allowed individuals to drive heavy machinery
without proper training, knew or should have known that Kitchens did not have
proper safety training, and failed to implement proper safety training, policies
and procedures and (2) Kitchens was JPD’s president, knew about his lack of
training, and was in a position to implement safety policies, procedures, and
trainings. 
Defendants
ask the Court to deny the motion, arguing the proposed amendments do not allege
facts that support a claim for punitive damages. The Court does not consider
the validity of the amended pleading on a motion for leave to amend the
complaint.  (See Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp.
6-189 to 6-190.) 
The
Court finds that the amendments do not prejudice Defendants.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion for leave to file a first amended complaint filed by
Plaintiffs Bayron Gonzalez and Andrew Zaldivar.  Plaintiffs are
ordered to file and serve their first amended complaint within 30 days of the
hearing on this motion.  (The Court does not deem served the first amended complaint attached to Plaintiffs' motion.) 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.