 Case Number:  23STCV07615    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 6, 2023, Plaintiff Ivan Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“Defendant”) and Does 1-26 for negligence. 
On August
20, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer with 30 days leave to amend.
The Court also granted in part Defendant’s motion to strike, striking the last
sentence of paragraph 20 of the complaint, which stated: “Defendants, and each
of them, negligently failed to take steps to either make the condition safe or
warn Plaintiff of the dangerous condition, thereby causing the hereinafter
described injuries and damages to Plaintiff.”  In addition, the Court struck the request for
attorney’s fees in the complaint’s prayer for relief. The Court granted 30 days
leave to amend the complaint. 
On
September 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendant
and Does 1-26 for negligence. 
On
October 15, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer. 
The demurrer was set for hearing on November 19, 2024.  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 19, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Defendant
asks the Court to sustain the demurrer to the first amended complaint without leave to amend. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:
* * *
 “(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any
ground for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the
face thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25, emphasis omitted
(Cal. Practice Guide).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The first amended complaint 
The first
amended complaint includes the following allegations: 
On
or about August 29, 2022, at or near the intersection of San Vicente Boulevard
and Carrillo Drive in the City of Los Angeles, Defendants negligently entrusted, maintained, controlled, managed,
drove, manufactured, operated, repaired, distributed, inspected, and repaired [an]
automobile, causing it to collide with Plaintiff’s vehicle, injuring
Plaintiff and damaging his vehicle. 
In
paragraph 14, the first amended complaint alleges: 
“[Defendant] is liable for the wrongful acts of its
employees/agents hired by [Defendant], SUCH AS OPERATOR 25476, who, upon
information and belief, was working for [Defendant] within the course and scope
of employment/agency with [Defendant] at the time of the traffic collision
described herein and who, by wrongful acts as alleged herein (including
negligence), actually and proximately caused Plaintiffs’ injuries and damages.” 
B.   Defendant’s demurrer to the first amended complaint 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not cured the defect which the Court identified in
the original complaint.  The Court found
that the original complaint did not plead with particularity facts that support
a claim against a public entity under Vehicle Code section 17001 because it did
not allege facts describing the nature of the alleged “wrongful act or
omission” or “negligence” of Defendant or its agents or employees. 
The
first amended complaint alleges that Defendant failed to use ordinary care to
prevent Plaintiff’s injury (FAC ¶ 17), was negligent (FAC ¶ 17), and “negligently
entrusted, maintained, controlled, managed, drove, manufactured, operated,
repaired, distributed, inspected, and repaired [Defendant’s] automobile” (FAC ¶
19). 
The
first amended complaint, like the original complaint, does not plead with particularity facts that support a claim against a public entity.  The Court sustains the demurrer with leave to
amend. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court SUSTAINS Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority’s demurrer to Plaintiff Ivan Garcia's first amended complaint with 30 days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.