  Case Number:  21CHCV00467    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 7-18-24
Case # 21CHCV00467, Vanessa Silvas vs. Central Valley
Occupational Medical Group, Inc., et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITH
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Prohealth Profession Services,
LLC, Regency Surgery Center, Central Valley Occupational Medical Group, Inc.,
Pro-Health Valley Occupational Medical Group, Inc., and Sean Younai
(Defendants)
RESPONDING PARTIES: Plaintiff Vanessa Silvas
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint (FAC)
·        
Entire Complaint
·        
8th Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
·        
9th Cause of Action for Racial
Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA
·        
10th Cause of Action for Sexual
Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA
·        
11th Cause of Action for Sexual
Harassment in Violation of the FEHA
·        
12th Cause of Action for Retaliation
in Violation of the FEHA
·        
13th Cause of Action for Failure to
Prevent Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA
·        
14th Cause of Action for Wrongful
Termination in Violation of the FEHA
·        
15th Cause of Action for Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy
 
Motion to Strike
·        
The FAC and Ms. Grau’s declaration in their
entirety
·        
Causes of Action Eight through Fifteen (barred
by the statute of limitations)
·        
Cause of Action Thirteen because the Court
already ruled that there is no private right of action for this claim
·        
Causes of Action Fourteen and Fifteen for
distinct reasons
·        
Paragraphs 133 through 142 for attorney fees
·        
Paragraph 9 of the FAC’s Prayer for Relief for
attorney fees
·        
References to Defendants Regency and CVOMG
·        
Paragraph 6.d.
·        
Paragraph 7
 
RULING: Demurrer is sustained to the entire
complaint. Motion to strike is moot.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
This is an employment law case arising from Plaintiff
Vanessa Silvas’s (Plaintiff) alleged wrongful termination. Plaintiff filed her
suit against Defendants on June 22, 2021. On October 13, 2023, this Court
ordered Plaintiff to do one of two things: substitute the trustee from her
bankruptcy case as the real party in interest, or secure proof of abandonment
of the claims.
 
On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) with a declaration from Plaintiff’s counsel. Attached to that
declaration was what is purported to be an email from Plaintiff’s bankruptcy
trustee, Diane Weil. Weil herself did not authenticate the email, and even if
it were authenticated, there is no way to tell from the email whether all
claims related to Plaintiff’s bankruptcy have been abandoned.
 
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s FAC on the basis that Plaintiff
failed to follow the Court’s order from October 13, 2023, that granted
Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings and ordered Plaintiff to file
a FAC substituting in the bankruptcy Trustee as the real party in interest or
secure proof of abandonment of the claims against her. Defendants argue that
Plaintiff therefore lacks standing. Defendant argues that the purported email
is insufficient to demonstrate abandonment and also constitutes hearsay.
 
On March 25, 2024, the hearing on Defendants’ demurrer
was held. This Court requested supplemental briefing to determine what
constitutes proof of abandonment because the email submitted by Plaintiff
appeared to be insufficient to demonstrate abandonment. Defendants submitted
their initial supplemental brief on June 3, 2024. Plaintiff filed her reply on
June 17, 2024. Defendants filed their response brief to Plaintiff’s reply on
July 1, 2024.
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Kelsi
D. Grau:
            Sustained:
1, 2, 3
            Overruled:
None
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of
Lauren Katunich:
            Sustained: 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11
            Overruled:
None
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Kelsi
D. Grau in support of Plaintiff’s opposition:
            Sustained:
2, 3, 6
            Overruled:
1, 4, 5 (emails sent by Ms. Grau)
 
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice: Plaintiff has
requested that the Court take judicial notice of the Tolling Agreement that between
Plaintiff and Defendant Prohealth. Plaintiff has not provided a sufficient
basis for judicial notice of this document, so the Court declines to take
judicial notice of it.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th
518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally construes the
complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist.
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Entire Complaint
The Court previously found that the information presented
regarding Plaintiff’s bankruptcy status was insufficient for the Court to determine
whether Ms. Silvas may proceed as the Plaintiff in this case. It was impossible
to tell from the email exhibit that Plaintiff submitted with her amended
complaint whether her bankruptcy case had been abandoned in its entirety. The
Court required supplemental briefing as to what constitutes proof of
abandonment of the bankruptcy case.
 
The parties submitted their supplemental briefing.
Defendants provided authority in their supplemental brief that shows that the
only way for Plaintiff to secure proof of abandonment was to obtain an order for
abandonment from the bankruptcy court. (See Fed. R. Bankr. Proc. 6007.) Pursuant
to Federal Rule of Bankruptcy Procedure 6007, the trustee or debtor in
possession must first give notice of the proposed abandonment or disposition of
property to the trustee and all creditors. (Id.) A party in interest may
then move to abandon property of the estate. (Id.) “If the [bankruptcy]
court grants the motion, the order affects the trustee’s or debtor in
possession’s abandonment….” (Id. See also, C.D. Cal. Local Bankr. R.
6007-1 (“Notice of either an intent to abandon or motion to compel abandonment
must (a) describe the property to be abandoned…; (b) state the basis upon which
the party seeking abandonment concludes that the property is burdensome to the
estate or that it is of inconsequential value or benefit to the estate; and (c)
…any objection….”).)
 
The Court of Appeal in Bostanian v. Liberty Savings Bank
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 1075, 1079, stated, “[T]he bankruptcy court supervises
the liquidation of failed chapter 7 debtors, who can begin or maintain lawsuits
in their own name only with the bankruptcy court’s and trustee’s approval.” The
Court of Appeal in Bostanian concluded, “…[T]he debtor must take
affirmative steps to comply with section 554 concerning abandonment. Until the
debtor secures an abandonment of the claim, the debtor lacks standing to pursue
it.” (Id. at 1083.) The Bostanian Court noted, “Abandonment…is
governed by section 554. Pursuant to that section, a trustee may abandon estate
property ‘[a]fter notice and a hearing,’ or the court may order abandonment
‘[o]n request of a party in interest and after notice and a hearing.’ (§
554(a), (b).)” (Id. at 1086.)
 
In Plaintiff’s reply brief, she provides no evidence that the
procedural steps for demonstrating abandonment were taken. Instead, she argues
that it was unnecessary to take those procedural steps because abandonment may
also be accomplished through the closure of the case: “(c) Unless the court
orders otherwise, any property scheduled under section 521(a)(1) of this title
not otherwise administered at the time of the closing of a case is abandoned to
the debtor and administered for purposes of section 350 of this title.” (11 USC
§ 554(c).) Plaintiff further argues that the email she submitted as evidence of
the abandonment is sufficient because it demonstrates that the case was closed
on October 29, 2021. However, the Court will note that it has sustained
Defendants’ evidentiary objection to this email as inadmissible hearsay.
Plaintiff also failed to authenticate the email.
 
Defendants argue in their response to Plaintiff’s brief that
the email does not constitute proof of abandonment because it is hearsay.
Plaintiff’s opposition to demurrer only included a declaration from Plaintiff’s
counsel and did not include a declaration from the alleged sender of the email,
Ms. Weil. Defendants argue that Plaintiff has done nothing since the Court
Order on March 25, 2024, to provide decisive determination as to the
authenticity of that email or any other proof of abandonment. Furthermore, as
this Court previously noted, there was no way to tell from that email whether
all claims related to Plaintiff’s bankruptcy have been abandoned.
 
Defendants also argue that 11 USC § 554(c) would not apply
in this case because it only applies to scheduled claims, and Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s claims were unscheduled. Regardless, Plaintiff was given the
opportunity to provide proof of abandonment and failed to do so. Instead, she
doubled down on an email that this Court found insufficient to determine abandonment
back in its March 25, 2024, Minute Order.
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is sustained in its
entirety without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Because Plaintiff has failed to provide proof of abandonment
or substituted in the trustee as the Plaintiff as previously ordered by this
Court, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s entire complaint
without leave to amend. Because the demurrer to the entire complaint was sustained
on the basis that Plaintiff has not provided proof that she is the proper
Plaintiff, the motion to strike is moot.
 
Moving party to give notice.