 Case Number:  23STCV13254    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendants Slipknot, LLC,
Slipknot, Inc., Knot Productions, LLC, Corey Taylor, and Michael Shawn Crahan’s
Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
Demurrer
Defendants
Slipknot, LLC, Slipknot, Inc., Knot
Productions, LLC, Corey Taylor, and Michael Shawn Crahan demur to all six
causes of action alleged by plaintiff Steamroller, LLC in its first amended
complaint (FAC).  
Summary
of Allegations
            Plaintiff Steamroller, LLC is the
successor in interest of the late Joey Jordison.  (FAC, ¶¶ 1, 4.)  “Joey Jordison was the original drummer and
co-founder of the famous heavy metal band Slipknot.”  (¶ 18.) 
Defendants Taylor and Crahan are members of Slipknot.  (¶ 19.) 
The other defendants are business entities related to the band.  (¶¶ 8-10, 19, 19 [sic; the FAC has two sets
of ¶¶ 19-21].)  “Jordison traveled the
world performing hundreds, if not thousands, of shows for Slipknot over the
course of three decades.  Jordison played
innumerable drum sets and wore countless outfits and masks at his shows, all of
which contributed to Jordison’s iconic image adored by fans across the
globe.”  (¶ 3.)  
            In 2013, Taylor and Crahan kicked
Jordison out of the band.  (FAC, ¶ 2.)  In 2015, the parties “entered into a Release
Agreement to buyout Jordison’s interest in the Slipknot Partnership.”  (¶ 19.2, Ex. B.)  Defendants agreed to “return to Jordison ‘any
property, including musical gear or equipment, belonging to’ Jordison, ‘that is
now in the possession of’ Defendants.” 
(¶ 19.2.)  The first amended
complaint alleges, “Exhibit D to the Release Agreement is a non-exclusive list
of items belonging to Jordison in Defendants’ possession.  The list is preceded by the following
introductory language: ‘To the extent within the exclusive possession or
control of the Slipknot Partnership and to the extent exclusively owned by
Joey, the Slipknot Partnership shall release the following items to Joey . . .
.’  What follows are two broad
categories, ‘GEAR’ and ‘WARDROBE,’ brief descriptions of the respective
category, and non-exclusive lists of items within each category.”  (Ibid.)
            Jordison died in July 2021.  (FAC, ¶ 22.) 
Plaintiff alleges defendants “have continued to profit off Jordison’s
death and his grieving fanbase to this day, by displaying Jordison’s belongings
at a traveling Slipknot museum called Knotfest. 
The museum has made numerous tour stops over the course of several years
and Defendants have profited handsomely from Jordison’s fans’ willingness to
pay admission fees to view Jordison’s iconic belongings in person.”  (¶ 24.)
            Plaintiff’s first amended complaint asserts
six causes of action arising from defendants’ alleged breach of the release
agreement, failure to return Jordison’s belongings, and use of those belongings
for profit.
Statute
of Limitations
            Defendants argue all causes
of action are untimely.  A demurrer should be sustained where “the
complaint shows on its face that the statute [of limitations] bars the
action.”  (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Services (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.)  “[T]he defect must clearly and
affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the
complaint shows merely that the action may be barred.”  (Id. at p. 1316.)  
            All six causes of action are timely due to the rule of
delayed discovery.  To rely on the
discovery rule, the plaintiff “must specifically plead facts to show (1) the
time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier
discovery despite reasonable diligence.” 
(Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc.
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808 (Fox).) 
“When a plaintiff reasonably should have discovered facts for purposes
of the accrual of a cause of action or application of the delayed discovery
rule is generally a question of fact, properly decided as a matter of law only
if [the record] can support only one reasonable conclusion.”  (Stella
v. Asset Management Consultants, Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 181, 193.)
Plaintiff
alleges specific facts showing how and when it discovered the alleged
injury.  The first amended complaint
alleges, “In October 2022, a fan of Jordison sent a direct message to
Jordison’s Instagram account, including a photograph of the fan posing with
certain of Jordison’s items at Knotfest Finland 2022.  This was the first time that Plaintiff, the
successor-in-interest to Jordison’s estate, learned that Defendants remained in
possession of any of Jordison’s belongings and that Defendants were displaying
these items for a profit at Knotfest.” 
(FAC, ¶ 4.)  
Plaintiff
also alleges facts showing it was unable to discover defendants’ alleged
wrongdoing earlier.  The first amended
complaint alleges defendants “misrepresented what items belonging to Jordison
were in their possession.  After
execution of the Release Agreement, Defendants proceeded to return some of
Jordison’s belongings in an effort to conceal the fact that they were
withholding numerous other items belonging to Jordison and required to be
returned under the Release Agreement.  Because the categories listed in Exhibit D to
the Agreement were broad and non-exclusive, when Defendants returned some of
Jordison’s belongings, Defendants intentionally deceived Jordison into
believing that Defendants had returned all of Jordison’s belongings in their
possession in compliance with the Release Agreement.”  (FAC, ¶ 20.2.)  These allegations suffice on demurrer.    
Defendants
argue Jordison was on inquiry notice years before bringing this action.  None of defendants’ arguments on this subject
defeat plaintiff’s allegations of delayed discovery.  The court cannot rule that, as a matter of
law, the only reasonable conclusion is that plaintiff could have discovered the
relevant facts earlier if he had been diligent. 
That defendants returned some of Jordison’s belongings (FAC, ¶ 2) does
not mean, as a matter of law, Jordison was obligated to inquire whether
defendants retained any of his belongings. 
As plaintiff alleges, his “belongings were shipped from tour stop to
tour stop” over a period of decades “and the sheer number of items made it
impossible to keep a comprehensive inventory on hand.”  (¶ 3.) 
One could reasonably find that Jordison had no way of knowing that, of
the myriad articles of clothing he wore while performing in the band, Slipknot held
on to, for example, some jackets and pairs of shoes he wore over 10 years
earlier.  
Defendants
also argue Jordison was on inquiry notice because, as a partner in the Slipknot
Partnership, he had imputed knowledge of everything defendants knew.  But he had no reason to “suspect[] that an
injury ha[d] been wrongfully caused” (Fox, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 808)
until after he left the partnership pursuant to the 2015 release
agreement.  Before that, defendants were
not obligated to return any property to Jordison and therefore could not have
injured him by failing to do so.
1.
Breach of Contract
            Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts for breach of
contract.  Defendants argue plaintiff did
not allege they failed to return any property “exclusively owned” by Jordison
and “within the exclusive possession or control of the Slipknot partnership.”  (Demurrer, p. 12.)  The release agreement provides, “To the extent within the exclusive
possession or control of the Slipknot Partnership and to the extent exclusively
owned by Joey, the Slipknot Partnership shall release the following items to
Joey” including “[a]ll drum kits, drum hardware, drum accessories and drum cases,”
“[a]ll wardrobe made for and/or given to Joey Jordison for the purpose of Joey
wearing at any time for” purposes related to the band, and “[a]ll promotional
items made for and/or given to” Jordison. 
(FAC, Ex. B.) 
Plaintiff alleges defendants failed to return
property that was both “exclusively owned” by Jordison and was in defendants’
“exclusive possession.”  First, plaintiff
alleges defendants remained in possession of “numerous other items belonging to
Jordison” (FAC, ¶ 2), possessed “his belongings” (¶ 3), “Jordison’s belongings”
(ibid.), and “Jordison’s items” (¶ 5). 
These allegations suffice to constitute property that Jordison
exclusively owned.  
Second, plaintiff alleges the Slipknot partnership
had exclusive possession or control of these items.  The first amended complaint alleges, “The
[release] agreement contained a nonexclusive list of broad categories of items
that Defendants represented were in their possession.”  (FAC, ¶ 2.) 
It further alleges, “[A]fter Defendants fired Jordison in 2013, Defendants
held both exclusive possession and exclusive knowledge of the inventory of
Jordison’s belongings in their possession.” 
(¶ 3.)
Plaintiff also specifically alleges various items
defendants failed to return.  The first
amended complaint alleges, “Photos and videos posted on the internet clearly
show Jordison’s masks, jackets, Adidas sneakers, and drums displayed at
Knotfest Japan in April 2023.”  (FAC, ¶
5.)  It further alleges, “Defendants
are in possession of at least 22 items belonging to Jordison that are captured
in photos and videos at recent Knotfests, as well as potentially other items,
that are currently unknown to Plaintiff.” 
(¶ 6.)
2.
Fraud and Deceit
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts for this cause of action.  The
first amended complaint asserts a claim for promissory fraud.  “ ‘Promissory fraud’ is a subspecies of the
action for fraud and deceit.  A promise
to do something necessarily implies the intention to perform; hence, where a
promise is made without such intention, there is an implied misrepresentation
of fact that may be actionable fraud.”  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638 (Lazar).)  The misrepresentation plaintiff alleges was that
defendants claimed they “would return to Jordison all of Jordison’s belongings
that were in Defendants’ possession.” 
(FAC, ¶ 40.)  Plaintiff further
alleges defendants “falsely promis[ed] to return Jordison’s belongings to
him.”  (Ibid.)   
Plaintiff
does not specifically allege facts showing he suffered any damages due to his
reliance on defendants’ alleged false promise. 
“The fraud plaintiff must …
allege his damages were caused by the actions he took in reliance on the
defendant’s misrepresentations.”  (Beckwith
v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1064.)  “If the defrauded plaintiff would have
suffered the alleged damage even in the absence of the fraudulent inducement,
causation cannot be alleged and a fraud cause of action cannot
be sustained.”  (Ibid.)  When
damages result solely from defendant’s failure to perform its contractual
obligations, those constitute “breach of contract damages, not reliance
damages” and therefore do not satisfy the element of damages for fraud.  (Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1819; accord Alliance Mortgage Co. v. Rothwell
(1995) 10 Cal.4th 1226, 1240 [“ ‘a defrauded party is ordinarily limited to
recovering his “out-of-pocket” loss’ ” rather than “benefit of the bargain”
damages].)
Lazar
explains the nature of damages for promissory fraud.  There, the plaintiff alleged he “relied on”
defendant’s false promises “in leaving secure New York employment, severing his
connections with the New York employment market, uprooting his family,
purchasing a California home and moving here.” 
(Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 639.)  The California Supreme Court held, “[A]s to
his fraud claim Lazar may properly seek damages for the costs of
uprooting his family, expenses incurred in relocation, and the loss of security
and income associated with his former employment.”  (Id. at pp. 648-649.)  But he “must rely on his contract
claim for recovery of any loss of income allegedly caused by” defendant’s
failure to pay the plaintiff as promised. 
(Id. at p. 649.)  In other
words, proper damages for promissory fraud are those suffered due to plaintiff’s
own actions in reliance on the promise.  
Plaintiff alleges that, in reliance on
defendants’ false promise, he entered the release agreement.  (FAC, ¶ 43.) 
Plaintiff makes the conclusory allegation that “[a]s a direct and
proximate result of Defendants’ fraudulent conduct, Plaintiff has been damaged
in an amount to be determined at trial.” 
(¶ 45.)  The only factual
allegations of damages are the same as those for his breach of contract claim:
that defendants did not return Jordison’s property.  These damages are equivalent to the income
the plaintiff lost in Lazar because defendant broke his promise, not
damages caused by what the plaintiff did in reliance on the promise.     
In the opposition, plaintiff argues, “Had
Defendants merely breached the Agreement and not acted to actively conceal
their breach from Jordison, Jordison would have been able to recover his
belongings much earlier in time, and would have been able to profit from their
display.”  (Opp., p. 17.)  Plaintiff’s first amended complaint does not
allege that.  Even if it had, that still
would not be damages caused by Jordison’s reliance on the allegedly false
promise.  Had defendants fulfilled their
promise to promptly return Jordison’s belongings, he would have recovered his things
and been able to profit from displaying them. 
Those damages would be caused by the breach, not plaintiff’s reliance on
the promise.    
3. Negligent Misrepresentation
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts for this cause
of action for two reasons.  First, for
the same reasons discussed with respect to fraud, plaintiff does not allege
facts showing it suffered any damages as a result of acts taken in reliance on
the purported misrepresentation.  
Second,
unlike intentional promissory fraud, there is no cause of action for a
“negligent false promise.”  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 159.)  “To be actionable, a negligent
misrepresentation must ordinarily be as to past or existing material
facts.  ‘[P]redictions as to future
events, or statements as to future action by some third party, are deemed
opinions, and not actionable fraud.’ ”  (Id.
at p. 158.)  The alleged negligent
misrepresentation was a false promise to return Jordison’s belongings.  (FAC, ¶¶ 48-49, 51-52.)  That is not a misrepresentation of past or
existing material fact as required for negligent misrepresentation. 
4.
Conversion
            Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts
for conversion.  Defendants argue
plaintiff failed to “give notice of the ‘specific property’ at issue.”  (Demurrer, p. 14.)  Assuming doing so is required, the first
amended complaint alleges conversion of numerous specific items: “Jordison’s
drums, sticks, masks, clothing (including his signature Adidas tennis shoes)”
including “ ‘the shoes Joey wore while recording the band’s second album.’ ”
(FAC, ¶ 26.)  Plaintiff further alleges it
“sent Defendants a detailed list of 26 items belonging to Jordison that
Plaintiff was able to identify in photographs and videos of Knotfest on the
internet.”  (¶ 28.)  
            Defendants further argue plaintiff
cannot bring this cause of action because it “ ‘belongs in the realm of
contract law.’ ”  (Demurrer, p. 15.)  With additional context, the authority
defendants quote provides, “A distinction is drawn between commercial
transactions involving the sale of goods protected by contract law and actions
involving injury resulting from a defective product generally remedied by tort
law.  [Citation.]  If the claim asserts loss of the benefit of
the bargain, the claim ‘belongs in the realm of contract law which deals with “the
vindication of economic expectations”.’ ” 
(Lum v. Merlin Entertainments Group U.S. Holdings Inc. (S.D.
Cal., Mar. 20, 2023, No. 20CV01049 JAH-MSB) 2023 WL 2583307, at *12, quoting Transwestern
Pipeline Co. v. Monsanto Co. (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 502, 529-530.)  
            Plaintiff does not allege defendants simply breached a
contract to transfer possession of goods in an economic exchange.  It alleges defendants failed to return
property that Jordison owned before contract—not property that he purchased
from defendants pursuant to the contract. 
Plaintiff’s tort claim for conversion thus arises from defendants’
alleged misconduct independent of defendants’ contractual obligations.  Moreover, the agreement to return belongings
was not a typical “commercial transaction.” 
Plaintiff alleges conversion of articles of clothing Jordison wore and
of the drum sets he played.  The first
amended complaint alleges, “No amount of money could possibly compensate
Jordison’s family for the sentimental value of these items.”  (FAC, ¶ 27.) 

Defendants
also argue the 2015 release agreement bars this cause of action.  (Demurrer, p. 15.)  The release, however, provides, “Except for
the parties’ obligations hereunder, each party …. forever releases and
discharges the other … from all rights, claims” or other liabilities.  (FAC, Ex. B, § III.2.)  Returning Jordison’s property was not just a
general tort obligation, it was also an obligation under the release agreement
itself.  The parties’ agreement therefore
did not release this cause of action for conversion.    
5.
Unjust Enrichment
            Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts
for this cause of action.  Defendants
rely on the rule that “a quasi-contract action for unjust enrichment does not
lie where … express binding agreements exist and define the parties’
rights.”  (California Medical Ass'n,
Inc. v. Aetna U.S. Healthcare of California, Inc. (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 151, 172.)  Plaintiff alleges
defendants were unjustly enriched by “profits from display” of Jordison’s
property.  (FAC, ¶ 64.)  The release agreement required defendants to
return Jordison’s property but did not define the parties’ rights with respect
to using property Slipknot did not return, with the potential exception of masks.
 (FAC, Ex. B, § II.3.)  In contrast, the contract defined Slipknots’
rights to use Jordison’s “name, image, voice, performance, [and] likeness” without
any further compensation.  (Ibid.)  
            Defendants’ reliance on Klein v.
Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342 is misplaced.  There, the plaintiffs sued Chevron for
allegedly “selling non-temperature-adjusted motor fuel” (Id. at p. 1389.)  Plaintiffs alleged that because of “Chevron’s
failure to compensate for temperature increases,” its “consumers receive[d]
less motor fuel” than they paid for.  (Id.
at p. 1348.)  The money Chevron received
that purportedly caused unjust enrichment was the very money consumers paid
under “the consumer sales agreement.”  (Id.
at p. 1389.)  Here, plaintiff does not
allege unjust enrichment arising from defendants accepting the benefits of the
contract without performing their obligations. 
Plaintiff instead alleges defendants used Jordison’s property for their
own profit without consent.  Such unjust
enrichment would exist independent of the contract.  
            Defendants also argue plaintiff released this claim.  The release, however, does not indicate the
parties intended to release future claims. 
The agreement provides the parties released all claims “of any nature
whatsoever, known or unknown, by reason of any matter, cause or thing
whatsoever, occurred, done, omitted or suffered to be done prior to the date
hereof.”  (FAC, Ex. B, § III.2.)  This cause of action for unjust enrichment arises
from events after the parties entered the release agreement.  Plaintiff alleges defendants “profited from
charging fans a ‘VIP’ rate in order to access the display of Jordison’s
belongings.”  (FAC, ¶ 26.)  Plaintiff further alleges defendants
displayed Jordison’s property for profit at “Knotfest” “over the course of
several years” after Jordison’s death (¶ 24), including specifically at
“Knotfest Finland 2022” (¶ 4) and “Knotfest Japan in April 2023” (¶ 5).
6.
Accounting
            Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts
for accounting.  “An action for an
accounting has two elements: (1) ‘that a relationship exists between the
plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting’ and (2) ‘that some balance
is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.’ ”  (Sass v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th
861, 869 (Sass).)  
            An action for accounting is not
limited to money.  “The right to an
accounting can arise from the possession by the defendant of money or property
which, because of the defendant’s relationship with the plaintiff, the
defendant is obliged to surrender.”  (Teselle
v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179–180.)  
Nor does accounting require a fiduciary relationship.  “An action for an accounting may be brought
to compel the defendant to account to the plaintiff for money or property (1)
where a fiduciary relationship exists between the parties, or (2) where, even
though no fiduciary relationship exists, the accounts are so complicated that
an ordinary legal action demanding a fixed sum is impracticable.”  (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 910.)
Plaintiff
asserts a cause of action for an accounting “of all property of Plaintiff in
Defendants’ possession that has not yet been returned to Plaintiff.”  (FAC, ¶ 68.) 
Plaintiff alleges that over “hundreds, if not thousands, of shows for
Slipknot over the course of three decades,” “Jordison played innumerable drum
sets and wore countless outfits and masks at his shows.”  (¶ 3.) 
Plaintiff further alleges, “[T]he sheer number of items made it
impossible to keep a comprehensive inventory on hand.”  (Ibid.)  These allegations constitute the tangible
property equivalent of complicated accounts of money.  
Defendants argue accounting is a remedy, not a cause of action.  It is a hybrid of both.  As the California Supreme Court has
recognized, “An action for an accounting has been characterized as ‘a means of
discovery.’ ”  (Sass, supra, 10
Cal.5th at p. 869.)  “The plaintiff’s
lack of knowledge drives the need for discovery; and the fact that the gap can
be filled via discovery implies the information is within the control of
the defendant.  In other words, the
defendant in an accounting action possesses information unknown to the
plaintiff that is relevant for the computation of money owed.”  (Ibid.)             
Motion
to Strike
            Defendants Slipknot, LLC, Slipknot, Inc., Knot
Productions, LLC, Corey Taylor, and Michael Shawn Crahan move to strike several
portions of plaintiff Steamroller, LLC’s first amended complaint.  
A. Royalties
Defendants
move to strike the portion of the prayer for relief seeking “royalties owed to
Plaintiff.”  (FAC, prayer, ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff does not allege facts showing a
basis for recovering “royalties.”  “Royalties,”
particularly in the music business, is a term of art.  The release agreement expressly refers to
“Record Royalties.”  (FAC, Ex. B, § I.2.)  Plaintiff does not allege defendants owe any
record royalties.
Plaintiff’s
opposition argues, “A ‘royalty’ is simply a fee paid to a property owner for
use of the property.  See Royalty,
Black’s Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019); see also Royalty, Merriam-Webster.com
(2023) (‘a share of the product or profit reserved by the grantor . . .’).”  (Opp., p. 3.) 
The definition plaintiff cites from Black’s Law Dictionary begins “1.
Intellectual property.  A payment — in
addition to or in place of an up-front payment — made to an author or inventor
for each copy of a work or article sold under a copyright or patent.”  (Black’s Law Dict. (11th ed. 2019).)  The definition from Merriam-Webster similarly
does not apply because plaintiff does not allege he reserved a share of profits
nor that he granted the property to defendants. 

Plaintiff
further argues the demand for “royalties” is “effectively synonymous with both
Plaintiff’s prayers for money damages and restitution.”  (Opp., p. 3.) 
Courts may strike “superfluous”
allegations.  (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528.)  Using
the term “royalties” this way is superfluous. 

B. Punitive Damages
Defendants
move to strike portions of the first amended complaint related to punitive
damages.  Courts may strike such
allegations where the facts alleged “do not rise to the level of malice,
oppression or fraud necessary” to recover punitive damages under Civil Code
section 3294.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  Conclusory allegations do not suffice.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to constitute
malice with respect to its cause of action for conversion.  “ ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code,
§ 3294(c)(1).)  
The first amended complaint alleges defendants
“intentionally and substantially interfered with Plaintiff’s rights by refusing
to turnover Jordison’s property, including but not limited to musical gear,
equipment, and wardrobe, in Defendant’s possession.”  (FAC, ¶ 57.) 
It further alleges defendants “converted Jordison’s musical instruments,
gear, and wardrobe, so that they can include these items in a travelling
Slipknot museum called Knotfest and line their pockets with profit off of
Jordison’s devoted fanbase.”  (¶ 1.)  The first amended complaint thus alleges
defendants intended to harm plaintiff.  The
court cannot conclude that, as a matter of law, these allegations do not
constitute malice.  
C. Irrelevant Allegations
Defendants
move to strike three portions of the first amended complaint as irrelevant.  A party may move to strike portions of
pleadings that are “irrelevant, false, or improper matter.”  (CCP § 436(a.)  Irrelevant matter includes allegations “not
essential to the statement of a claim or defense” (CCP § 431.10(b)(1) and those
“neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense” (id., subd. (b)(2)). 
Courts also have “inherent authority to strike scandalous and abusive
statements in pleadings.”  (Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1036,
1070.)
First,
defendants move to strike paragraphs 20-21 (page 5, line 27 to page 6, line 7),
which detail Joey Jordison’s medical condition and purported “callousness” and
“mistreatment” by his bandmates.  Second,
defendants move to strike paragraph 23, which alleges, among other things, that
Taylor and Crahan did not “express[] condolences to Jordison’s family after his
passing” and “used Jordison’s death as marketing for their new album.”  Third, defendants move to strike the text “off
Jordison’s death and his grieving fanbase to this day” in paragraph 24.  
These
three portions of the first amended complaint are irrelevant.  This action is about whether defendants
failed to give Jordison’s property back to him. 
The circumstances surrounding Jordison’s illness and death and whether
defendants were “callous” to him are not pertinent to any cause of action.  These allegations are inflammatory and
scandalous.  They serve no legitimate
purpose in the first amended complaint.
Disposition
            Defendants Slipknot, LLC, Slipknot, Inc., Knot
Productions, LLC, Corey Taylor, and Michael Shawn Crahan’s demurrers to
plaintiff Steamroller, LLC’s second and third causes of action are sustained
with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Defendants’ demurrers to plaintiff’s first, fourth, fifth, and sixth
causes of action are overruled.
Defendants
Slipknot, LLC, Slipknot, Inc., Knot Productions, LLC, Corey Taylor, and Michael
Shawn Crahan’s motion to strike portions of plaintiff Steamroller, LLC’s first
amended complaint is denied as to allegations about punitive
damages.  Defendants’ motion to strike is
granted as to the prayer for “royalties” and the irrelevant allegations,
with 20 days’ leave to amend.
The
court hereby strikes the following portions of plaintiff’s first amended
complaint with 20 days’ leave to amend: (1) paragraphs 20 and 21 (page 5, line
27 to page 6, line 7); (2) paragraph 23 (page 7, line 19 to page 8, line 5);
(3) the language “off Jordison’s death and his grieving fanbase to this day,”
at page eight, lines 6 to 7; and (4) the language “royalties owed to plaintiff”
in prayer, paragraph 3 at page 18, line 10.