  Case Number:  20STCV09886    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendants Dollin Davis and KDB
Restaurants, Inc.’s Motion to Set Aside Void Defaults and Default Judgment for
Invalid Service of Process
            Defendants
Dollin Davis and KDB Restaurants, Inc. move to set aside their defaults and the
default judgment against them under Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (d).
Courts may “set aside any void judgment or
order.”  (CCP § 473(d).)  A default judgment is void if the court never
acquired personal jurisdiction over the defendant.  “When a court lacks jurisdiction in a
fundamental sense, such as lack of authority over the subject matter or the
parties, an ensuing judgment is void.  [Citation.]  To establish
personal jurisdiction, it is essential to comply with the statutory procedures
for service of process.”  (OC Interior
Services, LLC v. Nationstar Mortgage, LLC (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 1318, 1330.)
Trial
courts should generally give extra scrutiny to service of summons in the
context of default judgments.  This was
explained by the Court of Appeal in Carol Gilbert, Inc. v. Haller
(2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 852, 864–865: “We question whether
service that does not comply with statutory requirements should ever be allowed
to stand, over a defendant’s challenge, as the basis for a default
judgment.  We think a distinction should
be drawn between the sufficiency of service to support a default judgment,
and the sufficiency of service for other purposes, including to avoid
dismissal for want of prosecution. 
Indeed, such a reading is implied by the statute itself, which provides
that where the summons does not contain the statutory notice, ‘no default or
default judgment shall be entered.’ ”  
Defendants provide sufficient evidence that
plaintiff Roberto Corleto did not effect valid service of summons on them.  “[A] summons shall be directed to the defendant” and “shall
contain … [t]he names of the parties to the action.”  (CCP § 412.20(a) & (a)(2).)  The Code of Civil Procedure “requires an
amended summons when new parties defendant are added.”  (Davis v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1989) 217
Cal.App.3d 1229, 1233; accord Cyrus v. Haveson (1976) 65 Cal.App.3d 306,
315 [“ ‘Amendment of the complaint after service of summons does not require
either a new summons or a new service on an Existing party defendant’ ”].)  
Defendants show the only summons served on them was not directed to
them and did not contain their names.  The
clerk issued two summonses in this action. 
First, on March 11, 2020, the clerk issued a summons on the initial
complaint.  It provides, “Notice to
defendant: Kountry Folks Homestyle Restaurant, Inc., a California Corporation;
and Does 1 through 20, inclusive.”  (Borsook
Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. B.)  Neither the initial
summons nor initial complaint named KDB Restaurants, Inc. or Dollin Davis as
defendants.  Plaintiff later named new
defendants and therefore was required to obtain a new summons.  
Second, on November 11, 2021, the clerk issued a summons on second
amended complaint.  It provides, “Notice
to defendant: Kountry Folks Homestyle Restaurant, Inc., a California
Corporation; KDB Restaurants, Inc., a California Corporation; Dollin Davis, an
individual and as the Successor-in-Interest to The Estate of Kenny Davis, the
Estate of Kenny Davis, and Does 1 through 20, inclusive.”  This amended summons is properly directed to
the moving defendants.  
Defendants Dollin Davis and KDB Restaurants, Inc. present sufficient evidence
that plaintiff only served the initial summons on them.  Plaintiff’s proofs of service of summons show
service on defendants via attorney Lana Borsook.  Borsook states she was only served with the
initial summons, which was not directed to defendants Dollin Davis or KDB
Restaurants, Inc.  (Borsook Decl., ¶¶ 7,
9, 12-14, Exs. B-C.)  And when plaintiff
attempted substituted service on defendant Dollin Davis, the papers left at her
home “included a Summons dated at top and bottom 03/11/2020, addressed only to
Kountry Folks Homestyle Restaurant, Inc., and a Third Amended Complaint.”  (Davis Decl., ¶ 6.)  Davis states, “Throughout the course of this
case, I never got any other Summons.”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff’s reliance on Gillette v. Burbank Community Hosp.
(1976) 56 Cal.App.3d 430 is misplaced.  There,
the court reasoned, “In the absence of new and different parties named in an
amended complaint defendants offer no logical reason why a new summons must
issue on an amended complaint.  ….  Except for the name of counsel and the title
of the document the ‘first amended complaint’ served with the summons was
identical to the complaint filed on the day the clerk issued the summons.  An amended summons would have been identical
to the original summons except for its date in 1974 instead of 1971.”  (Id. at p. 433.)  As discussed above, here plaintiff did name
new and different parties in the amended complaint.  Plaintiff was thus required to serve an
amended summons directed to the moving defendants.  Because plaintiff did not do so, the court
did not acquire personal jurisdiction over them.  Their defaults and the default judgment
against them are therefore void.
Defendants Dollin Davis
and KDB Restaurants, Inc.’s motion to set aside void defaults and default
judgment is granted.  The
court hereby vacates the defaults of defendants Dollin Davis and KDB
Restaurants, Inc.  The court hereby vacates
the default judgment against defendants Dollin Davis and KDB Restaurants,
Inc.  
            
 
 