  Case Number:  20STCV13469    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  SERPOUHIE SARKISSIAN, et al.,  Plaintiffs,  vs.  ANTRANIK BAGHDASSARIAN, et al.;   Defendants.  Case No.:  20STCV13469  Hearing Date:  April 26, 2024      [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:   DEFENDANTS’ MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 7 FOR AN ORDER (1) PRECLUDING EVIDENCE OF HARMS SUFFERED BY PLAINTIFF SERPOUHIE SARKISSIAN BASED UPON THE LOSS OF REVENUES SUFFERED BY CENTRAL VALLEY CHEESE, INC. AND/OR (2) THAT PLAINTIFF SERPOUHIE SARKISSIAN LACKS STANDING TO PURSUE HER CAUSES OF ACTION Defendants’ motion in limine no. 7 is DENIED.Moving party to provide notice.DISCUSSIONDefendants move the Court for an order in limine to (1) preclude the presentation by Plaintiffs of any and all evidence, testimony, and argument that they suffered pecuniary harm based upon the loss of revenues of CVC, and that (2) Plaintiff S. Sarkissian lacks standing to assert any of her causes of action on the grounds that the causes of action are derivative and may not be individually asserted by S. Sarkissian.1. Loss of RevenueDefendants first move for an order in limine precluding Plaintiffs from presenting any evidence, testimony, and argument that they suffered pecuniary harm based on CVC’s lost revenues. However, this issue is now moot because Plaintiff has elected to pursue the remedy of disgorgement. (See Minute Orders dated March 14, 2024.) Therefore, this portion of the motion is denied as moot.2. Plaintiffs’ StandingDefendants next move for an order in limine that S. Sarkissian lacks standing to pursue her causes of action as a minority shareholder on the grounds that S. Sarkissian’s causes of action are derivative.“A minority shareholder may bring a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty against majority shareholders as an individual claim or as a derivative claim, depending on the circumstances.” (Schrage v. Schrage (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 126, 149 (Shrage), citing Daly v. Yessne (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 52, 63, 31 Cal.Rptr.3d 420; Jara v. Suprema Meats, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1252-1253, 1257-1258, 18 Cal.Rptr.3d 187.) Under Corp. Code, section 800(b)(2), a derivative action may not be maintained by a shareholder unless the shareholder alleges in the complaint the shareholder’s efforts to secure from the board the action desired by the shareholder or the reasons for not making such an effort. “An action is derivative if the gravamen of the complaint is injury to the corporation, or to the whole body of its stock and property without any severance or distribution among individual holders, or it seeks to recover assets for the corporation or to prevent the dissipation of its assets.” (Schrage at p. 150 (citations omitted).) Even if a shareholder alleges damages consisting of the loss in value of their investments due to mismanagement of the corporation, the claim is derivative if the harm to the shareholder was incidental to the harm inflicted upon the corporation and all its shareholders. (Avikian v. WTC Financial Corp. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1111-1116.) “A stockholder may sue as an individual where he is directly and individually injured although the corporation may also have a cause of action for the same wrong.” (Goles v. Sawhney (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 1014, 1018, fn. 3.)It is well settled that if a shareholder’s core claim is for diminution of the value of the shareholder’s interest in the company caused by a loss of the company’s assets, the claim is derivative. (PacLink Communications Intern., Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 958, 964.) For example, where a shareholder’s core claims are mismanagement of the company, leading to the corporation’s diminished assets and ultimate demise, the shareholder’s damages, the loss in value to his stock, are merely incidental to the damage to the corporation. (Shrage at p. 153.) Where a shareholder’s action concerns the mere loss of the shareholder’s investment due to a corporation’s failure, the shareholder’s damages are incidental to the harm to the corporation. (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 126.)On the other hand, where a shareholder alleges direct harm to themselves that is not merely incidental to the harm to the corporation, the shareholder’s action is not derivative. In Jones v. H. F. Ahmanson & Co. (1969) 1 Cal.3d 93, 102-103, (Jones) a shareholder claimed that majority shareholders exchanged their controlling shares for shares in a holding company. After the exchange, the holding company held 85 percent of the company’s stocks. The majority shareholders, now majority shareholders of the holding company, continued to control the company through the holding company and did not offer the minority shareholders an opportunity to exchange their shares. (Id.) After the first public offering of the holding company’s shares, Defendants caused the holding company to purchase 130 of the company’s shares at $1,100 per share. (Id. at p.104.) The majority stockholders then proposed an exchange of holding company shares for the company’s stock. (Id.) Each minority stockholder would have received 51 holding company shares at a value of $2,400 for each company share. (Id. at p. 105.) On the other hand, the holding company’s shares were valued at $8,800, meaning each minority shareholder could obtain very few holding company shares from the exchange. (Id. at p.105.) The minority shareholders alleged that the majority shareholders breached their fiduciary duties to the minority shareholders by controlling the holding company to their own advantage, making a public market for the holding company that rendered the company’s stock unmarketable, refusing to purchase the company’s stock at a fair price, and failing to give all stockholders the opportunity to participate in the initial exchange of sales. (Id.) The court in Jones ruled that the plaintiff does not contend that the diminished value of her stock reflected an injury to the corporation which resulted in the depreciation in the value of that stock. (Id. at p. 107.) Thus, the gravamen of her cause of action was injury to herself and the other minority shareholders. (Id.)In Patrick v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1016, a shareholder’s fraud cause of action was a direct claim against the corporation because the corporation’s directors made misrepresentations which induced the shareholder to vote them in as directors. Thereafter, the directors fired the shareholder from her position as an officer, causing her to lose benefits from the corporation. The gravamen of this claim was injury to the shareholder herself, not to the corporation.Here, Plaintiffs’ SAC alleges that their damages were caused by more than just Defendants’ alleged mismanagement of CVC. Rather, the SAC alleges that Defendants made misrepresentations throughout their relationship regarding the value of CVC so that Defendants could inflate the value of Karoun and allocate greater benefits from the sale of both entities to themselves. Specifically, the SAC alleges the following:• Defendants issued Plaintiffs a 10% interest in CVC only. (SAC ¶27)• Defendants operated CVC completely. (SAC ¶29)• Karoun was CVC’s only customer. (SAC ¶31)• Defendants stopped making distributions and represented the money would go back into the business. (SAC ¶38)• O. Baghdassarian represented that a buyer was willing to buy CVC for $10 million and asked Plaintiffs for their signatures so that they could be attached to the agreement to sell the business. (SAC ¶¶44-45.) • Defendants withheld the information that CVC and Karoun were being sold together in one transaction for $130 million. (SAC ¶¶46-49.)• Property sold as part of the transaction belonged to CVC and was worth over $17 million. (SAC ¶56)• Defendants depressed cheese prices and doctored figures so that CVC would appear lower in value during the sale. (SAC ¶¶57-62.)• Plaintiffs would not have agreed to sell CVC if they had known CVC’s expenses and profits had been manipulated by Defendants. (SAC ¶136iv.)Each of Plaintiffs’ causes of action are based on the same wrongful conduct: Defendants’ alleged misrepresentations to Plaintiffs regarding CVC’s value and the sale of both Karoun and CVC. Plaintiffs were unaware that the true value of CVC was well over $10 million. As a result of these representations, Plaintiffs agreed to sell CVC and received a smaller share of the sales proceeds than they would have if CVC had been sold at its proper value. Additionally, Plaintiffs would never have agreed to sell CVC had they known of CVC’s true value compared to the proposed purchase price. The facts here are closer to Jones and Patrick than Schrage and other cases involving a mere loss of a shareholder’s interest in a company. Like Jones, where majority shareholders manipulated the price of the company’s hares to lower the value of the minority shareholder’s stocks, here, the SAC alleges that Defendants manipulated CVC’s financial condition so that the company remained at a low value until Defendants could sell both Karoun and CVC to Plaintiffs’ detriment. Like Patrick, where directors made misrepresentations to a shareholder to induce her to vote them in as directors and leading to the shareholder’s loss of benefits as an officer, here, Defendants misrepresented the value of CVC compared to the proposed $10 million purchase price. As a result of these misrepresentations, Plaintiffs agreed to sell CVC at less than the company’s true value and lost the benefit of continuing ownership CVC. Although CVC would have also have claims for mismanagement of the company against Defendants, Plaintiffs’ causes of action are direct because they do not arise from the harm to CVC. Rather, they arise from Defendants’ alleged misrepresentations of CVC’s true value and failure to disclose the sale of Karoun. Because Plaintiffs were individually harmed and the harm is not merely incidental to the harm to CVC, Plaintiffs’ claims are not derivative. Additionally, details about Defendants’ mismanagement which were necessary to show the falsity of Defendants’ misrepresentations do not render Plaintiffs’ causes of action derivative. Defendants’ motion in limine is denied.DATED: April 26, 2024 ________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 