 Case Number:  23STCV17316    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



Lesbia Lucrecia Montoya,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
Horacio F. Montoya,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  23STCV17316
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 16, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  7



 
          Plaintiff Lesbia
Lucrecia Montoya (“Plaintiff”) seeks an interlocutory judgment of partition
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 872.820.  More specifically, Plaintiff seeks to have
the Court order the sale of the property and appoint Blake C. Alsbrook as a
referee to sell the property and split the proceeds.
 
          Defendant
Horacio F. Montoya (“Defendant”) has not opposed Plaintiff’s motion.  However, it is clear that Defendant is
generally opposed to the sale of the property.
 
          The Court
does not issue a tentative on Plaintiff’s request.  Instead, the Court will hear argument about
why Plaintiff believes that sale of the property is more equitable than its
division.  
 
          California
Code of Civil Procedure section 872.820 states that:
 
[T]he
court shall order that the property be sold and the proceeds be divided among
the parties in accordance with their interests in the property . . . in the
following situations:
 
(a) 
The parties agree to such relief, by
their pleadings or otherwise; 
(b) 
The court determines that, under the
circumstances, sale and division of the proceeds would be more equitable than
division of the property.  For the
purpose of making the determination, the court may appoint a referee and take
into account his report.
 
The Court does not see from Plaintiff’s papers that
Plaintiff has made a showing that “sale and division of the proceeds would be
more equitable than division of the property.” 
(Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 872.820(b).) 
Nor do the parties agree to the sale. (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code §
872.820(a).)  The Court will discuss this
issue with the parties at the hearing.  