 Case Number:  21STCV33568    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LIZABETH GRALNIK,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
DCX TECHNOLOGY, INC., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  21STCV33568
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 16, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  8



 
 
          Defendants
DXC Technology, Inc. and Mary Finch (“Defendants”) move to seal certain
documents pursuant to California Rules of Court 2.550 and 2.551.  The Court GRANTS the motion and will sign the
proposed order filed by Defendants on October 26, 2023.
 
          As an initial
matter, Defendants have complied with the Court’s minute order of October 12,
2023.  On October 26, 2023, Defendants
filed a proposed order which makes practical sense and can be implemented by
the Court.  On the same day, Defendants
filed  publicly available redacted versions
of the documents Defendants have sought to seal.
 
          The Court
finds that Defendants have made the showing required by California Rules of
Court.  The Court finds as follows with
respect to the limited information that Defendants seek to seal:
 
1.    
There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record.  The sealed information includes, for example,
the names of third parties whose privacy rights should be safeguarded and
proprietary business information of Defendants.
2.    
The overriding interest supports
sealing the record.
3.    
A substantial probability exists
that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed.
4.    
The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored.  A review of the redacted
versions of the documents that Defendants seek to seal demonstrates that
Defendants are redacting pointed confidential information and leaving the bulk
of the documents in the public record.
5.    
No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest.
 
For these reasons, the Court grants the motion.
 
          