 Case Number:  22STCV16247    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



EDMOND DURHAM, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
JOSE P. LAGUNA, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV16247
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 16, 2023
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Defendants Jose P. Laguna and Jose P. Laguna Trust (“Trust”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) move for a judgment of possession in order to
enforce a settlement agreement in this action and request attorney’s fees.
 
Defendants’ motion is DENIED.
 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff Edmond Durham (“Durham”) filed this action on May
16, 2022 against Defendants, alleging breach of contract related to a property
that Plaintiff rented from Defendants.
 
The parties entered a settlement of the matter outside of
the presence of the court. (Swartz Decl. ¶¶ 3-6; Exh. A.) The settlement
agreement provides that Plaintiff would vacate the property by June 30, 2023
and would notify Defendants’ attorney once Plaintiff had vacated. (Swartz
Decl., Exh. A ¶¶ 1-3.) The settlement also provides that the prevailing party
in any dispute to enforce the settlement will be entitled to reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs. (Swartz Decl., Exh. A ¶ 18.) 
 
 
Legal Standard
 
“If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing
signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or orally before the
court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may
enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the
parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the
settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 664.6, subd. (a).)
          
“In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other
costs.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
“The court, upon notice and motion by a party, shall
determine who is the party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section, whether or not the suit proceeds to final judgment. Except [where an
action has been voluntarily dismissed or dismissed pursuant to a settlement of
the case], the party prevailing on the contract shall be the party who
recovered a greater relief in the action on the contract. The court may also
determine that there is no party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (b).)
 
 
Discussion
 
Notice of Motion
 
A notice of motion must state in the opening paragraph the
nature of the order being sought and the grounds for issuance of the order.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(a).) “Unless leave of court is obtained, the
motion may not be made upon any grounds other than those enumerated in the
notice of motion. If new matter were permitted in the actual motion, a notice
of motion would be reduced to little purpose other than to advise the time and
place of hearing. Actually, however, it must also sufficiently define the
issues for the information and attention of the adverse party and the court.” (Hernandez
v. Nat. Dairy Products Co. (1954) 126 Cal.App.2d 490, 493.) Courts are
therefore “limited to a consideration of the ground or grounds enumerated in [a
party’s] notice.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Defendants’ notice of motion states that Defendants
will demur to the complaint. It does not state that Defendants will move to
enforce the judgment or seek attorney’s fees, nor does it state the grounds for
either of those requests. As such, Defendants’ notice of motion is improper,
and the Court must deny the motion.
 
Moreover, Defendants’ failure to include the requested
relief in the notice of motion makes the issues that Defendants are attempting
to present unclear.  The motion discusses
a settlement and attaches what appears to be a partial, but not a full,
document that Defendants assert is a settlement of this matter.  Moreover, there is still a trial date pending
in this matter and no party has previously informed the Court of a settlement.
 
For all these reasons, the motion is denied.  Defendants may serve a properly noticed
motion if they seek some relief from the Court. 
Moreover, to the extent that the Final Status Conference and trial dates
should be taken off calendar and the case dismissed, the parties are required
to promptly inform the Court.  
 