 Case Number:  23STCV11836    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ROSENDIN ELECTRIC, INC., 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CORE/RELATED GRAND AVE. OWNER, LLC.,
  et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV11836
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 16, 2023
 Calendar Number:  10



 
 
 
Defendants Core/Related Grand Ave Owner, LLC (“Core”), the
Related Companies, L.P. (“Related”), and United States Fire Insurance (“US
Fire”) (collectively, “Defendants”) demur to the First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) filed by Plaintiff Rosendin Electric, Inc. (“Plaintiff”). Defendants
also move to strike portions of the FAC.
 
Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
First Cause of Action (Breach of Contract) as asserted against Related; the Third
Cause of Action (Violation of Prompt Payment Act); and the Fourth Cause of
Action as asserted against Related (Quantum Meruit).  Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED as to the Second
Cause of Action (Recovery Against Mechanic’s Lien).  Plaintiff shall file an amended complaint
within 20 days.
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED.
 
Background
 
This is a contract dispute concerning electrical work
performed by Plaintiff on a construction project owned by Core. Related is the
parent company of Core.
 
According to the allegations in the complaint, Plaintiff and
Core formed a contract (the “Trade Contract”) under which Plaintiff would
perform electric and fire alarm work for Core’s construction project at 100
South Grand Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90012 (the “Property”). Under the
contract, Core had the responsibility for project design and for the
coordination of the various trades. 
 
Core oversaw major changes to the design. Core’s general
contractor allegedly failed to consistently manage the construction schedule
and provide consistent supervision over the course of the project. These
factors significantly increased the costs that fell on Plaintiffs as a result
of the work. However, Core refused to issue change orders and make payments for
the costs resulting from the scheduling problems and its alterations.
 
Plaintiff filed a mechanic’s lien against Core, Related, and
several affiliated entities which hold real property interests in the Property.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on May 25, 2023. The operative
complaint is now the FAC, which includes claims for (1) breach of contract; (2)
recovery against mechanic’s lien release bond; (3) quantum meruit; and (4)
violation of the Prompt Payment Act.
 
Defendants filed each of the instant motions on September
28, 2023. Plaintiff filed oppositions to each motion and Defendant filed
replies.
 
Judicial Notice
 
Both Plaintiff and Defendants make requests for judicial
notice. 
 
“While courts take judicial notice of public records, they
do not take notice of the truth of matters stated therein.” (Herrera v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.)
 
The Court GRANTS these requests but does not take notice of
the truth of the matters stated in the noticed documents.
 
Legal Standard
 
Demurrer
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).           
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Demurrer
 
Uncertainty
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has improperly incorporated
major portions of the complaint by reference into each cause of action.
However, because the causes of action clearly allege the elements and basis for
relief in combination with the common facts alleged at the top of the FAC, the
Court finds that the causes of action which survive are not improperly vague or
uncertain.
 
 
Breach of Contract (First Cause of Action) as asserted against Related
 
To state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff
must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of
a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman
& Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a
plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its
precise language.” (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-199.)
 
Defendants argue that the breach of contract action is not
actionable against Related because Related was not a signatory to the contract.
Plaintiff responds that Related is an alter ego of Core.
 
“In California, two conditions must be met before the alter
ego doctrine will be invoked. First, there must be such a unity of interest and
ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist.
Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated
as those of the corporation alone.”  (Sonora
Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) When these
conditions are met, courts disregard the corporate structure and impute the
actions of a corporation onto its owner or parent. (McLaughlin v. L. Bloom
Sons Co. (1962) 206 Cal.App.2d 848, 851-852.)
 
In determining whether to apply the doctrine, California
courts consider a number of factors which include but are not limited to (1)
inadequate capitalization, (2) commingling of funds, records, and other assets,
(3) disregard of corporate formalities (e.g., stock issuance, holding board
meetings, keeping of minutes, election of officers and directors, segregation
of corporate records), (4) the same equitable ownership in the two entities,
(5) the same directors and officers, (6) confusion about corporate identity,
(7) use of the same offices and employees, (8) use of subsidiary as a mere
shell or conduit for the affairs of the parent, and (9) lack of segregation of
corporate records. (Brooklyn Navy Yard Cogeneration Partners, L.P. v.
Superior Court (Parsons Corp.) (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 248, 258.) 
 
There is not a heightened pleading standard for alter ego
theory; it is adequate for a plaintiff to allege “ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 221, 236 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) Moreover,
“less particularity [of pleading] is required where the defendant may be
assumed to possess knowledge of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to
that possessed by the plaintiff, which certainly is the case” when analyzing
alter ego theory at the pleading stage. (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged that Related dominates the
finances, policies, and practices of Core and uses Core as a business conduit.
(FAC ¶ 7.) Plaintiff has also alleged that Core is undercapitalized and lacking
in corporate formalities. (FAC ¶ 7.) Defendants argue that these facts are
inadequate because they are alleged on information and belief, none of
Defendants’ cited authority treats this as a relevant distinction.
 
Plaintiff has not alleged that injustice would result if
Core and related were not treated as alter egos. However, Plaintiff does assert
in its motion (but does not allege) that Core expressly told Plaintiff that
core was undercapitalized and that it would not be able to pay the judgment
sought by Plaintiff. Thus, although Plaintiff has not alleged injustice, it
likely could amend its complaint to do so. 
 
The Court therefore SUSTAINS the demurrer WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND as to the breach of contract action against Related.
 
Recovery
Against Mechanic’s Lien (Second cause of
Action)   
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff failed to perfect its
mechanics lien because it failed to serve a preliminary notice as required by
Civil Code section 8200 on Deutsch Bank, which Defendants contend is the
construction lender of the project.
 
However, this defect is not apparent on the face of the
pleading since nothing is alleged involving Deutsch Bank, nor is it properly
determinable from the judicially noticed materials that Defendants argue show
Deutsch Bank to be the financier. “[T]he fact a court may take judicial notice
of a recorded deed, or similar document, does not mean it may take judicial
notice of factual matters stated therein.” (Herrera, supra, 196
Cal.App.4th at p. 1375.)
 
The Court therefore OVERRULES the demurrer as to this cause
of action.
 
Violation
of the Prompt Payment Act (Third Cause of Action) 
 
Under Civil Code § 8800, a project owner “shall pay the
direct contractor, within 30 days after notice demanding payment pursuant to
the contract is given, any progress payment due as to which there is no good
faith dispute between them.” “If there is a good faith dispute between the
owner and direct contractor as to a progress payment due, the owner may
withhold from the progress payment an amount not in excess of 150 percent of
the disputed amount.” (Civ. Code § 8800, subd. (b).) “An owner that violates this
section is liable to the direct contractor for a penalty of 2 percent per month
on the amount wrongfully withheld, in place of any interest otherwise due. In
an action for collection of the amount wrongfully withheld, the prevailing
party is entitled to costs and a reasonable attorney's fee.” (Civ Code § 8800,
subd. (c).)
 
Plaintiff has properly alleged that Core is the project
owner.
 
Although Plaintiff has not alleged a lack of dispute as to
the funds at issue, it could plausibly do so. The Court therefore SUSTAINS the
demurrer WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Moreover, as discussed above, Plaintiff failed to properly
allege that Related is an alter ego of Core, and the Court therefore SUSTAINS
the demurrer as to Related WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Quantum Meruit (Fourth Cause of Action) 
 
“Quantum meruit refers to the well-established principle
that the law implies a promise to pay for services performed under
circumstances disclosing that they were not gratuitously rendered. To recover
in quantum meruit, a party need not prove the existence of a contract, but it
must show the circumstances were such that the services were rendered under
some understanding or expectation of both parties that compensation therefor
was to be made.” (Chodos v. Borman (2014)
227 Cal.App.4th 76, 96, citations and quotation marks omitted.) “[I]n order to
recover under a quantum meruit theory, a plaintiff must establish both that he
or she was acting pursuant to either an express or implied request for such
services from the defendant and that the services rendered were intended to and
did benefit the defendant.” (Day v. Alta
Bates Medical Center (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 243, 248.) “However, it is well
settled that there is no equitable basis for an implied-in-law promise to pay
reasonable value when the parties have an actual agreement covering
compensation.” (Hedging Concepts, Inc. v. First Alliance Mortgage Co.
(1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1419.)
 
          Here,
Plaintiff has pled facts showing that it provided services to Core and that Core
knew about the work and accepted the benefit. Plaintiff pleads the existence of
a contract supplying express terms covering compensation, but this does not bar
Plaintiff from asserting quantum meruit at the pleading stage. Although a
plaintiff “cannot recover for both breach of contract and quantum meruit, …
they can plead both causes of action.” (Newport Harbor Ventures, LLC v.
Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 1207, 1223.)
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff failed to properly allege that
Related is an alter ego of Core, and the Court therefore SUSTAINS the demurrer
as to Related WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Attorney’s Fees
 
“In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other
costs.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
“Where a contract provides for attorney’s fees, as set forth
above, that provision shall be construed as applying to the entire contract,
unless each party was represented by counsel in the negotiation and execution
of the contract, and the fact of that representation is specified in the
contract.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s demand for attorney’s
fees in the breach of contract cause of action. However, Article 12.2(e) of the
Trade contract provides a right to recover attorney’s fees. Under Civil Code
section 1717, the attorney’s fees clause therein is reciprocal and applies to
the entire contract.
 
Defendants argue that, under Myers Building Industries,
Ltd. v. Interface Technology, Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 949, attorney’s
fees clauses in an indemnity clause are not generalized to the entire contract
by Civil Code section 1717. Section 12.2 of the Trade Contract is an indemnity
clause.
 
However, in Myers, the contract provision related to
attorney’s fees as an item of loss from third party litigation.  The contract terms in Myers did “not
provide for an award of attorney fees incurred in actions to enforce the
contract.” (Myers, 13 Cal.App.4th at pp. 969-964 [emphasis added].) By
contrast, here, Section 12.2(e) of the Trade Contract provides for “attorneys’
fees incurred pursuing or enforcing any of the provisions of this
Section.”  At least at the motion to
strike stage, the Court cannot conclude that Defendants lack a claim for attorney’s
fees.
 
The motion to strike the demand for attorney’s fees is
therefore DENIED.
 
Alter Ego Allegations
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s alter ego allegations
as to Core and Related. This issue was resolved with the demurrer. The motion
to strike is therefore DENIED AS MOOT.