 Case Number:  23STCV17882    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS TO QUASH (VANDERBILT
MINERAL)
            Plaintiff
Phyllis Gafford allege she was exposed to asbestos in talc supplied by Defendant
Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC, Inc.  Defendant
filed a motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal
jurisdiction.   
A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint
in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)  
“A court of this state may
exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this
state or of the United States.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause
protects an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments
of a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  
When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.)  This
test does not require a “causal relationship between the defendant’s in-state
activity and the litigation.”  (Ford
Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017,
1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks
about causation,” but “relate to” does not. 
(Ibid.)  “[W]hen a
corporation has ‘continuously and deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it
must reasonably anticipate being haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend
actions ‘based on’ products causing injury there.”  (Id. at p. 1027.)  
Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC provided
evidence that it is incorporated in Delaware and has its principal place of
business in Connecticut (Stewart Decl., ¶ 2), and therefore it is not a
resident of California and not subject to its general jurisdiction.  
Defendant argues it is
not subject to California’s specific jurisdiction unless Plaintiff can prove Plaintiff
was exposed in California to asbestos in a product that contained Defendant’s
talc.  (Motion at p. 5.)  
The complaint provides no
information about the specific products at issue, and the preliminary fact
sheet only refers to “industrial talc” in connection with Defendant.  Only in the opposition does Plaintiff
identify some of the products – “DAP caulk products, among other products that
contained Vanderbilt’s asbestos-contaminated talc.  (Opposition at p. 1.)  Plaintiff argues Defendant assumed the
liability of R.T. Vanderbilt Company, which had a talc mine and sales office in
California.  (Opposition at p. 3; Eyerly
Decl., Ex. B at pp. 39-40; Ex. E at p. 1430.) 
According to Plaintiff, the talc contained asbestos.  R.T. Vanderbilt Company supplied talc to
DAP.  (Eyerly Decl., Ex. G at pp.
162-163.)
In its reply, Defendant
acknowledges it mined and sold talc in California.  (Reply at p. 2.)  Thus, it availed itself of the benefits of
the forum.  However, Defendant contends
Plaintiff has no evidence that Defendant’s talc was in the DAP caulk products to
which Plaintiff was exposed.  (Reply at p.
5.)
Plaintiff requests
jurisdictional discovery to obtain evidence that Defendant’s talc was in the
DAP caulk products to which Plaintiff was exposed.  The court CONTINUES this motion to January 11,
2024 at 9 a.m. for jurisdictional discovery on whether Defendant’s talc was in
the DAP caulk products to which Plaintiff was exposed.  Plaintiff may file a supplemental opposition
and Defendant may file a supplemental reply on regular notice.
The moving party is to
give notice.
 