  Case Number:  23PSCV01672    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Tae San International, Inc.’s Motion to
Quash Subpoena or in the Alternative, For a Protective Order and Request for
Monetary Sanctions
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Tae San International, Inc.’s Motion to
Quash Subpoena is GRANTED and Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
This is a personal injury
action arising from a motor vehicle collision. In December 2021, Plaintiff Mirna
Angelica Solorzano was involved in a motor vehicle collision with Defendant John
Doe on Philadelphia Street in Pomona.
On June 5, 2023, Solorzano
filed a complaint against Doe; Tae San International, Inc. (Tae San), doing
business as KJ Carpet; and Does 1-50, alleging a cause of action for
negligence.
On November 27, 2023, Tae San
filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1-50, alleging the following causes of
action: (1) total or partial equitable indemnity, (2) contribution, and (3)
declaratory relief.
On February 21, 2024,
Solorzano amended the Complaint to replace Doe 1 with Defendant Jesus Moreno.
On May 6, 2024, Solorzano dismissed
Moreno from the present action.
On October 24, 2024, Tae San
filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set for November
25, 2024, along with a mandatory settlement conference on March 13, 2025, and a
case management conference/trial setting conference on March 27, 2025.
ANALYSIS
Tae
San moves to quash Solorzano’s deposition subpoena to Marco Martinez, Tae San’s
insurance claims adjustor. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Tae San’s motion.
Legal Standard
If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands such as unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
Discussion
In
this case, Solorzano has sought to depose Tae San’s insurance claims adjustor
and demanded production of the claims file for the collision at issue in this
action. (Campo Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) In moving to quash the deposition subpoena,
Tae San argues it is harassing and oppressive because it seeks documents
available from other sources and is overbroad. Tae San also argues it seeks
information protected by attorney-client privilege and Insurance Code section
791.13. In response, Solorzano failed to file any timely opposition to this
motion. Accordingly, the court GRANTS Tae San’s motion.
Tae
San also seeks the award of sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.2. Pursuant to this provision, “in making an order pursuant to
motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under Section 1987.1, the
court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses
incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's
fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).)
Here,
the court declines to award such sanctions as Solorzano did not oppose the
present motion. The court also declines to award sanctions requested pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Tae
San’s motion to quash Solorzano’s deposition subpoena is GRANTED.