 Case Number:  23NWCV01366    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  C troncoso v. anderson
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01366
HEARING:   11/15/23 @ 9:30 AM
#4
 
Defendant’s
Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment is GRANTED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendant Sagitta Anderson (Defendant) moves
for an order setting aside entry of default against her.
Background
On
May 5, 2023 Plaintiff Kaylee Troncoso (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint for
personal injuries arising from a motor vehicle incident. Plaintiff’s request
for entry of default was entered on September 13, 2023. On September 29, 2023,
Defendant moved to set aside default.
Legal
Standard
“When
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to
set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.
The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in
no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default
judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a
written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.” (CCP §
473.5.)
Discussion

Here, Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default
is within the six month period allowed by CCP § 473. Thus, there is a strong
public policy in favor of granting Defendant’s Motion.
Defendant argues that she mistakenly believed
that her automobile insurance carrier was handling the claim against her and,
thus, believed that she did not have to respond or take any action related to
the service of the Complaint. Plaintiff argues that it was not a mistake to
ignore the service, counsel attempted to reach out to Defendant’s insurance
carrier but received no response, and Plaintiff offered to stipulate to setting
aside default if Defendant paid $1,500.00 for fees and costs related to filing
the default. The court determines that Defendant’s mistake as to the necessity
of responding to the lawsuit is reasonable because she is unfamiliar with the
nature of legal proceedings. (Anderson Decl., ¶ 4.) Thus, default judgment is
set aside due to Defendant’s mistake. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to file
the Answer attached to this Motion within 10 days of this Order.
 
 