 Case Number:  22NWCV01281    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  C Nevarez v. Cerritos Ford 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01281
HEARING:   11/15/23 @ 9:30 AM
#2
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend is
GRANTED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff Emigdio Andujo Nevarez (Plaintiff) moves
for leave to amend his Complaint.
No opposition filed as of November 14,
2023.  
Background
This
lemon law action was filed by Plaintiff on November 10, 2022, alleging
violations of the Song-Beverly Act against Defendant Ford Motor Company (Ford)
and Negligent Repair against Defendant Cerritos Ford, Inc. (Cerritos Ford).
Legal
Standard
CRC, rule 3.1324(a) provides:
(a) Contents of motion
A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must:
(1) Include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
(3) State what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
(b) Supporting
declaration
A separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify:
(1) The effect of the
amendment;
(2) Why the amendment
is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the
request for amendment was not made earlier.
“While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. (Citation.) And it is a rare case
in which ‘a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.’ (Citation.) If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.” Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
Discussion

Plaintiff filed this Motion to add a claim for
fraud alleging that Ford knowingly failed to disclose the alleged defect in the
10R80 transmission in Plaintiff’s vehicle. This Motion is unopposed.
Plaintiff has satisfied the procedural
requirements of CRC, Rule 3.1324. Plaintiff’s Counsel’s declaration provides
that the amendment will add allegations related to Plaintiff’s fraud claim, the
amendment is necessary and proper because Plaintiff did not initially allege
fraud and subsequently discovered facts to support a fraud cause of action
during discovery.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to file his First Amended Complaint within 10 days of this
Order.
 
 