 Case Number:  VC067069    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  C Huang, et al. v. jan, et al. 
CASE NO.:  VC067069
HEARING:   11/15/23 @ 9:30 AM
#6
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ Motion to
Compel Further Responses to their Supplemental Requests for Production is
DENIED. Requests for sanctions are DENIED.
FFC to give NOTICE.
 
Defendants and Cross-Complainants Chyan-Wen
Jan, Ching Wen Chen, and Jan Fruits, Inc. (collectively Cross-Complainants) move
for an order compelling further responses to their Supplemental Requests for
Production (set three) propounded on Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Formosa
Fresh Connection, Inc. (FFC).
Background
This
action arises out of a business dispute concerning Global Best Produce Inc.
(“GBP”), a large Los Angeles-based produce wholesaler owned by Defendants and
Cross-Complainants Chyan-Wen Jan and Ching Wen Chen (35%), Plaintiffs and
Cross-Defendants Eric Hsing Shou Huang and Jenny Huei Ju Lee (20%), and
Cross-Defendants Ingram Liu and Sophie Chang (45%). GBP is managed by Liu and
Chang, who also serve as the company’s directors and CEO and CFO, respectively.
In 2022, GBP’s gross revenues exceeded 54 million dollars.  GPB’s largest customer is FFC, another
produce company, upon whom the subject discovery was propounded.  
Legal
Standard
“On
receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand ….” (CCP § 2031.310(a).) “Unless notice of this motion is given
within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding
party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand.” (CCP §
2031.310(c).)
Discussion

Here, Cross-Complainants served requests for
supplemental responses to its Requests for Production (set three) on January 5,
2023. (Yu Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 5.) On February 21, 2023, FFC served its responses to
Cross-Complainants’ supplemental responses. (Yu Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 6.)
Cross-Complainants filed this Motion on July 25, 2023, which is more than five
months after receiving FFC’s responses. Thus, this motion is untimely and
Cross-Complainants have waived their right to compel a further response.
Therefore, their Motion to Compel Further Responses is denied.
Cross-Complainants’ request for sanctions is
denied because their Motion is denied. FFC’s request for sanctions is denied
because there is no supporting declaration for the Court to based sanctions
upon.
 
Accordingly, Defendants/Cross-Complainants’
Motion to Compel Further Responses to their Supplemental Requests for
Production is DENIED. Requests for sanctions are DENIED.
 
 