 Case Number:  22NWCV00311    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  C AGUILA v. IPSWICH
SHELLFISH CO, INC. 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00311
HEARING:   11/15/23 @
10:30 AM
 
#8
 
Defendant IPSWICH SHELLFISH CO., INC.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
This breach of contract action
was filed by Plaintiff Henry Aguila (“pro per”) on April 25, 2022. On September
13, 2023, the operative Third Amended Complaint (TAC) was filed. 
Background
The TAC alleges, in pertinent
part: “Plaintiff and Defendant Ipswich desired to procure a line of credit for
shipments of lobsters to Thee Aguila Inc…. and insure said shipments with Euler
Hermes…. Defendant Ipswich and Euler Hermes required a personal guarantee from
Plaintiff to issue the line of credit. Plaintiff agreed to personally guarantee
the line of credit if Defendant Ipswich agreed to ship lobsters to TAI and
Euler Hermes issued the line of credit insuring said shipments and Plaintiff.
On May 15, 2011, Plaintiff personally guaranteed the credit application as
instructed by Defendant Ipswich and Euler Hermes, attached as Exhibit “A” ….
After Plaintiff signed the personal guarantee, and in consideration thereof and
for Plaintiff’s sole benefit, Euler Hermes issued a $250,000.00 line of credit to
TAI for lobster shipments from Defendant Ipswich.” (TAC ¶7.) “On September 20,
2019, Plaintiff demanded in writing to counsel for Defendant Ipswich to submit
an insurance claim to Euler Hermes for the disputed lobster shipments or
alternatively Plaintiff would submit the claim. Plaintiff had informed
Ipswich’s counsel that TAI and Plaintiff had a claim against Euler Hermes for
cancelling TAI’s line of credit and putting TAI out of business before a
judicial determination had been made on the disputed lobster shipment and
invoices. Ipswich’s counsel informed Plaintiff that he would forward
Plaintiff’s demand to Ipswich. Plaintiff never heard back from Ipswich of its
legal representative.” (TAC ¶9.) “On April 11, 2022, Plaintiff was informed
that instead of submitting an insurance claim as previously demanded by
Plaintiff, Defendant Ipswich assigned its right to Defendants Indiana and
Montana to pursue Plaintiff for payment of the disputed lobster shipments. At
the time of the assignment, Defendants Indiana and Montana were in litigation
with TAI and Plaintiff. At the time of the assignment, Defendants Indiana and
Montana had previously been found liable in a jury trial for interfering with
TAI’s and Plaintiff’s economic opportunities and for conversion of TAI’s
monies.” (TAC ¶10.) 
The TAC asserts the following
causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract/Third Party; and (2) Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. 
Legal Standard
The party against whom a complaint has been
filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several grounds, including
the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an entire complaint,
or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Discussion
Defendant IPSWICH SHELLFISH CO.
INC. separately specially and generally demurs to each cause of action. 
Whether it is written, oral, or implied, the
elements of a cause of action for breach of contract are as follows: (1) the
existence of a contract; (2) Plaintiff’s performance or excused
non-performance; (3) Defendants’ breach; and (4) resulting damage to Plaintiff.
(Reichert v. General Ins. Co. (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830.)
Plaintiff has included the
credit agreement as the written contract he alleges that Defendant breached. 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff
does not qualify as a third-party beneficiary of the contract.
To state a cause of action for
third-party beneficiary breach of contract, Plaintiff must allege the existence
of a contract that was made expressly for their benefit. (Cal. Civ. Code §1559;
see also Martin v. Bridgeport Comm. Assn., Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th
1024, 1034.) “The fact that… the contract, if carried out according to its
terms, would inure to [the plaintiff’s] benefit, is not sufficient to entitle
[the plaintiff] to enforce it. [Citation.]” (Id.) “A contract, made
expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him at any
time before the parties thereto rescind it. The intent to benefit a third party
must appear on the terms of the contract. As explained by well-reasoned case
law: A third party should not be permitted to enforce covenants made not for
his benefit, but rather, for others. He is not a contracting party; his right
to performance is predicated on the contracting parties’ intent to benefit him.
The fact that the contract, if carried out to its terms, would inure to the
third party’s benefit is insufficient to entitle him or her to demand
enforcement. Whether a third party is an intended beneficiary or merely an
incidental beneficiary to the contract involves construction of the parties’
intent, gleaned from reading the contract as a whole in light of the
circumstances under which it was entered.” (Landale-Cameron Court, Inc. v.
Ahonen (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410-1411.) 
Plaintiff alleges that
“Plaintiff was the intended third-party beneficiary of the contractual
agreements between TAI, Defendant Ipswich and Euler Hermes.” (TAC ¶12.) 
The Credit Agreement that
Plaintiff attached does not reveal an intent to benefit Plaintiff from the
terms of the contract. The Credit Agreement, while difficult to read, states
that it is issued to induce Defendant to sell and deliver merchandise to Thee
Aguila, Inc. and not to Plaintiff individually. Plaintiff must be an intended
third-party beneficiary in order to enforce the agreement—the benefit to
Plaintiff must have been a motivating factor in the parties’ decision to enter
into the contract. (Eastern Aviation Group, Inc. v. Airborne Express, Inc.
(1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1448, 1453.) The Court cannot accept a legal conclusion on
a demurrer. (Hawkins v. TACA Internat. Airlines, S.A. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 466, 478.)
Plaintiff is named in the
Credit Agreement as the owner and the signatory as owner for Thee Aguila, Inc.
However, the terms of the contract do not make clear that he was intended to
benefit from the credit agreement. Thus, Plaintiff has failed to meet his
burden of showing that he was the intended third-party beneficiary of the
Credit Agreement.
Additionally, Plaintiff claims
that Defendant breached the contract by refusing to submit an insurance claim.
However, it is not apparent from the terms of the Credit Agreement that
Defendant had a duty under the contract to do so. Thus, Plaintiff has failed to
show that Defendant breached a duty under the contract.
The burden is on the complainant to show the
court that a pleading can be amended successfully, in order to obtain an order
allowing leave to amend. (McKenney v. Purepac Pharmaceutical Co. (2008)
167 Cal.App.4th 72, 78.) Here, Plaintiff fails to provide any facts which would
support a showing that his pleading can be amended successfully. This Court has
now sustained two demurrers and Plaintiff has amended his Complaint on three
occasions. Thus, Plaintiff is not granted leave to amend.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.