 Case Number:  22NWCV00595    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  C Shaw v. general motors 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00595
HEARING:   11/15/23 @ 10:30 AM
#10
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Their Requests for Production is GRANTED in part and DENIED in
part.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff Dwayne Shaw (Plaintiff) moves to
compel Defendant’s further response to Request for Production (set two)
pursuant to CCP § 2031.310. 
This Motion is unopposed.
Background
On
July 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant General Motors,
LLC (Defendant) for alleged violations of the Song-Beverly Act for failure to
repair or repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle.
Legal
Standard
CCP
§ 2031.310 allows a party to file a motion compelling further answers to
document requests if it finds that the response is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive, or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  The motion shall be accompanied with a meet
and confer declaration.  (CCP §
2031.310(b).)  
Discussion

Here Plaintiff is seeking further responses to
Requests Nos. 1-3, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12, and 16-37.
Defendant responded to Nos. 1 and 2, stating
that it will produce all non-privileged documents, however, it does not
identify what documents are responsive to the request. Thus, Defendant is
compelled to provide supplemental responses to these requests indicating what
documents are responsive to the requests.
Request No. 3 seeks all documents related to
Defendant’s affirmative defenses. Request No. 5 seeks all documents related to
Plaintiffs’ vehicle. Request No. 9 seeks all requests for refunds. Request No.
11 seeks all communications with Plaintiffs. Request No. 12 seeks all
communications related to Plaintiffs’ vehicle. Request No. 29 seeks all
documents related to predictive models for escalation of customer complaints.
Request No. 30 seeks all documents provided to Defendant by a consultant
related to the Song-Beverly Act. Request No. 31 seeks all documents provided by
agencies regarding what constitutes a substantial nonconformity. Request No. 34
seeks all Technical Service Bulletins which related to Plaintiff’s vehicle.
Request No. 35 seeks all recalls related to Plaintiff’s vehicle. Request No. 36
seeks documents related to above-average rates of repair related to Plaintiff’s
vehicle. Request No. 37 seeks all sales brochures or other promotional
materials related to Plaintiff's vehicle.
Defendant objected and responded that it will
comply in part to each Request. Defendant’s objections are overruled with the
exception of the attorney-client privilege and it must comply in full with this
request or produce a privilege log as to those documents it claims are
privileged.
Request No. 8 seeks all documents related to
the repair of Plaintiffs’ vehicle. Defendant properly responded to Request No.
8 stating that it did not repair Plaintiffs’ vehicle.
Request No. 16 seeks all documents related to
whether the repairs should be covered by the warranty. Defendant objected and
refused to produce any documents. Defendant’s objections are overruled with the
exception of the attorney-client privilege and it must comply in full with this
request or produce a privilege log as to those documents it claims are
privileged. 
Requests Nos. 17-27 seek documents related to Defendant’s lemon
law policies and procedures. Request No. 32 seeks all documents related to statistics of
lemon law repurchases or replacements in California since 2010.
Defendant is ordered to provide further
responses to Requests Nos. 17-27 and 32 because these requests seek documents
within the scope of discovery. Defendant produced no documents to these
requests. The Requests are overbroad as to time. However, Defendant’s lemon law
policies and procedures from the date of purchase to the filing of Plaintiffs’
lawsuit are within the scope of discovery because they are relevant to proving
whether Defendant followed its policies and procedures as to Plaintiffs’
vehicle. Therefore, Defendant is ordered to provide further responses to
Requests Nos. 17-27 and 32 with the limitation that it shall produce responsive
documents published from the date of purchase to the date of filing.
Request
No. 28 seeks documents related to Defendant’s call center policies and
procedures.
Defendant has adequately responded to Request
No. 28 because the request is outside the scope of discovery. Here, the only
cause of action in the pleadings is for violation of the Song-Beverly Act. The
basis of Song-Beverly is that Plaintiffs’ vehicle had defects and
nonconformities and (1) Defendant was not able to conform the vehicle to the
applicable warranties within a reasonable number of attempts and failed to
replace the vehicle or make restitution; (2) Defendant failed to service or
repair the vehicle so as to conform to the applicable warranties within 30
days; (3) Defendant failed to make available to its authorized service and
repair facilities sufficient literature and replacement parts to effect repairs
during the express warranty period; and (4) the vehicle was not suitable for
its intended use due to the defects that manifested. The Court fails to see how
information relating to Defendant’s customer service number is relevant to this
lawsuit. Thus, Plaintiffs’ request for further responses to Request No. 28 is
denied.
Request No. 33 seeks all customer complaints
for 2020 Chevrolet Traverse vehicles. These
requests are overbroad because they seek documents related to vehicles
worldwide. Therefore, these requests will be limited repairs and customer
complaints concerning 2020 Chevrolet Traverses sold in California. Defendant is
ordered to provide further responses to Requests Nos. 33 and 54 as to 2021
Honda Civics sold in California. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to His Requests for Production is GRANTED in part and DENIED
in part as set forth above. Defendant is to provide further responses within 20
days of this Order.
 