 Case Number:  22NWCV00157    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  C Esquibel, et al. v. iev factory, et al.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00157
HEARING:   11/15/23 @ 9:30 AM
#1
 
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File a
Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendants IEV Factory, Inc., Martin Kruszelnicki,
and Yutaka Miyazaki (collectively Defendants) move for an order for leave to
file a cross-complaint.
Background
Plaintiffs
Steve Esquibel, Lara Sellars, Maho Mitsuya, and EV Factory, Inc. filed a
Complaint against Defendants for fraud and breach of contract. Plaintiffs
allege that Plaintiffs Esquibel, Sellars, and Mitsuya and Defendants
Kruszelnicki and Miyazaki were Directors and 20 percent owners of The Hybrid
Shop Franchise, Inc. (THS) which later became IEV. Plaintiffs claim that
Defendants Kruszelnicki and Miyazaki fraudulently changed THS’s name to IEV
Factory, Inc. to interfere with a Memorandum of Understanding with Itochu
American Automotive (IAA) and JAC Motors International Co., LTD. to manufacture
and deliver 3,200 vehicles to THS. 
Legal
Standard
 CCP § 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same
time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court
has set a date for trial. 
(c)¿A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint
except one filed¿within¿the time¿specified in subdivision (a)¿or¿(b).¿ Leave
may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.” 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action
subject to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight,
inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for
leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause
at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the
adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties,
leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such
cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. 
This subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”  (CCP § 426.50.)
The Court of Appeals has explained: “The
legislative mandate is clear. A policy of liberal construction of section
426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial¿court. A
motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action
must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where
forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as oversight, inadvertence,
neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion
unless accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd. v.
Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99.) “‘‘Bad
faith,’ is defined as ‘[t]he opposite of ‘good faith,’ generally implying or
involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive
another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual
obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake . . ., but by some interested or
sinister motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather . .
. the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral
obliquity; . . . it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating with
furtive design or ill will.  [Citation.]’  [Citations.]’ 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at 100.) 
Discussion

Here, Defendants seek leave to file a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs and Jerome D. Stark, PC and Jerome D. Stark alleging:

(1)     
Conversion
(2)     
Deceit
(3)     
Fraud
(4)     
Intentional
Misrepresentation
(5)     
Negligent
Misrepresentation
(6)     
Concealment
(7)     
Promise
without Intent to Preform
(8)     
Breach
of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealings
(9)     
Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations
(10)  
Intentional
Interference with Prospective Relations
(11)  
Breach
of Contract
(12)  
Civil
Conspiracy
(13)  
Professional
Negligence
(14)  
Breach
of Fiduciary Duty
(15)  
Apportionment
of Fault
(16)  
Indemnification
(17)  
Declaratory
Relief
Plaintiffs argue that allowing Defendants leave
to file a Cross-Complaint will necessitate an extension of the January 2024
trial date, and Plaintiffs will be prejudiced from Defendants’ inexcusable
delay.  The court notes that Defendants’
motion was filed on June 26, 2023, before a trial date was set in this
matter.  Given the importance of trying
cases on the merits, leave to file a Cross-Complaint will be granted.   
Accordingly, Defendants’
Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Defendants are ordered
to file their attached Cross-Complaint within 10 days of this Order.
 
 