 Case Number:  23AHCV02077    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MICHELLE WU, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
EILEEN
   WANG, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02077
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF MICHELLE WU’S MOTION FOR SANCTIONS AND ATTORNEYS’S
   FEES 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

April
   9, 2024




 


 


 



 
On September 11, 2023, plaintiff
Michelle Wu (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Eileen Wang
(“Wang”), Yaoning Sun (“Sun”), Yuntao Chen (“Chen”), Jennifer Cheung (“Cheung”),
and American Southwest Chamber of Commerce USA (“ASCC”). On October 25, 2023, Cheung
filed a motion for an undertaking in the amount of $50,000. 
On November 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed
this motion for sanctions and attorneys’ fees against Cheung and counsel of
record pursuant to section 128.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.5(a) provides that “[a] trial court may order a party,
the party's attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney's fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics,
made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay.” “If the alleged action or tactic is the making or opposing of a written
motion or the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or
other responsive pleading that can be withdrawn or appropriately corrected, a
notice of motion shall be served as provided in Section 1010, but shall not be
filed with or presented to the court, unless 21 days after service of the
motion or any other period as the court may prescribe, the challenged action or
tactic is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
128.5(f)(1)(B).) 
The express statutory language requires
the party moving for sanctions to provide a 21-day safe harbor. Contrary to
Plaintiff’s contention, this is not a mere technicality that can be cast aside
with a nuanced examination of any context. Rather, “the law requires strict
compliance with the safe harbor provisions.” (Transcon Financial, Inc. v.
Reid & Hellyer, APC (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 547, 551 [citing Li v.
Majestic Industry Hills LLC (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 585, 593].) “Failure to
comply with the safe harbor provisions ‘precludes an award of sanctions.’” (Id.
[citing Martorana v. Marlin & Saltzman (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 685, 700].)

Even if the safe harbor period had been
complied with, the Court is not inclined to find that sanctions are appropriate
or that the amount in sanctions sought is reasonable. Plaintiff mainly
complains that Cheung cited a non-existent code provision of the California
Corporations Code, “section 5170” instead of correctly referring to “section
5710.” Plaintiff claims that this reference caused her attorney to search the
Corporations Code for 4 hours. This is an unreasonable amount of time to spend
on such a task given the technology and resources available today. Furthermore,
the claim that Plaintiff’s counsel spent 4 hours addressing each of the faulty
arguments made in Cheung’s motion for an undertaking is excessive, especially
when considering that Plaintiff’s own opposition did not address them in depth
(and likely did not need to, given the threshold issue of standing which the
Court raised in its minute order denying the motion for an undertaking.” 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for
sanctions is DENIED. 
Dated
this 9th
day of April, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 