  Case Number:  21STCV46927    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PAMELA MILICH, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ONE
   HEART CAREGIVERS, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  21STCV46927
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April 9,
  2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On December 23, 2021, plaintiff Pamela
Milich (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Caregiver Services
& Homecare, Inc. dba 1Heart Caregivers (“Defendant”) (erroneously sued as
“One Heart Caregivers”) and Ireneo Santos Borromeo (“Borromeo”) (erroneously
sued as “Rene Borromeo”) asserting causes of action for sexual battery, elder
abuse, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent hiring,
supervision, and retention of unfit employee, and sexual harassment. 
On February 9, 2024, Defendant filed
this motion for judgment on the pleadings against the sole cause of action
asserted against it for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention of unfit
employee. 
II.         
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s objections to the
Declaration of Artin Avetisove and Exhibits B and C are OVERRULED.
Defendant’s objections to the
Declaration of Anthony Nehme are OVERRULED.  
III.       
LEGAL
STANDARD
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general
demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has expired.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).)¿ Except as provided by statute, the
rules governing demurrers apply.¿ (Civic Partners Stockton, LLC v.
Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1005, 1012.)¿ “Judgment on the pleadings is proper
when the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against the defendant.”¿ (Rolfe v. Cal. Transp. Comm’n (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th
239, 242; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(3)(B)(ii).)¿ “Like a demurrer, the grounds for the
motion [for judgment on the pleadings] must appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice.”¿ (Civic Partners Stockton, LLC, supra, 218
Cal.App.4th at p. 1013.)¿ In ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings, “[a]ll
allegations in the complaint and matters upon which judicial notice may be
taken are assumed to be true.”¿ (Rippon v. Bowen (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.)
IV.       
DISCUSSION
“[A]ny matter admitted in response to a
request for admission is conclusively established against the party making the
admission in the pending action, unless the court has permitted withdrawal or
amendment of that admission.” (Wilcox v. Birtwhistle (1999) 21 Cal.4th
973, 978-979 (italics omitted).)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
admissions in discovery contradict the allegations in her Complaint and that
judgment should be entered in its favor. Defendant relies on Plaintiff’s
unqualified admissions to six requests for admission which ask Plaintiff to
“[a]dmit that YOU do have any facts in support” of various contentions,
including that Defendant is vicariously liable for Borromeo’s intentional torts
or that Defendant negligently hired and/or retained or supervised Borromeo.
(Avetisove Decl., Exs. B-C.) Since Plaintiff admits that she indeed has facts
in support of these contentions, Defendant’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings is DENIED because the admissions do not contradict the allegations of
the complaint. Even if Defendant may have intended to ask Plaintiff to admit
that she does not have any facts, the text of the request for admission reads
otherwise. 
Defendant also argues that it cannot be
vicariously liable for Borromeo’s intentional torts and cites to Lisa M. v.
Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291. This argument
misses the point of the Complaint, which asserts that Defendant is liable for
its own negligence in hiring, retaining, or supervising Borromeo.  
V.         
CONCLUSION
The motion for judgment on the
pleadings is DENIED. 
Dated
this 9th
day of April, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 