  Case Number:  22SMCV00209    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff David Carter’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Financial Discovery is GRANTED. Defendant Yuan Shi shall provide supplemental responses to Plaintiff David Carter’s Requests for Production, Set Six, Nos. 5, 6, and 7, within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff David Carter’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,860, payable by Defendant Yuan Shi and defense counsel to Plaintiff David Carter and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff David Carter to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiff David Carter (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court for an order compelling Defendant Yuan Shi (“Defendant”) to provide further responses to three of Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set Six, which seek documents relating to profits generated by AI List Capital 1, LP, Zuma Fund, and other funds. Defendant argues that he has fully complied with the request for documents relating to profits generated by AI List Capital 1, he should not be required to provide documents relating to profits generated by Zuma Fund or other funds because the information is unrelated to Defendant’s net worth. On receipt of responses to requests for production of documents, the demanding party may move for further responses if the responding party’s “statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete,” “[a] representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive,” or “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)); see also Best Products, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1189-1190 [motion to compel proper to challenge “boilerplate” responses].)A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) A meet and confer declaration must “state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a) requires that any motion to compel further responses to discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further.First, insofar as Defendant argues about witnesses who can testify that Plaintiff consented to the use of his image on AI List presentation decks, this is irrelevant as to whether Defendant should be required to produce the documents at issue. The Court has reviewed the requests at issue, as well as Defendant’s responses to the same, and hereby rules as follows: Shi shall provide further responses to Requests for Production, Set Six, Nos. 5, 6, and 7, insofar as such information has not been provided to date, as those requests merely seek information relevant to Plaintiff’s ability to prove his claims, i.e., to show how much money Defendant obtained, when the money was obtained, how much profit was generated, and the amount of expenses, which is all relevant to Plaintiff’s damages, if any. Accordingly, Plaintiff David Carter’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Financial Discovery is GRANTED. Defendant Yuan Shi shall provide supplemental responses to Plaintiff David Carter’s Requests for Production, Set Six, Nos. 5, 6, and 7, within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (h), provides that “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response” to requests for production of documents “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” The Court finds that monetary sanctions are proper here, as Defendant unreasonably refused to provide responsive documents, but the Court reduces the award to $1,860, which represents three hours reviewing responses, meeting and conferring, preparing an Informal Discovery Conference Statement, and attending the Informal Discovery Conference; two hours spent preparing the subject motion; and one hour spent appearing at the hearing on this motion, for a total of six hours at the rate of $300 per hour, as this motion is not especially complex; and one $60 filing fee. Such sanctions are payable by Defendant Yuan Shi and defense counsel to Plaintiff David Carter and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.