 Case Number:  24STCV13553    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



SHERRY HENNINGTON, et al.,  
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
GLEN DOLLARHIDE, et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV20335




Hearing Date:


November 8, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION FOR
  TERMINATING SANCTIONS RE GLEN DOLLARHIDE AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 



            
Background
On June 1, 2021, Plaintiffs
Sherry Hennington (“Hennington”) and Lorrie Irving (jointly, “Plaintiffs”)
filed this action against Defendant Glen Dollarhide (“Defendant”). The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) breach
of undivided loyalty, 
(3) fraud, (4) conversion, (5) intentional interference with
contractual relations, (6) intentional interference with prospective economic
relations, (7) negligent interference with prospective economic relations, and
(8) defamation. 
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs
allege, inter alia, that in or about September 2017, Plaintiffs and Defendant
entered into a partnership to provide transportation services for mortuaries.
(Compl., ¶ 7.) On September 22, 2017, Plaintiffs and Defendant formed and
incorporated Carriage Transit Solutions, Inc. (the “Company”). (Compl., ¶ 8.) Defendant
was elected as “Chief Financial Officer board member” of the Company. (Compl.,
¶ 9.) Plaintiffs allege that “[i]n or about July 2020, Plaintiffs discovered
that [Defendant] regularly failed to performed [sic] his duties as the chief
financial officer, including but not limited to failure to manage the Company’s
accounts and receivables, pay the Company’s debts and refused to permit
Plaintiffs access to the Company’s financial and transportation records.”
(Compl., ¶ 15.) 
Plaintiffs further allege that
Defendant “converted the Company’s and Plaintiffs’ assets and monies without
permission or consent.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) Defendant “formed his own
transportation services company in direct competition with the Company.
Thereafter, [Defendant] caused the Company’s clients to use his company’s
transportation services instead of the Company’s services.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
Hennington previously moved
for an order to compel Defendant’s deposition, and for monetary sanctions
against Defendant. On July 2, 2024, the Court issued an Order granting the
motion. The Court’s July 2, 2024 Order provides, inter alia, that “Hennington’s
motion to compel the in-person deposition of Defendant is granted. The Court
orders Defendant to appear for his deposition on July 16, 2024 at 10 a.m., at
the following location: 609 Deep Valley Drive, Ste. 200, Rolling Hills
Estates, CA 90274…Hennington’s request for sanctions is granted. Defendant is
ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,076.60 to Hennington
within 30 days of the date of this Order.” (July 2, 2024 Order at p. 4:18-22.) 
In her declaration in support
of the instant motion, Plaintiffs’ counsel indicates that “Plaintiffs…duly
noticed Defendant’s court ordered deposition by serving the notice on July 2,
2024.” (Westmoreland Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3.) Plaintiffs counsel states that “Defendant
did not appear at the court ordered deposition on July 16, 2024, without
explanation or reason. Plaintiffs attempts to contact Defendant, but received
no response.” (Westmoreland Decl., ¶ 5.) In addition, Plaintiffs’ counsel
states that Plaintiffs attempted to take Defendant’s deposition again. “Plaintiffs
duly noticed Defendant’s deposition on July 31, 2024, by serving the deposition
notice on July 16, 2024…Again, Defendant did not appear for deposition.” (Westmoreland
Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Plaintiffs’ counsel indicates that “Plaintiffs have attempted
to contact Defendant to schedule his court ordered deposition, but Defendant
has refused and continues to refuse to respond to Plaintiffs’ communications.”
(Westmoreland Decl., ¶ 8.) 
Plaintiffs now move for: (1) an
order striking the Answer of Defendant and entering his default; (2) alternatively,
an order for evidentiary and/or issue sanctions; and (3) an order awarding
monetary sanctions against Defendant. The motion is unopposed.  
Discussion
Misuses of the discovery
process include “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery” and “[d]isobeying a court order to provide
discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d), (g).) There
are a broad range of sanctions available against anyone engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process, including the issuance of monetary,
evidentiary, issue, and terminating sanctions. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) “The court may
impose a terminating sanction by one of the following orders: (1) An order
striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process. (2) An order staying further proceedings by
that party until an order for discovery is obeyed. (3) An order
dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party. (4) An order
rendering a judgment by default against that party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(d).) 
In the motion, Plaintiffs first assert that
“the Court should impose terminating sanctions against Defendant for his
refusal to appear for his Court ordered deposition on July 16, 2024.” (Mot. at
p. 8:11-13.) The Court does not find that the circumstances warrant the
imposition of terminating sanctions at this time. Other than the July 2, 2024
Order, Plaintiffs do not provide evidence that Defendant has disobeyed any
previous court order to provide discovery. The Court notes that “the sanctioned party’s history as a repeat
offender is not only relevant, but also significant, in deciding whether to
impose terminating sanctions.” (Liberty
Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v. LcL Administrators, Inc.
(2008)
163 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1106.) “A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made
lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and
the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Mileikowsky v.
Tenet Healthsystem (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.) The Court does not find that Plaintiffs have provided evidence
showing that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the
discovery rules. 
Next, Plaintiffs assert that “alternatively,
this Court should impose evidentiary sanctions against Defendant for his
refusal to appear for his Court ordered deposition on July 16, 2024.” (Mot. at
p. 9:16-18.) Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (c), “[t]he court may impose
an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process from introducing designated matters in evidence.”  
Plaintiffs assert that Defendant should be
precluded from introducing any evidence at trial pertaining his claims
including any: (1) documentary and testimonial evidence that he does not owe
monies to the Plaintiffs and/or the Carriage Transit Solutions, Inc., (2) documentary
and testimonial evidence regarding Defendant’s defenses to Plaintiffs’ first cause
of action for breach of fiduciary duty; (3) documentary and testimonial
evidence regarding Defendant’s defenses to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action
for breach of undivided loyalty, (4) documentary and testimonial evidence
regarding Defendant’s defenses to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for fraud,
(5) documentary and testimonial evidence regarding Defendant’s defenses to
Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for conversion, (6) documentary and
testimonial evidence regarding Defendant’s defenses to Plaintiffs’ fifth cause
of action for intentional interference with contractual relations, and (7) documentary
and testimonial evidence regarding Defendant’s defenses to Plaintiffs’ sixth cause
of action for intentional interference with prospective economic relations. (See
Mot. at pp. 9:24-10:15.)
As discussed, Plaintiffs provide evidence that “Defendant
did not appear at the court ordered deposition on July 16, 2024...” (Westmoreland
Decl., ¶ 5.) In addition, as set forth above, Defendant’s deposition was
noticed again for July 31, 2024, but Defendant did not appear for such deposition.
(Westmoreland Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Plaintiffs’ counsel states that “Plaintiffs have
attempted to contact Defendant to schedule his court ordered deposition, but
Defendant has refused and continues to refuse to respond to Plaintiffs’
communications.” (Westmoreland Decl., ¶ 8.) Defendant does not oppose the
instant motion, and thus does not dispute that he failed to appear for the July
16, 2024 or July 31, 2024 depositions. Moreover, Defendant does not oppose
Plaintiffs’ request for evidence sanctions. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds
that evidence sanctions are appropriate here.[1]
Lastly, Plaintiffs request that the Court issue
monetary sanctions against Defendant for “his failure to sit for his
depositions and to compensate Plaintiff for attorney’s fees and costs incurred
by filing of this motion [sic].” (Mot. at p. 14:11-13.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a), “[t]he court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct…If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this
title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”   
As discussed, Plaintiffs provide
evidence that “Defendant did not appear at the court ordered deposition on July
16, 2024...” (Westmoreland Decl., ¶ 5.) In addition, Defendant did not appear
for his deposition noticed for July 31, 2024. (Westmoreland Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)
Defendant does not oppose the motion. Thus, the Court does not find that
Defendant has shown that he acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of monetary sanctions unjust. The Court finds
that Plaintiffs have shown that monetary sanctions are warranted here. 
Plaintiffs’ counsel states that “[a]s to costs, Plaintiffs
are seeking costs for obtaining a certificate of nonappearance in the amount of
$571.70,” and that “Plaintiffs seeks costs for the motion filing fee and
electronic filing fee in the amount of $75.00.” (Westmoreland Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.)
Plaintiffs’ counsel also states that “Plaintiffs incurred attorneys fees
in total of 8.5 hours…My reasonable hourly [sic] is at $1,000 per hour, which
has been approved by superior courts for similar actions…I drafted and
assembled this Motion, which amounted to 4.5 hours. I conducted legal research
for this Motion in the amount 1 hour. I anticipate time will be spent to review
Defendant’s opposition and writing a reply as well as conducting further legal
research that will take at least 2 hours. I anticipate spending 1 hour to
appear at the hearing and arguing the motion… However, Plaintiffs are only
seeking reasonable attorneys fees and costs for the total amount of $4,646.70.”
(Westmoreland Decl., ¶¶ 12-14.) 
The Court does not find
that Plaintiffs’ counsel has
demonstrated that the requested $1,000.00 hourly billing rate is
reasonable. In addition, the motion is unopposed, and Plaintiffs did not file
any reply in support of the motion. Thus, the Court finds that it is reasonable
to award a total of $4,546.00 in sanctions ($646.00 in costs + $3,900 in
attorney’s fees).[2]  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion is granted in
part and denied in part.¿Plaintiffs’ motion for
evidentiary sanctions and monetary sanctions is granted. Plaintiffs’ motion for
terminating sanctions and alternative request for issue sanctions is denied. 
            The Court orders that Defendant is prohibited from introducing the following matters in
evidence at trial: (1) documentary and testimonial evidence that he does not
owe monies to the Plaintiffs and/or the Carriage Transit Solutions, Inc., (2) documentary
and testimonial evidence regarding Defendant’s defenses to Plaintiffs’ first cause
of action for breach of fiduciary duty; (3) documentary and testimonial
evidence regarding Defendant’s defenses to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action
for breach of undivided loyalty, (4) documentary and testimonial evidence
regarding Defendant’s defenses to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for fraud,
(5) documentary and testimonial evidence regarding Defendant’s defenses to
Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for conversion, (6) documentary and
testimonial evidence regarding Defendant’s defenses to Plaintiffs’ fifth cause
of action for intentional interference with contractual relations, and (7) documentary
and testimonial evidence regarding Defendant’s defenses to Plaintiffs’ sixth cause
of action for intentional interference with prospective economic relations.
In
addition, Defendant is ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,246.00
to Plaintiffs within 30 days of the date of this Order. 
Finally, Defendant is ordered to appear
for his deposition on a date noticed by Plaintiffs within the next two weeks
from the date of this Order. If Defendant fails to appear at the deposition,
Plaintiffs may move for an order
striking the Answer of Defendant and entering his default. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to
provide notice of this Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  November 8, 2024                   ________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court


